

601 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2185 words

HEADLINE: Call It Bush Country 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN WARNER

DATELINE: DEERFIELD 

 BODY:
DONALD JOHNSON, a fourth-generation farmer, has been working the same 1,800 acres where his family once raised row after row of potatoes, tomatoes, spinach and beans for Campbell's Soup, Hunt's and Herr's.
 But forget about tomatoes, potatoes or even cranberries. These days he has a new cash crop -- flowering shrubs, sod, maple trees, coneflowers, lilies and phlox. In all, he tends two million plants that rise up each year from the rich soil here in Cumberland County and end up ringing corporate parks and suburban homes in New Jersey and more than a dozen other states. 
 "They will take all the time you're willing to give," said Mr. Johnson, who tends the land along with the help of 50 field hands, 52 tractors and a vast irrigation system. Yet he has come to the same conclusion about plants as many weekend warriors -- "you can't walk away for very long" -- but for different reasons. 
With wholesale receipts of $306 million, nursery and landscape plants alone make up 40 percent of the state's entire agricultural production, more than fruits and vegetables, livestock and field crops like hay. Retail sales through garden centers and landscapers are estimated at more than $1.2 billion.
Despite its relatively small size and its status as the most densely populated state in the nation, New Jersey ranks 11th among the states in nursery sales, with 866 certified nurseries and 648 plant dealers.
Throughout rural sections of the state, particularly here in the southern end that juts into Delaware Bay, vegetable farmers are converting to the nursery business, which can be more profitable and less risky than growing produce. In turn, new nursery businesses are sprouting.
There are several reasons that this part of New Jersey has grown comfortably into its new role as landscape supplier to the Middle Atlantic states and beyond. It has good soil and a relatively mild winter, and it is within a three-hour drive of 20 percent of the nation's population, allowing plants to get to market quickly. 
And despite that proximity to dense urban areas, this southern corner of New Jersey -- which many would contend sits below the Mason-Dixon Line -- still does not face the level of pressure that is making much of the state's developable land too valuable to farm. At the same time, demand for nursery stock is soaring.
It is the construction of new homes in New Jersey and the rest of the Mid-Atlantic region that is driving sales for everything from shrubs and ground cover to mature trees and colorful perennials, said Dallas Herold, a landscaper in Flanders who is president of the New Jersey Nursery and Landscape Association. 
That is a lot of shrubs, considering that there were 83,090 new home starts in the Middle-Atlantic region last year, up from 75,300 in 1997. In New Jersey the number has declined a bit, to 22,110 new home starts last year from 23,470 in 1997.
"When you buy an older home you can live with the plants that are there until you finish what you want to do inside," Mr. Herold said. "But with a new home there's an immediate demand to get something established in the front of your house so it looks lived in."
Mr. Herold also said local regulations often required landscaping at commercial construction, which has helped increase corporate business.
Indeed, this year state officials recognized the growing importance of the industry and developed an economic strategy for horticulture, including a marketing campaign for "Jersey Grown" nursery plants, similar to the Jersey Fresh program promoting fruits and vegetables.
"The state is going to emphasize its diverse agriculture," said Charles M. Kuperus, the secretary of agriculture. "We are not going to forget the fruit and vegetable farmers as well as those who do field crops and livestock, but in order to have healthy agriculture we need diverse agriculture."
Moreover, Mr. Kuperus said, a stronger horticultural industry could help contain sprawl, a priority of the McGreevey administration. If farmers prosper, he reasoned, they are less likely to sell their land for development.
To that end, Mr. Kuperus said, the state has set aside more than 100,000 acres through its farmland preservation program, subsidizing farmers in an effort to prevent them from selling. He said the state had a goal of increasing preserved farmland at a rate of 20,000 acres a year through 2009.

Help From the State
Along with the Rutgers University Cooperative Extension Service, the state is helping nurture the industry by providing inspections and certification for growers as well as programs to teach them new farming and business management strategies.
"New Jersey is one of the most populated states in the country," Mr. Kuperus said. "We need to do things different here. If government can preserve farms and make sure agriculture is innovative and poised for a bight future, there can be a lot of quality-of-life benefits associated with agriculture."
This corner of Cumberland County, which surrounds Bridgeton, is the epicenter of the state's nursery industry. Millions of plants are grown in long uniform rows, punctuated occasionally by a sprawling Victorian farmhouse or plastic-covered greenhouses.
Amid these vast growing areas, there are few garden centers for those in search of a dozen phlox plants or a couple of flowering shrubs. This is mass production. Plants grown here are sold wholesale to landscapers and garden centers and large chains, including Home Depot.
At Johnson Farms, Mr. Johnson pops into his mud-encrusted pickup truck for a springtime inspection. To the west, sod is being rolled off the earth like strips of used carpeting. He cruises past some of the farm's 300 greenhouses, shrouded in white plastic, where perennials are growing in black plastic pots. He swings past stretches of delicate young trees -- cherries, maple, birch - that are tied to stakes to make them grow straight and tall. Near the center of Mr. Johnson's land is the breadbasket, 200 acres of arbor vitae, the ubiquitous hard-to-kill evergreen.
After 78 years of farming vegetables and field crops, Johnson Farms first planted sod in 1988 and branched into nursery plants in 1990 -- when the Campbell Soup Company closed its production plant in Camden. Then in 1991 a severe drought took a heavy toll on vegetable crops.
"We lost so much money that year we were desperate," said Albert Johnson, Donald Johnson's 81-year-old uncle, who still works the farm. "We needed to change. Financially, it's been wonderful."
Nursery stock is somewhat more resilient to boom-and-bust cycles than produce. When Johnson Farms was raising vegetables, the entire crop would be sold at a price dictated by the processor based on supply and demand of the overall market. In the last year that the farm was growing vegetables, Donald Johnson complained, the price was often too low to cover expenses.
"I just couldn't see ourselves doing the same thing we were doing," said the 49-year-old Mr. Johnson, who began working the family farm during the transition. "Now we have more control." Although he had studied horticulture in college, he said the hardest part of making the switch was learning the Latin names for the plants.
Of course, not everything is coming up roses. Nurseries are much more complicated and difficult to manage. For instance, Johnson Farms must keep a close watch on its inventory of 900 varieties of plants. To do that, the farm operates on a software program developed by nursery growers in Oregon that tracks the location of the various plants on the 1,800-acre spread and how long they have been growing.

Susceptible to Fads
And like many industries, the nursery business is susceptible to fads.
"I have to pay attention to what Martha Stewart says," said Mr. Johnson, a burly, plainspoken farmer who seems to be anything but faddish.
Jim Johnson, Cumberland County's agricultural agent for nursery growers (and no relation to the operators of Johnson Farms), said plants grown in New Jersey were sold in a radius of 250 to 300 miles, extending to Boston, Ohio and Northern Virginia. Up to 80 percent of the landscape plants nurtured in the county are shipped out of state, he said.
Mr. Johnson said the origins of the nursery business in Cumberland County could be traced to the Seabrook Farms Corporation, which pioneered the process for freezing vegetables and later developed Koster's Nursery as a way to diversify its business. The county was also home to operations of the Perkins and De Wilde rose growers.
"Out of those nurseries people got started in the business and then went on their own," he said.
Mr. Johnson noted that Monmouth County also had a strong nursery industry, though he said that it was shrinking because of development pressure.
Whether North Jersey or South Jersey, Mr. Herold said the state's nurseries were known around the country for producing high-quality plants.
"Pricing is higher in New Jersey because other parts of the country don't have the reputation," he said. "Many of the New Jersey nurseries have been in business for generations, so they have trade secrets for developing plant material to a certain size and quality that customers are expecting."
Mr. Johnson, the Cumberland County agent, said that since the early 1990's, about half the increase in the state's nursery sales could be attributed to such perennials as day lilies, hosta and ornamental grasses that were increasingly raised in small, plastic pots under protective plastic sheds at what are known as container nurseries.
For example, Centerton Nurseries in Bridgeton specializes in containers and has developed several trademark varieties that go by the names Hasslefree Roses, CenterPeace shrubs and Happy-Ever-Appster, a line of continuous blooming day lilies named for their propagator, Darrel Apps, another local nurseryman.
Denny Blew, president of Centerton Nurseries, says container growing generates more profit per acre than other types of farming. An acre of soybeans generates $200 a year, while apples will bring in $5,000. A highly productive container nursery, by contrast, can generate up to $50,000. That takes much of the development pressure off container farms, Mr. Blew said.
The container nurseries are constantly working to improve their plants, he said, making them more resistant to drought or pests, or tweaking them to grow in new shapes and colors. "Along with newer, we're also gotten better," he said.
Princeton Nurseries in Allentown, one of the state's best-known nurseries, holds patents on many of its creations. Ivan Olinsky, president of the nursery, said it planned to continue to focus on "bread-and-butter" plants but would put a growing emphasis on rare and unusual plants.
Nurseries are more labor-intensive than other types of farming, said Mr. Johnson, the Cumberland County agricultural agent, explaining that one farmer can tend hundreds of acres of field crops with the right equipment, while a 10- to 15-acre container nursery might require up to 20 workers.
"The Hispanics are a very big labor pool for us," he said, noting that workers from Mexico and Central America performed much of the labor. 
He said the state had pledged to work with federal officials to make it easier for nursery workers to receive temporary agricultural visas.
As for those working in Cumberland County, Mr. Johnson said: "I'm assuming most are fully legal. All of them are required to have documentation, but the growers cannot legally ask or push the issue."
Despite the seeming robustness of the industry, Mr. Johnson said the business went through cycles mirroring the broader economy. When times are good, corporations spend lavishly on plants and homeowners take more vacations, he said; then when the economy is weak, corporations spend less but homeowners spend more on plants because they forgo the vacation and instead invest in gardening.

Strong Season Is Expected
Last year, nursery and gardening sales were down from $315 million in 2001 because of drought, a soft economy and competition from Canadian growers who heat their greenhouses with low-cost electricity, according to the Agriculture Department.
And, Mr. Johnson, noted, the heavy snows and frigid temperatures this winter were tough on the crop. He said the blizzard in February collapsed plastic growing houses in Cumberland County, killing more than 500,000 plants.
"This winter was one of the most severe winters," Donald Johnson said. "But our nursery stock is meant to grow in this area under winter conditions. Everything pretty much has weathered the storm."
He said he thought that this year would be a strong selling season. With the current turmoil, he said he was betting on fewer vacations and more gardening.
His main concern, he said, is that the industry's success will generate too many nurseries that will overproduce and drive the prices of plants to unprofitable levels.
But Mr. Blew is more optimistic. "I'm sure there is such a point, but we're not there," he said. "I've heard that talk ever since I got in the business 25 years ago. New plant material is feeding the market, and there will always be a hunger for new plants."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dallas Herold of Flanders, above, says New Jersey growers "have trade secrets." At the Johnson farm, top right, a 1,800-acre spread in Deerfield, hands work the field. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard and, top right, Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Dallas Herold, president of the New Jersey Nursery and Landscape Association, operates a garden center in Flanders, above and right.; Denny Blew, far right, president of Centerton Nurseries, says container growing generates more profit per acre than other types of farming. "Along with newer, we're also gotten better," he said. Workers at Mr. Blew's nursery in Centerton, right, pot Hibiscus plants (Photographs by Salvatore C. DiMarco Jr. for The New York Times); (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); NURSERY & TREE PRODUCTION (89%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (89%); FAMILY FARMS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); VEGETABLE & MELON FARMING (78%); FARM LABOR (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); POPULATION DENSITY (75%); HAY FARMING (73%); WHOLESALERS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (70%); CONSTRUCTION (70%); RETAIL SALES (66%); HOUSING STARTS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (97%); NORTHEAST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



602 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 348 words

HEADLINE: UP FRONT: WORTH NOTING; 
Honk if You Want A Meadowlands Rail Line

BYLINE:  By John Sullivan

 BODY:
Imagine the grinding, honking, jolting mass of traffic that pours from Giants Stadium in the Meadowlandsafter nearly every home game. Now add a few thousand more cars wedging their way along highways that circle the area, heading for the new amusement park to be built there.
 It is a picture that has bothered some state legislators ever since the state disclosed plans to build an office and entertainment development near the Continental arena. Now an Assembly panel has begun considering whether a new rail line might be the answer to potential gridlock. 
 "We are concerned about congestion and its impact on the quality of life in the area," said Assemblyman Paul A. Sarlo, a Democrat who represents the area around the Meadowlands. "A light rail would alleviate some of those concerns."
George Warrington, director of New Jersey Transit, gave the panel several options for rail service last week. Mr. Sarlo said the options ranged from a simple $150 million link between the complex and existing transit lines to a $500 million light rail system running through the area.
"We have a major development complex," Mr. Sarlo said. "Now we can complement it with a mass transit option."
Mr. Sarlo acknowledged that the state budget these days had no money to spare and speculated that any financing for a rail project would have to come from federal and private sources as well. But a rail project would not have to be completed for several years, by which time the economy might have turned around and provided more money for the project.
The Assembly panel, which does not have the authority to sponsor legislation or spending, has asked Mr. Warrington to develop specific plans for each rail option. He is expected to do so in about six months.
The $1.3 billion Meadowlands complex, a joint venture of the Mills Corporation of Virginia and the Mack-Cali Corporation of Cranford, is expected to be built over five to seven years.
The companies "are working on a developers' agreement right now," Mr. Sarlo said. "You could see a shovel in the ground as early as next year." John Sullivan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); JOINT VENTURES (62%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: JOHN SULLIVAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



603 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: INVESTING WITH: Phillip H. Perelmuter; 
Hartford MidCap Fund

BYLINE:  By CAROLE GOULD

 BODY:
THE weak economy has made Phillip H. Perelmuter, the manager of the $1.4 billion Hartford MidCap fund, even more selective than usual.
 "Because economic times are tough, if a company's fundamentals aren't good the economy won't bail it out," Mr. Perelmuter said from his office in Boston. As a result, he said, "we're looking for new management coming to midcap companies and accelerating revenue and earnings growth because of their internal improvements." 
 The fund lost 8.4 percent a year, on average, for the three years through March, adjusted for its 5.5 percent front-end sales load, or sales charge. It still ranked among the top 6 percent of all midcap growth funds, which lost 23.6 percent, annualized, during that time, according to Morningstar Inc. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, meanwhile, was down 16.1 percent, annualized.
The fund lost 24.1 percent, adjusted for the load, in the 12 months through March, compared with declines of 28.7 percent for its group and 24.8 percent for the index.
Mr. Perelmuter, 42, is senior vice president of Wellington Management, the subadviser of the fund for Hartford Financial Services. He manages a total of $3.8 billion for institutions.
For the fund, he focuses on about 250 companies with market capitalizations of $2 billion to $10 billion that hold leading shares of their markets.
To pick the 90 to 100 stocks in the portfolio, he looks at longer-term economic and demographic trends. The aging of the population, for example, has led him to load up on health care stocks, which account for 19 percent of the fund's assets, compared with 13 percent for his benchmark, the S.& P. MidCap 400.
Mr. Perelmuter uses three approaches to calculate a company's worth. First, he compares its current and two- to three-year projected price-to-earnings ratios to those of other companies in the index. To factor in the company's balance sheet, he looks at its ratio of enterprise value -- which he defines as its market capitalization plus its net debt -- to Ebitda, or earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. Finally, he reviews price-to-cash-flow ratios to assess capital spending and working capital.
Mr. Perelmuter asks executives at candidate companies to describe long-term trends in their industries, and how they plan to benefit from or minimize the impact of those trends. He also asks what is most misunderstood about the company, its industry or its products.
It is important for companies to have a simple mission, he said. "We like companies that are focused on one business, not conglomerates with lots of businesses."
When he decides on a stock, he typically starts with a position of no more than 0.5 to 1 percent of the fund's total assets, adding shares as his confidence builds but generally not exceeding 2.5 percent of assets. He reviews a company's shares for sale when management changes or its fundamentals deteriorate.
Mr. Perelmuter started buying shares of Watson Pharmaceuticals, a producer of generic and brand-name drugs, in March 2002.He has paid $27.83, on average, for his position; the stock is now at $28.39.
The initial purchase was made after Watson missed its earnings target in the fall of 2001, following about a decade of steady revenue and earnings growth, and its share price dropped to less than $30 from more than $50. He added significantly to the position when the company named Joseph Papa to the position of president and chief operating officer in the fall of 2002. Watson's revenue should accelerate, Mr. Perelmuter added, because of the Food and Drug Administration's approval in February of its new product, Oxytrol, a patch used to control incontinence.
NEW management also was the catalyst for investing in Mattel. Its chief executive, Robert A. Eckert, was hired in 2000 to refocus the company on its core toy business after losses resulting from its acquisition of the Learning Company, a multimedia game maker. "He's done a truly remarkable job," Mr. Perelmuter said. "It's one of the most impressive internal turnaround stories of the last two years." Mattel now has less debt, more cash, better information systems and good international sales growth, he added. 
The fund paid $17.18, on average, for its shares, starting in December 1999; they are now at $20.93. 
Mr. Perelmuter also likes Lamar Advertising, the billboard company based in Baton Rouge, La. The company has strong profit margins, he said, and typically has huge market share in some cities -- like Jacksonville, Fla. and Duluth, Minn. -- in which it operates.
He originally bought shares in May 1998, paying $36.64, on average; they are now at $33.33.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Phillip H. Perelmuter looks at longer-term demographic and economic trends when picking stocks. (Erik S. Lesser for The New York Times) Chart: "Hartford MidCap" Category: Midcap growthNet assets: $1.4 billionInception: December 1997Manager: Phillip H. Perelmuter since inceptionMinimum purchase: $1,000Portfolio turnover: 109%3-year load-adjusted annualized return through March (Class A shares): 8.4%Category average: 23.6% Sector breakdownHealth care: 19%Consumer discretionary: 18%Financials: 18%Industrials: 14%Information technology: 11%Other: 20% Fees (Class A shares)Front-end load: 5.5%Deferred load: None12b-1 fee: 0.30%Expense ratio: 1.51% (Sources: Morningstar Inc.; company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); EBITDA (89%); TRENDS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (76%); CASH FLOW (76%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (75%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); AGING TRENDS (70%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (64%); WORKING CAPITAL (60%); RANKINGS (54%) STOCKS AND BONDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: MORNINGSTAR INC (69%); HARTFORD FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HARTFORD MIDCAP FUND 

TICKER: MORN (NASDAQ) (69%); HIG (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (69%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (69%); NAICS525190 OTHER INSURANCE FUNDS (58%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (58%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (58%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (58%)

PERSON: PERELMUTER, PHILLIP H. 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



604 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 520 words

HEADLINE: POSSESSED; 
Bellows And Barks To Soothe The Soul

BYLINE:  By ELAINE LOUIE 

 BODY:
IN life and in art, Maira Kalman chooses lightheartedness. When Ms. Kalman, the author of 12 children's books, was a student at New York University, she abandoned writing -- and a prose style she calls purple -- and turned to drawing. "I gravitated to people who had light in their work, who weren't nihilists," she said. She loves Duchamp's deadpan irony, Chagall's surrealism, with people floating in air, and Ludwig Bemelmans's Madeline books. "And, of course, Dr. Seuss," she said. 
 Alas, Ms. Kalman was a desultory student, and she had to take a summer class in economics or flunk out. The class was destiny. There she met Tibor Kalman, the graphic designer and a founder of M&Co., a design studio that produced album covers for the Ramones, Laurie Anderson and Talking Heads, and quirky wristwatches, some with blank faces. They married, had two children, Lulu, 20, and Alexander, 17, and each was the other's toughest critic. "The biggest insult was, 'It was a bore,' " she said. 
 In 1998, Mr. Kalman became very ill, and the house was gloomy. "I got Petey for the kids," she said, referring to her sweet-natured Irish wheaten terrier, who, as it happens, is the subject of the book "What Pete Ate From A-Z." "He was a mood elevator." After her husband died, Ms. Kalman made another therapeutic purchase. For $300, she bought a red, two-octave accordion.
Music is solace. Before she became an artist, Ms. Kalman had studied classical piano. When her husband was ill, she listened to Bach and Mozart, and occasionally jazz. "Music had the power to take me out of my despair," she said. 
The accordion, however, was something else. "I fancied myself as a vagabond accordionist, panhandling on the corner," she said, laughing. "I got the idea of being in a girls' band." She could nimbly accustom her piano-playing fingers to an accordion keyboard, she thought, and learn a bunch of folk tunes. Because it wasportable, she could take it to parties. Besides, she liked the name of a particular store: Accordion-O-Rama, then in Chelsea, now in South Amboy, N.J. "How could I not go there," she said. 
But distracted by two new books, the Pete one and "Fireboat," Ms. Kalman put the instrument away for a couple of years. "Then one funny day, I was looking for something new to do," she said. She had heard of Walter Kuehr, an accordionist who gives lessons at Main Squeeze on the Lower East Side. After eight lessons, she learned to play one tune, perfectly. "The Anniversary Waltz." (Oh, how we danced on the night we were wed . . .)
Ms. Kalman has yet to act out any of her accordion-inspired fantasies. Neither has she learned any more tunes. Instead, she has designed a line of raincoats printed with her drawings -- one style for women, another for dogs -- for the Kate Spade label. And a solo art show will open on Friday at the Julie Saul Gallery in Chelsea. 
At the merest provocation, though, she will reach into the closet, pull out the accordion and plunge into "The Anniversary Waltz." What playing the accordion means, even if only one tune, over and over again, is merriment. "It's transporting," she says.

GRAPHIC: Photos: BETTER THAN THE COUCH -- For Maira Kalman, her dog, Petey, and her accordion are squeezable forms of therapy. (Photographs by David Corio for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); MUSIC (89%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (86%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (86%); WRITERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (74%); JAZZ & BLUES (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); DOGS (65%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (64%); PANHANDLING (50%) MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS; ACCORDIONS; DOGS 

PERSON: KALMAN, MAIRA; LOUIE, ELAINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



605 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1366 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
In ComplicatedSkies, Jet Services Gain Members

BYLINE:  By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
CURTAILED flight schedules, security worries and a fear of SARS are draining first-class travelers from the major commercial airlines. But those problems have indirectly benefited several new companies that sell multiple flights on private jets.
 Marquis Jet Partners, Sentient and the Delta AirElite subsidiary of Delta Air Lines are among the companies selling these private-jet membership services. These companies essentially sell prepaid blocks of travel on small aircraft -- like Cessna Citation jets that seat six and Gulfstream IV's that seat 14 and can accommodate a flight attendant. 
 Prices vary and can be difficult to compare, but they generally start at about $100,000 for about 25 hours of flight time. Gourmet catering is included. 
While those prices average out to well above first-class fares on scheduled airlines, the companies promote their services as a novel way, amid a sluggish economy and corporate belt-tightening, to fly privately without some of the expense of owning a jet outright or having a fractional share in one. They also bill their newer and plentiful planes as better alternatives to those of traditional charter services.
Sentient, based in Norwell, Mass., said it signed up over 200 more customers in March than it did in the same month in 2002. The company, which TH Lee Putnam Ventures, a New York investment firm, bought this month from a unit of Credit Suisse First Boston and other investors, now has 1,300 customers, divided almost equally between corporations and wealthy individuals. Harvey Golub, the chairman of TH Lee Putnam Ventures, is a former chief executive of American Express.
"People are really looking for security and convenience," said Mark R. Stone, the chief executive of Sentient, which was formerly known as eBizJets. He said the company's total revenue since the week after Sept. 11, 2001, has been about $100 million, and that the company has been profitable since the second half of 2001.
He declined to provide further details, saying only that sales for 2002 rose 78 percent from the previous year.
Marquis, a privately held company based in New York, said its sign-up rate for new members more than tripled in March from the month a year earlier. The company says that it has 600 customers -- about 500 of them individuals and the rest corporations -- and that it became profitable last month, ahead of its year-end target.
Total revenue since it opened for business in June 2001 has been about $105 million, said Kenneth B. Austin, the executive vice president. He added that the company was nearly "one year ahead" of its original revenue projections, but declined to disclose further details.
He said Marquis had been growing so fast because "people just can't get from here to there commercially anymore."
Or at least not as quickly. Major airlines have been paring back their schedules to save money, making commercial flights less convenient for some frequent travelers. Delta Air Lines, for example, cut its regular service by 12 percent last month.
IN addition to offering service on demand, private jet services also help travelers avoid airport delays. The services, including Delta's own, often fly to many of the nation's 5,000 tiny municipal airports and airfields, away from congested commercial-airline hubs and clogged security checkpoints.
Delta AirElite, based in Cincinnati, declined to disclose its revenue or to say how many customers it had enrolled since introducing its membership program in January, saying only that it had received more than 900 inquiries. Cameron B. Gowans, Delta AirElite's director for sales and marketing, said the company hoped that its private-jet membership service, which it calls "fleet" membership, would replace charters as its flagship product. 
Sentient, whose clients include sports stars like Shaquille O'Neal of the Los Angeles Lakers and Alex Rodriguez of the Texas Rangers, does not own any planes; instead, it can charter as many as 1,400 as it needs them. Delta owns four planes, leases five more, operates 20 aircraft owned by others and charters an additional 200 jets through various charter operators.
By contrast, Marquis offers 400 planes through a sub-leasing arrangement with NetJets, the leading seller of fractional shares of aircraft and a unit of Berkshire Hathaway.
Under fractional ownership, customers buy a partial interest in a jet. For around $600,000, for example, they can buy a one-sixteenth share of a small jet, entitling them to about 50 hours of flying time a year. They also pay management fees, typically at least $10,000 a month, and flying fees, usually starting at $1,400 an hour.
Marquis uses the NetJets deal to guarantee that its members, who include Ben Affleck, the actor, and Derek Jeter of the Yankees, always fly on the plane they specify, or one like it or larger.
"You're not going to get a 16-year-old plane that looks like a wrecked prom limo," with frayed carpet and broken seat trays, said Mr. Austin, adding that the average NetJets plane was only three years old.
Some industry analysts say that they wonder if Sentient and Delta AirElite are really just souped-up charter services, unable to guarantee high-quality planes. 
"There's a lot of range of what you probably get in terms of the age and capabilities of planes" with both of the companies, said Barry P. Justice, an aviation consultant in Grapevine, Tex. Chartered planes can be new aircraft with leather seats, laptop hookups and DVD players, or low-technology jets that have been in service for decades.
Starting next month, Mr. Stone said, Sentient's new quality-control team will make quarterly, sometimes monthly, inspections for eyesores like coffee spills. The company has also hired a second, independent safety-auditing firm. Sentient and Delta AirElite also say that they charter their planes only from reliable, well-vetted sources.
S. Jerry Glauser, the owner of a Mercedez-Benz dealership in Sarasota, Fla., said he had flown dozens of times on his $100,000 Sentient card in the last 10 months, including trips to to Aspen, Colo., New York and the N.C.A.A. basketball championship in New Orleans. "It can certainly be luxurious if you want it to be," he said. "Everything has been extremely pleasant, very easy."
MARQUIS may have an edge with its fleet, but some industry analysts question how much the company actually saves some customers. For a corporate client whose executives take trips that require them to stay at a destination for several days, "you might want a fractional instead," said Joseph J. Moeggenberg, of the Aviation Research Group/U.S., an aviation consulting firm in Cincinnati.
Marquis charges from $109,900 to $299,900 for 25 hours of flight time, depending on the size of the jet. It requires notice of 10 hours to send in a plane to pick up passengers.
By contrast, Delta AirElite charges from $99,500 to $245,500 for 25 hours. But members can earn up to seven and a half free hours if they always fly round-trip, so the pilot can wait at the destination. The company guarantees a plane on 12 hours' notice.
Sentient, using a different pricing model, sells travel cards for $100,000 to $500,000, and then debits them at $3,100 to $7,100 a flight hour, depending on the size of the plane and whether the trip's length is short enough that the pilot can wait for the return. On a small jet, Sentient's $100,000 card can buy more than 32 flight hours of one-way trips or nearly 49 hours of round trips. Sentient says it needs booking notice of only five hours.
For all the companies, the most popular destinations are the Northeast, California, Florida and the Caribbean, but they occasionally fly farther overseas, through affiliate charters.
Mr. Stone of Sentient predicted that revenue from private-jet membership services would overtake those of fractional jet ownership, a fast-growing business itself, in five to seven years.
But John W. Olcott, the president of the National Business Aviation Association, a trade group for the private-jet industry, disagreed. "To expect the same level of service and efficiency as in a corporate or private jet," he said, referring to private aircraft owned by the traveler, "is probably unrealistic."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kenneth B. Austin, above and top, executive vice president of Marquis Jet Partners, with one of the Cessna Citation X planes that his company provides for its members. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (78%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); AFFLUENT MARKET (66%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (65%); COMPANY REVENUES (63%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (54%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (91%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: MARQUIS JET PARTNERS; DELTA AIR LINES INC (DAL) 

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (91%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%); AXP (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (54%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



606 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1259 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
With Interest Rates Stable, Credit Card Fees Rise

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER BAYOT

 BODY:
THE chances are good that something about your credit cards has changed recently.
 If you carry a Citibank or Chase card, for example, your late fees are now based on your outstanding balance; the greater the debt, the higher the fee. Customers of First USA now pay a 2 percent surcharge on overseas purchases, on top of what the credit card networks charge. MBNA and American Express, among many others, are raising interest rates or reducing credit limits of customers who slip up with any other creditors, even if those customers' record with them is clean. 
 Many fees and business practices that were considered unusual only a few years ago are quickly becoming widespread as the card companies seek to build revenue at a time of low interest rates. 
Because of the competitive climate, "you cannot charge an annual fee and you have to offer a low interest rate," said Robert B. McKinley, chief executive of CardWeb.com, which tracks the credit card industry, "so there's been this fee frenzy."
The pressure is on, too, because of the high level of consumer debt and problem loans. The Federal Reserve reported this month that consumers added $5.4 billion to revolving credit in February, and that total consumer debt stood at $1.74 trillion, excluding home mortgages. Last year, though, banks had to write off an average of 6 percent per quarter on outstanding credit-card balances, according to the Fed. At the same time, a record 1.5 million people filed for bankruptcy protection, about 6 percent more than in 2001, according to the American Bankruptcy Institute. The group's executive director, Samuel Gerdano, said it expected that pace to continue this year.
Industry experts say the changing fee policies are intended to hedge risks by imposing harsher penalties on those who make late payments or other missteps and giving more favorable terms and rates to customers with good credit histories. Rajive Johri, an executive vice president at Chase Cardmember Services, the credit card division of J. P. Morgan Chase, said his company has been "extremely cautious in making the changes," but he called them necessary. "Everyone has to follow the competitive trends," he said. Otherwise, he said, banks cannot offer competitively low rates.
Penalty fees are now the third-largest source of revenue for major card companies, after interest and the surcharge merchants pay to accept the cards, industry experts say. For Visa and MasterCard customers alone, those fees grew 10 percent in 2002, to $8 billion, according to a survey published in the May issue of Credit Card Management, a trade publication.
Tiered rates began appearing last year. Since last spring, Citibank, a unit of Citigroup, has charged late fees of $15 on accounts with balances of less than $100, $25 on accounts with balances of $100 to $1,000, and $35 on accounts with more than $1,000 outstanding. By the end of 2002, Chase, Bank of America and Discover, a unit of Morgan Stanley, had followed suit with similar tiers of fees.
Some critics say tiered fees hurt customers who can least afford them, but the companies and even some consumers say they are fairer than flat fees, because they penalize behavior that consumers can avoid -- like making late payments.
A study last winter of 143 cards by Consumer Action, an education and advocacy group in San Francisco, counted 21 with late fees of more than $30. In 2001, the same survey found only one card issuer, Fleet Bank, a unit of FleetBoston Financial, whose late fee had broken the $30 level.
The average fee for late payments is now $30.04, or 6 percent higher than it was last year and double the average five years ago, according to CardWeb. (The $40 late fee could be around the corner: Direct Merchants Bank, a unit of the Metris Companies, set a high mark in 2002 by raising its late fee to $39.)
Other changes in the credit cards' provisions make it more difficult to sidestep the fees. Last year, Bank One, which owns First USA, and Citibank, which owns AT&T Universal, shortened the grace periods on most of their accounts to 20 days from as many as 25. 
Ralph Slate, 34, a database specialist from Springfield, Mass., said the reduced grace period on his First USA card surprised him.
"I pay my bill each month at the same time, online, and was shocked to see that I was two to three days past the due date," he said.
Mr. Slate said that he quickly contacted First USA and averted a $29 late fee, but he said the company's grace-period cutbacks had made him worry about future reductions: "Why not change it to 15 days, or 10, or even zero?" He said he eventually switched to a card with a 25-day grace period.
There have also been changes in fees for overseas purchases. Last April, First USA started adding a 2 percent fee to overseas purchases on all its cards, including its popular Mileage Plus Visa. The currency conversion charge is in addition to a 1 percent fee that Visa and MasterCard have been charging for foreign transactions. Citibank was one of the first card issuers to add its own fee, in November 1998. Now, at least 7 of 10 Visa or MasterCard cardholders pay the extra charges, according to the Nilson Report, which tracks the industry.
Michael and Cheryl Tulkoff of Austin, Tex., said they canceled their Visa card after they noticed the currency conversion fee; they changed to a fee-free card at their credit union. Unlike their other credit cards, the new one does not earn frequent-flier miles or other rewards, so they use it only when they travel abroad.
"Yes, credit cards offer a good exchange rate," Ms. Tulkoff said, but she added that the extra conversion fees made them less of a bargain. "It was like a tax. Obviously, if you don't have to pay it, you try to avoid it."
MANY issuers are also now imposing higher interest rates, or penalty rates, on customers whose credit ratings decline for any reason, including late payments to other creditors. Last month, Chase sent out notices to customers reminding them that they must make timely payments not only on their Chase card accounts but also on all other loans or accounts, even with other creditors, or run the risk of a higher rate on their Chase cards. 
Citibank started such pricing in 2000, and the AT&T Universal Card did so shortly after. The first company to institute such pricing was Capital One Financial, in 1996, according to Linda Sherry, a spokeswoman for Consumer Action and director of its annual credit-card survey.
"It really did alarm a lot of people," she said, "but it has become a general industry practice now."
Ms. Sherry and others trace such standardization in part to the credit card industry's consolidation. Over the past decade, 135 million Americans have had credit cards whose issuers have been acquired by other institutions, according to R. K. Hammer Investment Bankers in Thousand Oaks, Calif. 
"There's not much difference any more between the top 10 banks," Ms. Sherry said. "Now the industry is all plain vanilla."
The convergence may make it harder to shop for better deals when your company changes its fine print. But by knowing what fees are out there, you can still choose cards that are more appropriate for your needs or spending habits. For instance, if you're a frequent overseas traveler, you might apply for cards from companies like MBNA or Capital One, which do not add currency conversion fees. And customers of good standing can ask their card companies to lower their rates or even to revise certain terms. If you start now, the changes could be in place in time for your summer vacation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ralph Slate of Springfield, Mass., switched to a different credit card after a card company shortened grace periods for payments. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) Chart: "Rising Debt"Revolving consumer credit, which includes credit card debt, has been climbing steadily in recent years. Graph tracks revolving consumer credit, measured in billions, since 1998. (Source: Federal Reserve) Chart: "Sorting the Extras"Many banks have been adding or raising credit cards fees like those for late payments or exceeding credit limits. Here is a sampling of low and high card fees from a recent survey. Low-fee cards: California Bank & TrustCARD TYPE(S): Classic/GoldLATE FEE: $10OVER LIMIT FEE: $10 Low-fee cards: First Internet BankCARD TYPE(S): Connect Classic/SelectLATE FEE: 16OVER LIMIT FEE: 20 Low-fee cards: M&I BankCARD TYPE(S): Classic/PlatinumLATE FEE: 18OVER LIMIT FEE: 15 Low-fee cards: Five Star BankCARD TYPE(S): ClassicLATE FEE: 20OVER LIMIT FEE: 15 High-fee cards: CitibankCARD TYPE(S): AT&T Universal/othersLATE FEE: $15-$35OVER LIMIT FEE: $35 High-fee cards: Fleet BankCARD TYPE(S): Classic/Platinum/othersLATE FEE: 35OVER LIMIT FEE: 35 High-fee cards: ProvidianCARD TYPE(S): Smart Premier/othersLATE FEE: 35OVER LIMIT FEE: 35 High-fee cards: US BankCARD TYPE(S): Classic/Platinum/othersLATE FEE: 29- 38OVER LIMIT FEE: 20-25 (Source: Consumer Action annual credit card survey 2003)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); CREDIT CARDS (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); TRENDS (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (75%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (68%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; BANKING AND FINANCIAL SERVICES; PERSONAL FINANCE 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); VISA INC (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (73%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); AXP (NYSE) (90%); V (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (73%); JPM (LSE) (73%); 8634 (TSE) (73%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (73%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (73%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (59%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



607 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 4; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN NOTEBOOK; 
As Comforting as a Casserole

BYLINE:  By PHIL PATTON

 BODY:
"THIS car is like sushi," a Ford designer, Laurens van den Acker, said of the Model U, a futuristic design study he worked on. With brightly colored parts that can be recycled, the hip Model U was billed as "the 21st-century successor of the Model T."
 By contrast, "this is a hamburger," he said of the Ford 427, a big, square evocation of a 1960's family sedan. 
 Think of it as a game: if a car were a food, what food would it be? 
At the New York auto show this year, the most important new designs aim to reinvent the American family car. Often called the "meat and potatoes" or "bread and butter" of automakers' lineups, such cars seem more and more like comfort foods -- meatloaf or macaroni and cheese for the road.
One comfort car making its debut was the sturdy Chrysler 300C, a big rear-drive model described by its designer, Ralph Gilles, director of design at the Chrysler Group, as "muscular, tall, athletic and noble." Trevor Creed, Chrysler's senior vice president for design, said it had "the proud, powerful lines that once made American automobiles the envy of the entire industry."
The 2006 Ford Futura sedan, present only as an image projected beside the 427 concept car that inspired it, is similarly strong and upright -- another square-meal deal. Chevrolet's new Malibu recreates the family car as a menu of models, from front-drive sedan to a five-door, all-wheel-drive Malibu Maxx.
Like comfort foods, these cars appear warm and filling -- a good value, though not necessarily trim or fat-free.
The comfort they offer is appropriate to a time of vague unease about war, epidemics and recession. Comfort is not exactly security, the value seemingly offered by a tough, military-inspired S.U.V., but it is about reassurance and a reassertion of the familiar.
Back during the war -- last week, that is -- Americans may have shopped less for cars and clothes, but they went out to eat. They dined, however, close to home at "value" restaurants; sales were up at Applebee's, Olive Garden and Boston Market. Since Sept. 11, 2001, comfort foods have been celebrated in cookbooks like Marian Burros's "Cooking for Comfort," and in Iraq the most popular M.R.E. (the military's "meals ready to eat") was hamburger steak -- as close to mom's meatloaf as a soldier can get.
There are few exotic future cars or wild concept cars at the New York show. Still, the "V pulse" key fob of the Volvo Versatility Concept Car literally has a heartbeat. It generates a constant pulse of reassurance that beats faster if something goes wrong -- if someone tries to steal the car, for instance.
Comfort foods tend to be those of shared experiences, of school cafeterias and church suppers. Comfort cars also trade on shared experiences. "Our national character is uniquely comprised of the tension between individuality and community," said Dr. Timothy Malefyt, an anthropologist who studies cars as director of cultural discoveries for BBDO Advertising. "When we go to war, or in other times of crisis, individuality takes precedence over feelings of community." After the war, vehicles like the Hummer, beneficiary of weeks of de facto advertising on cable television, may fade, he says.
"Mostly moms buy these big things in spite of community concerns for harming others on the road, using more fuel," he said. Next, he added, there may be a "swing toward community."
Dr. Malefyt speculated that future comfort cars would appear "hearty and robust." He added: "The current direction of some luxury car interiors, toward cold and gray metallic looks, may be off the beam. Look for supple leather combined with woodgrains and soft plastics."The 300C has tortoise-shell accents.
Casseroles are in evidence, too, as "crossovers" that meld ingredients of S.U.V., van, sports car or sedan. But with each new crossover, the suspicion grows that it is just a station wagon -- that primal comfort car once driven by the primal source of comfort, one's mother.
Maybe mom is ready for a wagon again. Once she parks her Hummer.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Chrysler 300C is reminiscent of the large, sturdy family cars of decades past. (pg. 1); The Malibu Maxx is a wagonlike variation on a new midsize Chevy sedan. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (90%); CONCEPT CARS (89%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); FAST FOOD (77%); FAMILY (76%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); RESTAURANTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (92%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (85%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (92%); F (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%)

PERSON: RALPH GILLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



608 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: SHAKEN AND STIRRED; 
Care for a Drink Before Your Meal? Sure, but Hold the Meal

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM L. HAMILTON 

 BODY:
AT 7 p.m. on Wednesday in Midtown, what most interested Ven Medabalmi about Citarella -- the $3 million restaurant designed by the celebrity architect David Rockwell and boasting a David Bouley-trained chef, Brian Bistrong, in its kitchen -- was the $12 cocktail he was drinking.
 Mr. Medabalmi, 28, who had arrived with two friends, bumped into another friend, who was there with two companions; they were now a party of six. None of them were headed upstairs to the acclaimed dining room. 
 "I'll grab something later in my neighborhood, something local, something quick," said Mr. Medabalmi, a lawyer, wearing a suit with a dark dress shirt and without a necktie. "I've found that recently, people are not as inclined to go out to eat. Every time you propose dinner, people are like, 'Well, we'll just meet for a drink.' It's less complicated, less logistics. And you can do it more often during a week." 
Mr. Medabalmi said that he chose Citarella's bar because "the atmosphere is clearly nicer" than a standard bar, and "the drinks are more interesting."
Kimberly Sevy, a friend of Mr. Medabalmi who had one denimed leg tucked under her as she sat at the bar, agreed.
"It's very mellow," said Ms. Sevy, a waitress who is also 28. "You have a chance to relax and have a cocktail and be able to have a conversation with people and not scream. Times have changed. We've all gone through something. The economy's not so fabulous, and anyone who lived in New York in the last year went through incredible trauma. When I go out, I just want to spend time with the people I'm with and talk." Yes, Ms. Sevy conceded, "this is a big change for me."
The cocktail's renaissance as a sophisticated way to drink has coincided with a cultural moment -- a hunger for the comforts of casual behavior. Underscored by the economic moment, which is bad, meeting for drinks has produced a new version of the old night out -- not the prelude to the evening, but the main event.
It is not about barhopping, with its mating and dating, or the power and prestige of a 9 o'clock table at the best new restaurant -- sacred cattle of New York City.
It is, instead, an easier, cheaper, friendlier alternative, increasingly popular -- a last-minute plan with lower stakes, higher flexibility, a maximum of social entertainment in a minimum of time, and a sweet lack of stress.
The taste for cocktails, a shaky pocket and an impatience with self-imposed pressures in the face of realer threats are telling many people something that they might have suspected but not yet admitted.
They want the night off when they go out for the night.
"This is not about getting blunted," said Cyndi Stivers, editorial director of Time Out New York, the weekly listings magazine, which is publishing a pocket guidebook to bars on May 23 because, she said, "bars are all anybody goes to."
"Dinner's so intimate," she said. "Bars have a less serious veneer. People are going out in groups now, even on dates, and keeping things casual."
KAREN RAMS, whose hair was cut short and who was wearing a red jersey, said: "I mean, you've got to eat, but reservations? Dinner?"
Ms. Rams, 37, a researcher, was sitting at the bar at Verlaine on the Lower East Side last week, the dregs of a satay plate -- wooden skewer, uneaten rice and peanut sauce -- uncleared in front of her.
"It was definitely the litchi martinis that drove us here," she said. When Ms. Rams, Greg Di Noto and Tricia Melton, three friends who have worked together "in one capacity or another," Mr. Di Noto said, get together now to catch up and argue, agree, tease, take sides, confide or commiserate, they do it over drinks, not a dinner table.
"It feels looser to just have cocktails," said Ms. Melton, 37, an advertising executive, seated next to Ms. Rams.
"There's no set agenda," said Mr. Di Noto, 43, a marketer, on a stool pushed back from the bar between them. "We could decide that we want to eat -- at 11 o'clock."
Ms. Melton, whose hair was long and who was wearing a white peasant blouse, said, "Because I'm married, sometimes we make a reservation." Her voice softened, in explanation. "If we're getting together with couples."
Ms. Rams shot her a look across the bow -- Mr. Di Noto's black T-shirt.
"I live in Brooklyn, which is not an outpost, O.K.?" Ms. Melton said quickly, and loudly.
Ms. Rams, all smiles, said incredulously, "You need a reservation in Brooklyn?"
Ms. Melton regrouped with the last sip from her glass, as the next round arrived.
"The bars are doing a really good job of making it more interesting," she said. "The litchi martini! I thought, 'Never had one -- sounds delish.' "
Mr. Di Noto woke up and said, "Sounds delish?" then burst into laughter as if it were a sudden sweat. "Listen, darling."
Bars introduced an effective concept, the lounge, years ago, with club-style seating and suave lighting for drinkers who wanted mood with their martinis. But restaurants, experts at ambience that were likened to theater in the 1980's and 90's, are facing what E. Charles Hunt, the executive vice president of the New York State Restaurant Association, called "the perfect storm" -- a fatal confluence of 9/11, the war in Iraq and the economy. Fewer people want to be onstage for two hours, eat three courses and pay four figures.
"I've never seen anything like it," he said of the circumstances hovering over the higher end of an industry that now wants a larger piece of the new cocktail bar action.
Mr. Hunt said that savvy restaurateurs are adapting to the strongest areas of the market. "Hopefully, you'll stay for dinner," he said. "But if you have a drink or finger food and move on -- God love you, you're in the chair. The toughest thing in the world in a restaurant is an empty chair."
The average price of a meal at New York restaurants dropped last year for the first time since 1990, said Tim Zagat, a founder of the Zagat Survey and guides. He attributed the decline in part to people's eating less formally, or "bar style" as he called it, ordering smaller, appetizer-size plates.
Citarella, on Avenue of the Americas at 49th Street, which designed the area beside its bar as a dining space in 2001, stripped the starched cloths off the tables when cocktail drinkers moved in instead.
It is not by accident that one ring of the three-ring circus at 66 in TriBeCa, Jean-Georges Vongerichten's latest project and New York's most conspicuous recent restaurant opening, is a lounge, greatly expanded from what would have previously been a basic holding pen for diners with reservations at the restaurant.
In the first three months of 2003, 24 of the restaurants that opened in New York -- 55 percent of the total -- included a substantial bar or lounge area, according to the Zagat Survey, up 10 percent from the same period last year.
"Look at the most popular places, the younger, hipper restaurants, the newcomers," Mr. Zagat said. "There's an effort to provide bar space, lounge space." He cited Blue Fin in the W hotel in Times Square, and the Dos Caminos restaurants, on Park Avenue South and in SoHo, developed by Stephen R. Hanson and his company B. R. Guest. "You can barely squeeze past the bar to get to the restaurant in the back," Mr. Zagat said. "Younger people are socializing in restaurants, but they do less eating."
Danny Meyer, whose popular dining establishments include Union Square Cafe, opened in 1985, and Blue Smoke, opened last year, has increased the space given to the bar at each successive restaurant. Fifty percent of the customers at Blue Smoke's bar are there to drink, not to dine, Mr. Meyer said.
"It's a cocktail generation," he explained. "It's fun -- it's sexy. It's more fun than a glass of chardonnay. People are goingout to socialize over drinks, not the dinner table."
"This recession is painful," he added. "Everyone is trying to figure out how to capture customers. I'm interested in never giving up on fine dining, but I'm interested in being full all the time, too."
Guastavino, the much-publicized restaurant under the Queensboro Bridge, has a brisk evening bar scene. It converted its formal dining room to a V.I.P. bar area two weeks ago after it proved itself more successful as a late-night weekend lounge. Peter Hoffman, the owner and chef of Savoy in SoHo, moved his main dining room upstairs to a smaller space and turned the ground floor into a cafe bar.
"People are changing the way they think about entertainment and dining," Mr. Hoffman said. Saying that he, too, remains committed to fine food, he explained the advantages of a bar clientele: "You can do volume without kitchen labor involved. One guy can make a lot of drinks. I understand why people are in the bar business -- the economics are far better."
Jeffrey Beers, an architect and designer who designed DB Bistro Moderne in Midtown, has spoken with its namesake, the chef Daniel Boulud, about redesigning the front dining room as a lounge, as well as making Daniel, Mr. Boulud's signature restaurant, "more sexy."
"Daniel's getting very curious about this," Mr. Beers said. "You need the restaurant to reinforce the idea that you're not going to a club. But having drinks with friends is very appealing. It's more accessible by more people. Enough with sitting up straight and ordering the right wine."
At Salt Bar on Clinton Street, New York's newest restaurant row, the owner and chef, Melissa O'Donnell, opened a bar that serves food, rather than a restaurant, to hedge her bets. "People don't want five courses, but they don't want beer on the floor either, and if they aren't interested in a meal, they stay to drink and order food anyway," she said.
At Amuse, a handsome lounge and restaurant in Chelsea that was formerly the Tonic until it was renovated and reopened two weeks ago by Gerry Hayden, its chef and an owner, a table of 20 people in their 20's and 30's sat in the bar and lounge area on Wednesday, socializing, drinking and eating side orders or desserts. No one had plans for dinner, not even next door, in Mr. Hayden's attractive dining room.
For younger New Yorkers, the advantages of an evening out over cocktails are distinct: less money, less hassle, less commitment and an ability to get home at a reasonable hour on a weeknight for those many who live outside Manhattan.
"You can get everybody you invite to come out if you just do drinks," said Holly Hunnicutt, 27, sitting with friends and colleagues from the publishing house where she works. "We order 50 baskets of French fries -- that's dinner."
Ms. Hunnicutt turned back to her friends to talk. Reka Simonsen, 32, who was sitting next to her in a sleeveless dress with an ink silhouette on her arm, replied, when asked, "Yes, it's a real tattoo, and yes, it's really Nancy Drew."

GRAPHIC: Photos: THE FOOD IS EXTRA -- Salt, at left, is a bar that also serves food, rather than a restaurant that serves drinks. At Savoy, below left and bottom, the ground floor has been turned into a cafe bar, and the main dining room has been moved upstairs. (Photographs by Jenny Acheson for The New York Times); (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 6); TWO STARS AND A SWIZZLE STICK -- At Citarella in Midtown Manhattan, cocktail drinkers have expanded from the bar into an adjacent dining area. (Roger Davies for The New York Times); HAPPY HOURS -- More restaurant customers, like these at Amuse in Chelsea, are doing their socializing over drinks and nibbles, not dinner. In hard times, owners are often glad to see them. (David Corio for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%) BARS 

COMPANY: CITARELLA (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445299 ALL OTHER SPECIALTY FOOD STORES (92%); SIC5499 MISCELLANEOUS FOOD STORES (92%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (92%)

PERSON: HAMILTON, WILLIAM L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



609 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1134 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
A Storm Watchin the Bond Harbor

BYLINE:  By GREGORY JORDAN

 BODY:
INTEREST rates have been so low for so long that investors may not be prepared for the long rally in bonds to end, many fund managers, financial advisers and bond traders say.
 "The folks who are chasing returns in bond funds are in trouble," said Roger I. Bair III, senior portfolio manager at PSA Financial Center, a financial management company in Lutherville, Md. 
 He added that "the cyclical trend" in interest rates that lowered bond yields and raised bond prices was nearly over. "Going forward," he said, "things will be very different for bond fund managers." 
Investors have flocked to bonds during the bear market in stocks. According to the Investment Company Institute, the trade group for the mutual fund industry, taxable bond fund inflows exceeded $120 billion in 2002, a record. In the first quarter, the surge continued, with an estimated $45 billion flowing into taxable bonds, according to AMG Data Services.
But interest rates, hovering near their lowest levels in decades, are likely to rise once the economy strengthens, lowering the price of bonds and hurting the returns of bond mutual funds. 
Concerns about the economy have weighed down the bond markets over the last month, and interest rates have been little changed since the start of the war in Iraq. The yield on the benchmark 10-year Treasury note has fallen slightly to 3.96 percent, from 3.98 percent on March 19, when the war began, modestly raising the bond's value. Whether that trend will continue in the short run is far from certain, but most advisers and portfolio managers say yields will probably rise, and prices decline, over the longer term.
Bond fund investors can prepare by making sure that their asset allocation is appropriate for the long term, many financial advisers say. After three years of strong returns, the bond portion of many portfolios may be too heavy.
After checking the allocation, investors should make sure they are holding appropriate bond funds, said Sue Stevens, director for financial planning at Morningstar.
Those who have their money in a total-return bond fund -- a general-purpose bond fund that allows managers considerable leeway in selecting the type and duration of bonds -- will have to trust the fund manager to adjust the holdings of specific bonds.
In the current economic climate, Mr. Bair said, managers are likely to sell bonds with longer-term maturities because longer-term bonds are most sensitive to interest rate shifts. If managers anticipate rising interest rates, they generally shorten the average maturity of the bonds in their funds. If interest rates rise sharply, such adjustments are likely to minimize losses, though not eliminate them.
THE largest total-return fund is Pimco Total Return, with more than $70 billion in assets. Over the last three years through Thursday, it returned 9.93 percent a year, on average, about 1.6 percentage points better than its peers.
Other large total-return bond funds recommended by advisers include Dodge & Cox Income, which returned 10.34 percent, annualized, over the period; TCW Galileo Total Return Bond, 10.71 percent; and BlackRock Core Bond Total Return, 9.07 percent.
People who prefer making more of their own investing decisions may have loaded up on funds filled with long-duration bonds, which are more sensitive to interest rate shifts. Those investors may want to consider shifting to short-duration bond funds, Mr. Bair said. 
"The ones to avoid are the long-term Treasury funds," he said. "But one of the things that surprises me is how few people got out of these funds during previous periods of rising rates. You need to get out of them now, before they decline." 
In 1999, when interest rates were rising, the Vanguard Long-Term Treasury fund fell 8.66 percent for the year, while the Vanguard Intermediate-Term Treasury fund declined just 3.52 percent, and the Vanguard Short-Term Treasury fund gained 1.85 percent. In 1994, another year of rising rates, the average long-term bond fund lost 6.2 percent, the average intermediate fund was down 3.85 percent, and the average short-term fund lost 0.83 percent, according to the Investment Company Institute.
Mr. Bair currently recommends T. Rowe Price US Treasury Intermediate and Vanguard Intermediate-Term Treasury. As options, he also recommends Vanguard Short-Term Treasury and Strong Short-Term Bond fund.
Ms. Stevens said that if investors thought their long-term bond exposure was too high, another alternative would be funds made up of Treasury inflation-protected securities, or TIPS. These bonds are guaranteed to rise with inflation (and an increase in inflation would prompt an increase in interest rates). Among the funds she recommends in this category are Vanguard Inflation-Protected Securities, which returned 13.91 percent in the 12 months ending on Thursday; Pimco Real Return, up 13.71 percent in that period, and Fidelity Inflation-Protected Bond, which began operations in June and has gained 1.28 percent this year.
FINANCIAL advisers say conservative investors may want to consider funds that try to reduce interest rate risk through portfolio diversification. Typically, such a fund, often known as a flexible or multisector fund, holds a range of fixed-income securities with varying maturities -- including mortgage-backed securities, Treasuries, and corporate and international bonds. Some of the corporate paper is rated below investment grade.
The highest-return flexible funds in 2003 through Thursday, according to Morningstar, were Merrill Lynch World Income, up 11.92 percent; CDC Nvest Strategic Income Y, up 9.60 percent; Federated Strategic Income F, up 8.77 percent; and Loomis Sayles Bond, up 8.72 percent. 
Daniel J. Fuss, vice chairman at Loomis Sayles, manages both Loomis Sayles Bond and CDC Nvest Strategic Income. In multisector funds, he said, "you have the allowance for below-investment-grade bonds, mixed in with government, investment-grade corporate and emerging market."
"They're very diverse, so multisector funds can adjust to rising rates much easier than most bond fund styles," Mr. Fuss added.
Until rates stabilize, some fixed-income investors may simply want to hold cash in a money market fund. That will not be very profitable -- many funds are paying less than 1 percent -- but it does mean relative safety.
Jane E. Trust, a managing director at Legg Mason, agreed that there was not "much more room" for bonds to continue to rally. "If you really don't want to take any principle risk, most bond funds might be too risky for you right now," she said, adding that in that case, "you should really confine yourself to money market funds."
"People always assume most fixed-income funds are safe," she said "but interest rate risks can always exceed an investor's time frame in most fixed-income sectors."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Roger I. Bair III, senior portfolio manager at PSA Financial Center, says investors who have favored long-duration bond funds may want to shift to shorter-term varieties. (Steve Ruark for The New York Times) Chart: "Chasing Returns"Investors have generally responded to strong bond returns by pouring money into bond mutual funds. Last year, with the stock market down for the third year in a row, fund inflows hit a record high. Graph tracks bond fund total returns for Lehman Brothers Aggregate index from 1990 to 2002. Graph tracks net bond fund flows from 1990 to 2002. (Sources: Lehman Brothers; Investment Company Institute)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); BOND FUNDS (91%); BOND MARKETS (91%); TRENDS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); STATISTICS (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); PRICE CUTTING (70%) CREDIT AND INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT 

COMPANY: PSA FINANCIAL CENTER INC (58%); AMG DATA SERVICES (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INVESTMENT COMPANY INSTITUTE (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



610 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 997 words

HEADLINE: Executive Life; 
Washington Insider Heeds a Call to Iraq

BYLINE:  By MARCI ALBOHER NUSBAUM

 BODY:
TIMOTHY B. MILLS is a top Washington lawyer and lobbyist. He is also Lt. Col. Timothy B. Mills, an Army reservist. That combination makes him a player in corporate America, where he advises Fortune 500 companies on military-related matters and the ins and outs of negotiating with the federal government.
 But within the next few weeks, Mr. Mills will be taking a leave of absence from his firm, Patton Boggs, donning his uniform and undertaking perhaps the biggest assignment of his professional life: helping to restore civil order to Iraq. 
 Mr. Mills is one of a coterie of legal experts who will be assigned to task forces created to rebuild the country. He doesn't know exactly what he will be doing, but many matters need to be addressed: restoring the justice system, re-establishing a police force, determining how donor nations will supply aid and structuring internationally binding contracts relating to the reconstruction.
It will be a grueling task. Mr. Mills says he expects to be deployed for a year or so. "Whatever it takes to get the job done," he said.
He comes to the job with diverse credentials. He has been a lawyer of choice for prominent lawyers and for Republican politicians in close races. Mr. Mills represented the Bush-Cheney campaign in three contested counties during the disputed Florida presidential vote of 2000. And he says one of his proudest moments was the successful defense of a former special counsel in the Clinton White House, Lanny J. Davis, now a colleague at Patton Boggs, in a defamation case in 2001.
Mr. Mills joined the Army in 1972 as a federal special agent in the military police and spent eight years investigating cases of fraud against the Army. He joined Patton Boggs as an associate in 1990 and became a partner in 1995.
This will be Mr. Mills's first experience in a theater of war and first trip to the Middle East. In the first Persian Gulf war, he was stationed at a reserve center in Pittsburgh, responsible for mobilizing other Army lawyers. Then, too, he expected to be gone for a year, but the war's swift end cut his stint to two weeks.
Mr. Mills does not regard his lack of experience in the region as a handicap. "There will be cultural and subject-matter experts, translators and people from the host nation who are familiar with the operation of agencies under the Baath regime," he said. "Many of the people who went into Bosnia and Kosovo hadn't ever been there before."
While he waits to be called up, Mr. Mills is briefing the partners filling in for him, studying Iraq's legal system (a topic he researched for the Army two years ago) and logging on to the Defense Department's intranet to review classified military information. He has updated his will and insurance policies and is making plans to rent out his house.
But mostly, he is thinking about a country that has never known democracy. "The biggest challenge is to restore or actually create what the people of Iraq will accept as a legitimate government that respects their interests," he said. "Since the Baath Party took over in the late 1960's, Iraq has had a single-party government modeled after Stalin's Soviet Union. In addition, all the organs of government that we think of in the West as being fair have become instruments of repression."
MR. MILLS said the lawlessness that has been on view in several Iraqi cities was an immediate concern. "If you looked at news reports from Basra, parts of Baghdad and other cities where Baath authority has been displaced, you saw that with the authority removed, there is a vacuum," he said. "With no public safety, no operating police, no economic system and no courts, what you have is looting and chaos, and possibly violent crimes. So the first step will be to restore public safety."
That will require removing what remains of the secret police and militias, he says, and replacing them with an interim security force of troops from several countries, but also including Iraqis. Another challenge is to persuade Iraqis to accept the interim authority as legitimate, he said; in this regard, America's experience in other countries could be instructive.
For example, in Bosnia and Kosovo, the public did not initially perceive outsiders as having moral authority. "So one thing you have to look at is how to involve troops or others with a cultural background similar to the Iraqis in those policing activities," Mr. Mills said. "Other nations in the Islamic world might play a role here."
Asked whether the United Nations would be the vehicle for other nations to become involved, he said he was not in a position to give the official United States view, but he offered some of his own thoughts.
"It's not surprising that Senators Warner and Biden and the administration all agree that the U.N. should have a significant role as a partner, but not as a managing partner," he said, referring to John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia, and Joseph R. Biden Jr., Democrat of Delaware. "The U.N. is perfectly positioned to provide humanitarian assistance through its oil-for-food program, and it has resources it can marshal that should and must be used to restore life in Iraq, not to what it was but what it should be."
Juggling a military and civilian career has not been without cost to Mr. Mills. While he is close to his three children, now well into their 20's, he says they have told him that they wish he had been around more when they were growing up. And he fully expects that his current mobilization will result in lost income well into six figures.
Yet he does not question his commitment to the Army. "If I'm called upon to serve my nation in a time of national need, then it's very similar to taking a sabbatical," he said. "I also think it's a rare opportunity to make a contribution to stability in the gulf region -- and we'll see whether that becomes a model throughout the Middle East."
Besides, he said, "I believe that in the long term my clients will remain loyal to me when I return."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Timothy B. Mills, a lawyer at the Washington firm Patton Boggs, is an Army reservist who is being assigned to assist Iraq's reconstruction. (Susana Raab for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAWYERS (91%); ARMIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (68%); POLICE FORCES (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (63%) ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE; LEGAL PROFESSION 

COMPANY: PATTON BOGGS LLP (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (92%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: MILLS, TIMOTHY B. 

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



611 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
A Town's Protests Threaten Argentina's Mining Future

BYLINE:  By LESLIE MOORE

DATELINE: ESQUEL, Argentina 

 BODY:
JUST a month ago, investors were buzzing about gold buried in the hills and dells of Patagonia, and government officials were predicting that surging gold prices and Argentina's cheap peso would stoke a boom in mining and attract billions of dollars.
 But after voters in this mountain town turned against a $720 million gold and silver mine to be built by Meridian Gold, a mining company based in Reno, Nev., investors are thinking twice about mining in Argentina. 
 "The worry is that antimining forces will spread," said Jose Luis Andrich, who publishes a mining newspaper called Prensa Geo Minera. "This puts at risk all future mining investment in Argentina." 
Instead of tending to new exploration, "we'll have to row against antimining currents," said Victor Bonfils, who supervises Argentina mining properties at Rio Tinto, a mining conglomerate based in London.
In the referendum, on March 23, a broad coalition of residents here in Esquel (pronounced Ess-KELL) voted against Meridian's project, called El Desquite (Des-KEY-teh), which would be about six miles from town. Opponents said the mine could pollute the water supply in this tourist town at the base of the Andes, 1,200 miles southwest of Buenos Aires and near Los Alerces National Park. Others said Argentina's mineral wealth should be harnessed by Argentines.
Streets and walls in this community of 29,000 are scrawled with antimining graffiti, and armed police have guarded Meridian's downtown office. The company said a Molotov cocktail was hurled at a car owned by a driller. Both mine opponents and advocates say they have received threatening phone calls. 
The referendum holds no legal sway, but the drubbing of Desquite has shaken the political establishment. After the vote, Gov. Jose Luis Lizurume of Chubut Province, which includes Esquel, asked Meridian to halt work on the mine until the company completed an environmental study; provincial authorities had already approved the project. Many people here want Meridian to abandon the project and leave town.
Meridian has stopped construction and is studying how the project may affect local water supplies. After opposition swelled, the company volunteered to establish a fund to cover incidental environmental harm.
Meridian arrived here last year after buying a $320 million, 543-acre site, which it estimates contains three million ounces of gold. The company said it planned to spend $400 million more during the mine's operations, paying monthly wages of about 900 Argentine pesos, or about $308, well above a poverty-level salary, to 400 people.
Mining analysts fault Meridian for bungling relations with the town. "It was as if everything Meridian said was said on purpose so people would get angry," said Maria Cecilia Ubaldon, a state-employed geologist and Esquel resident who favors the mine.
Gustavo Manuel Macayo, who runs a family-owned bookstore, said: "People didn't oppose the mine -- they were indifferent. But from the start, Meridian imposed the project on Esquel. If the mine is built, it will provoke a war here."
Darcy Marud, Meridian's exploration manager, said an "anti-gringo" backlash had fed a firestorm of protest. "People feel damaged by what happened to the Argentine economy," he said. "They see some of their problems as forced upon them by the U.S. and other gringo powers."
The vote against the American company came four days after the start of the war in Iraq and amid protests against the United States Embassy in Buenos Aires. Local radio stations have broadcast messages saying "we're for peace and against the war" and local newspapers have published photographs of war casualties on their front pages.
"It was as if those who voted against the project saw it as a town's triumph of anti-imperialism," said Elina Gil, a Meridian geologist.
Many Argentines are still bitter about the government's sale of oil, natural gas and telecommunications assets in the last decade. They say the sales helped tip the country into turmoil.
Argentina's currency lost nearly 70 percent of its value after the devaluation in 2002, and the economy shrank 12 percent for the year. The economy is rebounding -- industrial production has increased for two quarters and exports have surged -- but Argentina still has an unemployment rate of 22 percent.
THE Esquel debacle could reverse a growing euphoria about Argentina's gold prospects. Small armies of geologists are digging for gold across Patagonia after recent discoveries, and a flurry of deals have closed since the peso stopped trading one-to-one with the dollar in January 2002.
Buenaventura Mining, a Peruvian company, formed a joint-venture deal with Yamana Resources Inc. of Canada last year to scout for gold and silver. "It was absolutely the peso devaluation that led to this deal," said Raul Bonfada, vice president for Yamana's Argentina operations. The devaluation lowers labor and other costs.
But the Esquel referendum has made many companies leery, said Patricio Jones, an exploration geologist. "There's a tremendous fear this will affect other provinces," said Mr. Jones, president of Desarrollo de Prospectos Mineros, which is scouting for gold in Santa Cruz Province in Patagonia.
Patagonia Gold, a company partly owned by HPD Exploration of London, has stopped prospecting in Chubut Province, said a vice president, Gonzalo Tanoira. "It's no use exploring if you can't turn the land into a mine," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Antimining forces in Esquel, Argentina, worry companies like Desarrollo de Prospectos Mineros. Marcelo Aguilar, far right, and Juan Carlos Reinanco of the company collected soil in Patagonia. (Leslie Moore for The New York Times) Map of Argentina highlighting Esquel.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); GOLD MINING (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REFERENDUMS (77%); MINE PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); VANDALISM (72%); SILVER MINING (72%); NATIONAL PARKS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (70%); WATER POLLUTION (66%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%) METALS, MINERALS AND MINING; ARGENTINA; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: RIO TINTO GROUP (90%)

ORGANIZATION: MERIDIAN GOLD INC (MDG) 

TICKER: RIOS (BRU) (90%); RIO (NYSE) (90%); RIO (LSE) (90%); RIO (ASX) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (90%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (90%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (90%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); RENO, NV, USA (72%) NEVADA, USA (92%) ARGENTINA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



612 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 5; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1550 words

HEADLINE: Friend Or Foe? The Cult Of TiVo Cometh 

BYLINE:  By WARREN ST. JOHN 

 BODY:
TO hear his friends tell it, Matt Smith is an easygoing guy. A recently engaged business consultant from Charlotte, N.C., Mr. Smith, 31, is a casual fan of golf, Nascar and Wake Forest basketball. But there is one subject his friends are loath to bring up around him, for fear it will provoke one of his prolonged sermons on its myriad virtues: the television gadget TiVo.
 "I'd say he brings it up every time we're together," said Fran Radano, a college pal who has resisted Mr. Smith's efforts to convert him to TiVo. "There's usually someone in the group who's new to his preaching. It's highly annoying." 
 Not since the PalmPilot debuted in 1996 has a new electronic contraption sparked a cultlike following and so many zealous proselytizers. Type the phrase "TiVo changed my life" into Google, and you will summon an afternoon's worth of reading (including the observation that there are "as many TiVo-praise Web sites out there as there are hairs on Robin Williams"). Michael Powell, the chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, once called TiVo "God's machine." TiVo has around 700,000 subscribers -- a tiny fraction of American television viewers, 70 percent of whom have never even heard of TiVo, according to Josh Bernoff, an analyst at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass. But, Mr. Bernoff said, TiVo's fans are a vocal minority. 
"A cult implies a small group of enthusiasts and a large number of people who don't know what it is," he said. "That's exactly what we have here."
Mr. Smith, of course, is an enthusiast. He estimates he has talked 15 people into buying a TiVo -- so far. "If I'm at a cocktail party and I've had more than two drinks," he said, "I'm going to try to sell you a TiVo."
For those who have not yet run into one of the Matt Smiths of the world -- and you almost have to run into a Matt Smith to understand what TiVo does, because the company hasn't advertised since 2000 -- TiVo is a personal video recorder, a kind of VCR on steroids that hooks up to a television and can record up to 80 hours of programming on a hard drive. Much of the media coverage about the device has focused on viewers' ability to skip commercials at the touch of a button. But TiVo worshipers say that is only part of the gadget's allure.
Press a button, and TiVo will record every episode of "Six Feet Under," or any other show, for a season. TiVo viewers can pause when the phone rings, or speed through the boring parts. By fast-forwarding through commercials and those dull conferences at the mound, a TiVo viewer can watch a baseball game in 40 minutes without missing a pitch. Sit-coms take about 22 minutes. "Saturday Night Live" and "60 Minutes" can be viewed back to back -- on Monday. 
Like early adopters of cellphones and the Internet, the first wave of users of personal video recorders swear that the devices have fundamentally altered their lives -- changing domestic routines, making it possible to live a life free of commercial interruptions and even providing the satisfaction of a rebellion against network goliaths.
The devices also make it easier to watch a lot more TV. Studies by Next Research, a media consulting firm, show that TiVo users watch an average of five to six additional hours of television per week, the company said.
"You justify it because it's more efficient," said Elise Loehnen, 23, an editorial assistant at Lucky magazine. "It means you're late going to the gym and that when you're home, you're not reading."
Other devotees say that is not the point. "You control your TV, not the other way around," said Jeffrey Hawkins, a technology consultant in Oceanside, Calif. "So the amount of TV you watch is not even the question."
Mr. Hawkins said that among his friends, there is a rift between those who get it -- in his view, TiVo owners -- and those who don't. "It's like the abortion issue," he said.
Some TiVo owners characterize the object of their affections in grandiose terms.
"The most important way that TiVo has changed my life is that it's given me freedom," said Tom Wang, 32, a technology company employee in San Francisco, fresh off a two-hour "Simpsons" binge. Mr. Wang said he's responsible for at least five converts to TiVo. "I've gotten 20 or 30 on the intended list," he said.
But freedom, as the saying goes, comes at a price. In the case of TiVo, that price is around $250 for a model with a hard drive capable of storing 40 hours of programs, or $350 for an 80-hour machine. After that, customers pay a $12.95 monthly fee, or a one-time lifetime charge of $250 for online access to TiVo's computer servers. The systems require cable or satellite television and a phone line the system uses to download scheduling information. 
Another cost: some privacy. Personal video recorders know what viewers watch, and the service providers use that information to send targeted advertising their way. In the case of TiVo, the system recommends programs based on its users' individual viewing habits. Watch "The Simpsons" and "Seinfeld," for example, and the system might automatically record the movie "This Is Spinal Tap" on your machine.
TiVo's competitors include ReplayTV, and Echostar's DishPVR; all promise to protect the anonymity of their users and say they will not share personal information with third parties without customers' consent. But some privacy groups have expressed concern. 
Hard-core TiVo users seem to find the privacy debate tedious.
"I could care less whether people know what I'm watching or not," said Ms. Loehnen's brother, Ben, 25, an editorial assistant in Manhattan with his own TiVo. Mr. Loehnen said that TiVo's power to recommend shows was part of the product's charm. "I walk through the door, put down the mail, see what TiVo taped and then I plan my evening from there," he said. "You come home every night and think 'What did TiVo do today?' It's like a pet."
Like the telephone and the television before it, TiVo and similar gadgets seem certain to alter established domestic routines. Couples and roommates with TiVo now find themselves squabbling not over network schedules, but over memory space on the devices' hard drives. 
Ms. Loehnen, the editorial assistant at Lucky, said that her roommates' affinity for "Seinfeld" frequently means there's no room to record her favorite, "Dawson's Creek." TiVo, she said, has turned their downtown Manhattan apartment into a "war field."
Randall Rothenberg, a columnist for Advertising Age and an executive at the consulting firm Booz Allen Hamilton, said having TiVo has changed the television hour debates with his wife. "The spousal arguments are no longer about 'I want to watch this on TV' or 'I want to watch that,' " he said. "It's 'you've had this thing TiVoed for six months and you haven't watched it yet. Can we delete it now?' "
Mr. Rothenberg said that subscribing to TiVo had had an unintended effect. By skipping ads and filling his viewing time with documentaries and shows about gardening rather than the regularly scheduled fare, he took himself "outside of culture," he said. When friends joked about the ubiquitous Budweiser "Wazzup?" advertising campaign a couple of years back, Mr. Rothenberg said, he had no idea what they were talking about.
He compared talking to non-TiVo users with the experience of Brendan Fraser's character in "Blast From the Past," who emerges after 35 years in an underground bomb shelter. On the other hand, Mr. Rothenberg said, TiVo viewers tend to find each other.
"You end up having these odd conversations with people; 'I was watching "Curb Appeal" on HGTV and there was an interesting thing about this shrub,' " he said. "And the person will say, 'Yeah, I TiVoed that, too.' "
So why do TiVo owners feel the need to tell everyone about it? Clay Shirky, an adjunct professor at New York University's interactive telecommunications program, said it might have to do with the nature of the medium. "People watch a lot of TV, so anything that has an even slightly positive effect on it is disproportionately important to peoples' lives," he said. 
There's another theory -- that there is something thrilling about being unshackled, at least partly, from a device that for years has had people at its mercy. Skipping ads and thumbing your nose at the scheduling structure imposed by corporate broadcasters feels, if not exactly revolutionary, at least titillating.
"There seems to be something slightly illicit about it," said Michael Crowley, an associate editor at The New Republic who has written about his relationship with his TiVo. "You feel like you're working the system. You're in on a racket, and a racket is something you like to brag about."
But how successful a racket is it, considering that TiVo owners watch more TV, spend more money and give up more details of their private lives to companies than those without TiVo? It's not a question TiVo users are quick to posit themselves, but in the brief blips between reruns of "Buffy the Vampire Slayer," at least some can spot the paradox. 
Mr. Hawkins, the technology consultant, remains a TiVo evangelist, but his devotion is not entirely blind. "The freedom that Tivo allows you may be a bit more fleeting when you find yourself glued to the TV for 12 hours straight watching a 'Saved by the Bell'-'Fresh Prince of Bel Air' marathon," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: DEVOTEE -- Elise Loehnen, 23, with the personal video recorder that has turned her shared apartment in New York into a "war field." (Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times)(pg. 7) Drawing (Sasha Meret)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (90%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (78%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (76%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (76%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (76%); BASKETBALL (72%); CD & DVD DRIVES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (51%) RECORDING EQUIPMENT; TELEVISION 

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (56%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%) TIVO INC 

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (56%); FORR (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: ST JOHN, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (88%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



613 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
Europe Gets Tougher On U.S. Companies

BYLINE:  By SAMUEL LOEWENBERG

DATELINE: BRUSSELS 

 BODY:
AMERICAN corporations doing business in Europe are finding themselves in an unusual position. They are having to follow orders.
 The European Union, which includes 15 member countries from Portugal to Finland and Ireland to Greece, is adopting environmental and consumer protection legislation that will go further in regulating corporate behavior than almost anything the United States government has enacted in decades. For American companies that are accustomed to getting their way in Washington, it has come as a shock. 
 "They are big powerful companies in the U.S., but just because they are big powerful companies in the U.S. doesn't mean they are going to be treated better in Brussels," said Michelle O'Neill, who lobbies on behalf of Hewlett-Packard here.
If anything, being an American company in Europe is a liability these days. Some American business practices are regarded with deep suspicion here, in light of the corporate accounting scandals and what many Europeans see as the Bush administration's high-handed and unilateralist policies on the environment and Iraq.
"I don't think that Europeans are in the mood -- or will be in the mood for some time to come -- to swallow what the Americans tell them about the way things are going to go," said Giles Merritt, who runs Friends of Europe, a research group that receives money from the European Union.
Earlier this year, the European Union adopted two rules that companies in the United States estimate will cost them hundreds of millions of dollars a year. The first will prohibit electronics makers from using lead, mercury and other heavy metals in their products. The second will require the makers of consumer electronics and household appliances to pick up the bill for recycling their products. Since last year, automakers have had to take responsibility for recycling the cars they sell.
Broader and costlier rules are in the works. Among them are a requirement that chemical makers run safety and environmental impact tests on more than 30,000 chemicals; the industry has said that the rule could cost it more than $7 billion. The commission is also considering prohibiting consumer products companies from directing television commercials at children. And it is looking at passing a law to encourage manufacturers to cut the energy used and greenhouse gases generated in making their products. It also wants to reduce the number and volume of hazardous chemicals in products made in Europe.
The breadth of the legislation is confounding critics who had accused the European Union of picking on prominent American companies like Microsoft or General Electric simply to protect inefficient competitors in Europe. Instead, it appears that Brussels is doing something more sweeping: it is taking on the way America does business.
"If you compare E.U. policy now, it looks a lot like America in the 1970's," said David J. Vogel, a professor at the University of California at Berkeley who studies environmental and business regulation in the United States and Europe. "In this new generation of environmental issues the E.U. is moving quite aggressively, while U.S. policy is stalemated."
In Washington, corporate lobbying has weakened or killed legislation aimed at regulating tobacco, pharmaceuticals and pollutants that contribute to global warming. In all three cases, the affected industries spent tens of millions of dollars on lobbying and advertising, all to persuade lawmakers that regulation restricted the free market and would hurt American business.
Such tactics would not play well in Europe, where there is a long history of state intervention in the economy and where senior government officials are usually more highly regarded than are corporate executives.
"If you go on the offensive in Europe it backfires and you lose on all fronts," said Erik Jonnaert, the chief lobbyist here for Procter & Gamble.
American companies can ill afford such losses in a big market that is about to become bigger: after 10 nations join the European Union next year, the rule makers here will represent more than a half-billion consumers. 
In the European Union, measures often seek to avert harm before it occurs. By contrast, regulation in the United States often responds to a crisis; the recent Sarbanes-Oxley legislation, for example, tightened corporate accounting rules after the Enron and WorldCom scandals.
Margot Wallstrom, the European Union's environment commissioner, summed up the European approach when she praised plans to require companies to run safety tests on the chemicals they sell and in most cases have sold for decades.
"No longer do public authorities need to prove they are dangerous," she said at a recent conference on the chemicals legislation. "The onus is now on industry" to demonstrate that the products they sell are safe, she added.
Often, American executives are bewildered when European ideals of social democracy trump America's more laissez-faire values. In Europe, "there is a whole kind of underlying socialist suspicion of corporations," said a lobbyist for an American investment bank. "Consumers are treated like children in Europe."
European regulators, however, seem to perceive the companies themselves as children who will misbehave if left unattended. In Washington, corporate lobbyists deride legislation as an example of "big government." But such arguments do not play in Brussels. 
John T. Disharoon, a lobbyist for Caterpillar who moved to Brussels three years ago from Washington, says policy makers in the United States are generally more accountable to the public than European regulators. "So it basically changes the entire lobbying dynamic," he said. "Traditional pressure points like jobs, economic data, what it will do to industry are not as effective."
THE biggest difference in Brussels and Washington, lobbyists here say, is that American politicians rely far more on corporate donations to finance their election campaigns. Further, the revolving-door phenomenon, a virtual institution in Washington where former officials go to work for the industries they once regulated, is far less common in Brussels.
The Bush administration regularly weighs in against European regulations that it sees as hurting business. Rockwell A. Schnabel, the United States ambassador to the European Union, called for "smart regulation" that "meets society's objectives without strangling innovation and growth."
Many Europeans are still angry at the Bush administration for its rejection of the Kyoto protocol, an agreement created to curb global warming. Jorge Moreira da Silva, a member of the European Parliament from Portugal, said he hoped to turn the tables on President Bush. Mr. Moreira da Silva is shepherding legislation on emissions trading, a market-based incentives plan that the European Union is considering even though the United States has not yet signed on to the agreement.
By persuading American companies that there is money to be made through emissions trading, Mr. Moreira da Silva said, he hoped to pressure the American government to adopt stricter pollution regulations -- and maybe even reverse its opposition to the Kyoto protocol.
"It's like I was a lobbyist myself," he said. "I feel that the best way to convince the Bush administration to join Kyoto is to convince American companies."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker dismantles a car bumper, above, for recycling at a BMW plant in Lohof, Germany. Since last year, the European Union has required automakers to take responsibility for recycling cars they sell. Margot Wallstrom, right, the European Union's environment commissioner, supports stricter safety rules for corporations. (BMW); (Leon Howe) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EUROPEAN UNION (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS MFG (86%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); HEAVY METALS & TOXIC MINERALS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); CONSUMER LAW (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (77%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RECYCLING (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (73%); ACCOUNTING (72%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (69%); AUTOMAKERS (69%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (69%); TRENDS (68%); CHEMICALS (66%); CHEMICALS MFG (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SCANDALS (53%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); GREENHOUSE GASES (50%) SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EUROPEAN UNION; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; UNITED STATES 

COMPANY: HEWLETT-PACKARD CO (56%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%)

TICKER: HPQ (NYSE) (56%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (88%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (93%); FINLAND (92%); GREECE (90%); PORTUGAL (88%); IRAQ (79%); GERMANY (78%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



614 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: The Third Bubble 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
Wars are always clarifying, and what this war clarified most was the degree to which there were actually three bubbles that burst at the beginning of the 21st century: a stock market bubble, a corporate ethics bubble and a terrorism bubble.
 The stock market bubble we're all too familiar with. When it burst three years ago, millions of people all over the world were made more sober investors. The second bubble was the corporate governance bubble -- a buildup of ethical lapses by management that burst with Enron and Arthur Andersen, producing a revolution in boardroom practices. 
 But there was a third bubble that had built up over the 1990's -- the terrorism bubble. It started with the suicide bombings against U.S. troops in Saudi Arabia, was followed by attacks on the U.S. Embassies in East Africa and on the U.S.S. Cole, then ballooned with the rise of Palestinian suicide terrorism in Israel and finally peaked with Al Qaeda's attack of 9/11.
Like the stock market and corporate bubbles, the terrorism bubble was the product of a kind of temporary insanity, in which basic norms were ignored and excessive behavior was justified by new theories. In the case of the terrorism bubble, we were told that suicide bombing was the work of desperate people who had no other way to get America's or Israel's attention.
People across Europe and the Arab-Muslim world bought such theories. Some Muslim religious leaders even came up with rulings justifying the suicide bombing of civilians in pizza parlors. Arab media called the terrorists "martyrs." It was moral creative accounting: if you are weak, there is no limit on what you can do, and if you are strong -- like America and Israel -- you have no moral right to defend yourself. Worse, after 9/11, some in the Arab-Muslim world actually believed they had found a new balance of power with America -- through the suicide bomber.
And we in America believed them, so we blew up the bubble more. We contorted our whole open society, and imprisoned ourselves. My daughter's high school symphony orchestra trip to New Orleans was canceled because of the recent terrorism alerts. Insane.
Yes, this Iraq war was about Saddam. For George Bush and Tony Blair, though, I think it was about something larger, but unstated. They were implicitly saying: "This terrorism bubble has come to threaten open societies and all they value. So, we're going to use Iraq -- because we can -- to demonstrate to you that we'll come right into the heart of your world to burst this bubble. Take note."
We and the Arab-Muslim world must now draw the right conclusions. One hopes Americans will now stop overreacting to 9/11. Al Qaeda is not the Soviet Union. Saddam was not Stalin. And terrorism is not communism. America sliced right through Iraq. It did so because we are a free-market democracy that is capable of amassing huge amounts of technical power. And it did so because our soldiers so cherish what they have that they were ready to fight house to house from Basra to Baghdad. That was the real shock and awe for Iraqis -- because the terrorism bubble said Nasdaq-obsessed Americans were so caught up with the frivolity of modern life, they had lost the will to fight. Wrong.
We are strong because of who we are. Iraq was weak because of what it was. So, yes, let's add a metal detector or two at the airports, but let's stop thinking we have to remake our whole society, constrict all civil liberties, ban all Arab students and throw out all our foreign policy doctrines that have served us so well -- from deterrence to collective security to the usefulness of the U.N. -- to meet this new terrorism threat. We do not, and we must not.
The message to Arabs who are depressed at how quickly Saddam folded is: You can't take on America without building something of substance of your own. You thought rogues like Saddam would bring you dignity. They have only distracted you from doing what it takes to really build your own societies.
We are all now in a post-bubble world. We need to calm down and get back to nurturing the sort of open society that is the real source of our strength. The Arab-Muslim states need to understand that if they build up this terrorism bubble again -- and it may well happen -- America will burst it again. But they also need to know that if they want to rebuild their societies, starting with Iraq, on a real foundation of decency, tolerance and rule of law, we will pay any price and bear any burden to help them -- if they want us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (94%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (92%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (90%); ETHICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); IRAQ WAR (79%); BUSINESS ETHICS (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); BONDS (71%); SUICIDE (69%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); RELIGION (64%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (60%); ARMED FORCES (54%); ACCOUNTING (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; STOCKS AND BONDS; EXECUTIVES AND MANAGEMENT; ETHICS 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (69%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (57%); TONY BLAIR (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); ISRAEL (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (76%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



615 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2383 words

HEADLINE: A Charmed Kingdom Where Song Holds Sway 

BYLINE:  By TOM VANDERBILT; Tom Vanderbilt is the author of "Survival City: Adventures Among the Ruins of Atomic America."

 BODY:
THE jangle of bells heralded a customer one weekday morning at Rockit Scientist, a record store on Carmine Street in Greenwich Village. 
 "It sounds a little bit like Brenda Lee," said the middle-aged black man, resplendent in a camel's-hair coat and jaunty fedora, struggling to describe what he wanted. He began the lyric, somewhere south of Smokey Robinson, clearing his throat. "Tempo, tempo!" urged a customer at the other end of the counter. 
 As the would-be balladeer trailed off, John Kioussis, the store's owner, who presides behind the counter like a jaded night-court judge, delivered his verdict. "It might be a little early for my taste," he said with an apologetic shrug. "You know where you should try? You should try Strider Records, on Jones Street." 
 From a mercantile point of view, that exchange was dead time. No transaction was undertaken, no goods were sold. Mr. Kioussis' time and expertise were prevailed upon, but only to send the man to another store. In the course of a day, Mr. Kioussis (pronounced CUE-sis) will send any number of customers to other stores. 
 "Do you have any Michael Jackson records?" a young girl asked, poking her head in. "No, you can just go to Tower Records to find that." "Do you have any DJ Krush on vinyl?" a woman asked, with that knowing undertone aspiring hipsters use to flatter intimidating record store clerks. "You might want to try Vinylmania," he said politely.
 And yet this brief interaction, which almost seemed from another time, says everything about why places like Rockit Scientist still exist in a retailing landscape marked by vast impersonal megastores and their online brethren.
 More broadly, it is why places like New York still exist, places where clutter and congestion may not be mere inconveniences but the catalysts of random discovery or accidental innovation, where a store selling the most specialized merchandise can attract a large clientele, and where one can find a sense of community just by opening a door.
 Wedged into the tiny fissure of 43 Carmine Street, cheek by jowl with a restaurant and a deli on a typical Village commercial block, Rockit Scientist is in its sixth year of existence. A stack of milk crates near the entrance hold $2 bargain CD's. A forlorn houseplant looks for sun in the corner. An array of magazines, ranging from Q to Ugly Things, is spread across the counter. A sign advertises: "Established Manhattan-based British Invasion band needs 35+ bassist. No Egos!" No more than two customers can stand comfortably abreast.
 In all this, Rockit Scientist does not differ radically from most small record stores in New York. Similar outposts might include Other Music, an East Village bastion of archhipness; the subterranean SoHo enclosure known as Rocks in Your Head, and Holy Cow, located in a Park Slope brownstone. It has a carefully cultivated niche, a dedicated, often eccentric group of core patrons, and employees passionate about what they sell. 
 And like the archetypal Championship Vinyl of Nick Hornby's "High Fidelity," the novel that did for record store culture what "The Fountainhead" did for architects, Rockit Scientist too sells "punk, blues, soul, and R&B, a bit of ska, some indie stuff, some 60's pop." It too has "browser racks on each side, a couple more in the window, and CD's and cassettes on the walls in glass cases, and that's more or less the size of it; it's just about big enough, provided we don't get any customers."
 I am no Luddite. I have bought many CD's from Amazon.com. I have taken advantage of the free shipping. 
 Still, neither online trolling nor on-time UPS delivery compares with standing hunched over in the cramped gangway of Rockit Scientist, flipping through racks of angled jewel boxes. Maybe, in the background, some dissonant rave-up by the Seeds grinds on, but not loudly enough to drown out the vituperative argument between Mr. Kioussis and one of his regulars over the merits of albums most people have long forgotten. 
 Such conversations are marked by heady, bristling and often confusing language, best digested in snatches; take this typical polemic from Mr. Kioussis about a collection of 1960's Dutch pop, generally known as Nederbeat. "The problem I had with the box set," he began, "apart from the liner notes being in Dutch, is that they put in stuff like Brainbox, which doesn't really flow into 60's R&B. Where do you get the Outsiders, the Motions, Q65, then you put in Brainbox? You might as well put Supersister on there."
 Mr. Kioussis, who is 40 and who spent more than five years working at Venus Records on St. Marks Place before opening the store, originally managed a restaurant. 
 "I was turning 30, or close to it," he said, "when I realized that I didn't want to be 50 years old and hunched over a grill or running around like a maniac trying to coordinate people's schedules." Born in Athens, he and his parents immigrated to the United States when he was 3, and from the age of 10 he has lived in Astoria.
 Selling records is not without travails. Competition includes the free music that still flourishes illicitly on the Internet in the form of MP3's, and the sidewalk vendors of CD-R's, recordable CD's onto which bootleg copies have been burned. Even niche markets are not exempt from economic slowdowns, and Mr. Kioussis admits that these days he is just getting by.
 "In the first few years, we could sell the new Rage Against the Machine or Mary J. Blige," Mr. Kioussis said. "Since CD-R's, a lot of people don't want to spent $13.99 for a new CD. You compete against the guys in the street. The people who will spend $5 for a CD don't care if there's a booklet inside or not." 
 And so he focuses not on mainstream new releases, but on hard-to-find imports, archival rereleases and collectible LP's, an inventory that stretches across the most recent English pop imports, 1960's garage rock, early 70's progressive rock, "soft psych," Bollywood soundtracks, "freakbeat," Tropicalia, "acid folk," Northern Soul compilations and myriad other filaments of musical style.

Album Store, Album Stories
 What makes the store compelling, despite its physical limitations, is only partly its stock. Customers are also drawn by the passion of its selling. You don't have to take a guess on what you're buying. You don't have to look far to ask someone about what you're buying. If you don't know what to buy, and you're a regular, a record will be found that suits your tastes. If you want the story behind the album, any album, just ask John.
 Andrew Hultkrans, a Brooklyn writer and author of a forthcoming short volume on Love's "Forever Changes," part of a series by writers on a single album, finds an almost nostalgic appeal to the store. 
 "You come in and say 'I love the Zombies' "Odyssey and Oracle," and do you have anything that sounds like that?"' Mr. Hultkrans said. "And he'll pull out five different bands you've never heard of." The commentary -- not always music-related -- that comes with those records is part of the appeal. "John seems like one of those real New Yorkers; it's sort of like listening to New York radio," Mr. Hultkrans said. "You wince sometimes at some of his loudmouth opinions, but you sort of appreciate the fact that there are people like that in the world still."
 Mr. Kioussis, for example, is happy to put on a record a customer is interested in buying, a vestigial record store courtesy. This charitable gesture, however, is subject, like most small, independent record store activities, to the wrath of the connoisseur. 
 "I don't mind playing an import or something obscure," he said. "The new Stones' remasters? You want to hear how good that sounds, I'll play it for you. But I shouldn't have to play you Led Zeppelin's first album. If you haven't turned on the radio in your 30 years of existence, I don't think you really deserve to be listening to Led Zeppelin at this point in time."
 One afternoon I decided to put Mr. Kioussis to the test by taking random CD's to the counter and soliciting his opinion. As with many transactions at the store, this soon turned into an impromptu seminar on pop history. I brought up a record by Evie Sands with a very 1960's, soft-focus, Buy-the-World-a-Coke cover. "Evie Sands? That's a great record," Mr. Kioussis began. "She was famous as a 60's songwriter for a lot of other people -- Carole King, Barry Mann, lot of stuff that came out on Redbird Records. By the late 1960's, she put out this record on A&M, very "Dusty Springfield in Memphis" kind of orchestrated pop."
 Some of this is the traditional banter of the pop cognoscenti, who like to lace their opinions with a staccato daisy-chain of contextual references. But a few minutes later, Mr. Kioussis was still extrapolating the story of Evie Sands. "The Japanese have been into the whole orchestrated pop thing for years, what they call soft-psych -- groups like Sagittarius or the Association," he said. "A label like Sundazed Records," an upstate New York reissue label, "will sell half its first pressing in Japan, and they've already made their money." 
 I offered another CD, this one "The Best of P.P. Arnold." 
 "That and Evie, you've picked out two essential albums," Mr. Kioussis said. "She was an Ikette," a backup singer for Ike and Tina Turner, "in the 60's, stayed in England and did a lot of backup singing for people associated with Immediate Records. Sang backup for the Small Faces, put out two records."
 And so the afternoon proceeded. At one point, a young Englishwoman wandered into the store, announced that she had just arrived in town, and was looking for "what's cool," those places where dedicated followers of fashion congregate. I looked at Mr. Kioussis, who was wearing his usual uniform of gray work shirt, the left sleeve torn clear up to the elbow, and thought he would finally be at a loss for words. But without missing a beat he began reeling off a list.
 Another afternoon I was riffling through a stack of vintage jazz albums when I heard Mr. Kioussis' voice escalating as he talked with a customer. The gist of the conversation seems to be Mr. Kioussis' unwillingness to play a record.
 "You never buy albums by single artists, you only buy compilations," he was saying, "so why should I play this for you?" Mr. Kioussis' hand slammed the counter, a few more words were exchanged -- "This is my store," he finally sputtered, at which point the man left, shaking his head.
 "Dave only buys comps, he never buys albums by single artists," Mr. Kioussis explained a few weeks later. "That's his idiosyncrasy. But he's always asking me to play records by single artists." 
 "He's a good guy," the proprietor added, "but he sometimes comes in in a bad mood because he's had a fight with his girlfriend. When you have a business, sometimes you have to bite your lip with people. But I have to say to him, 'I'm not here to indulge you when you're having a bad day."'
 Dom Pearce, Rockit Scientist's other main fixture, a tall, modishly appointed former record store owner from Bournemouth, England, added: "Some people have a bartender. And others have us." 

Vital Fabric of the Street
 Rockit Scientist, along with perhaps any number of the estimated 571,000 small businesses in the New York region, is like a frontier trading post. It is where people come to exchange information, to mingle with like-minded travelers, to spill their troubles or sop up the skim milk of human kindness. 
 The store is part of the very fabric of the street, as articulated by Jane Jacobs in "The Death and Life of Great American Cities": the whole ballet of "people stopping by at the bar for a beer, getting advice from the grocer and giving advice to the newsstand man, comparing opinions with other customers at the bakery and nodding hello to the two boys drinking pop on the stoop." 
 Thus in the course of one afternoon it comes as little surprise that Gary Lucas, the acclaimed avant-garde guitarist, should come into the store (this just after a guitarist for Richie Havens has left), carrying his guitar. "Jam for us, man? I'll put out a cup," Mr. Kioussis said in greeting. A bit later, Todd Abramson, a local music impresario and the owner of Maxwell's in Hoboken, strolls in. 

Off-Kilter Characters
 Then there are the eccentrics. Given its eclectic stock -- and the obsessive tendencies of the record collector, which are not always channeled only into records -- Rockit Scientist attracts suitably off-kilter characters. As Mr. Kioussis put it: "When you listen to a lot of weird music, you're going to be a little off, let's face it. But what's normal today?"
 One such regular is dubbed "George," by John and Dom, after the George Costanza character from "Seinfeld." George, a 30-something film production assistant, obsessively buys records the day of release so he can be the first to post them on the Internet. Mr. Kioussis has received several letters from George's father asking him not to honor the credit card that George uses in his father's name. 
 "I called George and he said, 'Oh, he's just joking, throw it away,"' Mr. Kioussis recalled. "And I go, 'I just got a certified letter from an attorney."' He sighed. "There are so many George stories," he said.
 Unlike the prototypical record store clerks portrayed in "High Fidelity," Mr, Kioussis says he has never compiled a Top 10 list. He admits that at Venus Records he used to create wall displays of albums that looked alike, and play subtle jokes like putting James Taylor records in the Iggy Pop section. "On one album, James Taylor looks a lot like Iggy Pop. I just did it to amuse myself -- what else I am going to do, listen to Hendrix all day and play air drums?"
 And although Mr. Kioussis insists that he has never known record store clerks to sit around and make up Top 10 lists, when pressed, he can hardly resist naming his favorite albums of all time. Or at least a few of them. "Jeff Beck's 'Truth.' Hendrix's 'Band of Gypsies.' The Who's 'Quadrophenia.' These are the records that every time I put them on I feel like I'm hearing them for the first time." 
 Of "Quadrophenia," he said: "I listened to it at the right time. That record's the story of a 16-year-old boy who's having problems with his parents, girlfriend, trying to figure out what's going to happen with his life." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rockit Scientist's owner, John Kioussis, presides over a store where one can find a deep sense of community by just opening a door. (Photographs by Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Rockit Scientist is a mere magical fissure of a record store.; The record store is just an innocent bump in the megastore retailing landscape, but it is sustained by a dedicated, often eccentric group of core patrons and by the rock 'n' roll passion of its employees. (Top left and top right, Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times; above and left, Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC STORES (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (89%); MUSIC (89%); RETAILERS (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); MIDDLE AGED PERSONS (72%); VERDICTS (69%); JUDGES (69%) MUSIC; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) 

ORGANIZATION: ROCKIT SCIENTIST (NYC SHOP) 

PERSON: KIOUSSIS, JOHN; VANDERBILT, TOM 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



616 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Chaos in Congo Suits Many Parties Just Fine

BYLINE:  By ADAM HOCHSCHILD; Adam Hochschild is the author of "King Leopold's Ghost."

 BODY:
AS in the Sherlock Holmes story about the dog that didn't bark in the night, sometimes silence says more than words. About one of the great tragedies of today's world, the silence is telling indeed. In Congo, according to an International Rescue Committee report released earlier this month, at least 3.3 million people have lost their lives in four and a half years of civil war. They have perished in combat, in massacres of civilians (the most recent occurred on April 3) and, most of all, in the disease and famine that strike when millions of desperately poor people are forced to flee their homes.
 This number does not include the estimated 2.8 million Congolese who have H.I.V. or AIDS, some of it spread through mass rapes by marauding bands of soldiers. Nor does it encompass the misery of having to live for years in refugee camps that turn into fields of mud during the rainy season. 
 The war has been marked by a series of ineffective peace agreements among three major factions, one of them the national government in Kinshasa, and several smaller groups. And a token force of United Nations observers is now on the scene.
But Congo's separation into rival segments continues, and last week one faction boycotted talks that are supposed to form a power-sharing government. Few Americans, however, seem to care about stopping a conflict with a death toll larger than any since World War II. Why?
American interest in Africa is erratic, but there is a larger reason that few countries have put much effort into ending this war. Simply, Congo's current situation -- Balkanized, occupied by rival armies, with no functioning central government -- suits many people just fine. Some are heads of Congo's warring factions, some are political and military leaders of neighboring countries, and some are corporations dependent on the country's resources. The combination is deadly.
To begin with, the warlords of most of Congo's factions are happy to divide up its vast treasure of mineral wealth while spending little on public services. The few schools open are mainly run by the Roman Catholic Church.
The continuing turmoil also suits the various countries nearby, above all Rwanda, Uganda and Zimbabwe, whose troops have long propped up one or another side in the conflict. In return, they have received a stream of timber, gold, diamonds, copper, cobalt and columbium-tantalum, or coltan, a valuable mineral used in cellphones, computers and many other electronic devices. At its peak price a few years ago, coltan was selling for $350 a pound.
Such riches have made the war self-supporting, with profits to spare. Despairing Congolese say they would be better off if they were not so rich. 
Finally, the Balkanization and war suit the amazing variety of corporations -- large and small, American, African and European -- that profit from the river of mineral wealth without having to worry about high taxes, and that prefer a cash-in-suitcases economy to a highly regulated one.
An exhaustive report to the United Nations Security Council last year detailed the dozens of companies now making money from Congo's conflict, based everywhere from Ohio to Johannesburg to Antwerp to Kazakhstan. As a result, neither the United States nor any other nation now seems to have much interest in seeing a strong Congolese central government keep profits from the country's patrimony -- the word the White House uses about Iraq's oil -- mostly at home.
When Patrice Lumumba, Congo's first and last democratically chosen leader, threatened to do just that after taking office in 1960, the Eisenhower administration secretly sought his overthrow and assassination. Emboldened, Congolese and Belgians then carried out the job. 
Congo's current disorder grows directly out of a long, unhappy history. Ethnic groups speaking more than 200 different languages live in the territory. For centuries, it served as raiding grounds for the Atlantic slave trade and the equally deadly slave trade from the east coast of Africa to the Islamic world.
When the colonial era began, the land became the privately owned colony of King Leopold II of Belgium. His army turned much of the male population into forced laborers, working many to death. First the laborers gathered ivory -- Joseph Conrad gave an unforgettable image of this in "Heart of Darkness" -- and then a still more lucrative crop, wild rubber.
During Leopold's rule and its immediate aftermath, the territory's population was slashed roughly in half. Belgian state colonialism followed; it was less brutal and more orderly, but still the profits flowed overseas.
In 1965, five years after independence, Joseph Mobutu seized power in a military coup, encouraged by Washington. He renamed himself Mobutu Sese Seko and his country Zaire, and ruled as a dictator for 32 years, receiving more than $1 billion in American aid and repeatedly being welcomed at the White House. Meanwhile he looted the national treasury of an estimated $4 billion. Small wonder that his ravaged country has been having a hard time ever since. It has not helped that in the 1990's the United States supplied more than $100 million in arms and military training to six of the seven African countries that have been involved in the fighting of the Congo war.
Even in a magical world where great powers always had good intentions, no outside intervention -- whether by American, European, African or United Nations forces -- would be likely to solve Congo's problems. "Nation building" by outsiders is inherently arrogant and risky, and there are few success stories. More than 28,000 NATO-led troops are currently keeping the peace in Kosovo; Congo's population is more than 25 times as large as Kosovo's, and its land area more than 200 times bigger.
THERE are other problems as well. In Africa, loyalty to the extended clan or ethnic group is often far stronger than to the nation-state. These divisions have allowed Congo's plunderers to profit so much for so long. In the immediate future, factional leaders, generals and politicians from surrounding countries, and various Western companies are likely to continue making money.
What hope is there for an end to Congo's misery? The United States made one surprising step forward earlier this month when Congress approved American participation in an international agreement not to trade in "conflict diamonds" -- the gems coming from anarchic, war-torn areas like Congo. More than 50 other countries have already signed on. The pact will be hard to enforce -- but so was the ban on the Atlantic slave trade in its early years. And if conflict diamonds can be made taboo, why not conflict gold or conflict coltan?

GRAPHIC: Photos: Warriors known as Mai-Mai have been waging war in Congo for decades. The country, the former Zaire, has never recovered from the dictatorship of Mobutu Sese Seko (right). (Agence France-Presse); (Guy Tillim) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); ARMIES (77%); REFUGEES (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); CIVIL WAR (71%); WORLD WAR II (71%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (71%); FAMINE (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); BOYCOTTS (65%); RELIGION (60%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (52%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL RESCUE COMMITTEE (58%); UNITED NATIONS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KINSHASA, CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); CONGO, THE DEMOCRATIC REPUBLIC OF THE (92%); UGANDA (79%); ZIMBABWE (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



617 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: The Travel Industry Changes ItsVacation Plans 

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY

DATELINE: ANAHEIM Calif. 

 BODY:
IN the labyrinthine parking garage at Disneyland one morning last week, a crush of vehicles was arriving, directed by workers to consecutive spaces with the smart efficiency of an aircraft carrier flight-deck crew. Jeff Reiner, of Olympia, Wash., stood beside his rented Chevrolet Venture minivan as four children and a spouse spilled out. 
 Sure, he said, he was happy to describe his planning for the current family vacation. And as it happened, the Reiners at Disneyland neatly personified a basket of trends that travel industry experts believe will characterize the leisure-travel habits of Americans this spring and summer. 
 More than ever, Americans will drive to their destinations, as Mr. Reiner and his family originally had planned to do. They had intended to make the 20-hour trip down the Pacific coast from Washington to Southern California. But as domestic airlines, desperate for revenue, devise new fare sales and discount tour packages just to bring some money in the door, the Reiners changed their minds.
"We were all set to load up the car and drive down -- no problem. But then I saw an offer from Alaska Air that was too good to pass up," Mr. Reiner said. The deal included round-trip air fare for the six family members to Los Angeles; six nights in a hotel; a five-day family pass to Disneyland; and a minivan for the week -- all for $2,660.
Such is the state of leisure travel -- domestic and overseas -- as the peak season dawns, at the conclusion of a war, in a soured economy, with fears about severe acute respiratory syndrome -- all amid elevated security alerts that keep the catastrophe of 9/11 close to mind. In many ways, this is shaping up as one of the most retrograde leisure-travel seasons in memory.
"The airlines are going to continue taking it on the chin," said Cathy Keefe, a spokeswoman for the Travel Industry Association of America, which surveys 25,000 American households a month about their travel plans. 
"There's a pent-up demand for travel, for sure, but people are really skittish," she added. Among the main predictions by the association, in a recent survey that took into account the impact of the war in Iraq, were these: a significant increase in plans to travel by automobile this summer, to venture more into scenic areas of the country and away from crowds and cities and to stay in modestly priced hotels and motels; and a sharp increase in the numbers of people who still are putting off planning for leisure trips they say they'll take this spring and summer. The survey also found a determination to spend less money than usual on vacations and a pronounced disinclination among vacation travelers to fly -- especially to foreign destinations.
In 2001, the most recent year for which data is available, spending by Americans on foreign travel, which had been rising, fell 13 percent, to $10.4 billion. By most estimates, it will fall even more this year.
As hotels lay off employees and some big airlines continue scrambling for survival, spending on travel in the United States has been on a steady decline since 9/11. In 2000, some $571 billion was spent domestically on travel. The figure fell to $537 billion in 2001, and to $525 billion last year, Ms. Keefe said.
Not that Americans are all moping and miserably grilling burgers in the backyard. In fact, the number of overall leisure trips actually rose 1.8 percent last year, Ms. Keefe said. The boost came because leisure trips by car, which already accounted for 80 percent of Americans' leisure travel, increased 2 percent -- even though gasoline prices rose sharply.
For anyone looking to buck a trend, now is the time to book a summer vacation to the Loire Valley -- or, for the more intrepid, to Hong Kong or Bangkok. Travel on Pacific routes fell 35.7 percent last month, the Air Transport Association said, as news spread about SARS.
The most savvy travelers, said Terry Trippler, the air-fare consultant for Cheapseats.com, "already know that fares are incredible" for many foreign destinations, as are package-trip promotions. For these people, resources are airline, travel booking and tour-company Web sites, as well as traditional travel agents.
Last week, for example, a round-trip fare from Chicago to Paris for the peak of the summer travel season was $459 on a half-dozen major domestic and foreign airlines. "Book now," was Mr. Trippler's succinct advice.
If you do fly, however, don't expect to have that row of seats all to yourself. Reacting to the collapse in traffic, airlines have already taken 10 to 20 percent of their seats out of the skies, and on domestic routes, they are routinely flying small-capacity planes that are often nearly full. 
Following is a global snapshot of how the leisure travel season is shaping up:

GRAPHIC: Photos: Leery of SARS, tourists wear masks at the Royal Palace in Bangkok. Others, right, visit Disney's Epcot park in Florida. Travel in the United States is off, though leisure trips are up a bit. (Left, Agence France-Presse; right, Associated Press)(pg. 13) Drawing (Niculae Asciu)(pg. 1) Chart: "An Industry's Pain"Many airlines have cut back flights sharply because of the global drop in air travel, especially to and from Asia, where fears about SARS have deeply hurt tourism. Graph tracks year-over-year percentage change in revenue per passenger mile for major U.S. airlines, weekly from December 2002 through April 13. AirlinesUNITED STATES AND CANADATRANS-ATLANTICLATIN AMERICAPACIFICTOTAL (Source: Air Transport Association)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); AIR FARES (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRLINES (90%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (90%); TRENDS (90%); MINIVANS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL AGENTS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); FAMILY TRAVEL (78%); FAMILY (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (75%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (75%); TOUR PACKAGES (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (51%); SARS (50%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: ALASKA AIR GROUP INC (55%)

TICKER: ALK (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OLYMPIA, WA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (56%) UNITED STATES (95%); THAILAND (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



618 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 279 words

HEADLINE: The Travel Industry Changes Its Vacation Plans; 
Mexico and Caribbean Gain

BYLINE:  By TIM WEINER

 BODY:
Mexico's tourism industry, which brings in roughly $9 billion a year, is selling the country as "closer than ever" to the United States. That slogan reflects a recognition that American travelers have been increasingly queasy about flying long distances overseas for pleasure. 
 President Vicente Fox, addressing a travel business convention in Acapulco on April 2, said Mexico could benefit from its proximity to the United States as travelers cut back on the distances they will fly. 
 Richard Copland, president and chief executive of the American Society of Travel Agents, told the convention that "Americans are traveling closer than ever -- not because of terrorism or security issues," but because they worry about being stranded far from home.
Anecdotal evidence from hotel managers in resorts like Acapulco, Cancun and Puerto Vallarta suggests that this may be so. They see no visible drop in tourists from places like San Diego or Tucson, but a perceptible and, they hope, temporary decline in the number of visitors from places like New York and Chicago. Still, hotel operators have not dropped their prices.
In the Caribbean, bookings are starting to pick up after having fallen almost in half a few weeks ago. Tourism officials are expected to emphasize the peace and calm of the islands in coming months. But they also worry about the financial problems at American Airlines, which handles a majority of traffic to the Caribbean. While many hotels and resorts have not cut prices, there are some deals: Liberty Travel, a major travel agent, was offering a three-night stay at a Sandals resort in Jamaica for $699 last week; a few weeks ago it cost $779. TIM WEINER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (92%); LODGING (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); TOURISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); RESORTS (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (71%); HOTEL STAFF (69%); TRENDS (67%); AIRLINES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (55%) CARIBBEAN AREA; MEXICO; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN SOCIETY OF TRAVEL AGENTS (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (94%); MEXICO (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



619 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 879 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
The Id of a Hot Rod In a Minivan Land

BYLINE:  By JEFF MacGREGOR; Jeff MacGregor is a special contributor to Sports Illustrated.

 BODY:
AS evidenced by thebumper-to-bumper traffic heading west on 34th Street in the last couple of days, the International Auto Show is back in New York for its annual homage to paradox at the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center.
 From the gridlocked stretch along 11th Avenue where the traffic stops, the buzzword is speed, and lots of it -- high-tech, tire-smoking, ticket-shredding speed; supercharged, hot rod, big-block speed; felony indictment, Thelma and Louise, fire-on-the-mountain-run-boys-run speed. 
 Don't be fooled by the few ultragreen gas/electric hybrids you'll hear about. Don't be taken in by the promise of a hydrogen-burning, nonpolluting, commuter X-car that's just around the corner -- and has been since Tom Swift took delivery of his first piezoelectric autogyro. The next wave of postmodern automotive engineering, or at least automotive marketing, is horsepower. 
Dodge is building the Neon SRT, a 150-mile-an-hour street racer subcompact. It's dropping a 500-horsepower V-10 engine into a pickup truck. Ford is fiddling with an apocalyptic new Mustang. Their Web sites suggest that you "Grab Life" or "Choose Your Weapon." Cadillac, Cadillac, is touting neck-snapping acceleration figures for its new CTS-V. Suddenly everyone from Acura to Volkswagen is building hot rods.
Carmakers have been selling speed, or at least the illusion of it, for 100 years. From the Stanley Steamer forward, cars have been as much about consumer identity, about the vivid dream state they induce in potential buyers, as about machinery.
People aren't stupid; we are merely absurd. We know we probably can't go 185 on F.D.R. Drive. Only gypsy cabbies and livery drivers can do that. But while you're downloading the brochure, or watching the commercial, or standing next to the demon thing itself in your neighborhood showroom, here's what happens in your head:
You are alone. Flying low and loud and fast down a long, straight-razor stretch of Nebraska interstate, perhaps in late autumn, headed west, sharp cold just coming on, the desolate geometry of golden stubble fields strobing past you, the sun wobbling low and weak on the horizon, your windshield embroidered with the glare of it, and in the rear-view mirror the sky behind you as blue and deep and black as a bruise. You are cupped in the heated seat. The earth spins beneath you. All the shining instrumentality of uncomplicated power falls easily to hand. Your body dissolves into the machine until you are no more and no less than acceleration itself. The brute music of the engine rises up through the floorboards and the soles of your feet and into your blood until your heart beats with it, the world blurs and the vast web of human complication is somewhere far behind you and there is no past and no future and nothing bad can ever catch you. Nothing can touch you. That's what you tell yourself you're buying.
The Insurance Institute for Highway Safety would certainly disagree. It sees you more as a basal skull fracture waiting to happen. To car manufacturers, though, all's fair in a sluggish economy, and whatever overwrought Kerouac fantasy you're willing to hypnotize yourself with is none of their business. 
For the balding, middle-aged urologist out to impress the baby sitter, there has always been the sports car. But over the last 20 years, the family car, at least the models aimed at the mainstream buyer, has become profoundly dull, a mobile cup holder for the focus group soccer mom of the suburban minivan collective, an aerodynamic lozenge tricked up with a DVD slot for SpongeBob SquarePants, a built-in diaper bag and an onboard atomic formula warmer. 
S.U.V.'s, the new-age expression of manifest destiny and the middle-class id, are no more than jacked-up station wagons, and those who lately grumble about their monstrous size and environmental impact have clearly forgotten the number of Cub Scouts you could shoehorn into an eight-mile-a-gallon '72 Oldsmobile Vista Cruiser. Even the names have gone wrong. Cars sound like medicines sound like telephone companies.
If you're going to market the Prius, the Washu and the Maxx, can the Toyota Viagra be far behind? What about the Ford Nexium, the Cadillac Lipitor, or the Mercury Xanax? And therein perhaps, lies the solution to everyone's problem. Most manufacturers don't want to build skittish, expensive hot rods. They just want to sell cars. And most consumers don't want cars that go dangerously fast. They want cars that sound dangerously fast. Why pay for the turbocharger when all you want is the attitude?
Just change the names. We're halfway there with cars like the Avenger and the Viper and the Cobra. Dodge has a quarter-million-dollar, 500-horsepower, 400-m.p.h. motorcycle on the drawing board called the Tomahawk -- but who would ever buy one? Park the bike, unscrew the nameplate and stick it on a minivan. You'll save lives and it'll sell millions.
In fact, in this age of vanity plates and Internet custom orders, why not just badge the car to the customer's specifications? After all, what we truly hunger for isn't power, but personal expression. Confused? Order the Dumbfounder 2200. Timid? Try the Peugeot Sitting Duck or the Saab Veal Calf. Good-looking? Buy a Buick Fop.
Me? I await delivery of my 2004 Narcissus.

GRAPHIC: Photo: At the New York auto show, even Cadillac has a hot rod, the CTS-V. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); HYBRID VEHICLES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); TRADE SHOWS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (69%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (68%); INDICTMENTS (56%); FELONIES (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



620 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1570 words

HEADLINE: The Nation; 
True Cost Of Hegemony: Huge Debt

BYLINE:  By NIALL FERGUSON; Niall Ferguson, the author of "Empire: The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power"(Basic Books), is a professor of history at the Stern School of Business, New York University, and a senior research fellow at Oxford.

 BODY:
CAN a global hyperpower also be a global hyperdebtor?
 Debates about the cost of occupying Iraq and reconstructing its burnt-out economy tend to duck this question. It is as if such costs were simply an item on the federal government's military budget. In reality, direct government spending on aid and reconstruction is unlikely to amount to much. Having won the war on a shoestring ($79 billion is less than 1 percent of the annual output of the American economy), the Bush administration apparently hopes that the reconstruction of Iraq will soon be paying for itself. A trifling $2.4 billion has been allocated to the postwar Office for Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance. 
 Yet history strongly suggests that Iraq's reconstruction will require a kick-start of substantial foreign capital, particularly to modernize the antiquated oil industry. 
Can the United States provide the necessary cash, even in the form of private-sector money? The answer is yes -- so long as foreign countries are willing to lend it to the United States. For the fact is that America is not only the world's biggest economy. It is also the world's biggest borrower. Its muscular military power is underwritten by foreign capital.
This is an unusual circumstance. In the prime of the European empires, when the British ran much of the Middle East, the dominant power was supposed to be a creditor, not a debtor, investing large chunks of its own savings in the economic development of its colonies. Hegemony also meant hegemoney. Britain, the world's banker before 1914, never had to worry about a run on the pound during its imperial heyday.
But today, as America overthrows "rogue regimes," first in Afghanistan and now in Iraq, it is the world's biggest debtor. This could make for a fragile Pax Americana if foreign investors decide to reduce their stakes in the American economy, possibly trading their dollars for the increasingly vigorous euro.
Foreign investors now have claims on the United States amounting to about $8 trillion of its financial assets. That's the result of the ever-larger American balance-of-payments deficits -- totaling nearly $3 trillion -- since 1982. Last year, the balance-of-payments deficit, the gap between the amount of money that flows into the country and the amount that flows out, was about 5 percent of gross national product. This year it may be larger still.
The Wall Street Journal recently asked: "Is the U.S. Hooked on Foreign Capital?" The answer is yes, and this applies to the government even more than the private sector. Foreign investors now hold about two-fifths of the federal debt in private hands -- double the proportion they held 10 years ago, according to the Treasury Department.
At a recent press conference, Kenneth S. Rogoff, the chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, referred to American financial dependence on foreign investors, saying he would be "pretty concerned" about "a developing country that had gaping current account deficits year after year, as far as the eye can see, of 5 percent or more, with budget ink spinning from black into red." Of course, he hastily added, the United States is "not an emerging market." But, he concluded, "at least a little bit of that calculus still applies."
Serving as an engine of global growth, aspiring to be a liberal empire and yet acting like an emerging market: it's quite a combination. Is it sustainable?
It is useful to contrast the present and the past. When the United States sought to exercise power by financial means with its dollar diplomacy of the 1920's, substantial American capital was exported to the rest of the world.
People tend to think that after World War I the United States retreated into isolationism. In reality, American investors lent billions of dollars to foreign economies, particularly in Latin America and Central Europe. By 1938 the gross value of American assets abroad amounted to $11.5 billion. Having bankrolled the victors of both world wars, the United States bankrolled the reconstruction of the losers in peacetime, too.
The most famous example of America's capital export was the Marshall Plan, which did not lend but gave $11.8 billion to revive the dilapidated postwar economies of Europe. American lending continued to fuel the world's economic recovery for two decades. From 1960 to 1976, the United States ran balance of payment surpluses totaling nearly $60 billion.
Then things began to change, most noticeably in the Reagan years, though the "current account deficits" -- a comprehensive measure of the net flow of goods and services between the United States and the rest of the world -- that he ran up look piddling today.
Some economists argue that this transformation from creditor to debtor is nothing to worry about. Capital flows into the United States, they say, simply because it is a great place to invest and foreigners want a piece of the action. In any case, the foreign investors seem ready to settle for markedly lower returns when they invest in the United States than the returns Americans get when they invest overseas. That is the only way to explain why the United States consistently receives higher investment income from its investments abroad than it pays out to foreigners who have put their money into American assets.
This might lead to the conclusion that Mr. Rogoff of the I.M.F. has little to worry about. But while being a hyperdebtor may not matter in economics, it can matter in the realm of strategy.
When the last great English-speaking empire bestrode the globe a hundred years ago, capital export was a foundation of its power. From 1870 to 1914, net capital flows out of London averaged from 4 to 5 percent of gross domestic product. On the eve of World War I, the capital flows reached an astonishing 9 percent. This was not only an extraordinary diversion of British savings overseas. It was also a remarkable attempt to transform the global economy by investing in commercial infrastructure -- docks, railways and telegraph lines -- in what we now call less developed countries.
From 1865 to 1914, nearly as large a proportion of total British savings went to Africa, Asia and Latin America as remained in Britain. Critics of colonialism may carp about the wickedness of empire, but the one undeniable benefit of British hegemony was that it encouraged investors to risk their money in poor countries. 
It also gave the British real leverage over the rest of the world. British rule in Egypt did not begin with military occupation in 1882. For years before, British investors had been building up their holdings of Egyptian assets (most famously the Suez Canal).
This could prove a crucial difference between the days when Britain wielded power in the Middle East and today, when the United States aspires to recast the region. First, little in the current geographical distribution of American overseas investment suggests a natural predisposition to sink dollars into the desert. More than half of all American foreign direct investment is in Europe, compared with a paltry 1 percent in the Middle East.
SECOND, there can be no guarantee that foreign investors will be willing indefinitely to put such a large chunk of their savings in American government bonds and other low-risk securities. Right now they seem to be content with the prospect of a third year of disappointing returns on Wall Street and the lowest yields in Treasury bonds since 1962. But will they stay content?
Not so long ago, from 1984 to 1987, dollars were being dumped on the currency markets. Another crisis of confidence is not impossible to imagine, especially if all those foreign holders of bonds worry about the Bush administration's combination of increased military spending and decreased taxation.
Since the creation of the euro, investors have a whole new range of securities in which to invest. European bonds might look attractive if foreigners, and not just Americanophobic French millionaires, start to think of the euro as safer than the dollar. Al Jazeera recently ran a cartoon of Uncle Sam weeping as the euro was run up a flagpole in place of the once-mighty dollar.
There is, however, a glimmer of comfort. The good news is that in the past one great empire did rely on foreign loans. The bad news is that it was czarist Russia, which depended on a succession of huge foreign loans -- largely from French investors -- to modernize its military. 
The only catch was that Russian dependence on French capital led the czarist government to heed advice from Paris -- for example, about how many rail lines to build from Moscow to the Prussian border. Look where that ended: Russia was the first European empire to collapse -- first militarily, then politically -- as a result of the costs of World War I. You might call being a debtor empire the Nicholas II method.
Thus President Bush's vision of a world recast by military force to suit American tastes has a piquant corollary: the military effort involved will be (unwittingly) financed by the Europeans -- including the much reviled French -- and the Japanese. Does that not give them just a little leverage over American policy, on the principle that he who pays the piper calls the tune?
Balzac once said that if a debtor was big enough then he had power over his creditors; the fatal thing was to be a small debtor. It seems that Mr. Bush and his men have taken this lesson to heart. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); GROSS NATIONAL PRODUCT (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



621 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 108 words

HEADLINE: Corporate Lessons In Executive Pay 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Again, Money Follows the Pinstripes" (Executive Pay: A Special Report, April 6), which described how chief executives at 200 big American companies averaged $10.8 million in compensation last year: 
 Such executives are the primary beneficiaries of the president's tax cuts. Do Republicans really believe that the economy won't recover unless this upper 1 percent of the population has more money? Are these high-paid executives not buying products and services because they haven't enough money?
If their companies can afford these salaries, why are they laying off thousands of people every week?

EILEEN DARBY
Manhattan, April 6

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); EXECUTIVES (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



622 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 122 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
In ToughVenture Capital Climate, Women Feel the Chill

BYLINE:  By DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

 BODY:
The long stock market decline and the weak economy have made it harder for start-up companies to raise venture capital. 
The change seems to have hit companies headed by women particularly hard.
 Total venture capital financing dropped to $19.4 billion last year from $93.8 billion in 2000, according to VentureOne, a research firm. Over the same period, the percentage of venture-capitalbacked companies where women are chief executives dropped to 4.5 percent from 5.3 percent. The percentage of all venture capital going to such companies was 3.8 percent in 2002, down from 5.1 percent in 1999. 
 Tamar Zemel, a spokeswoman for VentureOne, said the situation was not likely to change before the end of this year. DYLAN LOEB McCLAIN

GRAPHIC: Charts: COMPANIES RECEIVING VENTURE CAPITAL FINANCING WITH . . . 1999WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 4.9%WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 44.0% 2000WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 5.3WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 40.7 2001WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 5.1WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 38.6 2002WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 4.5WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 32.9 SHARE OF VENTURE CAPITAL GOING TO COMPANIES WITH . . . 1999WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 5.1%WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 50.9% 2000WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 4.1WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 47.5 2001WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 3.8WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 42.9 2002WOMEN AS CHIEF EXECUTIVES: 3.8WOMEN IN MANAGEMENT: 38.5 SALESOF FROZEN DINNERSGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change from August 2002 Through Feb. 23. NEW MORTGAGE APPLICATIONSGraph tracks weekly year-over-year change since October 2002. TRANSPORTATION COSTSGraph tracks change in consumer price index from April 2002 to March 2003. PERSONAL BANKRUPTCY FILINGSGraph tracks weekly totals in thousands since October 2002. ONLINE SALESGraph tracks weekly dollars in billions since October 2002. HOTEL OCCUPANCY RATESGraph tracks daily four-week moving average for Los Angeles, Chicago and New York from October 2002 through April 12. (Sources: VentureOne venture capital financing ; Information Resources frozen dinners ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics transportation costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (92%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (90%); WOMEN (90%); STARTUPS (88%); RESORTS (86%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); EXECUTIVES (68%); RETAILERS (59%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; WOMEN; FOOD AND COOKING; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; REAL ESTATE AND DEVELOPMENT; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BANKRUPTCIES; HOTELS AND RESORTS 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



623 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: Fortunes of War; 
Europe Finds No Counterweight To U.S. Power

BYLINE:  By TONY JUDT; Tony Judt is director of the Remarque Institute at New York University.

 BODY:
IN November 1956, at the height of the Suez crisis, Prime Minister Anthony Eden of Britain telephoned his French counterpart, Guy Mollet. Under intense pressure from Washington, he explained, Britain was withdrawing from the British-French force that had just invaded Egypt. France would have to do likewise. 
 Mollet was stunned; the decision by the Americans and the British had been taken without his knowledge and would be especially humiliating for France, already facing an armed revolt in its Algerian colony. 
 But Konrad Adenauer, the German chancellor, who was visiting him at the time, sought to lift his spirits by pointing to the prospects for a future European community of nations. Don't worry, he assured him, "Europe will be your revenge."
Forty-seven years later, after another Middle Eastern war, Europe has just signed a treaty in Athens celebrating the formal accession of 10 countries and 75 million new citizens. The European Union now comprises 25 member states reaching from Portugal to Estonia. It is the largest and richest bloc of nation-states in the world, collaborating closely on an extensive range of economic, social and legal practices. 
Europe's influence should be boundless. As Prime Minister Bertie Ahern of Ireland expressed it, paraphrasing Archimedes: "Give me a lever long enough and a firm place and I will move the world. The European Union is a firm place to stand."
What the union lacks, of course, is Archimedes' lever. Without it, Adenauer's proposed "revenge" for the French humiliation at Suez will always be incomplete. The war in Iraq has reminded Europe -- France and Germany especially -- of the difficulty of countering America's armed reach with so-called soft power alone.
True, the union has underlying strengths with which to offset America's imperial might. It is much closer to Africa, the Middle East and Central Asia and has a better grasp of the sensibilities of these regions: the French, like the Russians, have a large and fast-growing Muslim population. The European social model is far more appealing to most of the rest of the world than the hard-edged "American way of life," and Europe's long experience with transnational institutions makes it a model international citizen. Globalization, which has increased international apprehension about American motives, is in some ways working to Europe's advantage. And while it is true that Europeans today abhor war, only in contemporary Washington is this widely viewed as a cultural shortcoming.
Nevertheless, from the beginning, most politicians regarded European unity not as an end in itself, but rather as a means to other, more parochial ends. At every stage in the 50-year history of European cooperation, the priority has been the protection and advancement of members' separate national interests. 
Generally, this has worked well, particularly for the earliest participants in the club (France, West Germany, Italy and the Benelux countries). But as the club expanded, from 6 countries to 9, then 12, then 15 and now 25, it has become an unwieldy bureaucratic organization with a geometrically expanding range of conflicting regional priorities. For a single country like the United States, power increases with size. But for Europe, growth may be a source of weakness.
Thus many European citizens regard the arrival of new members from the former Soviet bloc with ambivalence: the eastern regions are poor, and they will draw scarce resources away from erstwhile beneficiaries in the west. Their commitment to Europe appears soft: in a recent referendum in traditionally pro-European Hungary, the proposal to join the union secured 84 percent of the votes -- but on a turnout of well under half the electorate. And thanks to the United States, the "new" Europeans are now at odds with their future partners. 
The United States has leaned heavily on Latvia and Malta, as well as on Romania, Bulgaria and others, to break with the European Union's support for the International Criminal Court. Washington also successfully urged Eastern Europeans to adopt a sympathetic position on the war in Iraq. 
In the long run, these American maneuvers are likely to have little impact: no amount of flattery from Donald Rumsfeld can compete with European Union subsidies and access to European markets. In the meantime, however, Eastern Europe's excited forays into international affairs have done little to dispel Western European doubts about their new partners. 
And the fact remains that America has the guns and Europe doesn't. Russia and Britain are Europe's only two significant military powers, but for different reasons they add little to the continent's collective strength. 
Britain was and is America's only military ally in Europe (of Spain and Italy, the less said the better), but not even Tony Blair will be able to keep the British in America's camp if George Bush does not move swiftly and convincingly to address the Israel-Palestine imbroglio. Few think he will, despite modest pressure last week on Israel to respond more positively to the prospect of peace talks.
So Britain's future undoubtedly lies in Europe. But the British have always opposed precisely the sort of close-knit European unity that would be required for European "soft" power to speak with one voice. Like Russia, another country on Europe's edge with military ambitions and extra-European interests, Britain will always have trouble being wholeheartedly "European." 
To anyone familiar with Europe's history, the European Union is a miracle. But it is what it is: a variable geometry of old and new states held together by enlightened self-interest. It is also very different from America, and the Atlantic separates two markedly contrasting "Wests." Europeans cannot alter United States policy; only American voters can do that. And, paradoxically, Europe's greatest weakness lies in the very source of its achievement. The European Union is the product of nothing more than a treaty, and treaties can be undone. As Charles de Gaulle observed 40 years ago, "Treaties, you see, are like girls and roses: they last while they last."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Europe rebuffed, 1956: Egyptians retake Suez. (Associated Press)(pg. 4) Drawing (Christoph Niemann)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); IRAQ WAR (68%); GLOBALIZATION (60%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%); EUROPEAN COMMUNITY (57%)

PERSON: BERTIE AHERN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); FRANCE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); EGYPT (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (90%); CENTRAL ASIA (79%); ESTONIA (79%); PORTUGAL (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



624 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: WAR PRISONERS; 
Fighters From Syria Among Iraqi Prisoners in an American Camp

BYLINE:  By BERNARD WEINRAUB 

DATELINE: SOUTH OF BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 19 

 BODY:
In a bleak sun-baked desert field, surrounded by multiple layers of barbed wire, Iraqi prisoners climb off buses and are placed in a holding area for interrogation by military intelligence officers. Each prisoner will be photographed and a database will be searched for clues of his past. 
 The prisoners here, about 25 miles from Baghdad, appear sullen, frightened, often very young. "Most of them -- 90 percent -- are pretty docile, they just want to get food and water, they want to get out of battle," said Lt. Jon M. Cookson, a platoon leader from the 855th Military Police Company, which guards the camp. "The exceptions are the Syrians." 
 His commander, Capt. Joe Murdock, said that almost every day 150 people, most of them prisoners, were driven here from Tallil in the south, a four-to-six-hour ride. The prisoners are immediately told to dig latrine trenches. After 48 hours, they will be sent to Umm Qasr, near the Kuwaiti border, to be held for an indeterminate time. 
At least three or four new prisoners a day are Syrian, and others are Palestinian, Sudanese or Jordanian. They are sometimes collectively referred to as Syrians here because many entered Iraq from Syria.
"They're obnoxious, arrogant, they have a vendetta," said Captain Murdock, who commands the National Guard unit from Phoenix. "You ask them why they were fighting in Iraq, and they say, 'To kill Americans.' Others just say they came to die and kill Americans."
The collection point here is in a bleak no-man's land off a highway leading to Baghdad. Several tan brick buildings at the site are incomplete, their interiors empty and barren, a remnant of a French-German-Iraqi plant that, for reasons no one seems to know, went unfinished several years ago. 
No one knows how many Syrian or other fighters crossed the border into Iraq to join the fight against British and American troops. Intelligence officials at V Corps headquarters near the Kuwaiti border said perhaps 4,000 to 5,000. 
Officials said they did not know if Syrians had come to Iraq with the full acquiescence of their government, or if they were members of independent groups, like Hezbollah, which get a nod and a wink from Damascus.
In recent days, Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld has accused Syria of allowing "busloads" of Syrian mercenaries to drive into Iraq and join Iraqi forces fighting American and British troops. 
Mr. Rumsfeld said some buses had been stopped, and others had been impounded and the fighters taken prisoner. He also said that several hundred thousand dollars was found on one bus, along with leaflets suggesting that Iraqis would be rewarded if they killed Americans.
Syrians are often instantly recognizable, Captain Murdock and Lieutenant Cookson said, because they tend to wear jeans and shirts as opposed to the white or black outfits of other fighters. They stay among themselves and are often ignored by other Iraqi prisoners. 
The Syrians are angry, recite anti-American slogans and sometimes say they would be happy to die as suicide attackers, an American officer said. Even prisoners from the Republican Guard, the forces viewed as most loyal to Saddam Hussein, seem compliant in contrast, the officers say.
Intermingled among the prisoners, leading to some confusion, are young civilians who were seized as looters or thieves or because they broke curfew regulations. These prisoners, the officers say, are the friendliest.
Less than two miles from the camp is the tented 28th Combat Support Hospital, which treats prisoners as well as Americans and Iraqis injured in combat. Col. Beverly P. Pritchett, the commander, echoed the views of the two officers at the prisoner camp.
"A lot of the Iraqis seem happy to be here, a lot of them actually seem grateful," Colonel Pritchett said. "The Syrians don't say anything. They don't seem happy to be here. Our translator says that all the Syrians want to do is kill Americans."
The Bush administration, over the last few weeks, has stepped up its talk about Syria, accusing it of harboring senior Iraqi military and government officials. Syria has denied that members of Saddam Hussein's family and leadership circle are finding refuge in Damascus or other Syrian cities.
Mr. Rumsfeld said last week that the United States was moving to cut off an important oil pipeline running from Iraq into neighboring Syria, the first major economic penalty against Damascus.
The Pentagon, the State Department and the C.I.A. have long held that Syria has developed chemical weapons and is also developing biological weapons. The administration has also said that Syria has allowed members of Hezbollah to travel from Syrian-controlled southern Lebanon into Iraq.
Bush administration officials have said they fear that Syria will continue to send teams of suicide bombers into Iraq for many years. The administration has bracketed Syria with Iraq and Iran as promoters of international terrorism, and suggested these countries face serious consequences.
Standing in the pulsing heat at the prison camp, with blasts of sand blowing everywhere, Sgt. Maj. Christopher Zimmer of the 720th Military Police Battalion, which oversees the camp, said that many of the Iraqi prisoners seemed scared, even terrified, when they arrived. But within 48 hours many seem to relax. "They realize we're not bad guys," Major Zimmer said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); TERRORISM (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); HEZBOLLAH (60%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; TERRORISM; PRISONERS OF WAR 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (59%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (55%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (55%)

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; MURDOCK, JOE (CAPT) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) IRAQ (99%); SYRIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); KUWAIT (92%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; SYRIA

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



625 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2201 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE DEFENSE SECRETARY; 
After the War, New Stature for Rumsfeld

BYLINE:  By MATTHEW PURDY 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19 

 BODY:
It was not the heat of war that rattled Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, but the lull beforehand. Meeting with advisers a couple of weeks before fighting began, Mr. Rumsfeld, usually supremely self-assured, suddenly insisted, "I need help."
 The United Nations would not support the war. Turkey had shut its doors to coalition troops. His desire for quick military action against Iraq was stalled, and Mr. Rumsfeld was looking for ways to move it off the diplomatic dime. He found himself in a rare position -- not in control. "It was beyond his realm," said someone who was present. 
 But once the United States pronounced diplomacy dead, and troops began moving and bombs falling, Mr. Rumsfeld's tension melted. "He was very relaxed, workmanlike," the adviser said. "He was on his terrain." 
Iraq has been Mr. Rumsfeld's war. It was fought on his terms, and the victory has made him an unusually forceful defense secretary at a pivotal moment for the American military.
Waging two wars in less than two years has drawn Mr. Rumsfeld into the inner circle of a president he did not know well until after the 2000 election. 
It is a striking turnabout for the 70-year-old defense secretary, whose assertive style fueled rumors before the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, that he was a short-timer. He now has fresh leverage to press his vision of a 21st century fighting machine prepared to use force not just in retaliation, but to head off perceived threats. His chin-out performance as war briefer to the world has made him the face of American strength -- or, alternatively, American arrogance.
"We've never had a cabinet official, possibly with the exception of Kissinger, with that high a profile," said Marlin Fitzwater, press secretary to the first President Bush.
The swift victory in Iraq, with relatively low casualties, is seen by Mr. Rumsfeld's supporters as validation that future wars can be won with more covert operatives to gather intelligence, a more agile force, more sophisticated equipment and a willingness to strike first.
James R. Schlesinger, a defense secretary under President Richard M. Nixon and President Gerald R. Ford, said Iraq could "make pre-emption easier, the barrier lower." Although that might not translate into more preventive wars, Mr. Schlesinger said, "what has been demonstrated here is the great American advantage in technology that can be exploited on the field of battle."
Mr. Rumsfeld is likely to use it to sell a military overhaul, which has faced opposition in Congress and in parts of the military. Newt Gingrich, a former House speaker who sometimes advises the defense secretary, said Mr. Rumsfeld had a rare opportunity to restructure the Pentagon. "He will be able to focus on the building with the authority unmatched by a secretary of defense since George Marshall," Mr. Gingrich said.
This heightened stature causes a kind of Rumsfeld-recoil among those who are offended by his tough, tart manner, or who question his significance.
Gary Hart, a former Democratic senator from Colorado and a military expert, said Mr. Rumsfeld, rather than being a trailblazer, had benefited from decades of work to modernize the military. 
"He's on deck when the action is occurring," Mr. Hart said. He called Iraq an overlapping "of the last 20th century war and the first 21st century war," and said the Pentagon was confronting new threats by using "lighter, more mobile, more lethal" capabilities developed before Mr. Rumsfeld arrived.
Some fear the victory will embolden Mr. Rumsfeld and others in the administration to use force more willingly. 
"You end up with short-term gains," said Senator Joseph R. Biden Jr., a Delaware Democrat who is the ranking member of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, "but it's no way to deal with the world."
In the world of Washington, military action has hardened Mr. Rumsfeld's bond with President Bush, their aides say. Mr. Rumsfeld has given President Bush war updates twice daily, and the Pentagon is overseeing postwar Iraq.
Mr. Rumsfeld has, seemingly, seized all of Washington's means of communication.
A stickler for precision, in bombs and words, Mr. Rumsfeld became his own chief spokesman at televised briefings, engaging in the dance with the news media that many top officials avoid.

An Unlikely Trajectory
Mr. Rumsfeld has come to personify the administration's stance of using offense as defense. It is a role his life prepared him for, from his youth as a wily lightweight wrestler, to a stint as a Navy pilot, to a career as a take-no-prisoners corporate executive. 
Ten days ago, as videotape of rejoicing Iraqis rolled around the world, Mr. Rumsfeld told aides that he wanted to brief the press that day.
The images demanded narration and he would be the narrator. "We are seeing history unfold," he said.
His blunt delivery distinguishes his voice amid the capital's verbal effluent. In the White House view, a senior administration official said, Mr. Rumsfeld proved his character by assisting rescue workers at the Pentagon on 9/11. "That broke through with the public," the official said.
Richard Perle, a former Pentagon official and business consultant who also advises Mr. Rumsfeld, said, "More and more I recognize Donald Rumsfeld's point of view and arguments in what the president says." 
Mr. Perle, Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Schlesinger are among 30 members of the Pentagon's Defense Policy Board, an unpaid panel that gives advice to Mr. Rumsfeld on a range of issues.
The last two years have been an unlikely trajectory for Mr. Rumsfeld, who was the nation's youngest defense secretary under President Ford in 1975, and returned after 24 years in corporate life to become the oldest defense secretary.
The Bush family has felt both edges of the Rumsfeld sword.
If President Bush respects Mr. Rumsfeld, his father appears to resent him. In his book "Looking Forward" (Doubleday, 1987), the first President George Bush called Mr. Rumsfeld "an able administrator and a skillful political in-fighter."
They both apparently had an eye on running for vice president with Mr. Ford in 1976. Kenneth Adelman, who worked for Mr. Rumsfeld in that administration, said Mr. Rumsfeld "would have loved to have been chosen."
Mr. Bush wrote that his own chances ended with his appointment to head the Central Intelligence Agency, a steppingstone away from politics. 
The former president wrote that a colleague told him that Mr. Rumsfeld, then Mr. Ford's chief of staff, had arranged the appointment to sideline him. Mr. Rumsfeld "vehemently denied the rumor," Mr. Bush wrote, and "I accepted his word."

A Complex Profile
It is perhaps a measure of the public mood that Mr. Rumsfeld, who wears his aggressiveness like a medal, is a popular figure.
A Gallup poll taken this month showed that 71 percent of Americans who knew of Mr. Rumsfeld approved of his job performance. In Congress, there had been grumbling about Mr. Rumsfeld's imperiousness, but when he and Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, updated members on the war 10 days ago, they received a "sustained, tumultuous standing ovation," one congressman said.
Applause drops off sharply overseas. A Lebanese television station has introduced its news report with a recording of Mr. Rumsfeld boasting of precision bombing overlaid with scenes of bleeding civilians. A recent cartoon in the Cairo newspaper Al-Ahram showed Mr. Rumsfeld flashing a victory sign, while behind him a United States soldier was punched by the Iraqi resistance springing out of a jack-in-the-box.
Conservative Republicans view Mr. Rumsfeld as a hero, but his full profile is more complex.
Bob Dole, the former Senate majority leader, said that when he and Mr. Rumsfeld served in Congress in the 1960's, "you wouldn't put him in that far-right group." Mr. Rumsfeld left his seat representing Chicago's northern suburbs to head Nixon's Office of Economic Opportunity. Vin Weber, a former congressman who worked with Mr. Rumsfeld on Mr. Dole's 1996 presidential campaign, called the defense secretary a "moderate Republican who moved right."
Newton Minow, aFederal Communications Commission chairman under President John F. Kennedy and a friend of Mr. Rumsfeld's, was among the lawyers who advised the defense department on procedures for military tribunals after 9/11. Mr. Minow said the Pentagon's expansion of the rights of the defendants reflected Mr. Rumsfeld's politics.
"He's very conservative on foreign affairs," Mr. Minow said. "On certain issues -- civil rights, civil liberties -- he's liberal."

'He's Very Competitive'
Mr. Rumsfeld's position in the current foreign affairs debate is clear. Years ago, Mr. Rumsfeld wrote his "Rules of Life," which included the aphorism "Weakness is provocative." It still seems to be his rule.
In 1998, Mr. Rumsfeld headed a Congressional commission assessing the ballistic missile threat. That work, a former aide said, impressed him with the potential speed of enemy action and convinced him "that we are going to be surprised."
Asked how Mr. Rumsfeld's view of military force changed after 9/11, one adviser said, "I don't think he would always think it has to be a last resort."
Testifying before Congress last September, Mr. Rumsfeld said that in the age of terrorism, "proof beyond a reasonable doubt" is too high a threshold for military intervention. "Expecting to find that standard of evidence, from thousands of miles away, and to do so before such a weapon has been used is not realistic," he said. This view is at the heart of the current debate. Mr. Hart said that after Iraq, among some hawks there might be "an inclination to say, 'Who's next?' " He said the next several weeks could determine whether the United States will "bring democracy to the Arab world at the point of a bayonet."
Mr. Rumsfeld's verbal bayonet is always at the ready. He criticized European detractors of the war as "old Europe" and began the administration's drumbeat against Syria two weeks ago with veiled threats.
"You have to remember," said Mr. Gingrich, "he was a wrestling champion. He's very competitive."
The move on the mat that Mr. Rumsfeld perfected at Princeton University was the fireman's carry. "You get them by an arm and a leg and pull them down to the mat," said Brad Glass, a fellow Princeton wrestler. "That was his strongest move, and he took a lot of people down with it."

A Taste for Experimentation
There is a pattern to Mr. Rumsfeld's life. He takes over organizations and shakes them up -- often hard.
After the Ford administration, Mr. Rumsfeld became president of a struggling pharmaceutical company, G. D. Searle. Two years later, he wrote to shareholders that there were new occupants in "roughly half of the top 65 management positions."
Mr. Rumsfeld shed 20 Searle businesses and reassigned or let go hundreds of people from administrative jobs. "I think he was totally convinced that the people who left, he was doing them a favor," said Ned Jannotta, the chairman of the William Blair investment banking firm, who advised Mr. Rumsfeld at Searle. Eventually, Searle's stock rose and the company was sold.
Gen. Peter Pace, the vice chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, said Mr. Rumsfeld's background in pharmaceuticals gave him a taste for experimentation, which led him to insist on building myriad options into the Iraq military plan. That allowed for launching ground troops before the air war, which contained an element of surprise, General Pace said.
His corporate experience, and his long friendship with Vice President Dick Cheney, also made him attractive to the Bush administration for the Pentagon job. Mr. Gingrich said Mr. Rumsfeld told President Bush, "If you want me to change the building, I'll change the building." But many experts say Mr. Rumsfeld has had less effect at the Pentagon than on the battlefield.
At a Pentagon briefing last October, Danielle Brian, executive director of the Project on Government Oversight, which monitors government procurement, said Mr. Rumsfeld "was obviously frustrated with the obstacles to his agenda."
Ms. Brian said that according to her notes from the meeting, Mr. Rumsfeld pointed out the opposition in Congress to his cancellation of the Crusader artillery system. "It was as if I shot a little old lady in the grocery store," she quoted Mr. Rumsfeld as saying.
Common wisdom says the war will strengthen Mr. Rumsfeld's hand with Congress. But Michael Vickers, the director of strategic studies at the Center for Strategic and Budgetary Assessments, said similar speculation followed the Afghan war, although there were few changes in weapons systems. "People are now saying, 'Look at this great victory in Iraq, now there are going to be all those changes,' " said Mr. Vickers, a former Army special forces officer. "I'm not so sure."
At the moment though, Mr. Rumsfeld seems well positioned everywhere -- just as supporters expected and detractors feared.
Last Monday, he appeared at Michael Jordan's final home basketball game for the Washington Wizards and presented him with an American flag. The next morning, he was back at the White House.
"I don't know where you put him in the pecking order," Mr. Dole said, "but he's probably right where he wants to be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld at a Pentagon briefing. He engaged in the dance with the news media that many officials avoid, becoming an unusually forceful defense secretary at a pivotal time for the military. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ARMED FORCES (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (76%); ESPIONAGE (69%); TERRORISM (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (58%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); RICHARD NIXON (56%); NEWT GINGRICH (50%) RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); PURDY, MATTHEW 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); TURKEY (92%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



626 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2673 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: RECONSTRUCTION; 
From Power Grid to Schools, Rebuilding a Broken Nation

BYLINE:  This article was reported by Ian Fisher, Alan Feuer and John Kifner and written by Mr. Fisher. 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 19 

 BODY:
With the fighting here mostly over, attention has turned to making Iraq work again. Most experts agree that the job will prove complicated and expensive for the Americans who will oversee it.
 The Um Al Rabiayn kindergarten in northern Baghdad shows why. 
 The first hurdle is safety, clearing the streets of looters, dousing the last fires and defeating the final supporters of Saddam Hussein. At the kindergarten, for children ages 3 to 5, American soldiers completed the first task the other morning. They removed 65 tons of Iraqi ammunition, mostly TNT and mines, stored in the school during the war. 
But bigger problems revealed themselves once the school was empty. The building is in terrible shape, the walls bulging and flaked from severe water damage, not habitable by most standards. So it goes around this nation after 12 years of United Nations sanctions imposed in 1990 after Iraq invaded Kuwait.
Of course, there is still no electricity at the kindergarten. Teachers have fled. Parents remain too scared to take their children to school.
"It will reopen," the school's live-in security guard, Nejdet Abdel, said vaguely, "when things settle down."
Not since World War II has a nation sought to recreate almost single-handedly the country of an enemy defeated in war.
Iraq is deeply divided about the nation that considers itself the Iraqis' liberator. The Iraqis are demanding that the United States fix the damage. But they also want the Americans to leave as soon as possible, a cry heard over and over only a week after the American and British troops toppled the Iraqi government.
The rest of the world is watching this balancing act, with much worry about the decision by the United States not only to exclude the United Nations from a central role here but also to award the first big rebuilding contract to an American construction firm, the Bechtel Group.
Iraqis and the aid officials here agree on one thing: with order just barely restored, good will is likely to depend on how fast reconstruction can produce results.
"Things should start moving so people have a reason to have hope," said Roland Huguenin-Benjamin, a spokesman for the International Committee of the Red Cross.
It is far too early for any detailed assessment of the damage wrought by the war, which experts estimate could cost $25 billion to $100 billion to repair. But with the help of the United States military, teams of Iraqi experts -- most of them former government employees -- are exploring what has been lost and what will be needed to fix the damage.
Even as Baghdad slowly returns to life, some things are clear. The armed forces have scattered. Almost every government ministry -- with the notable exception of the Oil Ministry -- was bombed, then looted and burned by Iraqis. Garbage trucks and buses have been stolen, in some cases put back into service by leaders of Shiite mosques already hostile to the American presence here. Banks around the city have been robbed by gangs.
United States military officials here make the point that the precision of the smart-bombs dropped on Baghdad limited damage to the most important infrastructure, including power and water facilities. Col. Mike Marletto, commanding officer of the 11th Marines regimental combat team, who also coordinates with Iraqis and aid groups here, said Iraqi electrical engineers told him that the damage this time was far less than during the gulf war in 1991, when power and water plants were direct targets for bombing.
"They say this is a piece of cake compared to what they had to do in 1991," he said.
He also said he believed that the rewards for completing the reconstruction would be great, as this nation with oil wealth and an educated work force finds itself at peace and as an ally of the United States.
"We have a long-term strategy: that is basically to get up Iraq as an important partner and player in this region," he said.
But his point about the limited bombing this time underscores the amount of damage from 1991 that has not been repaired, and the cost of rebuilding it now. Electricity was never fully restored in Baghdad, which had regular power failures. Water filtration plants are not up to modern standards.
The Red Cross says that hospitals here had imported $500 million in medical supplies each year before the last gulf war. But in the entire eight years since the United Nations began allowing Iraq to sell some of its oil to meet civilian needs, hospitals have imported only $40 million in supplies -- reducing Iraq's hospitals, once among the best in the region, to what one aid official called "third world" status.
One casualty of the war is harder to see than bombed buildings and copper wire: the disintegration of the civil service, including many competent technocrats, that Mr. Hussein built up until virtually every Iraqi was dependent on him. No one is sure who is in charge, though Iraqi exiles, some supported by the United States, have moved in recent days to organize among former military officers, religious leaders, tribal chiefs and bureaucrats.
"The big deal is that the operational structure of this nation is gone," said Mr. Huguenin-Benjamin of the Red Cross. "How do you get that back?"
To answer that question, an American team led by a retired lieutenant general, Jay Garner, will in the coming days take over the civilian administration of Iraq until an interim Iraqi authority is in place. The Iraqis will then work with the World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, institutions with which the United States enjoys wide influence, to reshape the country. In the end, much of the reconstruction is to be paid for with revenues from Iraq's oil.
The Bechtel contract covers virtually all the major projects in Iraq, including repairing two international and three domestic airports, ensuring that potable water is available, reconstructing electric power plants and building roads, railroads, schools, hospitals and irrigation systems.
What follows are small snapshots of the damage in the war and some early indications of how Iraq will be reconstructed.

Electricity, Water, Telephones
The power in Baghdad was cut, no one is sure exactly by whom, on April 4, and Iraqis say there is no one service they need more. Until it is restored, it is unlikely that most businesses or schools here will open.
Having the lights on is also likely to discourage looters at night. The United States military, along with power authority engineers, has been working to restart the main stations in Baghdad, a process that requires "jump-starting" larger plants with energy from smaller ones. Already six diesel generators are working again, supplying power for about 3,000 of Baghdad's 4.5 million people. The American military believes that the power in most areas will be back on by early next week.
Though water shortages have been a larger problem to the south, in Basra, Baghdad's water supply is operating at about 40 percent capacity. Military officials say it will return almost to normal once power is restored. Aid officials say Iraq still needs to upgrade its water filtration and sewage treatment plants.
Iraq's phone system has not worked well since 1991, and Iraq does not have widespread cellular service. The United States military, which bombed communications centers, says that 12 of 29 telephone switches remain operational although they may not be working now because of a lack of power.

Health Care
When Mr. Hussein's government fell, the doctors all fled the Zafaraniya Hospital in south Baghdad. The local mosque, of the Shiite sect, took over, urging doctors and nurses to return to work and recruiting other medical workers who lived in the neighborhood. Security, to stem the looting that has already cost the hospital a dentist's chair and echo-cardiogram machine, is now provided by the mosque.
After a few days, the hospital was up and running, with only 5 of the 20 original doctors, 3 volunteers and 2 others from the French aid group Doctors Without Borders.
"Within three days we brought the hospital back to normal," said Dr. Ali Hussein, 40, a volunteer internist. "But we don't have electricity. We only have one generator."
This is largely the situation at hospitals around Baghdad, where medical services were most severely disrupted. Of the city's 34 hospitals, about 18 are now working to some degree, though with limited supplies, electricity and water. At several hospitals, local mosques have begun organizing both security and staff -- and in Saddam City, the Shiite stronghold, religious leaders say they hope to continue running them.
But Muhammad Zobeidi, the Iraqi exile who this week proclaimed himself the governor of Baghdad, says he is working with Shiite groups and expects no problems in having them turn over the operations once a more permanent government is established.
"Now it is a new time in Iraq's history," he said in an interview. "There is no difference between Shiite and Sunni," he said, referring to the minority sect here to which Mr. Hussein belonged.
Dr. Morten Rostrup, medical coordinator for Doctors Without Borders in Iraq, said the hospitals that were operating lacked many medical supplies, especially external fixators used to set broken bones, anesthetics and painkillers, as they treat many injuries from the American bombing.
But he said the larger problem, as with so many services once provided by Mr. Hussein's government, was organizational: it is unclear who is running what. "There is a kind of power vacuum," he said.

The Economy
Since the first bombs started falling, the Baghdad Stock Exchange has been deserted, its trading floor incinerated to a smoky, carbon shell and its offices filled with scattered documents and scorched desks.
But the exchange's stone building in the center of the city is no longer empty. Four days ago, two Iraqi families moved in, having been chased from their homes by American bombs.
"We had nowhere else to go," said Abdul Rasul Chalub, a food vendor, who has claimed the lobby and kitchen of the building for his family of 10, leaving another family of eight to set up shop in a few undamaged offices down the hall. "We're the lucky ones," he said. "A lot of people are homeless, but they couldn't find a thing."
The Chalubs have swept the floors of their new home of broken glass, hung their laundry on the air-conditioner unit and even brought in their own padlocks to keep intruders away.
"Yesterday, some official from the stock exchange came to inspect the place," Mr. Chalub said. "They thanked me for cleaning everything and staying a while. When they ask us to leave, I guess we'll have to go."
Around Baghdad, the state-run banks have been a target for looters since Mr. Hussein's government fell. It is unclear how much money has been taken, though American soldiers have removed money from at least one bank for safekeeping.
United States officials believe that, with so much damage and so much potential oil wealth, Iraq will attract foreign investment. Two young entrepreneurs, Brent Balloch, a 27-year-old New Zealand lawyer, and Jack Roe, 26, an American from Sacramento, are already here setting up a service to provide new businesses with everything they need, from houses to drivers to outfitted offices and copy machines.
"Say you're an international oil company," said Mr. Balloch. "You don't want to worry about photocopiers."
Mr. Zobeidi, the self-proclaimed Baghdad governor, is clearly pinning his hopes for economic revival on foreigners -- specifically Americans. "McDonald's and Coca-Cola, please," he said.

Police, Government, Schools
To restore day-to-day order in this nation that had scores of overlapping security services under Mr. Hussein, the United States military has begun recruiting a new police force, starting with 150 officers from the former government. The officers have begun going on joint patrols with American soldiers to stop the looting, which has now largely tapered off. The longer-term plan is to rebuild the police force gradually with officers considered not to be oppressive agents of the old government.
Mr. Zobeidi said he believed that most of Iraq's civil servants could return to work, with the exception of perhaps 1,000 top employees with the strongest ties to Mr. Hussein's government and leading members of his Baath Party.
"There is no place for the Saddam Hussein regime in the new government," he said.
In the short-to-medium term, the government will be in the hands of General Gardner, who is still in Kuwait, and a team of several hundred American administrators. The reported plan is to divide the country into three sectors -- the largely Kurdish north, the Sunni center and the Shiite south. There is some argument between the State and Defense Departments about who will distribute aid.
The city's schools have been closed because of the lack of electricity, the general chaos and the fact that many -- like the kindergarten -- were used to store ammunition. Neighbors and American soldiers are slowly removing the ammunition.

Sanitation
The American military said that it had kept the smaller of two water treatment plants on the Tigris operating and that it expected to open the larger one shortly.
The smell of rotting garbage is growing stronger in Baghdad, though, and to make matters worse, temperatures are rising. Virtually every street has become a dumping ground, and most garbage trucks are not working their routes -- as was evident in the Shaab neighborhood in northern Baghdad, where one sanitation worker stopped his truck on a recent afternoon near heaps of garbage to shop at a local market.
"You see them and you say, 'Pick up this trash,' and they say, 'Pay me first,' " said one irritated resident, Karim Saleh, 55, a government employee. "They won't work unless they are bribed. They have the cars and they just drive around."
At the local sanitation substation, a manager, Muhammad Daoud, said all 14 trucks at the station were in the possession of their drivers and currently out of service. He said he had gone to the sanitation station in the Adhimiya neighborhood to complain about how the garbage is piling up.
"I have been going for the last seven days because what is happening is a disgrace," he said. "The health of our people is at stake here."

Public Transportation
There is nothing centralized about Baghdad's central bus station.
Each day, taxis, minivans and private coaches throng the street outside the gates, their drivers hollering for passengers and advertising their destinations: "Najaf! Karbala! Samawi!"
The station closed on the first day of the war and has yet to resume official service. The director general, a member of the Baath Party, has disappeared, drivers say, and no one has stepped up to replace him.
The private drivers, who ply their trade in all manner of vehicles and ignore even the simplest traffic rules, say they are thrilled to have taken over the station.
"It may be a little chaotic," said Ahmed Khodeir, a 34-year-old minivan driver, "but it's our chaos. Now, we run the show."
Some of Baghdad's city buses are still running, if irregularly, with volunteer drivers. At least one mosque said it had restarted bus service in its neighborhood.
Across the street from the bus station, the National Railroad station sits empty. The ticket windows are smashed. The platforms are scattered with rubble and debris.
Before the war, 15 passenger trains and 20 commercial freighters left here each day for Basra and Mosul as well as Syria and Turkey. Iraq has about 3,000 miles of domestic train track, rail officials say, though much of it has been damaged by the war.
"We hope to have things running again in another two weeks," said Firas Abbas, the station's chief electrical engineer. "It will not be easy, but we can do it."
Even now, Mr. Abbas is taking an inventory of his switching stations and locomotives. The American Army, he said, has agreed to check miles of track for unexploded bombs.
"There are two main problems now: power and security," he said. "Once we solve those, we will start again. No problem."

GRAPHIC: Photos: An American marine guarded a pile of Iraqi dinars in Baghdad last week. American troops were also deployed to prevent further looting at banks in the capital. (Dusan Vranic/Associated Press); An Iraqi policeman on patrol in Baghdad last week in a joint operation with American soldiers. The United States military has begun recruiting Iraqis for a new police force. (Oleg Nikishin/Getty Images); An Iraqi man who sells posters was back in business on Friday in Baghdad. Larger businesses, however, will require significant investments of capital to get back on their feet. (Alan Chin for The New York Times)(pg. B7); Baghdad electric cable is replaced. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TRENDS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CONSTRUCTION (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (73%); POWER FAILURES (73%); WORLD WAR II (71%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (70%); CIVIL SERVICES (69%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WATER; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLICE; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; TRANSPORTATION 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (84%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) FISHER, IAN; FEUER, ALAN; KIFNER, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KUWAIT (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



627 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL: AGAINST THE GRAIN; 
Crunching Numbers To Rate the Players

BYLINE:  By ALLEN BARRA 

 BODY:
To some baseball fans, statistics are the lifeblood of the sport. Baseball fans believe that they can flip to the morning sports pages or log on to an Internet site and find statistics that they can trust, statistics that will tell them something vital and accurate about a player's worth. 
 Many basketball fans, on the other hand, believe that a player's real value is not truly reflectedin his numbers. 
 This is particularly strange considering, as George Ignatin, who was my economics professor at the University of Alabama in Birmingham, once observed, "Many basketball fans who grew up mistrusting statistics are the same baseball fans who grew up living by them." 
In baseball, when it comes to choosing the most valuable player or Cy Young Award winner, reams of statistics are bandied about. Not everyone puts the same stock in the same numbers, but you can bet that everyone who ventures an opinion will back himself with statistics.
Watch what happens, though, when the debate heats up for the N.B.A.'s M.V.P. this season; after supporting a particular player with references to statistics, many people will end their argument by talking about intangibles. 
I've studied the issue of intangibles for 20 years and have come to the same conclusion as the Irish peasant who, when asked by the writer Sean O'Faolain if she believed in fairies, said, "I do not, but they're there."
The real problem with intangibles is that they exist in the eyes of the beholder. Is there an objective method for rating the performance of basketball players that factors in intangibles? I started with the tangibles. I asked three men -- whom I have worked with over the years and who have spent much of their lives observing and studying basketball -- to tackle the question of how statistics can determine a player's value. 
First, Professor Ignatin, who has been crunching baseball, football and basketball numbers for more than 30 years and is my co-author of "Football by the Numbers." George calls his basketball formula Max Points, named for his computer "Mad Max" (for Means of Advancing eXperimental Methods of Advanced Data, or, if you will, Max Mad). George's equation is: 
Max Points = points + rebounds + assists + (2 x steals) + (2 x blocks) - Turnovers - (0.5 x field goals missed)
A unique feature of Max Points is that it provides two handy numbers: Divide the result by games to get Max Points per game and by minutes to get Max Points per minute. 
John Hollinger is the author of "Pro Basketball Prospectus." His player-efficiency rating attempts to "summarize the player's statistical accomplishment in a single number." 
Hollinger emphasizes that his rating is not "the final, once and for all, answer for a player's accomplishments but an attempt to unify the disparate data that we try to keep track of in our head." 
Usage rate, rebound rate, assist ratio, turnover ratio, pure points ratio, and points per shot attempts are components of his evaluation. 
Joshua Trupin is the co-author, with Gerald Couzens, of "HoopStats Basketball Abstract," which features his Hoops Grading System. 
The three systems vary in some particulars -- each assigns a slightly different weight or value to each statistic -- but they are more alike than different. All agree that defense is more difficult to measure than offense, because, Hollinger said, "The N.B.A. thinks that blocks and steals are the only things worth keeping track of." 
Applying his formula to this season's leading M.V.P. candidates, Ignatin grudgingly gives the award to Minnesota's Kevin Garnett, who leads the league in Max Points per game over Lakers center Shaquille O'Neal, because Garnett played in several more games. Still, he said: "If we had a choose-up game, I'd take Shaq with my first pick, and you could take anyone else. Whoever you took second would leave me someone almost as good for my second pick."
Hollinger acknowledges O'Neal's dominance, but docks him for frequent injuries. His M.V.P. picks are, in order, Orlando's Tracy McGrady, San Antonio's Tim Duncan, and Garnett. McGrady, Hollinger said, is "like Kobe, but without the turnovers -- less hype, but a better player." 
Trupin opts for O'Neal, "the most dominant player of our generation, head and shoulders above the rest of the league." He ranks Duncan second and Garnett third. 
Ignatin, Hollinger and Trupin also share an attitude toward intangibles. "Let's measure what can be measured, as effectively as it can be measured," Ignatin said, "and worry about the intangibles when we're through." 
Trupin said: "The value of any grading system is how it affirms the value of tangibles. You have to reach the level of a Magic Johnson or Larry Bird before you can argue about which intangibles make which man more valuable."
Or as Hollinger puts it, "Any good system is more reliable than asking Bill Walton's opinion." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (93%); BASEBALL (93%); BASKETBALL (92%); SPORTS AWARDS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%) BASKETBALL 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA (57%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: BARRA, ALLEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (57%) ALABAMA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



628 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1311 words

HEADLINE: Shuddering Through the Season of Hope; 
War and Worry Dampen Spring's Theme of Renewal in New York

BYLINE:  By DANIEL J. WAKIN 

 BODY:
The weather deities offered a daylong whiff of spring last week. The city's fountains, gagged by drought, burbled anew on that warm day before a chill quickly set in. The terror alert faded to yellow, but not in New York City, where it remained orange. 
 It is spring and the human organism knows it, at the least by sitting down to Seder dinners and Easter feasts. It is a time of renewal, of liberation from tyrants ancient and modern, of resurrection, the calendar tells us. 
 Does it really seem that way in New York City these days? Conversations across social and religious spectrumssuggest that for many, it is a tough time to feel reborn. 
The two obvious culprits are war in Iraq and dark economic times in the city, made concrete for many New Yorkers by Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's proposed budget of doom.
"I have no feeling of renewal at all," said Peter Marcuse, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University. "So much of the world is going contrary to the ideals of Passover."
He cited a passage in the Passover liturgy in which God silences those who would cheer the destruction of Pharaoh's soldiers in pursuit of the Jews, because those soldiers are also his creatures.
"It seems to me that's a very noble passage," Professor Marcuse said, "and it's one that is so far away from the way we are approaching the Middle East these days." 
The spirit of freedom from authoritarians evoked by the Israelites' flight from Egypt is also being violated, he said. "There is much happening in our society that gives people the feeling of being in the hands of powers greater than their own," he said -- whether the seemingly inexorable drive to war in Iraq or the fear of the dire effects of budget cutbacks imposed by elected leaders.
But Professor Marcuse also pointed out that the deliverance of Iraqis from oppressive hands reflects the Passover story of the Israelites' escape from Egypt into the Promised Land.
As Daniel Jeremy Silver wrote in "A History of Judaism" (Basic Books, 1974): "The Exodus expressed God's will to save, the urgency of freedom, the possibility of escaping tyranny, and God's anger with every form of social abuse." The Promised Land, he explained, "was a statement of possibility, of hopes that come true."
For others, a deep sense of uncertainty makes it difficult to feel that refreshing sense of the turning page. It is like a book with a stiff binding, in which the page refuses to lie flat.
"With Iraq where it is, with bin Laden out there, nothing is complete," said Arlene Simon, president of Landmark West, a West Side preservation advocacy group. "You haven't the slightest idea of how quickly it's going to get better." 
In the crowded aisles of Cookie's, the children's department store on the Fulton Street Mall in Brooklyn, Stacey Roach, a home health aide, was looking for a spiritual lift to arrive today, Easter Sunday. 
The situation in Iraq is a bit scary and the threat of violence at home is still real, she said, picking through a rack of Easter clothes for her two young daughters. "You don't know if you'll be around to celebrate the next holiday." 
But, she vowed, at Easter services at her church, Cedar of Lebanon Baptist in Brownsville, "I will celebrate the rebirth of Christ, and have more faith."
Yes, some New Yorkers feel less anxious about terror attacks. But James R. Kelly, a professor of sociology at Fordham University, has questions. Don't many people out there still hate Americans? And will the budget's spending cuts lead to dirtier streets, an understaffed police force and a reduction in classroom services for schoolchildren?
"What does the preacher do, or even the believer, when he or she says this is a time of resurrection?" Professor Kelly asked.
Americans have been awakened by violence at home, and there is a prospect of more. "We're finally brought to making the distinction between hope and optimism," he said.
Thus the mystery of Easter appears in a more stark light. "I'm going to go to church on Easter, and I'll find my heart being raised a bit," Professor Kelly went on. "I won't be optimistic, but I'll be hopeful." 
For Hal Ruzal, a bicycle mechanic in SoHo, Easter and Passover have nothing to do with it. "I feel a sense of renewal just from the weather getting nicer," he said.
Mr. Ruzal, 49, a lifelong New Yorker, also takes the city's latest worries in stride.
"Budget cuts?" he said. "New Yorkers lived through the 70's. It was a lot rougher."
Terrorism? "I hardly pay attention to the terror alert; I grew up in New York in the 60's and the 70's, where it was a different terror," he said, referring to crime. "It was just terror from within." 
Emira Habiby-Browne does not have the same measured optimism. She is executive director of the Arab-American Family Support Center in Brooklyn and feels heavily the weight of destruction and death in Iraq.
"The war has been very traumatic for the Arab-Americans in this country," she said. "There's a sense of humiliation, a sense of depression, a sense of, 'What's the future?' "
The season has brought her little hope.
"There should be that sense of joy and renewal and spring is in the air," she said, "but I don't feel it at all, and I know 99 percent of the people I talk to don't feel it."
She also said that, even though the threat of terrorism might be receding, it was hard to detect any easing of tension among Arabs and Muslims. "The stares are still there," Ms. Habiby-Browne said.
For some, the prospects of renewal run much higher. A year ago during Easter week, the Roman Catholic Church was besieged by reports that revealed decades of sexual abuse of children by priests. Daily disclosures of molestation and efforts to cover it up by the church hierarchy wounded Catholics, brought back painful memories for the victims and cast a veil of suspicion over priests.
Last year on Holy Thursday, a day dedicated to the priesthood, many priests said they identified closely with the crucified Christ. 
This year, many said that the rawness had receded, and that the church could start to move forward, at least to some degree.
"I think it's better, but I don't think it ever goes back to the way it was, the level of trust," said the Rev. Francis G. Skelly, pastor of St. Cecilia's parish in East Harlem. "There was a great deal of damage done to the Catholic Church with this. We're moving on, but it's moving on scarred."
At St. James Cathedral in Brooklyn on this Holy Thursday, the homily of Bishop Thomas V. Daily was striking for what he did not say. Last year, in extensive comments on the scandal, he issued a condemnation of the abuse and sought to boost his priests' confidence.
This year, appearing before white-robed priests in a light-filled baroque church, Bishop Daily did not mention the scandal.
He invoked the traditional Holy Thursday rededication of priests to their calling. "Are you ready to renew your own dedication to Christ as priests of the new Covenant?" the bishop asked. "I am," the men intoned.
Sister Sally Butler, a nun in Brooklyn who was an early whistle-blower about clerical sexual abuse, said that this Easter season felt more hopeful. "Even though it is probably going to take a while, the present hierarchy is crumbling," she said. Most encouraging, she added, "Survivors are getting the courage to speak out." 
But where to go for a taste of unbridled optimism in this age of spin? Who better than a press agent?
Sure, the recession has cut his business about 30 percent, said Bruce Cohen, owner of Bruce Cohen Group in Manhattan. "But I've lived through the great fiscal crisis," he said. "I've lived through 'Ford to City: Drop Dead,' so I've seen how it turns out."
As for Iraq, he lamented the deaths of civilians but expressed reliefthat military casualties were limited. "I'm young, I'm healthy, I can go in the park and run," he said. "I'm the luckiest man on the face of the earth."

GRAPHIC: Photo (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSOVER (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); RELIGION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TERRORISM (77%); IRAQ WAR (74%); BUDGETS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TRENDS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%) SEASONS AND MONTHS; TERRORISM; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (57%) WAKIN, DANIEL J 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); EGYPT (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) NEW YORK CITY; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



629 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 753 words

HEADLINE: Search Expands for Suspect in Shooting of Two Officers 

BYLINE:  By GREG RETSINAS

 BODY:
The search for the man accused of fatally shooting a New Jersey police officer shifted yesterday to central New York, even as the man's two brothers, father and cousin were all under arrest in the case. 
 Hundreds of local, state and federal law enforcement officers were looking for the suspect, Omar Marti, 23, who faces charges including murder, attempted murder and carjacking, the authorities said. 
 Mr. Marti was spotted at the Port Authority Bus Terminal in Manhattan about seven hours after Thursday night's shootings and may have taken a bus upstate, officials said. The focus yesterday was in Johnson City, near Binghamton, though the authorities were continuing to search elsewhere last night.. 
He is probably armed, the police said.
"We do have leads," John L. Molinelli, the Bergen County prosecutor, said at a news conference yesterday in Fair Lawn, N.J., where the officer was killed. "We have a lot of officers that are currently after him, and we do have indications of where he may be. All I can say is I feel very confident that our officers in law enforcement will capture him. It will just take a little while longer."
Mr. Marti is charged with killing Officer Mary Ann Collura of the Fair Lawn police and shooting Officer Steven Farrell of the Clifton police after a chase Thursday night that ended behind a Fair Lawn church. Prosecutors said that Mr. Marti, an unemployed printer from Passaic, was the driver of a red 1998 Nissan that was speeding through Passaic County when Officer Farrell tried to stop it for a license plate violation. 
The police recovered two guns from the scene, a .357 Magnum and a .380 semiautomatic. The Magnum is believed to be the weapon used in the shootings. 
Yesterday, the authorities shed more light on the chase. They said that as Officer Farrell pursued the Nissan, a Ford Escort station wagon driven by Victor M. Marti II, 24, of Passaic, Mr. Marti's brother, followed the officer's car.
The chase headed toward Fair Lawn in Bergen County, and Officer Farrell radioed for backup. Officer Collura responded, and the two patrol cars and the Nissan all stopped behind the Van Riper-Ellis/Broadway Baptist Church.
The officers got out of their cars, and two men got out of the Nissan. When one of the men indicated he was going to resist arrest, the authorities said, Officer Farrell reached for pepper spray. Then the man pulled a gun and both officers, though they wore bulletproof vests, went down in a hail of bullets.
Officer Collura, 43, was fatally wounded by shots to the neck and abdomen. Officer Farrell, 30, shot in an elbow and leg, underwent surgery on Friday at St. Joseph Regional Medical Center in Paterson and was in stable condition late yesterday, the authorities said.
The police said the shots were fired by Omar Marti, who was in the Nissan with his cousin, Ivan Marti. The police found a quarter-pound of marijuana at the scene near the Nissan, Mr. Molinelli said.
Omar Marti then fled alone in Officer Collura's patrol car, which was found abandoned in Paterson a short time later, the authorities said. 
In the hours after the shooting, Omar, Ivan and Victor Marti regrouped in Paterson, where they were picked up by Victor M. Marti Sr., the father of Omar and Victor II, the police said. Together, they went to two Paterson social clubs to try to establish an alibi, prosecutors said.
Mr. Marti's relatives were arrested because they helped him elude theauthorities, officials said.
Ivan Marti, 29, of Passaic, was charged with hindering apprehension, marijuana possession with intent to distribute and three weapons violations. He was in custody yesterday with bail set at $500,000. Victor M. Marti II was charged with hindering apprehension and marijuana possession with intent to distribute. He was in custody with bail set at $100,000.
After leaving Paterson, the police said, all four Martis drove to the Passaic apartment of Joseph Marti, Omar's other brother. The authorities said charges of hindering apprehension were pending against Joseph Marti and Victor Sr., who were in custody last night. 
Fair Lawn residents continued grieving yesterday for Officer Collura, the first town officer killed in the line of duty and the fifth New Jersey policewoman to die on duty, according to the National Law Enforcement Memorial. Tonight, mourners planned to hold a candlelight vigil at 7:30 in front of the town's municipal building. The funeral for Officer Collura, an 18-year veteran of the force and its first female officer, is set for Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); MURDER (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); HOMICIDE (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CARJACKING (78%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); PORT AUTHORITIES (76%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (60%); PRESS CONFERENCES (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (73%) NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



630 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Cleanup of Industrial Sites Faces a Question: How Clean Is Clean? 

BYLINE:  By WINNIE HU

DATELINE: TROY, N.Y. April 18 

 BODY:
This rough-hewn city along the Hudson just north of Albany claims to be where the Industrial Revolution began in America, and it even salvaged the remains of an old ironworks foundry by turning it into a museum. But its industrial heritage also left a different legacy: polluted land along the waterfront.
 These abandoned industrial sites, known as brownfields, have long been contaminated with chemicals, fuel and other pollutants that seeped deep into the ground. Until the brownfields are cleaned up, they cannot be used for other purposes, frustrating the city's plans for a $100 million effort to redevelop the waterfront. 
 "This city was one of the economic engines for the Empire State," said Mayor Mark Pattison of Troy. "And we are suffering from that now." 
Many cities and towns say that brownfields have become their biggest environmental problem, and by some counts there are more than 10,000 of them scattered across the state, including thousands in New York City alone. Most have remained untouched for decades, scarring inner cities and older suburbs, and in some instances contributing to sprawl by causing developers to turn to greener fields like farmland.
While Gov. George E. Pataki and state leaders say that something must be done to reclaim these blighted urban areas, they have remained deadlocked for nearly four years over how to clean up brownfields. Environmental groups and lobbyists routinely point to the issue as one of the most blatant examples of dysfunction in the Capitol, where impasses often paralyze legislation for years.
At the heart of the legislative standoff is a disagreement over how clean is clean. Democratic Assembly leaders have pushed for rigorous and costly cleanups of all brownfields. Mr. Pataki, a Republican, and the Republican-controlled Senate, so as not to scare off developers, have advocated less stringent cleanups of sites that are to be used for commercial and industrial projects.
This year, however, Senate and Assembly leaders have indicated that brownfields are a priority and have made overtures toward an agreement. Last month, the Senate diverged from the governor's longstanding brownfields proposal and passed its own, calling for tougher cleanup standards and financial incentives for property owners.
"It was time to get it done, it was time to create some action," said the Senate majority leader, Joseph L. Bruno, whose district includes Troy. On Wednesday, he surveyed a crumbling red-brick factory along the Troy waterfront that he said illustrated the problems.
On Monday, the Assembly also plans to introduce a bill that includes several significant concessions, including less stringent cleanups of sites that are not going to be used for residential purposes. "I don't think we compromised on standards," Assemblyman Thomas P. DiNapoli, the bill's sponsor, said. "You can fight to the death for a standard, but if the result is you don't have a program, what's the environmental benefit of legislative gridlock?"
But members of both chambers have questioned whether Governor Pataki will be willing to compromise on the issue, or whether they will reach an agreement only to face a veto from the governor. Mr. Pataki included brownfields legislation in his executive budget in January, and state officials have continued to lobby for it.
A spokeswoman for the governor, Suzanne Morris, said that while his aides have not yet seen the Assembly bill, they have already started working with Senate leaders. "We look forward to beginning a three-way discussion on this important issue once the Assembly finalizes its position," she said. 
New York is one of the few states without a law to regulate the cleanup of privately owned brownfields. While a 1996 state law set aside $200 million to help restore brownfields owned by local governments, municipalities have applied for money for only 153 sites. About $170 million remains unused, largely because, local officials say, it is burdensome to comply with the law's requirements. Another reason is that many brownfield sites are privately owned.
The state's Department of Environmental Conservation is also monitoring the reclamation of 568 privately owned brownfields through a voluntary program established in 1994. Under that program, property owners agree to pay for the costs in return for certain assurances that they will not be sued by the department for future cleanups.
The environmental conservation commissioner, Erin M. Crotty, said the governor's bill would strengthen and expand existing cleanup standards that have already proven effective in New York and other states. She added that a new law would offer "certainty and predictability" to property owners and encourage them to take on more cleanups.
Some Assembly members and environmentalists have criticized the department for approving less rigorous cleanups of brownfields that are to be used for commercial and industrial buildings. They say allowing even a small amount of pollution to remain in the ground limits the future use of that site and may contaminate neighboring properties 
In addition, some environmentalists say that the state has not done enough to promote cleanups in less desirable locations, including many low-income neighborhoods. "Developers are going for the least contaminated sites in the best locations," said Val Washington, executive director of Environmental Advocates of New York. "So the question becomes, how do you give them incentives for other cleanups?"
The obvious answer is money. The Senate and Assembly are proposing to give millions of dollars in tax breaks to people who clean up brownfields. They have also included new provisions to safeguard against brownfield contaminants spreading through groundwater or other means.
The two chambers remain divided over cleanup standards, but that gap seems to be closing. The Senate bill calls for the level of cleanup to be determined by what contaminants are at a particular site. The Assembly bill would set a higher cleanup standard but make exceptions for sites that cannot be used for residential purposes.
Senator Carl L. Marcellino, chairman of the environmental committee, said that negotiations have picked up in the past year after a leadership change in which Mr. DiNapoli was installed as the chairman of the Assembly environmental committee. The two men, who are longtime friends from Long Island, have said they are willing to compromise to reach an agreement. 
"There are some people who would rather have this issue out there than to have an actual cleanup," Senator Marcellino said. "But if we can get this done, this will be the biggest environmental cleanup -- and the biggest economic development boom -- in the state's history."
Despite the effort to work out differences, the passage of a new brownfields law remains far from certain. The competing bills have already splintered environmentalists, who are vigorously lobbying both chambers. 
For instance, Environmental Advocates and others say the Senate bill would create "the best brownfields program in the nation," while the Sierra Club and the New York Public Interest Research Group maintain that it does notgo far enough. "The Senate bill is a step in the right direction, but there are too many flaws for it to be palatable," said Laura Haight, senior environmental associate of the group, which favors the Assembly version. 
Meanwhile, the Business Council of New York State and other groups oppose both bills, saying that they are still too restrictive and would hamper development. "Not only are you dissuading projects, you're also ensuring that no one comes forward to clean up these sites at all," said Ken Pokalsky, the council's director of environmental programs. 
In Troy and elsewhere, city officials are closely watching the state's efforts to legislate brownfield cleanups. While brownfields make up only 15 percent of the land in this city of 50,000, nearly all of it lies along the waterfront, which is the largest remaining tract of open space that can be developed.
Mayor Pattison said Troy's growth has stagnated because of the Legislature's inaction. Just last year, he said, a national bakery company backed away from building on a site after it learned about the pollution. And high-tech industries do not even bother to come knocking, he said.
"We're not going to be a greenfield," he said. "But for cities like us to survive, we need economic development, and we won't get that if we're left with just the brownfields."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Joseph L. Bruno, right, with Mayor Mark Pattison of Troy at a brownfield site. (Stewart Cairns for The New York Times)(pg. A19) Map of New York highlighting Troy: Troy is planning a $100 million effort to clean up its waterfront. (pg. A22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROWNFIELD SITES (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LEGISLATION (86%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (77%); GOVERNORS (74%); LOBBYING (74%); MAYORS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (72%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



631 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Helping Graduates Outwit Hard Times

BYLINE:  By Steven Greenhouse; This column about the local economy appears every other week. E-mail address: homefront@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
AS someone whose job is to keep her finger on the pulse of New York's economy, Trudy Steinfeld, director of career services at New York University, is hard pressed to think of a worse time for the city's job scene. Nonetheless, she tells the thousands of students who graduate from N.Y.U. each year that it is not hard to land a job so long as they take a shrewd approach to their job search.
 "Is the job market one of the worst in the 20 years I've been in this business?" Ms. Steinfeld said. "Yes. The reason is so many different sectors have been hit at once, especially financial services and information technology. Those two fields have had a lot of jobs evaporate because of market conditions." 
 Ms. Steinfeld said New York's economy was finally beginning to gather momentum several months after the Sept. 11 terrorist attack, but then the Enron, WorldCom and Tyco scandals shook the stock market and economic confidence. "Employers are still jittery about doing large amounts of hiring," she said. "There are pockets of good news, but everybody is worried about what's around the corner, with the war and everything. All this cautiousness keeps the unemployment numbers higher than they should be."
 Not just Ms. Steinfeld but her whole 24-person staff has one big piece of advice for job seekers: don't abandon hope. During the second half of the 90's, she explained, it was a cinch for N.Y.U. graduates to find jobs. All that many students had to do was circulate their resumes online or contact hiring directors online. That often led to interviews online and, presto, the job offers flowed in.
 "Now," Ms. Steinfeld said, "just don't think a good job will fall in your lap. You just can't sit in your pajamas and shop online for jobs. You need face-to-face contact, you need to network, all that good, old-fashioned stuff."
 Ms. Steinfeld, who has been N.Y.U.'s career services director for 13 years, has developed lots of experience giving job advice, partly because her office holds 13,000 one-on-one counseling sessions with students each year. In light of today's slumping economy, one piece of advice she gives is that students should broaden their horizons. "A student who majored in economics and was thinking of landing a great job at a major investment bank now might have to be willing to work in banking doing research and analysis," she said, "Or maybe in another sector, maybe for a large insurance company doing risk analysis, or maybe for a nonprofit researching economic trends or maybe for the U.S. Department of Labor."
 She often advises students that they can no longer hold out for their dream job right out of college. "We are not telling students to give up on your dream job," she explained. "We are saying that with the current political and economic environment, you need to get a job where you can develop your skills, make contacts and position yourself for when things get better so you can move up in your organization to a position that is a better fit or perhaps move to another organization."
 While she said hiring was weak in financial services, information technology and consulting, she pointed to several fields doing a lot of hiring: insurance, health care, consumer products, nursing, education and military contractors. "The sales sector is another area where there's hiring," she said. "Companies are always interested in people who can sell and bring in profits."
 An annual survey of last year's graduates done by her office found that the mean salary for nursing majors was $56,000; for computer science, $49,000; finance, $48,800; economics, $40,000; political science, $36,500; education, $36,350; psychology, $32,500; and English, $30,000.
"The biggest change is students who started college four or five years ago, when everything seemed to be wonderful and people were starting at dot-coms with incredible salaries, $60,000, $70,000, sometimes with signing bonuses" she said. "But now things are very different. It's understandable when youre 21 and have never lived through such circumstances and you're feeling discouraged. You feel the rug was pulled out from under you. Our job as career services people is to get into their face and remind them the world will go on and it will go on with them and they need to take an active part in their future.
 "If you're not working at finding anything," she continued, "you're going to get awfully depressed and discouraged and will have a harder time getting what you ultimately want when things turn around."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The job market may be dismal, but Trudy Steinfeld, director of career services at New York University, tells graduating students that the right approach will get them hired. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); TERRORISM (68%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (68%); TRENDS (65%); INTERNET RETAILING (63%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (53%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (56%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (56%); VZ (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (56%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (56%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (56%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; STEINFELD, TRUDY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



632 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 177 words

HEADLINE: Windows on SARS, and on China 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Virus Badly Underreported in Beijing, W.H.O. Team Finds" (news article, April 17): 
 According to the World Health Organization, China has failed to report infections with severe acute respiratory syndrome in a timely and accurate fashion. 
Failure to cooperate in efforts to control a highly infectious disease could result in a loss of life at least as great as that caused by weapons of mass destruction.
This risk demands an immediate diplomatic response from the United States government to address the concerns, economic and otherwise, that are holding back full disclosure.
Perhaps a financial carrot (aid to Chinese hospitals and favorable loans for lost commerce in exchange for cooperation) and a stick (sanctions for nondisclosure) would be in order. 
Given the poorly understood nature of SARS and its transmission, and the high concentration of cases in China, the accessibility of epidemiologic data from that country is critical to an urgent worldwide carrying out of protective strategies.

LISA KOLE, M.D.
New York, April 17, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); SARS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (88%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (71%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%) WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: KOLE, LISA (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (88%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



633 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1172 words

HEADLINE: Health Officials Wield a Big Stick, Carefully, Against SARS 

BYLINE:  By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
"Public health generally doesn't go swinging the heavy hand of the law," Dr. Colin D'Cunha, the chief medical officer of Ontario, said recently, after asking an estimated 10,000 Canadians to put themselves in voluntary quarantine to stop the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS. "By nature, we're not police persons. We believe in being reasonable. But we'll take steps if we need to."
 Despite his mild words, extraordinary powers are available to Dr. D'Cunha, as they are to public health officials around the world. The authority to declare quarantines to stop the spread of disease is no less sweeping today than it was for Dr. Cyrus Hudson, the New York City health commissioner during the cholera outbreak of 1892, who told a Congressional committee, "If we see fit, we may take possession of the City Hall forcibly and turn it into a contagious-disease hospital." 
 Over the last three months, as SARS has spread from southern China to at least 25 other countries and regions, sickening an estimated 3,461 people so far and killing at least 170 of them, health officials have imposed ever-stricter measures to stem it.
According to experts in the history and law of quarantine, the most draconian laws are seldom needed because frightened citizens usually cooperate. But such laws are on the books virtually everywhere, though they can backfire, driving infected people underground, as did early threats to lock up anyone with AIDS. 
In the face of any epidemic, health officials can generally isolate the infected and anyone in contact with them, restrain the sick if they resist treatment and close down institutions, from hospitals to bathhouses.
"They have such an enormous latitude of powers that maybe we don't even want to think about it," said Dr. Howard Markel, a medical historian and the author of "Quarantine!" a history of New York epidemics.
In China, after a halting response to the first SARS outbreak last fall, the authorities have ordered that everyone exhibiting SARS symptoms, including foreigners, must be hospitalized. Students are to be examined daily, and whole trainloads of passengers have been ordered to report symptoms.
In Singapore, where even littering laws are strictly enforced, people suspected of having SARS have been confined to their homes with Web cams watching them and electronic bracelets waiting to alert the police if they slip out. 
And in Taiwan, the authorities clamped down late but hard, ordering all travelers from China and all visitors to hospitals to have their temperatures taken. Anyone showing symptoms is to be quarantined, along with their relatives and contacts. The government has offered a $72 bounty for reporting a suspected case.
But even in long-established democracies like Canada and the United States, the winged caduceus that serves as an emblem of medicine can also be a nightstick 
Last week, in an extraordinary step, the Province of Ontario took out newspaper ads asking anyone with even one SARS symptom to stay home, and avoid family and church over the Easter weekend. (The symptoms include fever, cough, aches, pains, shortness of breath or fatigue.)
Ontario had previously isolated 7,000 people at home, made phone calls and sent investigators to check on some and posted a police guard on one hospitalized patient who was uncooperative. 
Thus far, health authorities in the United States have taken no such measures. Under the stricter definition of SARS used by the World Health Organization, the nation has only 36 cases, none of them fatal yet. Federal officials look into each one, and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention recommend the isolation of anyone showing signs of SARS. No one has been held involuntarily and healthy contacts have not been asked to quarantine themselves.
But broad federal and state powers exist, and "most go back to the pre-antibiotics era, when rough and ready isolation was a common means of containing disease," said David P. Fidler, a specialist in infectious disease and international law at the University of Indiana Law School.
At one time, New YorkHarbor even had three quarantine islands: Ellis Island for the federal government, Hoffman for the state and North Brother for the city.
The Federal Quarantine Act was passed in 1878. Just two weeks ago, President Bush added SARS to the list of diseases that federal officials may use to stop an immigrant at a frontier or, under powers to regulate interstate commerce, a citizen at a state border. It joined cholera, diphtheria, tuberculosis, smallpox, yellow fever and Ebola and other hemorrhagic fevers.
But "having the authority to do it and doing it are two different issues," said Dr. Martin S. Cetron, chief of the C.D.C.'s global migration and quarantine division.
Even now, he said, anyone with infectious tuberculosis is routinely isolated.
Most cooperate voluntarily, but during the New York City outbreak of drug-resistant tuberculosis in the early 1990's, patients who refused medication "were, in effect, put in lockup on Roosevelt Island," Dr. Markel said.
Still, health officials are often reluctant to use their most sweeping powers, fearing they may serve to drive infected people away from treatment or into hiding. And shutting borders can cause economic disruption; pursuing individual carriers often makes more epidemiological sense. The Chinese government says that at the beginning of Easter weekend, about 64,000 people crossed the border between Hong Kong and Guangdong Province, on the Chinese mainland. Stopping them all to ward off a handful of carriers would not be efficient.
Bans may also be inappropriate, Professor Fidler said. A decade ago, the European Union, afraid of an East African cholera outbreak, restricted all fish from the area, punishing African fishermen even though scientists said that antibiotics could cure any case of cholera.
Dr. Markel says the world tends to overreact to epidemics, and their very novelty creates irrational fears. In 1892, Hamburg, a major port, lied about its cholera outbreak for fear of hurting commerce, just as China did this year. And while anthrax and SARS spread panic, flu fails to make millions of Americans nervous enough to get vaccinations, even though it kills 36,000 a year.
Still, Dr. Markel said, quarantines have slowly become much more humane.
The term comes from the Italian quaranta giorni -- 40 days, the length of time ships with plague aboard had to sit at anchor in Venice's harbor in 1374 while the crew either died or recovered. Until the late 19th century, quarantines were run on that model -- "separating out the sick," as Dr. Markel put it, "to cut your losses."
Tuberculosis sanitariums changed that thinking somewhat. The sick -- those who could afford it -- were separated, but given fresh air, food and exercise in the hope that some would recover. With the advent of antibiotics, Dr. Markel said, "people are put in a hospital and given medication." 
"In the '94-95 Ebola virus scare in Zaire, they were careful to treat them well," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: People thought to have scarlet fever on the Lapland, a ship arriving from Europe in 1921, were moved to Hoffman Island, a quarantine island in New York Harbor. Sixty fever cases were confirmed aboard the ship. (Bettmann/Corbis) Chart/Map: "Scrambling to Contain Outbreaks"In Asia and Canada, officials have announced ever-stricter measures to try to stop the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome. CANADA -- Ontario asked anyone with even one symptom to stay home over the Easter weekend. The province previously isolated 7,000 people. CHINA -- Anyone with symptoms is hospitalized; many are confined to military hospitals. In addition: All students are checked for symptoms daily. The Central University of Finance and Economics in Beijing closed after nine suspected cases; teachers were confined to their dormitory, but students were sent home, possibly spreading the disease. A local health official in Guangdong Province said all visitors must show certificates proving they are free of SARS. HONG KONG -- Only families of hospitalized patients are quarantined for 10 days. All passengers leaving the airport have their temperatures taken and may be isolated. TAIWAN -- All arrivals from China and all hospital visitors have their temperatures taken. Possible cases, their relatives and contacts are quarantined. The government offers a $72 bounty for reporting a suspected case. SINGAPORE -- All people suspected of being infected have been confined to their homes, some with Web cameras and electronic bracelets monitored by the police. Map of the world highlighting the countries with SARS.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (93%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); SARS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); EPIDEMICS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); TROPICAL DISEASES (73%); HISTORY (70%); AIDS & HIV (70%); WRITERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (91%); ONTARIO, CANADA (88%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (75%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (55%) CHINA (95%); CANADA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); SINGAPORE (92%); TAIWAN (92%); ASIA (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); HONG KONG (79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2003 



634 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial; Pg. 4; THE RIGHT THING

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: To Shop, or Not, When a War Is On

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. SEGLIN. 
Jeffrey L. Seglin teaches at Emerson College in Boston and is the author of ''The Right Thing: Conscience, Profit and Personal Responsibility in Today's Business'' (Spiro Press). His column on appears the third Sunday of each month. E-mail: righthng@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
IN March, the University of Michigan's consumer sentiment index fell to its lowest level since October 1992. Reports from the Commerce Department late last month showed that consumer spending had cooled in February, particularly for big-ticket purchases like cars.
 As the United States was heading into war in Iraq, the economy was already slowing and consumer confidence receding. Once the war began, data from retailers showed that consumers were spending even less than they had before. 
 Though the conflict's exact effects on consumer spending are difficult to measure, most reports on it have listed the war as an explanation for sluggish sales. If nothing else, the trend shows that consumers have been grappling with an ethical question: Is it appropriate to be spending while thousands of American soldiers are off fighting, or struggling to keep the peace?
 ''We've got a case of national depression going on,'' said David Wyss, chief economist at Standard & Poor's. ''People feel those guys over there are suffering. You don't feel like being self-indulgent.'' He pointed out that during the Persian Gulf war in 1991, the United States experienced the largest three-month drop ever in consumer confidence.
 But does spending money, particularly on conspicuous goods and services like cars, entertainment or vacations, indicate a moral vacuum during a time of national crisis? If so, then why did President Bush ask the American people after the Sept. 11 attacks to show their support for the country by spending money?
 During World War II, Americans cut back on consumption and made sacrifices because the war effort created real shortages of goods. Absent such conditions during the current war, do we have an obligation to think twice before indulging?
 ''There isn't anything inherently unethical about extravagant spending in a time of war,'' said Jon P. Gunnemann, a social ethics professor at Emory University in Atlanta. ''But there is an ethical component in both the re-examination of one's own priorities and the sense of solidarity with the people who are fighting the war, whether you agree with the war or not.'' There is a cultural ethos, he said, about ''what is fitting and what is not fitting.''
 Companies, too, struggle to divine the appropriate behavior during war. After it began its spring pledge drive on March 20, a public radio station in Boston decided to suspend it the next day once the war was in full force. ''It became very obvious to us that this was not an appropriate time to fund-raise and we stopped it immediately,'' said Mary Stohn, a spokeswoman for the station, WBUR. The drive resumed April 8.
 Rohit Deshpande, a marketing professor at Harvard Business School, said: ''Businesses aren't sure what the tone should be of any ad they run. Companies are leery about advertising and what's considered acceptable and what's considered bad taste.''
 Many of us take ethical accountings of ourselves during monumental events. Such events ''have an important impact on people's sense of themselves, their community and meaning,'' said Juliet B. Schor, a sociology professor at Boston College and author of ''The Overspent American: Why We Want What We Don't Need'' (HarperCollins, 1999). When people face events that have serious implications, she said, their daily lives feel unimportant. ''Shopping has a long history of being weighed down with the trivial,'' she said.
 Of course, when consumers stop spending, for any reason, the effects are counterproductive for the economy. But even a seasoned economist like Mr. Wyss sees nothing wrong with people asking during wartime whether it's appropriate to spend as much as they once did. ''I've reacted that way,'' he said. ''I don't really feel like having as much fun. It's a normal human response.''
 No one has an ethical obligation to cut back on spending during times of war or other national crisis. But reassessing what is and isn't appropriate behavior is something that every ethical person should undertake, regardless of the ultimate decision.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christophe Vorlet) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (93%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); CONSUMER SPENDING (90%); ETHICS (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); RETAILERS (78%); DESERT STORM (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); WORLD WAR II (72%); TICKET SALES (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (60%); PUBLIC RADIO (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (78%) MICHIGAN, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); GULF STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2004



635 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY: CORRESPONDENT'S REPORT; 
Europe's Airline Turmoil Hits Discount Carriers

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
EUROPE'S low-cost airlines are locked in a feeding frenzy of takeovers and cost-cutting, but that may not be all to the advantage of travelers.
A few years ago, low-cost airlines seemed to be proliferating in Europe. Operators, some modeling themselves on Southwest Airlines in the United States, set up to compete with the big, flag-carrying airlines like British Airways, Lufthansa and Air France.
 Then with bewildering speed, the dominant low-cost airlines -- Ryanair, based in Dublin, and easyJet of London -- faced a rash of upstarts like Go, Buzz and bmibaby, subsidiaries of full-service airlines. 
 In the last few months, the targets have shifted as the big low-cost carriers have turned on the small fry with predatory zeal. EasyJet bought Go from British Airways last year. Last month, Ryanair snapped up Buzz from the Dutch airline KLM. 
The turmoil in the low-cost sector is mirrored by a shakeout among the flag carriers that was accelerated by the Sept. 11 attacks. Across the Continent, airlines from Lufthansa in Germany to KLM trimmed their schedules in response to the loss of passengers resulting from terrorism concerns and the global economic retreat. The war in Iraq has only added to the troubles. 
Swiss International Air Lines, the successor to the bankrupt Swissair, announced recently that it would ground 20 of its 132 airplanes and shed hundreds of jobs to stave off collapse. Last year, British Airways -- embarrassingly enough, after it sold off Go -- was forced to abandon its bias toward high-rolling, long-haul business travelers and offer low-price tickets to the budget set on some European routes, including Rome and Paris, to compete with easyJet and Ryanair. 
All this should have left the low-cost airlines in good shape. But as they wage price wars to lure passengers, easyJet and Ryanair have acknowledged that they are scrambling to keep pace with their own rapid expansion, raising a question about the future of the low-cost boom.
"Expecting passenger demand for their services to grow at the same rate as at present is optimistic," said Simon Evans, head of the Air Transport Users Council, a private advocacy group. Even as they fill more and more planes, easyJet and Ryanair have been earning on average almost 10 percent less on each seat than a year ago, according to company officials.
In theory, that should be good forpassengers. In early March, for instance, easyJet offered discounted one-way fares for as little as $19 for an early April flight from Stansted airport, outside London, to Ciampino, Rome's second airport. That compared with $85 for the lowest British Airways discount flight from Heathrow (London) to Fiumicino (Rome) listed on the British Airways Web site, ba.com, in early March. 
By way of a response, Ryanair offered tickets to Ciampino for $8, provided travelers booked before midnight April 4.
But such offers can sometimes be misleading. The discount airlines usually offer their cheapest seats to people booking furthest in advance and for flights outside the main vacation periods. By contrast, last-minute travelers pay a hefty premium.
On April 5, for example, a one-way easyJet flight from Luton airport, serving London, to Belfast, booked on the day of departure, cost around $150, only a few dollars cheaper than a full-service British Midland flight from Heathrow to Belfast. But the same easyJet route could be booked for October for a mere $10. The prices offered by most discount carriers do not include taxes (around $18 on the Belfast run) and a separate fee of up to $6 or $7 for using a credit card rather than a debit card to make an Internet booking. And airport fees are set to rise next year on all flights -- low cost or full service -- from airports in the greater London area -- Heathrow, Gatwick and Stansted -- as extra levies of up to 35 percent a passenger are added over the next five years to finance expansions of the airports. By 2008, the charge at those airports could be over $13 a passenger, compared with around $10 this year.
In their rush to expand their fleets, lure passengers and cut down on airport turnaround times for their planes, the low-cost carriers are struggling against a perception among many travelers that the chances of delays -- and the likelihood of a cramped flight -- are greater than on flag carriers. 
Perhaps more worrisome, last summer, British newspapers reported on concerns that safety regulations were being sidestepped by pilots on some unidentified low-cost carriers to meet schedules allowing them less than a half hour to unload a set of bags and passengers, take on the new load and depart.
EasyJet found last year that it had expanded so quickly with the purchase of Go that it could not hire enough cabin staff for the extra passengers, forcing it to cancel many flights.When Ryanair took over Buzz, one of its first moves was to end some of Buzz's connections to and from leading airports, like Charles de Gaulle in Paris and Frankfurt International. Normally, Ryanair boosts profits by using low-cost, quick-turnaround (and often remote) secondary airports. But it also slashed some Buzz flights to rural French areas popular with British vacationers and owners of second homes. 
"The whole thing is a bad joke," said Mandy Wilson, a Briton who bought a second home in southwest France near Toulouse, which has been served by Buzz. Ryanair now says it will not fly to Toulouse; the closest flights will be to Carcassonne, 50 miles to the east. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (96%); AIRPORTS (89%); PRICE CUTTING (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); IRAQ WAR (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TERRORISM (67%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; DISCOUNT SELLING; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY 

COMPANY: BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (92%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (92%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (91%); SWISS INTERNATIONAL AIR LINES AG (72%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (57%); EASYJET PLC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: RYANAIR PLC; EASYJET AIRLINE CO 

TICKER: RYAAY (NASDAQ) (92%); RYA (LSE) (92%); LHA (FRA) (91%); LUV (NYSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (57%); AF (AMS) (57%); EZJ (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); NAICS481212 NONSCHEDULED CHARTERED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (72%); SIC4522 AIR TRANSPORTATION, NONSCHEDULED (72%); SIC4513 AIR COURIER SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: COWELL, ALAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (91%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (91%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); IRAQ (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



636 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1117 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/J. P. Morgan Bank at Wall and Broad Streets; 
A 1914 Landmark That Reflects Its Founder

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER GRAY

 BODY:
IT is remote, reserved and silent -- just like its founder, J. Pierpont Morgan. The 1914 J. P. Morgan & Company bank headquarters, at Wall and Broad Streets, has been empty for several years, and it is not clear who will turn the lights back on, or when.
 J. Pierpont Morgan began dealing in financial instruments around 1860, and in 1871 he joined forces with Drexel & Company. They soon built a white marble headquarters with a mansard roof at the southeast corner of Wall and Broad Streets. The firm emerged as J. P. Morgan & Company in the 1890's. 
 It was around this time that Morgan, magnetic in personality but also subject to fits of depression and self-doubt, became widely known as the top financial figure in the United States. In 1901 he financed the creation of the U.S. Steel Corporation, a $1.5 billion project. He was also important in stabilizing the American markets in the panic of 1907. 
However, by the early 1910's he was near the end of his career, taking more and more time off to travel and concentrate on his art collection. It was in these circumstances that Morgan decided to demolish the old building at Wall and Broad and, according to The New York Times in 1912, "fall in line with the big modern improvements all around him."
This included both smaller, town-house-like bank buildings and a new generation of towering office buildings, like the 37-story Bankers Trust tower diagonally across the intersection, finished in 1912.
PUBLISHED sources do not indicate who came up with the idea and chose the architects, Trowbridge & Livingston. But Goodhue Livingston's granddaughter, Katherine Moore of Rye, N.Y., has researched the careers of the two partners for two decades. She says that an unpublished Livingston memoir of 1930 contains a recollection linking the new Morgan bank with the Bankers Trust building across the street, which was also by Trowbridge & Livingston, after winning a competition. "Mr. Morgan Sr., admiring this building, gave us the commission," Livingston's account says.
Morgan never got to see his new bank. The banker's house on 36th Street and Madison Avenue was draped in black in April 1913, just as demolition began on the old bank on Wall and Broad; Morgan had died in Rome on March 31. 
Finished in 1914, the new bank was described by the Real Estate Record and Guide as "a rival to the Parthenon."
"The best skill which Athens could command at the height of her glory was given the construction," the trade journal said, adding, "The quarries at Knoxville, Tenn., were torn to pieces to produce the blocks." This was the same pink marble McKim, Mead & White used in Morgan's library of 1906 on 36th Street east of Madison.
The interior -- a single large space on the main floor -- is an irregular pentagon, originally constructed with a ceiling 30 feet high, decorated with a central domed skylight 35 feet wide and hexagonal and circular coffers, the architectural term for sunken ceiling panels. Each of the partners' offices had its own fireplace. 
The basement vault had four-inch nickel-steel walls, the 50-ton door with "anti-oxyacetylene cutter-burner-proof sections," Architects and Builders Magazine said. Although the finished structure was only four stories high, The Times in 1914 said the foundation walls were seven feet thick to permit an eventual addition. But the new bank, low among a growing forest of towers, had "an atmosphere of serene reticence," according to the journal Architectural Record. 
On Sept. 16, 1920, just as the Trinity Church bells tolled the noon hour, a great explosion rocked the corner of Wall and Nassau -- a wagon filled with explosives and shrapnel went up, killing at least 36 people. The wagon was parked on the Wall Street side of the Morgan bank, and the main floor was instantly in a shambles, the windows blown in, the skylight severely damaged, the grill-work of the banking cages destroyed. 
There were more than 400 employees inside at the time, but only two were killed: William A. Joyce, filling in for another employee on the Wall Street side, and John A. Donohue, who worked in the foreign export department, who died later. 
The next day, The Times reported that the Morgan offices were "like a hospital," full of executives at work with bandaged heads. The Wall Street facade was pitted in 40 or 50 places by the cut-up sash weights and other metal intended to kill and maim; it is still possible to see the deadly marks visible in the marble. But the partners never repaired the damage. They may have decided to leave it as a badge of honor or perhaps they wanted to avoid the disruption of replacing the three-foot-thick blocks, which were up to 22 feet long. Shelley Diamond, consulting archivist at what is now J. P. Morgan Chase, says that no minutes or other relevant records from that period survive in the archives.
IN 1929, Trowbridge & Livingston designed a new 38-story building next door on Broad Street for the Equitable Trust Company The building is now known as 15 Broad Street. J. P. Morgan & Company bought 15 Broad in 1953, and in 1959 merged with the Guaranty Trust Company, to form the Morgan Guaranty Trust Company. The next year the bank joined the two buildings, creating a jet age modern interior in parts of the lower floors of the buildings, although generally sparing the main banking hall of the oldMorgan building, in an alteration designed by the architects Rogers & Burgun.
A 1964 book "23 Wall Street: Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New York," said that the Morgan building's foundations could take another 30 floors, "something contemplated when the companies merged." Perhaps with this in mind, the new Landmarks Preservation Commission designated the 1914 building a landmark among its earliest actions, in 1966.
Morgan Guaranty merged with Chase Bank in 2000, and soon left its longtime headquarters. In 1998, the New York City Economic Development Commission proposed demolishing all the buildings on the Morgan block, except for the landmark itself, for a new New York Stock Exchange and 900-foot-high office tower; the original Morgan bank building was to become a visitor's center. But the deal fell apart and reports are circulating that Chase is shopping both the Morgan bank and 15 Broad Street to real estate developers, perhaps for a residential conversion. 
Over the last five months, Tom Johnson, a spokesman for J. P. Morgan Chase, has declined to comment on the reports or to allow access to the 1914 building, saying only that the bank was "considering its options." Perhaps the bank is concerned that the landmarks agency might also designate the interior of the Morgan building; although closed now, in the past it was open to the public.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The J. P. Morgan & Company bank building at Wall and Broad Streets in 1915, a year after it was finished, and today. It is now empty. (Left, Office for Metropolitan History; right, Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (71%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (97%); UNITED STATES STEEL CORP (83%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (97%); JPM (LSE) (97%); 8634 (TSE) (97%); X (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (97%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (97%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (97%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (97%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (83%) SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATHENS, GREECE (79%); KNOXVILLE, TN, USA (50%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); GREECE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



637 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Seeing Value in Spurned Shares of European Airlines

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
COMMERCIAL aviation has been a horrible investment on both sides of the Atlantic. 
 If there is one consolation for shareholders of European flag carriers, which have fallen more than 30 percent over the last year, it is that American airline stocks have done even worse. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, is down 78 percent over the same period, while Delta Air Lines is off 60 percent. And United Airlines, part of UAL, is now in bankruptcy. 
 Unlike their counterparts in the United States, the biggest European airlines, including British Airways, Air France and Lufthansa, have managed to show profits or minimize losses amid treacherous economic conditions, and some investors say their shares are bargains. 
A report by analysts at Citigroup shows just how out of favor the sector has been. Before a rally coinciding with the swift American progress in the war in Iraq, European airlines were trading, on average, at half their book value -- the worth of their planes, landing slots and other assets. Five years ago, they traded at nearly three times book value. 
In one of the more extreme cases, KLM Royal Dutch Airlines sold at one-fifth book value, reflecting its precarious finances. KLM has exhausted credit lines, Citigroup says, and the ratio of its debt burden to the cash it earns is high compared with that of other airlines. Having only a small domestic market, KLM also depends more than its rivals on problematic markets like Asia and the Middle East.
Many investors "are waiting for structural change in the industry, which never happens," said Riccardo Sicheri, a transportation analyst at J. P. Morgan Fleming Asset Management in London. "On top of that is the geopolitical uncertainty," he said. "And in Europe you have alternatives like the low-cost airlines that have pulled investors even further from the flag carriers."
But he is drawn to them. Not only are airlines cheap, he said, but "if the economy improves, they are going to have a dramatic improvement in profitability." 
Mr. Sicheri makes a case for investing in European airlines in particular. The European market is less mature and the political environment for airlines more favorable than in the United States, he said.
At American carriers, employees' big ownership stakes give their unions more influence, making it harder for the companies to reach cost-cutting deals. At European airlines, momentum from consolidation and deregulation, plus the success of low-cost carriers, is forcing unions to accept new work practices.
The biggest of the budget airlines, Ryanair, based in Dublin, has been the darling of many fund managers for months. It has recorded stunning growth and huge profit margins as a low-fare, no-frills alternative to major carriers, and its shares are up more than 40 percent in the last year. A couple of months ago, it was worth about as much as all the publicly traded European flag carriers combined. Ryanair's stock has had a more muted war-related rally than those of bigger airlines. 
Dominic Wallington, a manager of European portfolios at Invesco in London, accepts that the flag carriers are reasonably priced and are beginning to restructure, but he does not want to own them.
He is skeptical about their long-term ability to fend off low-cost airlines like Ryanair and EasyJet. "Valuation is important, but it's not always the most powerful driver of share prices," he said. 
Franz Weis, senior European fund manager at F.& C. Management in London, is more bearish. "We have no current positions in the airline sector and are not planning to get any exposure, either," he said.
Comparing the industry's present circumstances with those just after Sept. 11, 2001, he said: "The situation looks different. Whereas in 2001 the industry suffered a one-off shock with very negative consequences for air traffic but hope for a relatively quick recovery, it faces several problems at the moment." Even setting aside worries about SARS, Iraq, oil prices and terrorist threats, he said, "the outlook for global economic growth is unattractive."
Mr. Sicheri is lukewarm about Ryanair. He wonders how long it can continue growing by flying between pairs of European airports that are often far from urban hubs.
He said that he prefers British Airways, which has "slashed investment, been hard on costs and started showing improved cash flow." British Airways and Air France recently decided to end the money-losing flights of the Concorde supersonic plane later this year.
British Airways is also positioned to benefit most from a recovery in trans-Atlantic and Middle Eastern traffic, he said.
Mr. Sicheri favors Air France over Lufthansa. Air France is benefiting from the weakness of second-tier flag carriers, especially Alitalia and KLM, in neighboring countries, he said. Lufthansa is being hurt by competition from small low-cost carriers in its home market of Germany.
IN the United States, British Airways and KLM are listed on the New York Stock Exchange. Ryanair trades on Nasdaq, and Lufthansa in the over-the-counter market. Americans can buy shares of other European airlines only through brokers that deal globally.
Mr. Sicheri said that he was intrigued by KLM, but that it was a stock for gamblers who are bullish on the industry and the global economy. "KLM is so fragile," he said. "It's the bombed-out one that could perform quite dramatically if we have a recovery. If the market improves, it has to be the biggest beneficiary."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A British Airways Concorde at Kennedy Airport in New York. The airline decided to end its Concorde flights later this year to cut costs. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); CIVIL AVIATION (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); AIR FARES (77%); TRENDS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; EUROPE 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (91%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (90%); DEUTSCHE LUFTHANSA AG (90%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (58%); RYANAIR HOLDINGS PLC (58%); AIR FRANCE-KLM SA (57%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (57%); FLEMING ASSET MANAGEMENT (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (91%); C (BMV) (91%); 8710 (TSE) (91%); LHA (FRA) (90%); DAL (NYSE) (58%); RYAAY (NASDAQ) (58%); RYA (LSE) (58%); AF (PAR) (57%); AF (AMS) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



638 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 777 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Efficiency And Equity (In the Same Breath)

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
SUPPORTERS of President Bush's tax plan don't deny that it offers little if any immediate benefit to the poorest Americans. Nor is there much doubt that the wealthiest would see the greatest gains. Yet meaningful discussion of the potential widening of inequality -- the polarization of rich and poor -- has been sadly lacking.
 In a way, this is nothing new. Economists and policy experts routinely separate questions of efficiency from questions of equity when they discuss taxes and spending. And equity often takes the back seat. For example, the first-year college textbook written by N. Gregory Mankiw, the nominee to succeed R. Glenn Hubbard as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, devotes eight pages to "tax equity" from a total of at least 44 on taxes. 
 There is an easy justification for this pecking order: questions about redistributing wealth require moral judgments and taking sides in a philosophical debate. While economists might do this in their spare time, they are typically more interested in making objective claims that contribute to the science. By the same token, when politicians call a tax cut unfair, they don't often say why unfairness matters.
Yet a new current of economic research is bridging this divide. Academics are beginning to ask if inequality itself imposes costs on the economy. At last, the twain of efficiency and equity may be meeting.
Consider the president's tax cuts. Americans might benefit from them in two stages. First, there would be the direct benefits; people who own lots of stocks and earn lots of wages would pay much less in taxes. Next, according to the White House, companies and individuals would spend this windfall, raising demand for goods and services and driving the economy to create more jobs. Eventually, the entire economy would come to benefit from the tax cuts.
But even in this picture, the economy could still fall victim to a significant increase in inequality in the short term.
You don't have to be a so-called bleeding-heart liberal or a low-income worker to worry about inequality. Researchers have found that it creates drags on the economy that can affect everyone. After considering the White House's latest policy proposals, some top economists are making very dire predictions indeed.
The shares of income controlled by the highest-earning Americans are already higher than at any time since the 1920's, according to Thomas Piketty, a former professor of economics at M.I.T. who is now the director of studies at the Ecole des Hautes Etudes en Sciences Sociales in Paris. In an e-mail message last week, he predicted severe effects from the further increase in inequality posed by the White House plan.
"These new high-income tax cuts, together with all the previous tax cuts (including the repeal of the estate tax), will eventually contribute to rebuild a class of rentiers in the U.S., whereby a small group of wealthy but untalented children controls vast segments of the U.S. economy and penniless, talented children simply can't compete," he wrote. "If such a tax policy is maintained, there is a decent probability that the U.S. will look like Old Europe prior to 1914 in a couple of generations."
PROFESSOR PIKETTY might sound like an alarmist Frenchman at a time when such people are none too popular in these parts. But he is part of a network of 18 researchers, mostly professors in the United States, sponsored by the John D. and Catherine T. MacArthur Foundation to examine the effects of inequality on economic performance. Those effects can range from extra money spent on security and monitoring to a lack of incentives for participation in the work force, innovation and entrepreneurship.
"A substantial fraction of the population -- certainly more than half, possibly as much as three-quarters -- simply can't borrow the types of sums that would be required to acquire the tools of their trade," said Samuel Bowles, director of the economics program at the Santa Fe Institute and co-chairman of the network. "Most of the population is not in the game."
Putting everyone into the game could improve economic growth, a result that usually benefits the wealthy at least as much as everyone else. Still, these ideas do not seem to have filtered down to Washington.
"The top two-thirds of the people in this country are the folks who pay taxes," said Senator Rick Santorum of Pennsylvania, the Republican conference chairman, on a Fox News broadcast in January. "Those are the folks you're going to have to give tax cuts to."
If Senator Santorum and others in his camp could take a slightly longer view of things, even their most loyal constituents might be grateful.

GRAPHIC: Graph shows Growing Disparity, the share of all taxable income between the top 5% of earners and the bottom 50% since 1988. (Source: Internal Revenue Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); POLITICS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); JOB CREATION (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); INCOME TAX (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (63%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TAXATION 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (59%); COUNCIL OF ECONOMIC ADVISERS (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%) BUSH, GEORGE W. 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



639 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1159 words

PERSON: John W. Marriott III 

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
Almost at the Top at Marriott

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH OLSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
AS John W. Marriott III wound his way through the cavernous kitchen of the Wardman Park Marriott hotel here, he reached out to shake hands with every employee and to exchange some banter.
 The workers, preparing an evening reception for 700 people attending a conference, put aside the salmon hors d'oeuvres and cheese platters and greeted Mr. Marriott, the third generation of the Marriott International hotel business, and perhaps the empire's future boss. 
Succession speculation at the company was stoked in January, when it promoted Mr. Marriott, the son of the company's current chairman and chief executive, J. W. Marriott Jr. 
John Marriott, as the son is known, is now in charge of global sales and marketing, as well as managing Marriott's nine hotel brands and its North American lodging operations. The day his new duties were announced, the company, based in Bethesda, Md., also expanded the job of the chief financial officer, Arne M. Sorenson, to include hotel operations in Continental Europe.
The promotions fanned conjecture over who will eventually run Marriott, one of the world's largest hotel companies. It operates 13 hotel chains on behalf of various owners, including the Marriott, Ritz-Carlton and Renaissance hotels, offering different levels of service and prices. The company reported $19 billion in overall sales last year from managing 2,500 hotels in 65 countries. 
With his gold-plated name, his all-American good looks and a quarter-century in the family business, Mr. Marriott, 41, would seem to be a perfect fit for his father's shoes.
Not so fast, though, says his father, who is known as Bill. At 71, Bill Marriott keeps a vigorous pace, visiting 200 hotels a year. Interviewed recently in his office, he said he had no plans to step down. "I'm still having fun," he said, and he emphasized that there was no shoo-in for leading the company in the future.
"I will be able to say who I think is best," he said. "But the board will have to approve it. This is a big, complex company and we've got to have the best talent."
Like other hotel companies, Marriott is struggling with tumbling occupancy rates, a result of the fragile economy and travel anxieties from terrorism and the war in Iraq. In the fourth quarter last year, Marriott lost $37 million, an improvement from a $116 million loss in the same period of 2001; the company's numbers had been hurt by the effects of the Sept. 11 terror attacks. For all of 2002, the company had net income of $277 million, up $41 million from 2001; revenue rose to $8.44 billion from $7.79 billion.
In February, Marriott lowered its 2003 earnings outlook because the war and the soft economy had crimped business and leisure travel; first-quarter results will be released this week. Executives at Marriott say it is well positioned to recover its core clients -- corporate travelers -- when the economy improves. But other troubles loom.
Several hotel owners have sued Marriott, contending that the company and its hotel supply purchasing firm, Avendra, improperly pocketed vendor rebates. Both companies deny the accusations. Two suits were dropped and was one settled out of court, but uncertainty about the remaining lawsuits, including one filed this month, has been a drag on Marriott's stock ratings.
After the suits were filed, a new openness emerged in what many had considered a closed, even secretive culture at Marriott, which was founded in 1927 as a family business. That year, J. Willard and Alice Marriott left Utah for the nation's capital, banking on humid summer weather as being ideal for selling root beer. In 1957, the company opened its first motel, the Twin Bridges Motor Hotel, in Arlington, Va.
In the early 1980's, Marriott began switching to managing and franchising its hotel brands, and it sold many hotel properties to private investors through limited partnerships.
Although John Marriott, who joined the Marriott board last year, may appear to have an inside track to lead the company, analysts do not discount Mr. Sorenson, 44, a lawyer whom Bill Marriott hired from the Washington office of Latham & Watkins. 
Mark Falcone, who follows Marriott for Deutsche Bank, said the latest appointment "positions Arne well to move up in the company by giving him operating experience." But, he added, "I don't see it as a rivalry. There is definitely room for both of them in the next leadership tier."
John Marriott discounted the succession issue. "I've been asked that since I was in high school," he said. "I've always said that I don't know. Our family owns a lot of stock, and our wealth is tied up in the company, so I want it to do well. If I'm running the company, great. If somebody else is, that's great, too."
John Marriott said he was convinced that there could be only one person at the top. "You need a leader," he said. "Otherwise, who do you answer to?"
It would be hard for any outsider to compete with his experience. Mr. Marriott, who exudes the family's trademark wholesomeness, got his start in the business at 15, washing dishes at the Crystal City Marriott in Arlington.
He has a special connection, however, to the Wardman Park, a 1,900-room hotel on the National Register of Historic Places. Five years ago, when he was in charge of Marriott's mid-Atlantic region, he became interested in operating the hotel when he learned that John Hancock Financial Services, which owned the property, wanted to change managers.
Marriott initially lost the bid to manage the hotel, but John Marriott still wanted the prize. For weeks, he called the key executive at Hancock, and when she finally answered her own phone, he persuaded her to visit his hotels in Washington so "she could see firsthand how passionate we are about the hotel business." Finally, early on a Saturday morning, she agreed to sign with Marriott.
"By 11 a.m. that morning, I was there with my team and we ran the place for a month until managers were hired," said Mr. Marriott, grinning boyishly. "We had phones and walkie-talkies because the place was so big we kept getting lost and we couldn't find anything."
Over the years, he has done "nearly every job in the hotel business," including heading JWM Family Enterprises, a limited partnership that owns nine Marriott-managed hotels. His own family includes his wife, Angela, and their three daughters.
"Seeing the hotel business from the owner side has been a fantastic learning experience," he said. It was also a leap from earlier jobs as an ice cream scooper and a short-order cook, which, he said, is "a challenge when you are juggling 15 orders."
He owns a 1964 Corvette, which he drove across the country to the University of Utah to earn an accounting degree. After his freshman year, he spent two years as a Mormon missionary in Tokyo, learning Japanese along the way. "We stood outside train stations and on the street," he recalled. "The Japanese were pretty open to it, and I baptized about 100 people while I was there."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John W. Marriott III, center, at the Bethesda Marriott Suites in Maryland with Sunny Alazar, restaurant supervisor, left, and Nick Angelos, restaurant manager. Mr. Marriott started out as a kitchen worker. (Evan Vucci for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (95%); HOTEL CHAINS (91%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); TERRORISM (78%); LODGING INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); RESORTS (73%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (73%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (64%); IRAQ WAR (64%); APPROVALS (61%); LEISURE TRAVEL (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (60%) HOTELS AND RESORTS; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS 

COMPANY: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (94%)

ORGANIZATION: MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (MAR) 

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%) SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS; 

J WILLARD MARRIOTT JR (93%) MARRIOTT, JOHN W. III 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



640 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1996 words

HEADLINE: Creative Deal or Highflying Pork? 

BYLINE:  By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
THOUGH Iraq is preoccupying Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, he faces some crucial decisions on the next Pentagon budget, among them an extraordinary aircraft-leasing proposal pushed by the Boeing Company, the ailing aircraft maker.
 The plan -- in which Boeing and the Air Force propose to employ the kind of off-the-books financing made infamous by the Enron scandal -- could provide Boeing up to $30 billion in fresh military contracts. 
 The proposal would lease 100 planes -- Boeing 767 airborne refueling tankers -- to the Air Force. To critics, it is a perfect example not only of creative accounting but also of the political pork that has crept into government spending since the terrorist attacks of Sept. 11, 2001.
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona and an influential member of the Senate Armed Services Committee, has called the Boeing proposal "cockamamie" and has vowed "to do everything I can to see the taxpayers of America are protected from this military-industrial rip-off." 
But what is a rip-off to Senator McCain, who has thrown one roadblock after another in front of the proposal, is portrayed by Boeing and the Air Force as a cost-effective way to provide a new link in the military supply chain as the Air Force begins to face the issue of replacing aging air refueling tankers. Some of the tankers date back to the Eisenhower administration, and many are now in use refueling Air Force military jets over Iraq and Afghanistan.
"New tankers are a critical need," said Marvin R. Sambur, assistant secretary of the Air Force for acquisitions. "But we don't have that money to put out front." The lease proposal, he said, "gives us the ability to leverage the total amount of money the Air Force has. It's a super lease deal." 
But studies from the General Accounting Office, the Office of Management and Budget and the Congressional Budget Office, some ordered by Senator McCain, conclude that the Boeing-Air Force lease option is more costly than buying the planes outright. The studies also say the lease plan is far more expensive than simply overhauling the existing tanker fleet, an option the Air Force calls unrealistic, given the fleet's age. 
Now Mr. Rumsfeld must choose between the two sides. At a news conference last month, he declined to tip his hand as the Pentagon budget begins to move through Congress. He said that the issue was complex and that he had asked for more information. "And it's something that I guess I'll decide when I decide," he said. "But I don't need to set arbitrary deadlines as to when that might be." 
MANY people in Washington wonder if this deal would fit with Mr. Rumsfeld's notion of a "transformational" Pentagon budget, in which new ways of doing business are welcome, or whether the deal might go the way of the Crusader, an $11 billion Army artillery system that Mr. Rumsfeld killed last May despite heavy lobbying on its behalf.
"Mr. Rumsfeld has said he favors innovative market-based approaches," said Loren B. Thompson, a military analyst at the Lexington Institute, a nonprofit group in Washington. "He's been briefed repeatedly on this and still has not come to a conclusion."
By any calculation, the Boeing plan -- which will die if Mr. Rumsfeld rejects it and will go to Congress if he approves it -- is far different from the way the Pentagon normally does business. For starters, there are hardly any examples of Pentagon leasing of major military equipment; typically, the Air Force and all branches of the military buy and own their hardware outright. 
The Boeing-Air Force plan to finance the tankers has an Enron-style twist. A special-purpose entity, to be set up by a Wall Street firm, would own the planes and lease them to the Air Force for six years. The new entity would finance the deal by selling bonds backed by the Air Force lease payments. 
At the end of the lease, the Air Force would have the option of buying the aircraft at a prenegotiated price, pending Congressional approval. If not, the special-purpose entity would still own the planes.
Citigroup Global Markets, which is developing the plan, declined to comment on any aspect of the deal, including potential buyers of the new entity's debt.
Whether Congress views this as accounting gimmickry or smart financing remains to be seen. But the tarnished reputation of special-purpose entities can hardly help Boeing and the Air Force on the Hill.
"It's an image issue," said Christopher H. Mecray, a military industry analyst at Deutsche Bank Securities. "When you talk about special-purpose entities, that's difficult to avoid. This decision is politically driven, and at the moment there seems to be intense but narrow opposition in Congress."
Boeing is structuring the deal as a special-purpose entity to keep it off the books of both Boeing and the government. For the Air Force, the deal is a way to acquire the planes seemingly on the cheap -- in much the same way a person might lease a car for $200 a month rather than pay $20,000 for it up front. 
This way, the 100 air tankers, with a price of up to $120 million each if bought new, are not included in the Air Force's procurement budget, where they would have to compete for limited funds with multibillion-dollar Air Force pet projects like the F/A-22 fighter jet and the C-17 transport carrier. The annual tanker lease payments would come from the Air Force's operations and maintenance budget, which has traditionally paid for continuing costs and not military hardware. 
For Boeing, which is happy to receive aircraft orders in the face of a global slump in the airline industry, the special-purpose entity is a way to keep the debt associated with the tanker leases off its balance sheet and thereby preserve its credit rating. Moreover, the tanker deal would keep alive the company's 767 production line, which has only a small backlog of orders and could face closure without the deal. 
"Special-purpose entities are not common in government," said Steven L. Schwarcz, a law professor at Duke University and an expert in off-balance-sheet partnerships. "I can't think of any government unit using one."
ONCE the Air Force orders the tankers -- basically passenger 767 airplanes reconfigured to transport jet fuel -- Boeing expects that the military of other countries might follow suit. Its own Web site estimates the global 767 tanker market at $100 billion, and Japan, Italy and Britain have already expressed interest. 
"This is a great piece of business for Boeing," said Cai von Rumohr, an analyst for SG Cowen Securities. "It's strategically important for the company, and there is a fairly good argument for replacing the old tankers. But Congress doesn't like open-ended deals like this. It makes for more of a hidden cost. And, as a policy matter, it sets an important precedent. If we are going to lease tankers, why not fighter jets?"
Boeing is not talking about the deal, other than issuing a statement saying the tankers are an "essential asset" for fighting wars and provide "fair value to the American taxpayer." Still, with an annual lobbying budget of $8 million and nearly two scores of lobbyists on its payroll, Boeing can remain in the background and still gain Congressional support. One of the biggest proponents is Representative Norm Dicks, Democrat of Washington, who has been pressing the Boeing case in Congress and even at the White House. Boeing's main production facility is in his state. 
"I had a meeting with the president on another matter and I raised this issue to impress on him the need to get it done," Mr. Dicks said in an interview. "He said, 'I support it' and turned to Andy Card and said, 'Andy, you get it done.' " Andrew H. Card Jr. is the White House chief of staff.
Whether Mr. Bush carries through remains to be seen, but Mr. Dicks says he is continuing his fight, adding, "This is one of the most difficult things I've seen."
Additional help comes from Boeing's unions, among them the International Federation of Professional and Technical Engineers, with 22,000 members. Matthew Biggs, legislative director of the union, has been papering members of Congress with letters and sending rank-and-file members to lobby on Capitol Hill. Union officials have also met with Pentagon leaders. 
"We've been encouraging everyone we know to weigh in with Rumsfeld with their support," said Mr. Biggs, who has also written to him. "Before, we were pretty satisfied that this would just roll through. But now, the ball is in Rumsfeld's court." 
ON the other side are a number of government watchdog groups, Senator McCain and a paper trail of government studies questioning both the costs of the lease as well as the need for new tankers in general. Opponents say that if the tankers were so important to the Air Force, they should have been included either in the Air Force's procurement budget or in the lists of Air Force priorities that do not make it into the Pentagon's budget request but are later presented to Congress. 
"It's an expensive unnecessity," said Thomas A. Schatz, president of Citizens Against Government Waste, a Washington nonprofit group. "There are a lot of military and financial reasons not to go ahead with the deal. But Boeing and the Air Force see an opportunity here since Congress is predisposed to give more to the military." 
A report by the General Accounting Office estimated that the cost of the lease would be $26 billion to $30 billion and concluded that a long-term lease of these tankers would be "significantly" more expensive than a direct purchase of them. Moreover, the G.A.O. said that while the existing fleet of 545 KC-135 air tankers is old, their hours of use are relatively low: some planes fly as little as 200 or 300 hours a year. 
According to the G.A.O., the quickest and cheapest way to upgrade the Air Force tanker fleet is to modernize existing tankers, which would cost the government only about $3.2 billion. Moreover, the Boeing proposal would leave the Air Force with a smaller tanker fleet over all because the leased tankers would have to be returned after six years. 
In a letter to Senator McCain, the Office of Management and Budget also criticized the lease option, calculating that leasing the 767's and then, as currently planned, reconverting them to commercial use at the end of the lease would ultimately cost $26 billion, compared with $18 billion if the airplanes were bought outright. The higher overall lease costs arise from higher borrowing costs under the lease, according to the office. 
In addition, the office pointed out that because the 767's have less capacity than the existing KC-135's, the Air Force's air-fueling abilities would decline with every replacement of an older plane with a 767. 
While such reports have led Senator McCain to call the deal a "Boeing bailout," the Air Force is working hard to show that the new tankers are needed. The Air Force says its own calculations show that it would be cheaper to lease the tankers than buy them -- by up to $800 million, according to Mr. Sambur, the Air Force assistant secretary. While he declined to specify the Air Force estimate of the overall lease costs, he said leasing would allow the Air Force to get more replacement planes more quickly than if it had to buy them one by one. 
Moreover, Mr. Sambur dismissed the notion that the old KC-135's could be overhauled. He said the planes' wings, in particular, have been showing signs of serious corrosion, even if their air hours remain relatively low.
"This is just not a viable option," Mr. Sambur said of the overhaul proposals. Still, he knows that if the Air Force wants the lease deal, it has to convince Mr. Rumsfeld, who has ordered up his own cost analysis. 
"We have confidence in the office of the secretary of defense," said Mr. Sambur. "Mr. Rumsfeld is a good businessman and he has a lot of expertise to put his own views on it. We've been involved in a good debate with his office. We're all focused on getting a good deal."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld has not indicated whether he will approve a deal that would use a special-purpose entity to finance 100 airborne fuel tankers. (Getty Images); An artist's rendering of a Boeing 767 tanker, which can refuel fighter jets in the air. Boeing wants to lease tankers to the Air Force. (Boeing)(pg. 1); Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, has called the Boeing-Air Force lease proposal a "military-industrial rip-off." (Getty Images)(pg. 12) Chart: "Saved by the Air Force?"Boeing is hoping that a proposed deal with the Air Force for 100 leased 767 tanker-refueling planes, worth up to $30 billion in revenue, will rescue the 767. Commercial demand for the plane fell to a 20-year low in 2002. Graph tracks Boeing 767 orders from the 70's through 00's. (Source: Company report)(pg. 12) Chart: "Looking for More Business"The Boeing Company has been hit hard by global economic weakness and the severe decline in the airline industry since Sept. 11, 2001. Basic barometers of Boeing's health -- sales, profits and the backlog of commercial plane orders -- were all down last year. Its debt has soared. Graph tracks sales/operating revenue, measured in billions, from 1998 to 2002. Graph tracks net earnings, measured in billions, from 1998 to 2002. Graph tracks contractual backlog, measured in billions, for commercial planes and other from 1998 to 2002. Graph tracks total debt, measured in billions, from 1998 to 2002. (Source: Company report)(pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (91%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); CAPITAL EQUIPMENT LEASING (90%); AIRCRAFT MFG (90%); AIR FORCES (90%); DEFENSE SPENDING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); POLITICS (74%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); AIRCRAFT ENGINES (73%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); TERRORISM (69%); ACCOUNTING (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); SCANDALS (56%) AEROSPACE AND DEFENSE INDUSTRY; ARMED FORCES AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

COMPANY: BOEING CO (96%); ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US AIR FORCE (94%) BOEING CO (BA) 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (96%); BAB (BRU) (96%); BA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (96%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (57%) SIC3724 AIRCRAFT ENGINES & ENGINE PARTS; 

PERSON: JOHN MCCAIN (90%) MCCAIN, JOHN (SEN); RUMSFELD, DONALD H. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



641 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: SOUTH BRONX; 
The South Bronx Tries to Go Uptown By Deciding That It's Downtown

BYLINE:  By SETH KUGEL 

 BODY:
The outgoing telephone message of the local merchant association ends this way: "Remember, shop the Hub Third Avenue Business Improvement District, located in the heart of the Downtown Bronx."
 The downtown what? 
 For years, some Bronx groups have quietly pushed "Downtown Bronx" to replace the charged term South Bronx, which for many Americans evokes an anarchic, high crime, burned-out neighborhood that became infamous in the 1970's. 
 Now that the Los Angeles City Council voted on April 9 to rename its similarly infamous South Central neighborhood as "South Los Angeles," can the Bronx be far behind?
 No official action can do the trick here. Unlike South Central, the South Bronx is not an official term and does not appear on maps. Even its borders are nebulous and ever-shifting. In the 1950's, it referred to just the southernmost neighborhoods of the Bronx, but over the decades it expanded. Today, many people refer to anything south of Fordham Road as the South Bronx; others place the line much farther south, at the Cross-Bronx Expressway, perhaps, or 149th Street. 
 "Downtown Bronx" has not caught on yet, but the name is popping up. There is the Downtown Bronx Economic Development Corporation and the Downtown Bronx Resurgence Corporation. Adolfo Carrion Jr., the borough president, used the term twice in his recent address on the state of the borough. And the Hub Business Improvement District is ordering street banners that read "Downtown Bronx Shopping District."
 The executive director of the business district, Vincent Valentino, supports the new term because he has grown frustrated at wisecracks about Fort Apache and "the Bronx is burning" that he has encountered when traveling. For him, those are distant memories of his days as a rookie cop in the 1970's, not today's reality.
 But many oppose the new name. Some are used to the way things are, or find the new term silly. Then there is Representative Jose E. Serrano, who loathes it. "You don't run away from your past, and you don't feed into people's stereotypes," he said. "We somehow pulled it together to the point it's at now. To say we're no longer the South Bronx is running away from who we are." He said he has told local organizations that anyone using "Downtown Bronx" can forget about Congressional appropriations. 
 Gary Axelbank, the host of two cable television programs about the Bronx, added: "The name is not really accurate or appropriate. I think the name implies a civic center where you can get everything."
 An informal street survey in the Hub area found the idea a long way from catching on.
 "The Downtown Bronx? The Downtown Bronx?" asked a puzzled Ian Johnson, a student at Hunter College. "It's a nice name, a sanitized name," he said, adding that the term might have business value. "But it's the South Bronx. 
 Audy Pasols, 36, agreed. Why? "The name is not catchy," she said. SETH KUGEL

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David McLimans) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CITIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); APPROPRIATIONS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) NAMES, GEOGRAPHICAL 

PERSON: JOSE E SERRANO (58%); ADOLFO CARRION JR (57%) SERRANO, JOSE (REPR); KUGEL, SETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; BRONX (NYC); SOUTH BRONX (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



642 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: The War at Home 

 BODY:
While President Bush pursues the fight against terrorism and the military effort in Iraq, he's also staging a new battle on the home front for his domestic programs. Last week he began by stumping the country for his tax cut plan, a cornerstone of his presidential ambitions. Mr. Bush's successful prosecution of the war in Iraq does not mean that Americans must now fall in line behind his misguided domestic agenda. On almost every front, it is a disaster, a national train wreck that must be headed off for the country's well-being. 
 From the beginning, the key to Mr. Bush's domestic vision has been massive tax cuts, which Republican ideologues see both as a reward to the well-heeled, and a key to starving the government of money that might be spent on programs like health care or housing. Conservatives once viewed deficits as the height of bad fiscal policy. Now, they embrace them. There is no danger that a government swimming in red ink will come up with new programs to protect the environment, to extend health care for the poor or provide affordable housing to the homeless. No matter how much the president says he wants to improve education, the deficit is an all-purpose excuse to avoid helping public school districts overcome crippling cuts imposed by local governments that are teetering on insolvency. 
 The tax cuts are also meant to give Mr. Bush the appearance of fighting to improve the economy. But if the pain of millions of newly unemployed workers was the real point, Mr. Bush would have paid at least some attention to a recent report by the Republicans' hand-picked head of the Congressional Budget Office. Using the administration's own tax-cut-friendly method of analysis, he concluded that further tax reductions would have no notable impact on the economy. Yet, the president presses on for another $550 billion in cuts over 10 years.
The tax cuts are not the White House's only goal. The nation learned shortly after Mr. Bush's inauguration that he was not going to govern from the center, as many had assumed given the election results. Instead, he has permitted his far-right base to take over vast swaths of domestic policy making. What the public has not noticed is how far that effort has already succeeded. Using low-profile executive actions and administrative changes, Mr. Bush has quietly accomplished what he wants behind the scenes. The Department of Housing and Urban Development, for instance, recently announced plans to allow public funds to be used to help build churches, as long as part of the building is used to provide social services. That was one of the administration's multiple attempts to blur the line between church and state. As the Senate amended the "faith-based initiative" to try to keep that separation clear, administration aides were assuring reporters that what went out in the legislature was being reinstated through executive order.
Drawing precisely the wrong lesson from history, the Bush administration has slashed away at core constitutional protections in the name of fighting terrorism. The Justice Department claims the power to hold American citizens in prison indefinitely without access to lawyers simply because they have been labeled "enemy combatants." Terrorism suspects have been held in secret detention, their hearings closed to the public. Meanwhile, members of Congress who try to question Attorney General John Ashcroft about such policies are either ignored or accused of aiding the enemy.
In the area of the environment Mr. Bush is still struggling to get his energy bill through Congress, with the famous provision opening the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge for oil exploration. But the president has been much more efficient outside the Capitol, using executive fiat to ease protection of the national forests and public lands to accelerate commercial logging and oil and gas exploration. Meanwhile, his administration sat on the sidelines while industrial groups challenged some of the most useful environmental initiatives of the Clinton administration in court, including the prohibition of commercial activity in 60 million roadless acres of the national forests.
Turning the federal courts into places unfriendly to environmentalists, civil rights advocates, corporate whistle-blowers and anyone else who attempts to do battle against the interests of big business is another part of the president's domestic battle plan. There are plenty of qualified moderate judges who have a record of deciding cases on the merits. But Mr. Bush seems intent on promoting nominees with a background of knee-jerk right-wing ideology and cramming them down the country's throat. He has pushed nominees who reflexively rule against people seeking protection under antidiscrimination law, or workers attempting to sue their employers. Another nominee has compared abortion to the Holocaust. Democrats who oppose them are labeled as obstructionists.
The one key credential linking all the Bush nominees to the federal bench has been a strong record in opposition to abortion. While as a candidate Mr. Bush barely mentioned abortion, opposition to reproductive rights has been one of the strongest underlying themes of his presidency. Even the much-touted AIDS money for Africa is caught up in the far right's opposition to effective birth control and AIDS prevention strategies.
The president makes a good political general. One of his canniest strategies has been to raise the bar so high that even the smallest of compromises seems like moderation. ANWR has become the red herring of the environmental wars; any energy bill that protects the caribou from the oil drillers will be seen as a victory even if it contains ridiculous tax breaks for the coal, oil and gas industries and does nothing to deal with the problem of gas-guzzling automobiles. Somehow, a budget with $350 billion in tax cuts -- at a time of war and enormous government deficits -- has come to be seen as a great victory for the president's opponents. With defeats like this, Mr. Bush never needs to win.
Mr. Bush's willingness to take big gambles, to push for what he wants no matter the consequences, are likely to leave an imprint on America far beyond his tenure in office. We hope that he's successful in the fight against terrorism, and that he brings about a more stable Mideast and a democratic Iraq. But on the domestic front, almost every success cripples the nation's ability to move toward a happy, prosperous future. This is one war we hope he loses. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); TERRORISM (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); HOMELESSNESS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (65%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (64%); RELIGION (62%); CHURCH & STATE (60%); CITIES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



643 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
The Faraway War Set Latin America on Edge

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES 

 BODY:
THE City Council here is considering a measure to rename United States Street "The Street of the Iraqi People," but others can't wait and have already pasted over the street signs. Boycotts of American companies and products have been organized all over Latin America, and in the Brazilian resort town of Olinda, the owner of a popular bar has posted a placard that reads: No Americans allowed.
 Though distant, the war now ending in Iraq is very much on Latin Americans' minds, and the result has been a burst of anti-Americanism more intense than any in recent years. Seeing American troops patrolling Baghdad's streets or raising their flag stirs old and uncomfortable memories here, as well as fears for the future. 
 This is, after all, a part of the world that experienced three American invasions over the last 20 years: in Grenada, Panama and Haiti. The United States military conducted long and ultimately unsuccessful nation-building exercises in Haiti and Nicaragua early in the 20th century.
The United States is also paying for what is seen here as indifference to an economic crisis that swept this region a few years after its leaders took American advice to open their markets and embrace globalization. Now Latin Americans see a United States decision to use military power even at the cost of international cooperation.
"When you had the promise of globalization and free markets, people warmed up to the idea that the American dream of prosperity might come to us," said Felipe Noguera, a poll taker and political analyst here. But now public opinion throughout the region has again become, he said, "like a growling dog."
While the current attitude evokes a long tradition of blaming the United States whenever dark times come, part of it is less anti-American than specifically anti-George W. Bush. Jimmy Carter is remembered fondly in many quarters for his emphasis on human rights, and anti-American sentiment was also muted under Bill Clinton, whose humble origins, gregariousness and even sexual escapades endowed him with a quality much valued by Latin Americans, that of "calor humano," or human warmth.
Mr. Bush, in contrast, is seen as cold and callous, and many in Latin America harbor harsh views of how he took power, comparing the 2000 election to their own experience with elections. "None of this would be happening if Florida's electoral votes hadn't been stolen from Gore with the help of the conservative majority of the Supreme Court," the Brazilian columnist Luis Fernando Verissimo lamented last Sunday.
Some of the officials the Bush administration have chosen to argue its case carry a similar burden. John D. Negroponte, the chief delegate to the United Nations, is remembered by intellectuals here as the ambassador in Honduras in the 1980's who oversaw efforts by contra rebels to overthrow Nicaragua's leftist Sandinista government. Elliott Abrams, the White House's top adviser for Middle East policy, is known for his role in the Iran-contra scandal.
For the many Latin Americans who believe history is one long conspiracy, the Iraq invasion has been like manna from heaven. Even before it, some intellectuals argued that Osama bin Laden was really an American double agent who organized the Sept. 11, 2001, attacks in complicity with the C.I.A. in order to justify military intervention in the Islamic world. 
Now, after the Iraq war, every official American act in this region is likely to be looked at with suspicion and distrust. An Associated Press report that the United States has been quietly buying up computerized data banks that contain the names, addresses, telephone listings and identity card numbers of hundreds of millions of people in 10 Latin American countries drew broad criticism and expressions of alarm throughout the region last week.
The company that collected the information and sold it to the United States government said the only goal was to improve control of immigration. But Latin Americans saw Big Brother-like purposes, and the governments of Mexico, Nicaragua and Costa Rica ordered investigations.
The Iraq war itself is seen less as a battle for freedom than an attempt to secure oil supplies, awakening suspicions in the region's resource-rich countries. In Argentina and Brazil, some commentators are warning that a looming global shortage of drinkable water may make the Amazon and Patagonia future targets of an American desire to control natural wealth.
Such sentiments are strongest among those on the left. But even some right-wing Latin Americans who once allied themselves with Washington are complaining that the United States has been hypocritical.
"When our countries faced internal terrorism in the 1970's and we wanted to eliminate subversion, you wouldn't allow it," a retired Chilean military official groused, speaking on condition he not be named. "Now you're the ones facing a threat, and you're doing exactly what you told us we shouldn't do."
Indeed, a remarkable thing about the current mood is how little sympathy there is for the United States even among the pro-free-enterprise and pro-democracy moderates who gained so much in the 1980's and 90's, during Washington's bipartisan campaign throughout the region to couple free trade and the restoration of civilian democratic rule. One prominent economist who often speaks well of the American system volunteered in a recent conversation that the Bush administration had "shot itself in the foot" in Iraq.
Such fallout from the war seems certain to make it more difficult for the United States to achieve a broad range of policy objectives in the region, including the creation of a Free Trade Area of the Americas. Last week, for instance, Argentina's interim president, Eduardo Duhalde, announced he was reversing a 12-year policy of condemning human rights violations in Cuba and would abstain in the next United Nations vote on the matter.
"We consider it inopportune" to condemn Cuba, "considering that this war in Iraq is a unilateral violation of human rights" and the United States has begun to threaten Syria, he said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Bolivian Indians, above, against the Iraq war. Below, signs for United States Street in Buenos Aires now carry an antiwar message. (Associated Press); (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOYCOTTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); GLOBALIZATION (87%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); CITIES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); POLITICS (69%); CONSERVATISM (69%); SUPREME COURTS (65%); VOTERS & VOTING (64%); US ELECTORAL COLLEGE (62%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (55%); JOHN NEGROPONTE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); LATIN AMERICA (97%); IRAQ (94%); BRAZIL (93%); HAITI (92%); NICARAGUA (92%); HONDURAS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



644 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Word for Word/Grade-School Primers; 
Civics 101, Taught by Saddam Hussein: First, Join the Paramilitary

BYLINE:  By PHEBE MARR; Phebe Marr, a historian, is the author of "The Modern History of Iraq."

 BODY:
CHANGING the political culture may prove to be one of the biggest challenges in postwar Iraq. While most Iraqis want liberation, they may not yet be prepared for, or even understand, Western-style democracy. For the last 34 years under Saddam Hussein, Iraqis have been subjected to a highly nationalist -- even militaristic -- education. 
 The following samples are taken from fifth- and sixth-grade textbooks in "national education" -- Saddam Hussein's version of civics. Published in 1994, they were still being used in 1998. While they do not give a complete picture of Iraqi education, they reveal something about what lessons and values were taught to Iraqi children in the last decade. PHEBE MARR 
 The sixth-grade textbook focuses almost completely on the military and its values of loyalty, honor and the virtue of sacrifice:
Our principal duty to our nation is its defense and protection from conquerors and those who are covetous in order to maintain its freedom, its pride, its dignity and its independence. There are many ways to defend the nation, the most important is the bearing of arms and the constant readiness to fight enemies. This is accomplished by enlisting in the army or the popular army or working in the apparatus of internal security.
The army is the school of heroes and the arena of chivalry, courage and daring, where citizens learn to love the nation and to protect it, and to expend blood and soul for its glory and pride . . . .
Adversaries are defined mainly as the United States, Zionists, NATO allies and Iranians. Saddam Hussein called the eight-year Iran-Iraq war Qadissiya, after the seventh-century battle in which Muslim Arabs defeated the Persians:
Our beloved Iraq is the home of ancient civilization. Its land is arable, and it has copious supplies of water. . . . For this reason there has been Persian covetousness from early times toward Iraq and the regions of the Arab Gulf. The modern era has witnessed the covetousness of the imperialist states, at the head of them the American, NATO and Zionist forces.
Volunteering for the armed forces is an important way to defend the nation and sacrifice for it. . . . It is possible for those with an elementary school education to volunteer in formations of the armed forces and their various branches -- the air force and air defense, the navy, the land forces and infantry and intelligence . . . The Republican Guard has been described by the president and leader (May God Preserve Him): "Truly they are men for difficult missions. For the honorable role they played in protecting territory of the nation and defending it from the Persian aggression and the American, NATO, Zionist aggression."
The textbooks also extol Saddam Hussein's brutal internal security agencies.
The forces of internal security are considered among the important apparatuses in Iraq. They are responsible for protecting the security of the revolution internally; for preserving stability; for protecting citizens and preserving their lives and property from those breaching the law. They fight rumors that harm the interest of the nation. The security forces spend a great deal of effort protecting citizens and making sure the sovereignty of the law is upheld; they make certain justice and righteousness for all is maintained.
All loyal citizens protect the revolution and maintain stability; prevent crimes; uphold the sovereignty of the law and realize righteousness and justice. For this reason, they cooperate with the internal security forces and help them perform their duties.
The fifth-grade textbook is broader, teaching lessons not only about the military but also the nation, people, government and the citizen's obligations to the state.
Iraqis have participated in spreading culture and building civilization in various parts of the world. The ancient Iraqis invented writing and established schools. They founded laws and excelled in sciences, arts and literature. . . . Today, they are building a unique experiment to return Iraq to the glory of its civilization and its leading role in building the future of the Arab nation.
But once again, fear of enemies intrudes.
The Iraqis have, together, defended their country and they have made big sacrifices. They have bravely struggled to protect their country and maintain its unity. Their struggle has been long, recorded in many battles like the first battle of Qadissiya, the second battle of Qadissiya in 1980-1988 against the Iranian aggression, and against the covetous Americans, Zionists and other Western colonialists in the Mother of Battles, January 17, 1991.
Only Saddam Hussein's Baath Party, which came to power on July 17, 1979, can save Iraq.
The revolution of July 17-30 came to make our people happy, to advance them, to remove oppression and to eradicate all causes of backwardness. And the government of the revolution, which leads our party, the Arab Baath Socialist Party, under our leader Saddam Hussein (May God Protect Him) spends great effort on them and works for them. . . . We should avoid all bad behavior that could harm the reputation of the country. Cling to the principles of our revolution and our great party.
The government of the revolution has built factories and workshops in parts of the country. Our scientists are capable of producing good products -- sturdy, attractive, useful, well-made -- and their prices are cheap. When we go to the market we see a variety of goods, some foreign and some national. We should buy our national goods . . . and prevent our money from leaking into foreign countries.
Students are taught to expect jobs, benefits and services from the state.
The revolution of July 17-30 took place to free the citizens from injustice, ignorance, poverty, sickness and backwardness. And to provide them with a dignified life. . . . Since its rise, the revolution has worked for the rights of the citizen and advanced various services for them -- their upbringing and education, preserving their health and freeing them from exploitation. . . . The government of the revolution is concerned with building schools. 
The leadership of the revolution and the party is committed to improving economic services in society and providing an opportunity for all citizens to work and improve their standard of living. It provides the necessary staples to citizens, like wheat, sugar, tea and rice at lower than actual prices. . . . In this way, the leadership of the party and the revolution combat monopoly.
The revolution provides other services to citizens -- housing that is suitable and distribution of land and constructing buildings and quarters and modern villages -- and we provide services such as water and electricity.
The government is also in charge of culture.
Our revolution prepares an educated citizen loyal to God and country and nation. It aims to build a new generation capable of facing life and benefiting society in the present and the future. We provide books and magazines at suitable prices. . . . Television and broadcasting airs cultural programs of various kinds . . . and also provides guidance to the public. And we spread national and Arab consciousness by appropriate means . . . and we spread a consciousness of civilization by building museums.
The textbooks end by recruiting students into the Vanguard, a Baathist organization, partly paramilitary, for children from the third to sixth grades.
The oath sworn to God: I will be loyal to the revolution of July 17-30 and its leading party, the Arab Baath Socialist Party, and will defend with honor and courage my Arab nation. . . . I commit to order and I love work and respect my elders and help the young and will be honest and trustworthy in my words and deeds. And I will contribute to building a society aspiring to unity, freedom and socialism.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Grade schools in Iraq taught reading, writing and hatred of the West. (Shehzad Noorani/Unicef) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); ARMIES (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (77%); CHILDREN (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); AIR FORCES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



645 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1057 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: New York's Bind; 
When Cities Go Broke, the Options Are Few

BYLINE:  By SAM ROBERTS

 BODY:
IN the 1980's, the Swedish government doubled its stock transfer tax. Revenue, however, rose only about 15 percent, since traders simply fled to London exchanges.
 Fearing a further exodus of stock trading and tax receipts, the Swedish government quickly rescinded the tax altogether. 
 It's rare that a line so directly connects the dots between cause and effect in government policy, but this is exactly the connection that officials in New York City and State -- and their counterparts across the nation -- are pondering as they debate what would harm the local economy more: raising taxes or reducing the public services that those taxes support. 
Is there a tipping point at which taxes become so onerous that the individuals and businesses who pay the government's bills leave? Or might those people and corporations flee even faster if the failure to raise taxes results in a reduction of services that degrades the quality of everyday life?
No one knows for sure. Or as Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission of New York, said with some perplexity, "It's a really good question." The commission is largely financed by businesses and has generally opposed tax increases. It contends, for example, that mayors could maintain vital services by squeezing more productivity out of municipal unions. 
Seeking to close a gap estimated at $4 billion in his proposed $44.5 billion budget for the fiscal year beginning July 1, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has been lobbying, unsuccessfully so far, to wring about $600 million in productivity concessions from organized labor. 
New York's mayor, unlike the governor, must balance the budget as a matter of law. Besides reducing spending and raising taxes, there are essentially only two other ways to do it. One is to borrow. The city has already gone down that road this year, and as the fiscal crisis in the mid-1970's demonstrated, it is a dangerous long-term strategy. The other way is to go hat in hand to Albany and Washington, pleading for a larger share of the revenue that city taxpayers export to the state and federal governments. With the governor refusing so far to raise taxes and the president insistent on cutting them, neither capital has given the mayor much encouragement 
Which brings Mr. Bloomberg back to either taxes or reductions in services, which he can threaten to impose if those taxes aren't forthcoming.
"Part of what every mayor will do is seek to frighten people," former Mayor Edward I. Koch said last week. The theory is that if enough people are frightened about layoffs or closing firehouses or even shuttering zoos -- all of which Mr. Bloomberg has threatened -- their representatives will become emboldened to raise taxes.
These days, the city probably delivers services more efficiently than it has in years, and self-taxing business improvement districts and other public-private partnerships have taken up some slack left by earlier bouts of austerity. Still, successive service cuts have left the mayor with fewer options to economize, without cutting into bone. 
So Mr. Bloomberg has been seeking to win authority from Albany to impose taxes on his constituents and also to pressure Gov. George E. Pataki to reimpose, and even raise, an unpopular commuter tax. (On its own, the city cannot do much in the way of raising revenue, except to increase the tax rate on real estate, which it did earlier this year by an astounding 18.5 percent.)
So far, Mr. Pataki has resisted the mayor's entreaties, branding tax increases as job killers that threaten economic development -- a characterization that he did not apply to earlier "revenue enhancements" that he or his appointees have winked at or actually voted for, including higher tuition for the state's university system. 
Many people forget that one legacy of the 1970's fiscal crisis was, temporarily at least, lower taxes to lure business and to demonstrate that the city was serious about living within its means. And since the terrorist attack of Sept. 11, 2001, which drove jobs out of New York, "the tax trigger, the tipping point at which people might decide too much is too much," is lower than it was, said Fred Siegel, an expert on urban affairs who teaches at Cooper Union.
Of course, tax increases and service cuts affect everyone differently. "There's not some Everyman who's affected the same way," said Charles Brecher, research director of the Citizens Budget Commission. "There are different constituencies. The question is, who do you want to offend the least?" It's also sometimes true that a temporary tax, or one dedicated to a specific goal, like the income tax surcharge for hiring more police officers imposed a decade ago, may be more politically palatable. 
Some taxes take on a symbolic value even beyond economics. The steep increase in the hotel occupancy tax in 1990 prompted threats of a boycott of New York City. There was the slow burn in California over property taxes that culminated in passage of Proposition 13. The anger over "bracket creep" helped lead to the Reagan Revolution. For that matter, there was the Stamp Act, imposed by the British Parliament, which eventually precipitated a revolt against taxation without representation. 
THE consensus in New York today is that if crime goes up, as one expert on the city said, "all bets are off" when it comes to spending discipline. A rise in crime could have a profound effect on how the city is perceived. And perception creates its own political reality, regardless of any economic strictures. Arguably, the business climate improved in the 1990's because crime went down, and one reason crime declined was because the city imposed taxes to hire more police officers. 
"Tipping point sounds like something a good social science ivory tower person would be able to propound on with great certainty," said Richard P. Nathan, director of the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government at the State University of New York in Albany. "I'm dubious. I think that there are an awful lot of economic forces that influence why people come to and stay in the city of New York -- even in these uncertain times."
Ronnie Lowenstein, director of the city's Independent Budget Office, said: "Yes, taxes ultimately affect economic activity, but so do services. Finding the balance is the most difficult part of the job."

GRAPHIC: Photos: When cities cut back on services, this is what the policy looks like at street level. (Shannon Stapleton); (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); MAYORS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LOBBYING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); LAYOFFS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (67%); LABOR UNIONS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); SWEDEN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



646 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 805 words

HEADLINE: Korean Diplomacy Enters a New Era 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 18 

 BODY:
The last time a South Korean president traveled to Washington, President Bush had just been inaugurated and this country's leader, Kim Dae Jung, was an elder statesman with a Nobel Peace Prize who thought he could secure American support for his policy of engaging North Korea.
 What Mr. Kim got instead was a lecture about how untrustworthy the North Korean leader, Kim Jong Il, was, and a deeply bruised ego. As a result, the two men never established much of a connection, and relations between the nations, longtime allies, have only grown worse. 
 Next month, a new South Korean president, Roh Moo Hyun, will travel to Washington.
He will be preceded, though, by a new ambassador, Han Sung Joo. Experts on South Korea both here and in the United States say the choice of Mr. Han reflects a determination to avoid a diplomatic train wreck.
In Mr. Han, the experts say, Mr. Roh has chosen someone who can take the initiative on complicated and sensitive diplomacy rather than merely to try to burnish his leader's image. This former foreign minister and university president has ideas of his own, and in his confident, though soft-spoken way, he does not hesitate to voice them.
Despite a new agreement between the United States and North Korea to open discussions, together with China, the Korea experts had been worried that the coming meeting between Mr. Bush and Mr. Roh could be even more difficult than that last summit meeting.
Mr. Bush has never hidden his loathing for Kim Jong Il, while Mr. Roh has exasperated the Bush administration by pledging to keep a hand extended toward North Korea. "Bush and Roh will get along great, so long as they don't discuss anything of substance," said one former State Department official with long experience in Korean issues.
The Bush administration sometimes has seemed rankled by Mr. Roh's calls, beginning with his electoral campaign, when he called for a "more equal" relationship, without heavy-handed American leadership. 
Discussing American concerns about Mr. Roh's statements, Mr. Han said on a recent day: "Clearly there is asymmetry. We are mostly being helped by the U.S., so even as we talk about balance, we know there cannot be complete symmetry in the relationship. 
"Still, given the kind of economic development we have achieved here in the last decades," he said, "the notion that we deserve more regard and greater respect is fully justified."
No sooner had Mr. Han completed this thought, though, did he turn his sights to Mr. Roh's domestic critics, many of whom come from his own liberal Millennium Democratic Party. The critics contend that after appealing to nationalist sentiments in his campaign, Mr. Roh has already reverted to the tradition of buckling under to the United States. Among other things, these critics cite Mr. Roh's pledge of troops to support American policy in Iraq.
"People say that we are just proxies of the U.S., but that is simply not true," Mr. Han said. "President Roh and his team have entered the kitchen now and have a better perception of the reality. What I am trying to say is that being pragmatic people, President Roh and his team understand there is more to reality than appearances.
"Brave nationalistic rhetoric notwithstanding," he said, "they must do what is practically in the best interests of the nation, and that begins with a strong alliance and cooperation with the United States."
Beyond the tentative new diplomacy with North Korea about that country's suspected nuclear weapons programs, one of Mr. Han's first challenges will be to get the United States to reconsider its all-but-confirmed plans to remove its 14,000 infantrymen from positions along the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Korea. The American decision followed months of anti-American protests here last year after an American troop vehicle accidentally killed two schoolgirls. Some here have seen it as an expression of petulance by the Pentagon.
Since the war began in Iraq, though, South Korean officials have worried privately that the decision to move American troops out of range of North Korean artillery is meant to free the United States' hand to attack North Korea, should diplomatic efforts fail to eliminate its unconventional weapons. Mr. Roh has said repeatedly that he would not countenance an attack on North Korea under any circumstance.
Choosing his words carefully, Mr. Han tried to address the concerns of those in Washington who have criticized what they describe as tripwire stationing of United States troops along the demilitarized zone.
"Moving those troops will make both North and South Korea less secure," Mr. Han said, and will make it even less likely that North Korea will make concessions on nuclear weapons.
"Changing the status quo before these issues are sorted out has dangerous implications," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Han Sung Joo, South Korea's new ambassador to the United States. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); MILLENNIUM (62%); MILITARY WEAPONS (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN SERVICE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); KIM JONG IL (89%) HAN SUNG JOO (AMB); ROH MOO HYUN (PRES); FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (78%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) SOUTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



647 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1479 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: THE REGIONAL FALLOUT; 
The Question in Cairo: Will Soap Prices Fall And Democracy Rise?

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SACHS 

DATELINE: CAIRO, April 19 

 BODY:
The newspaper columnists still spew dark prophecies about American designs in the region, government officials spin conspiracy theories about why Baghdad really fell and President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt holds forth on the future of Iraq just about every day.
 But most Egyptians are talking about inflation and the rising price of laundry soap. 
 Of course, the sudden fall of Saddam Hussein's government had a profound psychological and political effect here. And the imposition of an American military administration over postwar Iraq will no doubt be an irritant to public opinion for years.
Even so, the remaking of Iraq will be judged by many Egyptians largely by its effect on issues at home. 
Chief among them is Egypt's economy, suffering from years of mismanagement and protectionism dating from the socialist government of Gamal Abdel Nasser in the 1950's and 60's. The other simmering issue is political liberalization in a country where critics of the president risk prison and no new political party has been authorized in two decades.
Those who seek change in Egypt and other Arab countries hope that if a fledgling democracy develops in Iraq, Arab leaders might be inspired to allow open debate, free elections and market liberalization. But an opposite message will be taken, these advocates say, if the United States is seen as abandoning its promise to assure democracy in Iraq.
"The regional situation may strengthen the reformist wing or strengthen the post-Nasserists," said Reda Helal, deputy managing editor of Al Ahram, the semiofficial Cairo daily. "It depends on the American role in Iraq and elsewhere. If America repeats its faults in the Middle East, focusing solely on Israel and oil and forgetting the people, it will strengthen the post-Nasserists. If America is honest, if it forces a solution of the Palestinian issue and promotes democratic values in Iraq, it will strengthen the reformists."
Until recently, those seeking changes were a rarefied group, based largely in research centers and nongovernmental organizations where their views on free-market economics and social liberalism circulated among a small elite. They generally agreed on a prescription to propel Egypt into the modern world as a competitive and reasonably prosperous nation: better training for its business managers, a modern education system, a streamlined bureaucracy, monetary reform, transparent business laws and the encouragement of foreign investment.
But few, if any, of them had political influence. While Egypt has its share of sophisticated Western-educated entrepreneurs and professionals, they have traditionally avoided politics as a graveyard for creativity and accomplishment.
That began to change about three years ago when one of President Mubarak's sons, Gamal, was installed in the leadership of the governing National Democratic Party and became a magnet for those favoring change. Many Egyptians believe that his party job, as head of what is called the policy secretariat, is part of a plan to prepare him to succeed his father. Whether that is the family's intention, his presence in the party has attracted people who want to exploit his stature to push for economic and political shifts.
One is Hossam Badrawi, a physician whose family is known for its private hospitals in Cairo. None of the family had gone into politics until Dr. Badrawi won a seat in the Egyptian Parliament in 2000. He chose to run as a governing party candidate, instead of as an independent, and now works with Gamal Mubarak on developing proposals for health, education and aid to the private sector.
"I realized after thorough analysis that maybe changing the party from within would be more effective," he said. "There is a wave of people thinking the same way I do, and if we increase the number of these people into a critical mass -- people who are younger, well educated and with a liberal way of thinking -- we can change the future."
To that end, Gamal Mubarak's circle has spun out numerous proposals that deal with human rights, banking and labor law changes, and educational standards. But it has not been able to get more than a handful converted into law and put into practice.
Some advocates of liberalization say that part of the problem is what they see as the government's tendency to sacrifice innovation to stability, even if that means stagnation.
"If we continue to worship stability in this absolutely static manner, we will not continue to have stability," said Tarek Heggy, the owner of Tana Petroleum who has written books on modern management techniques. "The only way to have true stability is to have economic prosperity and more participation from the population in political life."
Meanwhile, according to some who want change, Egypt is slipping behind other developing countries, including some in the Arab world, because its economy remains tethered to notions from its socialist past.
If postwar Iraq develops an open economy that is friendly to foreign investors, the contrast with Egypt will be all the more stark, said Mahmoud Mohieldin, an economist who is another of the younger Mr. Mubarak's circle.
"If the development in Dubai and Jordan and Morocco and Tunisia already provided an incentive for change here, then the Iraqi experience will only accelerate it," Dr. Mohieldin said. "The solution to our problems is growth, and to achieve that there will be shocks along the way. We have to have a belief in reform and a sense there's no time to waste."
But tension between the political past and the possibility for a less fettered future has defined Egypt for years. President Mubarak, 75, is considered a cautious man without the ideological fervor of his predecessors. But his administration has, over the years, acquired the trappings of an imperial presidency that brooks no criticism.
His aides continually extol his wisdom and astuteness in both the government-controlled and the opposition press, which run such statements in full. By law, news organizations cannot criticize the president, a restriction that has come to be extended to members of his family.
At recent antiwar demonstrations, the few protesters who chanted a ditty poking fun at Gamal Mubarak's power were promptly arrested.
President Mubarak has not approved any new political parties since he assumed power in 1981, after Anwar el-Sadat's assassination. The few legal opposition parties that exist seem stuck in a time warp, espousing communist, pan-Arabist or socialist ideologies that seem irrelevant to a vast majority of Egyptians born in the last 25 years.
"Mubarak is surrounded by people from two schools of thought," said a prominent businessman. "One is telling him: Keep an eye on public opinion; they hate Israel; they hate the U.S. The other is telling him, Enough of intervention in foreign affairs -- it's time we modernize our own country."
The developments in postwar Iraq, many say, may determine the ultimate influence of one group over the other. An unpopular and extended American rule in Iraq would strengthen anti-American feelings to the point that President Mubarak and other Arab leaders could delay democratization by saying that it would risk instability. But a successful Iraqi model of democracy might increase public pressure and tolerance for change.
Already the daily demonstrations in Baghdad and other Iraqi cities, shown on Arabic satellite channels, reveal a political freedom not available in any other Arab country.
But political change in a nation as old as Egypt, and as mired in its ways, may ultimately lag far behind economic change.
Government ministers here have generally been able to hold onto their jobs for years, sometimes for decades. The same for presidents: Mr. Mubarak, duly nominated every six years by his party for another term, has been re-elected four times without opposition, the last time in 1999.
A wide overhaul of Egypt's political system would be needed to change the way presidents are chosen. The current method, enshrined in the Constitution, does not provide for contested presidential elections but only for a yes-or-no public referendum on the candidate selected by a majority in Parliament.
Efforts to clean up elections for parliamentary and local officers have proved not only difficult but risky.
In a case that drew international condemnation of Egypt, the government accused a prominent sociologist, Saad Eddin Ibrahim, of defaming Egypt after he announced his intention to monitor the 2000 parliamentary elections.
"You can see it as a sort of rehearsal of a bigger issue in the making," said Muhammad Sid Ahmed, the dean of Egypt's political commentators. "He put his finger on something you do not touch -- rigging the elections and guarantees against rigging -- and Saad Eddin Ibrahim became the most dangerous man in Egypt. So this is how the American democracy is seen in Egypt by the regime." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOAPS & DETERGENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (88%); LIBERALISM (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); MANAGER TRAINING (76%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (73%); TERRORISM (73%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); TRENDS (72%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (66%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

PERSON: HOSNI MUBARAK (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) SACHS, SUSAN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%) IRAQ; EGYPT

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



648 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 965 words

HEADLINE: The Hot New Sound in South Beach: 'Quiet, Please' 

BYLINE:  By DANA CANEDY

DATELINE: MIAMI BEACH, April 19 

 BODY:
The pretty people and the trendy shops can stay, but South Beach residents have had enough of the loud music that thumps nightly from car stereos, boomboxes and nightclubs here, and they want the city to turn down the volume.
 "It's not just the noise and the vibration," said Clotilde Luce, a freelance writer who lives on Ocean Drive. "I can actually hear the words to the music from a club four blocks away. I can hear the D.J." 
 "When things get pretty loud, I wear earplugs to be able to concentrate on what I'm doing," Ms. Luce said. "I think Miami Beach has a choice between more conservative people with money, who have pushed real estate here, and a crowd that comes over and behaves like it's spring break all the time."
In some respects, the South Beach neighborhood is a victim of its own success. About 15 years ago, it was blighted, its Art Deco hotels faded and neglected. Since then, the vibrancy of South Beach's night life has made it an international hot spot.
Some celebrities, like Madonna, have moved on, but there have been recent sightings of Britney Spears and Jennifer Lopez. And South Beach is increasingly home to affluent people who were drawn by its vibe but prefer sipping Cuban coffee in cafes to dancing the night away.
In an effort to strike a balance between the night life of South Beach and the quality of life its residents are demanding, city officials are cracking down on nightclubs and night owls that violate the city's ordinances on noise control and other quality-of-life issues.
"Over the past decade or so," said Simon Cruz, a Miami Beach city commissioner, "what started to happen is that residential zoning and commercial zoning started to bleed into each other. There were areas that were commercial where condos sprung up and residential areas where open-area clubs started protruding, so it was a clash that was waiting to happen."
Enforcing an ordinance that has been on the books for a long time, the Miami Beach Police Department has begun citing or arresting anyone whose club, boombox or car stereo music can be heard 100 yards away. Violators are issued tickets for $50 to $500 and can be sentenced to up to six months in jail. Nightclub owners who violate the ordinance face fines of $250 for first offenses and $500 for each subsequent offense. Miami Beach is considering legislation that would give the city the authority to close clubs that repeatedly violate it.
Since the crackdown began last weekend, the police have issued 84 citations and arrested 4 people for violating the ordinance, said Detective Bobby Hernandez, the spokesman for the police department. 
"The loud noise is something that has become a real hot topic here in Miami Beach and the chief, knowing this, put a task force of about 20 officers together to address it between the next 30 to 60 days," Detective Hernandez said. "Our goal is to get the word out there that this type of behavior is not going to be accepted anymore. It will also address other quality-of-life issues like prostitution, urinating in public and loud exhaust pipes on motorcycles."
There have been 276 citations and 50 arrests for such offenses since last weekend, he said.
Jacqueline Arias, a 21-year-old legal secretary from Miami, found out the hard way just how serious the city is about noise. She was cruising down Ocean Drive with two friends in her white BMW, playing her radio with the windows down, when a police officer stopped her. The officer wrote a $50 ticket but later decided to let her go with a warning.
"He walked up and asked me if I was aware of the noise violation," Ms. Arias said. "I said, 'No.' We saw signs when we were driving in and we were like, what is this?"
Ms. Arias said that with all the public safety and security issues the police have to deal with, enforcing a noise control ordinance was a waste of time and resources.
Club owners on the beach say the city has forgotten the importance of its night life. "Everybody got hurt when they started messing with the clubs," said Esteban Ramirez, the manager of the Club Deep nightclub. "Now they're enforcing this ordinance, and they're really, really strict about everything. The city doesn't care much about the club scene anymore."
Mr. Cruz, the city commissioner, said South Beach was in the throes of adjusting to its "new reality."
"Before, we had transient residents who were renting the Art Deco properties around the area," he said. "They were a part of the night life, but they have been supplanted by permanent, year-round residents." 
"Now," he continued, "we have a situation where we have to acknowledge that the night life that got us the notoriety and appeal that makes us the city we were has changed, and we are also a city that wants to have a certain level of sophistication and tranquillity."
Homeowners say that their investment in the community has fueled the local economy in recent years, and that the city has an obligation to respond to their concerns.
"When you live in $750,000 to $2 million apartments and have to sleep in a small bedroom on the opposite side of your apartment just to avoid the noise, it's very infuriating," said David Haber, a lawyer for the Portofino Towers Condominium Association. "You can't have a beating drum screaming in your ear all night."
Beach residents insist that they are not looking to stop anyone from having a good time. They say they simply do not want to feel as if they are living in Party Central.
"When there is loud music on, you shut your doors and you still can't peacefully watch TV," said Josh Fisher, 56, a senior researcher at a computer company, who lives in a condominium on the southernmost tip of South Beach.
"You can't have dinner on the terrace or entertain people. Well, you can, but you count on somebody else to provide the music."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Miami Beach police officer listened for loud car stereos on Ocean Drive in South Beach on Friday night. Clotilde Luce, a freelance writer who lives on Ocean Drive, wears earplugs to block out the noise from nightclubs in the neighborhood.; A raucous Haitian carnival band slowed traffic to a crawl Friday night in South Beach, the Miami Beach neighborhood and international hot spot. (Photographs by Alex Quesada/Polaris for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLICE FORCES (89%); ORDINANCES (89%); NOISE POLLUTION (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (88%); ZONING (86%); ARRESTS (84%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CITIES (72%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (71%); WRITERS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); SENTENCING (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%); LEGISLATION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MADONNA (79%); BRITNEY SPEARS (58%); JENNIFER LOPEZ (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIAMI, FL, USA (94%) FLORIDA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



649 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1565 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
A New Way of Warfare Leaves Behind an Abundance of Loose Ends

BYLINE:  By R. W. APPLE Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 19 

 BODY:
Nobody got it quite right.
 The war in Iraq, now in its final military stages after only a month of fighting, was neither as painful as its opponents predicted nor as painless as its proponents suggested. Saddam Hussein was driven from power, at a quite substantial cost in American, British and especially Iraqi lives and with still unknowable consequences for world and regional political stability. 
 Many things that worried either the planners or the critics of the plan they produced did not materialize. No retaliatory terrorist attacks were mounted in the United States, only a few of the oil wells on which any future Iraqi prosperity must depend were set on fire and the long American supply lines snaking north from Kuwait proved less vulnerable than feared. 
It is still far too early, obviously, to draw many definitive lessons from the fighting. Too much remains unknown, not only about Iraqi plans and operations but about such basics as the extent and nature of fighting that took place outside the range of "embedded" correspondents' vision. 
Clearly, despite the Pentagon's heated denials, the campaign evolved differently than anticipated. Fedayeen and other paramilitary groups played a larger role, proved more difficult to combat and gave the allied forces some nasty surprises. 
Intelligence, as ever, was less than perfect. But allied forces regrouped and regained the initiative remarkably quickly, thanks in large part to a new command flexibility, tied to to new technology that made possible the more rapid sharing of data.
Gen. Richard B. Myers, chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, termed such adaptability a key to "the new American way of war."
Air power played a major, perhaps decisive role in blunting Iraq's ability to resist. American air power achieved what it never quite managed in World War II or Vietnam, destroying much of a force that was said to include 2,200 tanks, 300 operational combat aircraft and 400,000 active troops. The Iraqi Air Force never entered the fray, for reasons yet to be fully explained.
Loose ends abound in the story of this violent conflict in the fertile triangle that gave birth to Western civilization 7,000 years ago.
Mr. Hussein's fate remains an enigma. Was he killed in one of the bombing raids aimed at him and his family? Or was that really he, as shown on the tape played Friday on Abu Dhabi television, cheered on by a Baghdad crowd on April 9, the very day the big statue came down? Has he escaped to Syria?
What of the chemical, biological or radiological weapons, whose elimination was one of the justifications for the war cited by President Bush? None have been found yet, in a search that has become fairly widespread. Critics of American policy, especially in the Arab world, have begun to taunt Washington by suggesting that the United States will not find any unless it plants them itself.
Postwar realities in Iraq, in the Middle East and in the wider world are just starting to be shaped.
Baghdad remains a city of violent emotions and overwhelming needs. The joy and relief that many there felt at the overthrow of a sadistic dictator gave way quickly to apprehension about American intentions. At the huge Abu Hanafi Mosque, packed with devout Sunni and Shiite muslims, a prayer leader bluntly told the capital's occupiers on Friday: "You are the masters today. But I warn you against thinking of staying. Get out before we kick you out."
Yet of course the Americans cannot leave anytime soon without permitting the city to descend again into the kind of chaos that gripped it in the first few days after it fell. That is true even though the presence of American troops on the city's streets, however successfully they may restrain any triumphalist instincts, is bound to offend Arabic pride, already battered by having lost yet another war.
Resentment could eventually spawn a resistance effort by unconventional forces inside and outside Iraq, just as the Israeli invasion of Lebanon in 1982 spawned the Hezbollah movement. If Mr. Hussein or his sons are indeed alive, they could lead such an effort, and even suspicions that they are alive, kept in play by things like the Abu Dhabi tape, can foster political restlessness.
The Bush administration hopes to bring in police officers and peacekeepers from other countries (though not the United Nations), and that could take off some of the edge for many Arabs. But first impressions will count for much, especially among young Iraqis, a huge proportion of the population, who are weary of watching their contemporaries move ahead while they have stood still or slipped backward.
First impressions included the arrival of Ahmad Chalabi, an Iraqi exile without much of a following in his country, at least to date. He is the only politician who enjoys the visible support not only of the American armed forces but also a private militia, dressed in surplus American-style fatigues. He has set himself up in the Hunting Club, an enclave in Baghdad's luxurious Mansur district, which is protected by American Bradley fighting vehicles.
Though many in Washington, especially in the State Department, dismiss Mr. Chalabi as a creature of the Pentagon, he is first on the ground, well financed, in a position to push his cause. Jay Garner, the retired American lieutenant general who is to serve as the civil administrator of Iraq, will need all the skills he has exhibited in past postings and more to prevent the de facto emergence of Mr. Chalabi as the symbol of the reborn Iraq.
First impressions also included the failure of American troops to protect the treasures of the national library and museum, to say nothing of hospitals and schools, even though they managed to safeguard the oil industry. The widespread looting of shops and houses sent an unfortunate enough message; the destruction of precious relics of world heritage and the exposure of the young and the helpless to the remorseless cruelty of war sent a worse one.
Queried by reporters on the scene, junior American military officers said they lacked both the orders and the resources to mount effective protective screens. Back in Washington, their boss, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, commented, "Stuff happens." Pressed, he added, "Free people are free to make mistakes and commit crimes."
Anger at these developments was not confined to Baghdad's politicians and intellectuals or to critics of the war. Stout friends of the United States joined in, like Lord Hurd, a former British foreign secretary, who wrote in The Financial Times with respect to postwar planning, "Nothing coherent was ready because the agencies in Washington disagreed on the right course."
President Bush hopes success in Iraq will lead to the democratization of much of the Middle East. But first he will need to address the anxieties of the region, where private pleasure at the overthrow of Mr. Hussein mingles with wounded Arab self-esteem and fear that American fury at Syria for that country's alleged assistance to the dying Hussein government will spill over into a new conflict. Mr. Rumsfeld's hard-line deputy, Paul D. Wolfowitz, is seen there as an ignorant idealist at best, as an American imperialist at best.
"Washington," said an Arab envoy, "needs to wipe that pre-emptive smirk off its face, in a hurry."
Much will depend on how vigorously the United States pursues a settlement between Israel and the Palestinians, which will be seen in countries like Egypt and Jordan as concrete evidence of Washington's real intentions in the Middle East. Under pressure from Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Mr. Bush agreed to publish a "road map" for a peace attempt, but he still faces profound skepticism from those who think American-Israeli ties preclude an evenhanded effort.
American relations with Europe have also been darkened by the war. Although Britain, Spain, Italy and others backed the American-led campaign, France, Germany and Russia did not. Some suspect President Jacques Chirac of France of dreaming the old Gaullist dream of building a rival power bloc to the United States, but that is unlikely to happen. What could happen, European security experts suggest, is the withering of NATO, which was of no use to Mr. Bush in the Iraq conflict.
Given time, tempers on both sides of the Atlantic will cool; Europeans will stop picturing Mr. Bush as an ogre and Americans will go back to claret and French fries. But that could be delayed if disagreements over the proper United Nations role in postwar Iraq result in another split in the Security Council. France and Russia have hinted that they will veto any move to lift sanctions against Iraq -- virtually a prerequisite for reconstruction -- unless the United Nations is given a broader role than wanted by Washington.
The administration hopes to finesse that possibility by seeking not one resolution but a series of resolutions, leaving control of Iraq's oil in United Nations hands for the moment but gradually transferring other parts of the economy to the new Iraqi authority the United States is assembling.
All in all, Mr. Bush faces a daunting task. Fortunately for him, the American people seem prepared for it. They continue to back him in impressive numbers, even though, asked in the latest Gallup poll, "How difficult will it be to create a stable democratic government in Iraq?" 82 percent replied either "very" or "somewhat."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Members of the First Marine Division used a wall of smoke for cover on April 9 as they advanced on the fedayeen headquarters in Baghdad. (Laura Rauch/Associated Press)(pg. B14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); WORLD WAR II (78%); AIR FORCES (78%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (75%); TERRORISM (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL TERRORISM (75%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (56%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (56%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (56%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); SYRIA (79%); KUWAIT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



650 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words

HEADLINE: Cuba Rejects Visit From Rights Investigator 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 19 

 BODY:
Cuba says it will not allow a visit by a United Nations envoy to look into accusations of human rights abuses on the island following the most severe crackdown in decades on opponents of President Fidel Castro.
 Foreign Minister Felipe Perez Roque said in a news conference late Friday that Cuba also reserved the right to shut down the American diplomatic mission. 
Cuba accuses it of leading efforts to undermine the Cuban government. 
 In the last month, despite widespread international criticism, Cuba has rounded up 75 dissidents and imprisoned them for terms of up to 28 years in an effort to stamp out budding pro-democratic opposition to Mr. Castro.
Last week, Cuba shocked human rights organizations with the execution by firing squad of three men who hijacked a Havana Bay ferry in a failed bid to cross the Florida Straits to the United States.
Mr. Perez Roque said the executions were regrettable but necessary to prevent further hijackings and the development of a mass exodus of illegal migrants from Cuba to Florida.
Cuba is facing growing international isolation. It is now considering the withdrawal of a request to join a European Union preferential trade and aid treaty with former colonies because of criticism in Europe of its human rights record. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMAN RIGHTS (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (73%); HIJACKING (68%) FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%) UNITED NATIONS; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%); PEREZ ROQUE (72%) CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (70%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



651 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: A NATION AT WAR: AN OVERVIEW: APRIL 19, 2003; 
U.S. Access to Iraqi Bases, Signs of Life in Baghdad and Rumsfeld on the Rise

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN

 BODY:
Ten days after the fall of Saddam Hussein, the streets of Baghdad began to take on a semblance of their prewar bustle as shops reopened and traffic jams returned. The Marines left the capital as the United States Army took over the civil administration of postwar Iraq and confronted daunting tasks of restoring order and basic services.
 As the hunt for fugitives continued, Iraq's former finance minister was captured and a terrorist and a top Iraqi scientist surrendered. Eight Middle East nations urged the United States and Britain to withdraw their forces soon and leave Iraq's oil alone. 
 Marking Easter and Passover, President Bush offered a message of religious hope to the families of troops killed in the war. Seven American soldiers who had been held prisoner by Iraqi forces headed for their home posts in Texas.
AMERICAN-IRAQI COOPERATION -- As American forces withdraw in the months ahead, the Bush administration plans a military relationship with the new government in Baghdad that would give the Pentagon permanent access to four air bases in Iraq. These would serve as a foothold to project American influence into the heart of the unsettled Middle East.
The scope of the partnership and access is not yet defined. But coupled with the American military presence in Afghanistan, the bases in Iraq would be felt in Syria and would flank Iran on both sides.
Ultimately the bases could become one of the most striking strategic developments of the war, adding even greater power to a swath of influence reaching from Western Europe to the Far East.
BAGHDAD REVIVING -- Hundreds of shops reopened, residents were out shopping for food, thousands of Iraqis showed up for work in offices and stores, scores of police officers were back on the streets and honking, sprawling traffic jams reappeared at major intersections.
The heavy Marine presence in Baghdad vanished as the Army took over civil administration and began trying to restore law and order, water, sanitation and electricity to 4.5 million residents of the capital who have gone without many basic services for two weeks. 
A 50-truck convoy of food, organized by the United Nations, reached Baghdad from Jordan.
A TASTE OF DEMOCRACY -- In the southern city of Basra, schools reopened for the first time since the war began, and residents held a kind of town hall meeting -- a chaotic circus of complaints and indecision among shouting tribal elders, angry clerics and frightened political functionaries.
"The people here know nothing of democracy," a medical student said. "They know nothing but guns."
Chaos of another kind has engulfed the northern city of Mosul, now the most violent place in postwar Iraq. With fedayeen fighters who supported Saddam Hussein still at large and only a small American military force on hand, scores of Iraqis have been shot in gun battles, looting continues and treasured buildings have been destroyed by fire.
IN CUSTODY -- The Iraqi police arrested Hikmat Mizban Ibrahim al-Azzawi, Iraq's former finance minister, and American officials said he might help track large sums of money Mr. Hussein is believed to have stashed abroad. Khala Khadr al-Salahat, a member of the Palestinian Abu Nidal terrorist group, surrendered to military authorities in Baghdad.
In addition, a top Iraqi scientist, Emad Husayn Abdullah al-Ani, turned himself in. He helped develop the deadly nerve agent VX in the 1980's, and officials said he may be able to help uncover weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. No such weapons have been found, although their presence was the Bush administration's stated reason for going to war. There was still no sign of Mr. Hussein himself.
RUMSFELD ASCENDANT -- Before Sept. 11, 2001, there was talk in Washington that Donald H. Rumsfeld's aggressive style might make him a short-timer as defense secretary. But waging successful wars in Afghanistan and Iraq has solidified his stature in the president's inner circle, giving Mr. Rumsfeld leverage to press his vision of an agile, sophisticated American military force capable of pre-emptive as well as retaliatory wars..
REBUILDING IRAQ -- The economy is a shambles. Banks, businesses and stores have been looted. There is almost no electric power. Water is scarce and filtration plants are old. Garbage trucks have been stolen. Sanitation is all but nonexistent. Most telephones do not work. Half the hospitals are closed or short of supplies. The civil service has virtually disintegrated, most schools remain closed and public transportation is at a standstill.
Iraqis want Americans to fix things, on one hand, and, on the other, to get out as soon as possible. Neither is likely to happen soon. A contract for the American company Bechtel calls for rebuilding airports, roads, railroads, schools, hospitals, power plants, water and irrigation systems and more. The cost: $25 billion to $100 billion. But Washington expects that Iraq's oil will pay for much of the work. ROBERT D. McFADDEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); MILITARY BASES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); EASTER SEASON (70%); RELIGION (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); SYRIA (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); JORDAN (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



652 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 20, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: A Nation at War 

 BODY:
 The Iraqi Capital

END OF AN ERA -- The war revealed Saddam Hussein's rule as one of brute gangsterism, thuggery, and delusion writ large. It also gave the world an unprecedented look at some of his closest acolytes, almost all of whom seemed divorced from reality. A1

EMERGING NORMALITY -- In Baghdad's most normal day since the fall of Saddam Hussein, thousands of public employees reported for duty and the authorities deepened their control. A1

THE SHIITES -- Nearly 100 Islamic clerics have affirmed an emerging fundamentalist, anti-American position for Shiite Muslims in the capital, asserting authority over Iraq's Shiite community, whose governance is one of the most pressing issues. B1

MILLIONS IN U.S. CURRENCY FOUND -- American soldiers discovered a huge cache of United States currency hidden in one of Mr. Hussein's palaces and senior officials said the sum could be as much as $656 million. B3

MUSEUM LOOTING -- More evidence has surfaced that the looting of the National Museum of Iraq was done in part by professional art thieves who used the chaos as cover to make off with artifacts sought by collectors, museum officials said. B3

Rebuilding Iraq

RECREATING A NATION -- With the fighting mostly over, attention has turned to remaking Iraq, a task most experts agree will prove complicated and expensive. Not since World War II has a nation sought to almost single-handedly recreate the country of an enemy defeated in war. A1

MOSUL -- Mosul has turned into the bloodiest place in postwar Iraq. How U.S. forces came to be seen as aggressors and not liberators is a tale of bad luck, miscues and the city's political and ethnic rivalries. A1

NEWS ANALYSIS -- In many ways, the war was neither as painful as its opponents predicted nor as painless as its proponents suggested. And unknowable consequences for world and regional political stability remain. B1

IRAQI OIL -- The North Oil Company, responsible for Iraqi oil production in the northern fields, was nearly ready to change hands. Then came the looters. B2

FORMER OFFICERS RECRUITED -- The city of Diwaniya tried securing its streets by rehiring its police force. B4

AN IRAQI CONSTITUTION -- In the aftermath of a political gathering of Iraqis organized by the U.S. in Ur, the question of who should write a new Iraqi constitution and how it should be adopted is being discussed. B6

A LEGAL SYSTEM IN SHAMBLES -- Lawyers in Iraq are working to restore the legal system after the country has spent decades twisting to the whims of Mr. Hussein and the Baath Party. B6

POLITICS IN BASRA -- After 30 years of tyranny, Basra has had its first taste of democracy. But few people seemed ready for its intoxicating effects. B6

Captives and Casualties

THE PRISONERS -- In contrast to the Iraqi prisoners, Syrian prisoners are often very angry and difficult. B4

Borders and the Region

IN EGYPT -- The remaking of Iraq will be judged by many Egyptians by its effect on issues at home. Chief among them is Egypt's economy which is suffering from years of mismanagement and protectionism. B5

In Washington

THE DEFENSE SECRETARY -- Iraq has been Donald H. Rumsfeld's war. It was fought on his terms, and the victory has turned him into an unusually forceful defense secretary at a pivotal moment for the military. A1

RETAINING IRAQI BASES -- The military is already using Iraqi air bases for operations against the remnants of the old government. But even as the invasion force withdraws in the months ahead and turns control over to a new Iraqi government, Pentagon officials expect to gain future access to the bases in the event of a crisis. A1

THE WHITE HOUSE -- The second Persian Gulf war was not only a runaway victory for the U.S. military, but for another aggressive force that fired off round-the-clock verbal cruise missiles: the White House communications operation. B14

On the Home Front

MOURNING THE DEAD -- The end of the war was no solace for the American service members' families who were visited by military officers. B1

HOMECOMING -- Seven soldiers captured in the war in Iraq made a trimuphant return to Fort Bliss, in western Texas, where they were greeted by a cheering crowd of family members and well-wishers. B13

Voices of Dissent

ANTIWAR MOVEMENT -- The movement is trying to move forward now that the conflict it wanted to avert is over. B15

War News Coverage

A LOOK BACK -- Glimpses of war from reporters and photographers. B10-11

THE ROLE OF TELEVISION -- More than a week after millions of viewers watched the fall of Baghdad, opinions remain divided on how television, the center ring of the war coverage, performed during the war. B15

OVERVIEW OF THE WAR B1

PHOTOGRAPHS FROM BAGHDAD B8-9

PHOTOGRAPHS OF THE DEAD B12

A LOOK AT AMERICAN WARS B16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); POLICE FORCES (76%); RELIGION (75%); WORLD WAR II (73%); LAWYERS (68%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2003 



653 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 906 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
As regulators become more stringent, data storage companies prepare for a wave of demand.

BYLINE:  By Ian Austen 

 BODY:
THE recent scandals on Wall Street involving missing, misplaced and just plain embarrassing internal memos and e-mail have been very good for at least one industry: data storage, traditionally one of technology's sleepiest sectors.
 The renewed emphasis on keeping records in a way that will satisfy regulators has become a sales opening for makers of storage hardware, which have been struggling with falling prices for years, to package higher-margin software for managing data with their disk and tape drives. 
 "This has obviously been a huge market opportunity because it goes beyond selling disk drives," said Mark S. Lewis, the chief technology officer at the EMC Corporation, a storage systems company based in Hopkinton, Mass.
Mr. Lewis has also found that many of his traditional customers find themselves in new territory. "You have these poor I.T. people who used to keep data for data's sake," he said, "now have lawyers all over them." 
Thanks to archived e-mail, the recent securities investigations offered everyone a peek at the inside world of high finance. The electronic record-keeping system at Citigroup, for example, let the world read the e-mail of the former analyst Jack B. Grubman, boasting that his ratings on AT&T's stock helped secure a place for his children in a prestigious nursery school.
Beyond providing voyeuristic thrills, those archives proved a valuable tool for investigators. That importance was underscored late last year when the Securities and Exchange Commission, NASD and the New York Stock Exchange fined five major brokerage firms a total of $8.25 million for not preserving e-mail. Since then, the S.E.C. has introduced new rules for storing electronic records related to audits, including many e-mail messages, for up to seven years, rules that will be felt by every public company.
Other regulators are demanding better storage, as well. Recently, the Food and Drug Administration strengthened its requirements for documents related to drug approvals.
In a stroke of good timing, about a year ago EMC introduced a new system, Centera, that meets regulatory storage requirements. Since then, the company has installed a total four billion megabytes of capacity in systems that use the technology. "This product has the fastest sales cycle we've ever seen," Mr. Lewis said.
I.B.M., as well, has seen improvements in its storage business although company executives do not attribute them entirely to the regulatory reaction. Revenue at its storage, or "content management" business, as the company prefers, is up 64 percent over a year ago, the company says.
Most new e-mail systems archive and duplicate every single piece of incoming mail, including spam and unread messages, even though all those functions are not specifically required by the new regulations. Companies would rather save it all, according to Mr. Lewis, than be sorry later when facing investigators.
"What they don't want is the 'missing minutes on the tape' situation," he said. "They don't want to have to say, 'It looks like we have all our e-mail, except what you want.' "
Mr. Lewis said that with many current storage systems, there was little to prevent people with some computer knowledge from altering records stored in digital archives to hide their misdeeds. To thwart that, the Centera system establishes what EMC calls a digital fingerprint. Essentially, it is a long data set that represents the state of a group of records. To change even a single character will create a mismatch with the fingerprint and cause the server to reject the alteration.
With many new storage systems, companies also include improved software for sifting through data. "But that's more for their own reasons than any regulatory demand," said Nancy Marrone, senior analyst at the Enterprise Storage Group, a storage consulting company based in Milford, Mass. "If you can access particular data, such as one user's e-mail, you don't have to turn over a whole tape that has somebody else's e-mail and that might contain something incriminating," she said.
While not every company is likely to be thrilled with spending money to accumulate old e-mail, Theresa O'Neil, director of strategy for I.B.M. Tivoli Storage Software, said that the S.E.C. and other regulators might indirectly be doing them a favor by defining how they should handle old data.
"In one of my previous lives, I did data mining," she said. "And sometimes policies about data are the hardest things to get set. In this case, the S.E.C. and the F.D.A. have set the policies for them. It's really taken the burden off companies."
Another consolation, she added, is that improved storage systems might allow companies to use information that currently lies dormant. By way of an example, she said that a good searching system could allow customer service representatives to summon all e-mail related to a purchase while they deal with a customer's complaint. "We hope that over time storage can seem like some kind of benefit to our customers," she said.
According to Ms. Marrone, the sales potential to hardware and software companies from all this has yet to be fully realized. "But this is lending itself to becoming a bit of a boon," she added.
Last week, she was surprised to see a crowd of 300 attend a trade show session held by her company about the new regulations. "Before people really didn't think about this," she said. "Now this is something that you cannot ignore."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Igor Kopelnitsky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); DATA STORAGE DEVICES (90%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (90%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (90%); SCANDALS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); NEW ECONOMY (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); DEREGULATION (77%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); EMAIL MARKETING (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); FLOPPY DRIVES (70%); US FDA REVIEW (66%); LAWYERS (66%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ELECTRONIC MAIL 

COMPANY: EMC CORP (84%); CITIGROUP INC (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%) EMC CORP (EMC); INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS MACHINES CORP (IBM) 

TICKER: EMC (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (57%); C (BMV) (57%); 8710 (TSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%) SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES; 

PERSON: AUSTEN, IAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



654 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 384 words

HEADLINE: Bond Sale Schedule For Coming Week 

 BODY:
The Treasury's schedule of financings this week includes the regular weekly auction of three- and six-month bills today and an auction of four-week bills on Tuesday.
 By the close of the New York cash market on Thursday, traders said, the rate on the outstanding three-month bill was 1.15 percent, the six-month bill was 1.16 percent and the four-week bill was 1.11 percent. 
 The following taxable and tax-exempt fixed-income issues are scheduled for pricing this week:

TAX EXEMPT

TUESDAY
Los Angeles Department of Airports, $110.2 million of revenue bonds. Competitive.
Prince William County, Va., $83.1 million of general obligation bonds. Competitive.

ONE DAY DURING THE WEEK
Arizona Department of Transportation, $185 million of debt securities. Bear, Stearns.
California, $1.85 billion of general obligation bonds. Merrill Lynch.
Denver, $250 million of airport system revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Port St. Lucie, Fla., $65 million of utility system revenue bonds. RBC Dain Rauscher.
Contra Costa County, Calif., $323.3 million of taxable pension obligation bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Hawaii, $66 million of special purpose revenue and refunding bonds. Goldman, Sachs.
Lewisville, Tex., schools, $57 million of unlimited tax school bonds and refunding bonds. First Southwest.
Long Island Power Authority, $501.8 million of electric system general obligation and revenue bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Michigan State Housing Development Authority, $132 million of debt securities for rental housing. Goldman, Sachs.
Natomas, Calif., schools, $66 million of certificate of participation. U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray.
Paramount, Calif., Tax Allocation Loan, $62.2 million of debt securities. RBC Dain Rauscher.
Philadelphia Hospital and Higher Education Facilities Authority, $60.9 million of debt securities for Temple University Hospital. UBS PaineWebber.
Puerto Rico Housing Finance Corp., $100 million of home mortgage revenue bonds. Lehman Brothers.
Sacramento, $50 million of new money and refunding bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Detroit schools, $336.9 million of school improvement bonds. Siebert Brandford Shank.
Michigan, $50 million of general obligation school loan bonds. UBS PaineWebber.
Washington State Economic Development Finance Authority, $68.7 million of taxable economic development revenue bonds. Morgan Keegan. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (98%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); DEBT FINANCING (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (75%); AIRPORTS (75%); TAX LAW (75%); EDUCATION FUNDING (74%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); STUDENT LOANS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (72%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (72%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (72%); SCHOOL BONDS (71%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (65%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; TAXATION; NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); ROYAL BANK OF CANADA (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (83%); PIPER JAFFRAY COS (66%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (56%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (55%); UBS FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); RY (TSX) (91%); RY (SWX) (91%); RY (NYSE) (91%); PJC (NYSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (70%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



655 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Patents; 
Before Shock and Awe can go from battlefield to lunch box, there is a stop at the trademark office.

BYLINE:  By Sabra Chartrand 

 BODY:
IN the first days of the Iraq war, the Pentagon intended for the military blitz to leave the Iraqi military in "shock and awe." While many people debated the meaning, and even the appropriateness, of that slogan, a few others immediately saw profit in it. 
 In San Francisco, Rebecca Lynn Anderson decided it was the perfect name for salsa, marinades, barbecue sauce, popcorn seasoning, even ketchup and mustard. She whipped up a trademark application for Shock and Awe Sauce. 
 Two fireworks companies quickly christened new displays Shock and Awe, and their applications followed. One also applied to trademark fireworks called Battle of Baghdad.
None of these trademarks have yet been awarded, and they may never qualify. But the phrases and names people attempt to trademark at the United States Patent and Trademark Office form an indicator -- sometimes leading, sometimes lagging -- of popular culture. 
Some entrepreneurs asked to own Shock and Awe for T-shirts, bumper stickers, pens, paper products, toys, sporting goods, eyewear, housewares, books and calendars. A Chicago company wants to plaster "shock and awe" over everything from toys and sporting goods to telecommunications equipment, restaurants, business and legal services.
Anthony Keats, from Beverly Hills, Calif., filed a trademark application that covers video and audio recordings, DVD's, computer music files, software and operating programs, among other things. But he is vying with Eric Karich, from Mansfield, Tex., who wants exclusive rights for a long list of movie, television, concert, video, audio, DVD and computer products and services.
When the Pentagon announced the campaign name Operation Iraqi Freedom, there were two bids on that, too. A Maryland company has asked for the trademark for computer game software, and Albert Ruocchio, who lives in Raleigh, N.C., wants it for electric model toy trains and accessories.
"The typical rule in trademark is that an on-the-nose description of what you're selling is not protectable and is in the public domain," said Glenn A. Gundersen, co-chairman of the intellectual property group of the Dechert law firm. For example, a trademark application for the term "purple grapes" would be considered too precise and already part of common usage.
"Shock and awe certainly does not fit that description," he added. "But if you use it to suggest some connection in Iraq, its misleading if you have nothing to do with the military, or if it doesn't have much independent trademark significance other than merely a reference to the action over there and it's not an independent brand name."
Dechert has evaluated trademark trends every year since 1992. Its annual report, released this month, points out that people and companies apply for trademarks for goods and services they may use in six months or a year, which means a surge in applications for certain industries can point to investor confidence in those areas and plans for new products or businesses.
It is safe to predict, however, that by the time the trademark agency rules, interest in "shock and awe" will have already waned.
"Our experience with filings like this for Sept. 11, for the millennium, for Desert Storm 10 or 12 years ago, was that people make these filings thinking that they're going to corner the market on commercial use of a phrase, and they quickly discover that they can't, and that these phrases have an extremely short shelf life," Mr. Gundersen said. "So the vast majority of these applications are abandoned."
After Sept. 11, 2001, nearly two-dozen applications were filed for the phrase, "Let's Roll." Many of them were subsequently abandoned or suspended. Last February, the Todd M. Beamer Memorial Foundation won a trademark to use "Let's Roll" for charitable fund-raising. Mr. Beamer was a passenger on one of four planes commandeered by terrorists on Sept. 11. When a group of passengers revolted, he urged them on with "Let's roll." The plane crashed in Pennsylvania.
As much as such applications illustrate pop culture, they are an even better indicator of economic trends. There is nothing scientific about looking at what goods and services have pending trademark applications, but the trends can reveal areas of confidence in the economy.
Sometimes that confidence can be wildly misplaced, as in the late 1990's, when applications skyrocketed for high-technology trademarks, particularly those related to the Internet. Dechert's latest report shows that in 2000, when the Nasdaq index peaked, there were 80,100 new trademark applications for computer-related goods and services. The next year, the number dropped to 43,000, and in 2002, it slumped to 29,000. 
"Its fairly uncanny to me how closely they track the economy," said Mr. Gundersen.
The same dramatic drop happened with Internet-related goods and services: in the heady dot-com days of 2000, applications reached 41,900. The next year, in 2001, they dropped to 17,300, and last year they hit 11,400. 
When the dot-com bubble burst, people lost interest in trademarks that use "Internet" or "global computer network," once two of the most popular terms, according to Dechert. Requests evaporated for trademarks that included .com, web, cyber or virtual. Applications for technology-related goods and services continued to slump in 2001 and 2002, even though Dechert found that overall trademark applications declined only 3 percent in those years .
Dechert reports that 2002 was also a bad year for trademark applications relating to mutual funds, investment and securities brokerage services. It suggests that the weak stock market meant a decline in new funds and investment products and services that was even more pronounced in 2002 than in 2001.
Dechert found that applications for pharmaceutical goods and services held steady last year, and noticed some modest growth in fields like perfumes, cosmetics, clothing, food and alcohol.
While the numbers suggest a steady decline in new products and businesses related to technology and financial services, companies in the food-beverage and personal-care areas were in fact bullish, even if modestly so, the Dechert report concludes. In 2002, the business world seemed to believe that Americans were ready to eat and drink, even if they were not inclined to be particularly merry. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADEMARK LAW (92%); TRADEMARKS (91%); CHEMICALS PATENTS (90%); PATENTS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); WAR ON TERROR (73%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (71%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); LAWYERS (68%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (67%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); RESTAURANTS (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (59%); COMPUTER GAMES (50%) TRADEMARKS AND TRADE NAMES; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

COMPANY: DECHERT LLP (83%)

ORGANIZATION: PATENT & TRADEMARK OFFICE (83%) PATENT AND TRADEMARK OFFICE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (83%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (83%)

PERSON: CHARTRAND, SABRA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); RALEIGH, NC, USA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (93%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



656 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 870 words

HEADLINE: With the War Largely Over, OPEC Fears Oil Price Drop 

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
When the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries met five weeks ago to set its spring export levels, it faced an uncertain world, one clouded by the prospect of a war in Iraq. When it meets again on Thursday, it will face more uncertainty now that the main fighting is over.
 Before the war, most of OPEC's members pumped oil at maximum levels to make up for an expected curb in Iraqi exports -- something that in fact occurred -- and prices moved higher. They had climbed through the winter, not only in expectation of war but also because of political strife in Venezuela and ethnic clashes in Nigeria, and then swung back and forth on news from the battlefronts in Iraq. 
 On Thursday, the last trading day before the Easter holidays, the price of crude oil rose $1.37, or 4.7 percent, to $30.55 a barrel on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Still, OPEC worries that if it does not scale back its extra production soon, oil prices will fall below $20 a barrel, beneath the group's ideal price range of $22 to $28.
Despite the currently robust prices, OPEC is concerned in large part because of a belief among oil traders, shaped by optimistic forecasts by the United States government, that Iraqi exports could resume in weeks. Combined with the additional OPEC production, this reasoning goes, that could create a glut.
Yet most oil experts agree that it is too early to tell when Iraqi exports might return and at what quantities, given the tangle of technical, financial and diplomatic issues that must be sorted out by the American authorities now running Iraq. It is not even clear who might represent Iraq, an OPEC member, at this week's meeting in Vienna or whether it will even remain in OPEC, a seemingly distant issue that already concerns other members.
Add to the mix the weak global economic recovery and the economic effects of the respiratory illness SARS, industry experts say, and it becomes difficult for OPEC to make a sound decision about how much oil to pump.
"It's very hard now to look at the supply-demand balance," said Mehdi Varzi, president of Varzi Energy, a consulting firm in London. "The picture is so mixed up with what's happening in the Middle East still."
Representatives from the Army Corps of Engineers responsible for repairing oil fields in Iraq have said that some oil exports could start flowing again in weeks. Kurdish leaders who entered the northern oil region near Kirkuk with American soldiers have predicted the same. 
But it remains unclear who has the right to export Iraqi oil. Under United Nations sanctions, Iraq can export its oil only through the oil-for-food program, and the Bush administration is pressing the Security Council to change that agreement so the United States can sell Iraqi oil. When this might happen is unclear. 
Also, some Kirkuk fields have been so efficiently ransacked that managers there say it may be several months before they can produce enough oil for export. And it remains unclear who will pay to replace what was looted from Kirkuk to make that possible.
Some OPEC leaders, like Algeria's oil minister, Chakib Khelil, say the group will most likely rein in extra production to the official quota levels of 24.5 million barrels a day. It is now producing nearly 26 million barrels, according to recent estimates by the Middle East Economic Survey. And Venezuela and Nigeria have resumed degrees of production.
Such a cutback might be enough to calm a market in which many oil traders and buyers think demand will be slack because of the sluggish world economy. In addition, the SARS outbreak has already slowed economic growth in Asia and led to a drop in demand for jet fuel by several hundred thousand barrels a day because of a decline in tourism, said Lawrence J. Goldstein, president of the Petroleum Industry Research Foundation in New York.
Mr. Goldstein warns that there could be perils to a decision by OPEC to reduce output below 24.5 million barrels a day. Inventories of crude oil and gasoline were very low coming into the spring, and they are being replenished rapidly now by the increased OPEC output. But if that process stops, oil and gasoline prices may again rise as the United States, the largest oil consumer by far, enters the summer driving season.
Who will speak for Iraq on Thursday, and try to answer the unanswered questions, remains a mystery. There is no Iraqi government and the United States has yet to announce the structure of an interim oil ministry. Already, some OPEC members and many people in the Middle East worry that under American influence, Iraq could soon leave OPEC to pump a lot of oil on its own. 
But Mr. Goldstein contends that Iraq can do that and stay in OPEC. While its oil output was determined by United Nations sanctions, the rest of OPEC took its market share, produced oil in its stead and pocketed the extra revenue.
Now, Mr. Goldstein and others say, Iraq might tell OPEC that it will pump as much as it can to make up for those lost years of revenue. Before the war, it produced about 2.8 million barrels a day and exported, legally and otherwise, about two million barrels of that.
"Iraq will produce what it's capable of producing," he said, "whether it stays in OPEC or not."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Soldiers from the 173rd Airborne Brigade at an oil installation near Kirkuk, in northern Iraq, last week. There is uncertainty how much damage may have been done by looting in the area and the effect on production. (Patrick Barth/Getty Images)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); OIL & GAS PRICES (91%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (78%); ARMIES (78%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); CHEMICALS & RUBBER MARKETS (75%); FUEL MARKETS (74%); GASOLINE MARKETS (74%); EASTER SEASON (73%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (72%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (64%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (62%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (62%); SARS (61%); ARMED FORCES (60%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); PRODUCTION; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (56%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NIGERIA (79%); AUSTRIA (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



657 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 575 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Russian Oil Producers Said to Be Close to Deal
The owners of Russia's largest oil company, Yukos, and the country's No. 5 producer, Sibneft, are close to a deal on a merger, people briefed on the talks said.
 If completed, the combination would create one of the world's largest oil companies. It would produce 2.16 million barrels of oil a day, more than the world's fourth-largest publicly held oil company, ChevronTexaco. Page C2. 

Offer Discussed for Chubb of Britain
United Technologies is in discussions to buy Chubb, a British security systems company, for more than $1.3 billion. C2.

Demand Grows for Spy Technology
The use of surveillance cameras in private businesses and public spaces has been a matter of debate for some time. But even as the controversy becomes more heated, the use of surveillance equipment is surging, driven by new digital technology, falling prices and terrorism jitters. In the United States, annual sales of digital surveillance products and services is expected to reach $8.5 billion by the end of 2005, up from $5.7 billion in 2002. C6.

U.S. Sides With Recording Industry
The Bush administration has sided with the recording industry in its court battle to force Internet providers to disclose the identities of subscribers who may be illegally trading materials online. C14.

AT&T Sends Bills to Hacker Victims
Victims of a phone hacking swindle are disputing a contention by AT&T that they are responsible for costly long-distance calls fraudulently made through their voice mail systems. C7.

Still No Deal for Mottola and Sony
When Thomas D. Mottola resigned as chief executive of Sony Music Entertainment in early January, the company said he was leaving to start his own record label in partnership with Sony. Now, more than three months later, that contract has not been signed and several industry executives said they thought it was unlikely ever to happen. Mr. Mottola and a Sony executive said talks were continuing. C11.

Web Survivors Seek Wall St. Interest
Online companies were mostly shunned by investment analysts after the bottom fell out of the dot-com market in 2000. Three years later, some dot-com survivors are showing signs of financial longevity, but they have failed to recapture analysts' attention. Dot-com executives say they are fighting to change that. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C10.

A Novel's Rise Spurs Optimism
Publishers usually aren't happy when a competitor's book hits the best-seller list. But the success of "The Da Vinci Code" by Dan Brown, a murder mystery by a little-known writer that made its debut at No. 1 on The New York Times best-seller list, has caught the attention of an industry mired in a dismal retail economy. Normally jealous rivals have been relieved to see that an aggressive marketing campaign and enthusiasm among booksellers can fuel sales, particularly for newer writers. C11.

New Demand Seen for Data Storage
The recent scandals on Wall Street involving missing, misplaced and just plain embarrassing internal memos and e-mail messages have been very good for at least one industry: data storage, traditionally one of technology's sleepiest sectors. New Economy. C4.

A Convergence of TV Tastes
An annual study shows that while significant differences remain between what black and white viewers in the United States like to watch on television, the viewing habits of black and white households are becoming more similar. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C12.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,337.65 up 134.34Nasdaq composite -- 1,425.50 up 66.6510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.96% down 0.02The euro -- $1.0889 up 0.0131The dollar -- 119.55 yen down 0.89

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (93%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); BESTSELLERS (88%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (87%); SALES FIGURES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); WIRETAPPING (74%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (70%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (70%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TERRORISM (67%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (66%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (65%); WRITERS (63%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (63%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (91%); SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (82%); CHEVRON CORP (57%); UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (57%)

TICKER: CVX (NYSE) (57%); UTX (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (91%); NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (82%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (82%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (57%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003



658 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE POSTWAR TASK; 
Turks Wonder Whether U.S. Will Share Some of the Spoils of Rebuilding

BYLINE:  By ALAN COWELL 

DATELINE: ISTANBUL, April 19 

 BODY:
A few weeks before the United States invaded Iraq, Hatem Sayki and hundreds of other Turkish executives flew into Baghdad on a different sort of incursion altogether.
 Led by government officials in what may rank inhindsight among history's worst-timed business trips, Mr. Sayki, a clothing wholesaler, and representatives from Turkey's oil, auto, food and other industries, struck tentative deals with the Iraqi government worth some $2 billion. Mr. Sayki's share was a $12 million contract with the Education Ministry to supply 100,000 two-piece suits for teachers. The clothing deal, which also included items for children, would have yielded a full quarter of this year's sales for Mr. Sayki's company, Hatemoglu, which has 280 employees. 
 It did not quite turn out that way.
The Education Ministry no longer exists -- at least not as a party to any deal. Among Baghdad's official institutions, like ministries and banks, much of what was not bombed was looted. The Baathist government that signed the deal for the gray classic-cut suits from Mr. Sayki has withered away. Oil exports under a United Nations oil-for-food program have been halted, so there is no money anyhow to pay for suits or anything else.
Indeed, the United Nations itself -- once expected to approve the Turkish deals as in compliance with the long-running United Nations embargo against the Iraq of Saddam Hussein -- has been sidelined as the United States awards the first big reconstruction contracts to American companies like the Bechtel Group. Indeed, so intense is the debate about the United Nations' role in postwar Iraq that it is not even clear when penalties against the country will be lifted.
In short, said the 36-year-old Mr. Sayki, whose company is Turkey's oldest private textile maker, the trip that he took to Baghdad in February was something of a miscalculation.
"Many people asked, 'The war is going to start; why are you going?' " he said in an interview at his showroom in the Osmanbey garment district of Istanbul. "But until the final day, we were expecting the war would not start."
And so -- like many other business people in Turkey and in Western Europe and elsewhere -- entrepreneurs, builders and manufacturers here are watching the broken bridges, the tank-chewed highways, the missing air-conditioners and freezers, the ragged clothes and the empty stomachs of Iraq's 24 million people and wondering whether the United States will offer Turkish businesses a share of the spoils.
In Turkey's case, the question is complicated by Parliament's refusal to allow tens of thousands of American troops to pour across the southeast of the largely Muslim country to open a second, northern front against Baghdad -- a decision that lost this NATO member much good will in Washington.
"How can we get a piece of the cake that everybody claims will be lying on the table while Turkey's situation is a bit uncomfortable," asked Ahmet Okcun, a former Turkish ambassador to Iraq who was appointed this week by the Turkish government to coordinate its drive to join the reconstruction.
Turkey once viewed Iraq, its relatively unindustrialized southern neighbor, as a natural market and a gateway to the oil-rich Persian Gulf. Before the gulf war in 1991, Iraq was among Turkey's biggest trading partners. Under the United Nations oil-for-food program, which allowed Baghdad to export two million barrels of crude oil per day to pay for imports approved by the United Nations, oil from the northern fields around Kirkuk was exported through the Turkish port of Ceyhan, earning Turkish companies up to $400 million a year.
But Iraq's postwar legal status is so uncertain that no one seems to know who owns its oil, no one is buying it and Turkey has run out of storage space for it, the government said. Thesituation has interrupted a long-running relationship.
Before 1991, Turkish construction companies vied for contracts in Iraq, and food exporters did good business there.
Okkes Leblebici said his business, the Lebsan Food Company, sold rice, olives, sugar and other basics to Iraq, earning some $200 million from 1983 to 1993. The company ceased dealings with Iraq in 1993, he said, because of bureaucratic and other problems that lowered profits. Regarding the market anew, he said he was still not convinced that Iraq would prove to be the bonanza that others seemed to envisage.
"You know that wars bring along a lot of uncertainties -- both politically and financially," he said. "At the moment, we don't know with whom we would be dealing. Is it going to be the U.S., or another Iraqi administration? Unless the political uncertainties are cleared, and the prospects of the economic benefits emerge, it would not be possible to trade with Iraq."
For construction contractors, too, the future in Iraq seems clouded. "We still have good contacts with American companies and as we are still working with them in Afghanistan, Croatia and other countries, we expect to work with them in Iraq as well," said Ebru Ozdemir, a construction company executive who reckoned the reconstruction bill in Iraq could eventually bring Turkish construction companies one-fifth of the available subcontracts, worth up to $20 billion.
Yet, said Ishak Alaton, one of Turkey's most prominent executives and president of the Alarko Group of Companies, which includes construction, energy and tourism interests, the situation is more ambiguous.
"We know the country so well and there's a natural access for equipment and people" across the Turkish-Iraq border, he said.
But he added that some Turkish executives believe the United States has forbidden American companies to use Turkish subcontractors.
Still, some American companies, Mr. Alaton said, had been urging him to set up an office quickly in Kuwait to stake out a slice of the postwar business; his company will decide in the next few days what course to take. One thing everything agrees on is the scope of Iraq's needs.
"Roads, hospitals, buildings, dwellings, housing, infrastructure, water, sanitation," Mr. Alaton said in an interview.
Some Turkish politicians seem skeptical that the United States will share the work.
The public works minister, Zeki Ergezen, told CNBC Turkey on Thursday: "I find it hard to believe that the U.S. -- which hasn't hesitated to burn and destroy a country for its own interests and ignored world opinion -- would get the Turkish companies involved when its interests are at stake."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hatem Sayki, a clothing exporter, lost a $12 million contract with the Iraqi government when it collapsed. (Alan Cowell/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WHOLESALERS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); APPAREL WHOLESALERS (72%); APPROVALS (72%); CONSTRUCTION CONTRACTING (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (71%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (71%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (71%); HEAVY & CIVIL CONSTRUCTION (69%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); TEXTILE MFG (62%); TEXTILE MILLS (62%); FABRIC MILLS (62%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (61%); TERRORISM (59%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; TURKEY-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) COWELL, ALAN; ERGEZEN, ZEKI (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%); ISTANBUL, TURKEY (90%) UNITED STATES (97%); TURKEY (95%); IRAQ (94%); EUROPE (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) IRAQ; TURKEY

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



659 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1984 words

HEADLINE: THE SARS EPIDEMIC: THE ECONOMIC IMPACT; 
Economies Sickened by a Virus, and Fear

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: PORT DOUGLAS, Australia, April 19 

 BODY:
Michael Glynn rested barefoot on the deck of his fishing boat at the dock here after unloading his catch, and talked about how an outbreak of disease 3,400 miles away had wrecked his livelihood.
 Restaurants in Hong Kong, by far the biggest buyers of live Australian reef fish, halted their purchases four weeks ago when severe acute respiratory syndrome, or SARS, prompted diners to stay home in large numbers. The restaurants have barely bought any since, and fish prices have collapsed. 
 "A lot of the guys have thrown their arms up and stopped" fishing, said Mr. Glynn, who had to go out fishing anyway for three straight days and two nights on the Great Barrier Reef because he had just bought a house. "The mortgage won't go away." 
The troubles of Great Barrier Reef fishermen, who operate Australia's largest fishing fleet, show how even small, out-of-the-way industries are feeling the effects of SARS. The disease -- and more important, fears of the disease -- are starting to cause measurable economic and commercial harm around the world, particularly in sections of the Asia-Pacific region.
SARS is causing the worst economic crisis in Southeast Asia since the wave of bank failures and currency devaluations that swept the region five years ago. The economies of Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan have not just abruptly stopped growing but have begun shrinking, the economies of Malaysia and Thailand are probably next and even China's booming industrial expansion is beginning to slow, said Andy Xie, an economist with Morgan Stanley.
"Outside of China, the whole region is contracting because of this crisis," he said.
With nervous customers staying away from stores and restaurants in areas where cases have been reported, and travelers canceling or postponing trips, industries that offer services to people, like restaurants, hotels, airlines or cinemas, are being hit particularly hard. Also being hurt are suppliers to service industries, like Mr. Glynn and NAV Canada, which plans to start charging more for air navigation services partly because SARS is reducing the number of flights. Other heavily affected industries involve discretionary products, especially luxury goods, rather than necessities.
With fewer than 5,000 actual cases of SARS reported worldwide, manufacturing companies are so far experiencing little or no disruption at their factories but face thinning order books as buyers stop attending trade fairs and other commercial events. 
In places like Paris and London, executives at luxury goods companiesare finding that the grounding of many business travelers by companies afraid of SARS, together with a slump in tourism, has meant fewer sales of Burberry raincoats and other costly items frequently sold at or near airports, hotels and tourist areas.

Manufacturing Continues
"The SARS virus has clearly had an impact on Asia, with many airlines cutting their capacity," said Michael E. Metcalf, Burberry's chief operating officer. "The Hong Kong consumer has been choosing to stay rather more at home, and not to get out there and shop as usual."
LVMH Moet Hennessy Louis Vuitton, for its part, has been annoyed by photos showing Hong Kong residents wearing masks to protect from SARS that bear counterfeit Louis Vuitton logos that have been showing up in European fashion magazines, including Elle.
By contrast, workers and executives at companies making things like automobiles and consumer electronics say there has been little effect so far on production.
In Foshan, a gritty southern Chinese city where doctors first observed SARS cases last November, factory workers are still putting in long hours. Zheng Xiao Di, who tests portable compact disc players at the end of an assembly line where young women earning 50 cents an hour perform every task by hand, said that she and her co-workers did not know anyone who had fallen sick. They have become less worried about the ailment with the passage of time, she said.
For now, manufacturers seem to be having more trouble transporting their goods than making them. Apple Chan, the foreign trade manager at another Foshan factory that makes radio antennas, said that nearly 8 percent of the factory's shipments had been late reaching customers because ports in Europe had delayed the entry of ships from Asia for health reasons.
But the biggest story is that many buyers have deferred placing orders because of a reluctance to travel to east Asia, even to countries like Taiwan with fairly few reported cases and no deaths.
Peter Chang, the sales manager for a communications equipment company, has put in long hours in his company's booth at the Taipei International Electronics Spring Show, which opened on Friday, but has made so few sales that he expects his business will produce 20 to 30 percent less equipment in the six months until the next big trade show.
"Most of my buyers didn't come this year," he said.
Even if the outbreak proves short lived, the effect is already apparent in travel-related industries around the globe. Hotel occupancy is down to 20 percent in Singapore and even lower at many Hong Kong hotels, while retail sales have been cut by as much as half in both cities. Cathay Pacific, based in Hong Kong, has canceled two-fifths of its flights, while other airlines with large Asian operations, like Singapore Airlines and some American carriers, have undertaken more modest reductions in service.
In Singapore, the government on Thursday unveiled a $130 million aid package for the tourist industry. In announcing the package, the government said visitor arrivals to Singapore had dropped 61 percent in the first 13 days of April, and retail sales had dropped by as much as 50 percent.
The main variable in every economist's calculation of the effects of SARS lies not in the number of industries affected but in how long the outbreak could last -- a question that economists, like doctors, are at a loss to predict.
David A. Dodge, the governor of the Bank of Canada, spoke for many analysts assessing the economic effects of SARS when he said this past week that the disease would have a "short-term impact" on the Canadian economy, but warned that "an epidemic like SARS, if it carries on, is obviously going to be quite serious."
Indeed, economists face an even more puzzling question than doctors. Economists must guess not just how long the disease will persist, but they must also figure out how long fears about the disease will last.

Service Companies Affected
If the outbreak and related fears prove enduring, one casualty could be the growing integration of the global economy, which has lately been extending beyond manufacturing to include service industries as well. Many companies have found gains in efficiency by moving operations to whatever country offers the highest productivity at the least cost, but some say they may have to reconsider these moves.
Polaris Software, a company based in Madras, India, has been reviewing its recent opening of a data center in Singapore.
"Singapore is considered a neutral zone, but with SARS we began viewing the country in a new dimension," said S. R. Ramaswami, the company's head of audits and risk management. "Just as business got used to the idea of the globe being a village, along comes a virus that affects something as fundamental to business as travel itself."
Polaris is just one among many of the companies in service industries that need to be available to consumers at all times. SARS is forcing managers in such industries to think about how they would stay in business if one or two employees fall sick and all their co-workers must be sent home for a week to 10 days.
Financial services companies, like commercial and investment banks or brokerages, cannot afford even brief shutdowns. Regulators in financial centers like Hong Kong require such companies to have backup sites and elaborate business continuity plans. Some of those plans are being tested now, as institutions like HSBC start using backup trading floors originally intended as precautions against disasters like fires or earthquakes.
As financial institutions try to decide what to do if problems grow worse in Hong Kong and Singapore, some are looking to Sydney. Australia is an English-speaking nation of 19.3 million, it lies only two hours ahead of the two Southeast Asian nations and it has a low cost of living.
Some big banks expanded their backup centers in Australia after the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001. One bank, which insisted that it not be named, has rented three separate offices in the Sydney area that it keeps empty but ready, one near the airport, one in a beach suburb and one in an outer suburb.

A Decision to Stay or Go
The Macquarie Bank, an Australian institution, has given its Australian employees in Hong Kong the option of coming home, with the majority doing so. Most banks have been wary of making any move to pull out of Hong Kong or Singapore for fear that doing so might invite retaliation by the governments in either place.
Some banks have put decisions on moving employees on hold for now because Good Friday and Easter Monday are public holidays in many former British possessions, including Hong Kong, and many bankers take the weeks before and after Easter as vacations. By the end of April, however, many companies will be assessing whether to begin transferring expatriate employees out of Hong Kong for good if the problem does not appear under control, one investment banker said.
"You've got most of the expat population offshore already, the families at least, and if this goes on, people will start to say, 'Why don't you relocate me?' " the banker said.
Some parts of the world are experiencing little economic impact from SARS. In South America, nervousness about the spread of the disease has been growing, especially since Brazil reported its first case, that of a British journalist arriving in Sao Paulo from Malaysia to cover a Grand Prix race. But because of Holy Week celebrations, many businesses are closed anyway, and vacation travel patterns have remained normal across the continent.
Restaurants like Chuk Yuen Seafood Restaurant on the Kowloon peninsula in Hong Kong have seen little recovery so far. Until SARS hit, the restaurant used to buy 200 live coral trout a month, which arrived by air freight from Australia in large bins filled with specially oxygenated water.
The fish, actually a species of cod that lives among staghorn and brain coral formations on the reef, is speckled with blue spots and in beautiful shades of red, pink and brown. The restaurant kept them in some of the 18 aquariums that line its entrance. Following a popular Chinese practice, the restaurant would let customers choose the fish they wanted for dinner.
But the restaurant has sold only 20 coral trout in the last month and has not ordered any more, said John Yuen, the restaurant's general manager. "Since SARS, no one has parties any more," he said.
When Hong Kong health officials announced a new outbreak of disease a month ago, restaurants and wholesalers across the territory stopped buying any more coral trout while trying to sell the fish they still had alive. After loading his catch aboard a truck here, Mr. Glynn stayed on his boat and recalled that the price at the dock for live coral trout had dropped from $14 a pound to $6 and then $4.50.
It has recovered gradually, but still is only $6.70 now, a price that barely covers fuel costs. To travel 45 to 300 miles to coral trout fishing grounds and bring the fish back to port alive requires very fast, diesel-guzzling boats. 
So Mr. Glynn finds himself struggling to cope with the effects of SARS. "I didn't think that it would be the struggle that it has been in Australia," he said. "And it doesn't seem to be over yet."

Rise of a Virus
Later articles in this series will examine the birth and progression of the virus and the response of health officials.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Auto show workers in Shanghai protect themselves from the virus. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Above, a waitress in Hong Kong and patrons wear masks to protect themselves from illness. Michael Glynn, left, an Australian fisherman, said the SARS outbreak miles away wrecked his livelihood. In China, right, factory workers still put in long hours. (Photographs by Michael Caronna for The New York Times)(Associated Press)(pg. A8) Chart: "Dimensions of an Epidemic And Its Economic Tumult"More than a month after the World Health Organization identified the start of the SARS outbreak, economic disruption has spread to countries with few or no reported cases of the disease. Flights in Canada have been reduced. Experts see a short-term impact on the Canadian economy, perhaps more. Luxury goods makers in London and Paris report sales are down. Northwest Airlines has instituted screening procedures for U.S.-Asian flights. China has canceled festivities planned to celebrate its May holiday. Tourism and hotel and restaurant businesses are off significantly in Hong Kong. Cathay Pacific Airways, Hong Kongs dominant airline, is carrying less than a third the passengers that it had a year ago. Australian and New Zealand fisheries that supply Hong Kong have been hurt by the drastic drop in business there. Visitor arrivals to Singapore have dropped 61 percent; retail sales have fallen by half. The New Zealand meat industry has lost business. CHINA (EXCL. HONG KONG)TOTAL CASES: 1,807SICK: 588RECOVERED: 1,140DIED: 79 HONG KONGTOTAL CASES: 1,380SICK: 883RECOVERED: 409DIED: 88 CANADATOTAL CASES: 306SICK: 265RECOVERED: 27DIED: 14 UNITED STATESTOTAL CASES: 220(Breakdown of cases in the U.S. not available.) SINGAPORETOTAL CASES: 178SICK: 60RECOVERED: 104DIED: 14 VIETNAMTOTAL CASES: 68SICK: 10RECOVERED: 53DIED: 5 TAIWANTOTAL CASES: 29SICK: 13RECOVERED: 16DIED: 0 (Source: World Health Organization SARS numbers ; Local health officials; Reuters)(pg. A8) Map of the world highlights the aforementioned countries and tracks tehier reported SARS cases (Charles M. Blow and Bill Marsh/The New York Times)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (92%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (92%); EPIDEMICS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); DISEASE REPORTING (78%); VIRUSES (78%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (78%); FISHES (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); TRENDS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (67%); AIRPORTS (67%); AIRLINES (67%); DEVALUATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); CURRENCIES (65%); RETAILERS (63%); EXECUTIVES (60%); TRADE SHOWS (50%) RESPIRATORY DISEASES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SERVICE INDUSTRIES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

COMPANY: NAV CANADA (64%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (84%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488111 AIR TRAFFIC CONTROL (64%); SIC4581 AIRPORTS, FLYING FIELDS & AIRPORT TERMINAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (87%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) EAST CHINA (79%) HONG KONG (98%); CHINA (95%); AUSTRALIA (95%); ASIA (94%); FRANCE (92%); CANADA (92%); SINGAPORE (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); NEW ZEALAND (92%); MALAYSIA (79%); THAILAND (79%); AUSTRALIA & NEW ZEALAND (79%); TAIWAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) FAR EAST, SOUTH AND SOUTHEAST ASIA AND PACIFIC AREAS

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



660 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2683 words

HEADLINE: States, Facing Budget Shortfalls, Cut the Major and the Mundane 

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY EGAN 

DATELINE: LINCOLN, Neb., April 18 

 BODY:
At a time when the governor of Missouri has ordered every third light bulb unscrewed to save money, when teachers are doubling as janitors in Oklahoma and working two weeks without pay in Oregon, when Connecticut is laying off prosecutors and Kentucky is releasing prison inmates early, the veterinarian crisis in Nebraska may seem like small potatoes.
 Nebraska has dismissed two of its three state diagnostic veterinarians, meaning a rancher with a sick cow in Scottsbluff now has to drive the length of the state to see what's up with Nellie. 
 That cutback, the state equivalent of rooting for coins in a car ashtray, is a prime example of how far the pain of anemic state treasuries has spread -- and not only in Nebraska, a state where almost 25,000 poor mothers have lost health care and where state college tuition has been raised 20 percent over two years.
 Ranchers here have joined a chorus of wounded constituents pleading with state politicians to restore spending. From Lincoln to Honolulu, the reply has been the same: the till is empty. 
 The states are desperate, struggling with their worst financial crises since World War II. They have tapped rainy day funds, raided tobacco money that was supposed to have provided health care for children and taxed every possible vice.
 Last year brought the storm warnings: some layoffs, the inconveniences of libraries closing early and roads without fresh asphalt. Now, as states scramble to find ways to cut nearly $100 billion this year and next from budgets that must by law be balanced, the cuts are much larger, and their effects profound.
 It is not just that states are withdrawing health care for the poor and mentally ill. They are also dismissing state troopers, closing parks and schools, dropping bus routes, eliminating college scholarships and slashing a host of other services that have long been taken for granted.
 These budget decisions are neither popular nor partisan, the people making them say. Nothing is off the table. Cities and states are stuffing slot machines into gas stations and lending basic services out for commercial bid.
 In Pleasant Ridge, Mich., the police are considering a deal to allow companies to advertise on the sides of patrol cars in exchange for cheap vehicle leases. Police Chief Karl Swieczkowski said his budget-pinched force was ready to go ahead if the advertisements get legal approval.
 "State governments are under siege," said Angela Monson, president of the National Conference of State Legislatures. "This is the real deal, and it's only going to get worse."
 In Ms. Monson's home state, Oklahoma, teachers have driven buses, mopped the floors and even cooked cafeteria food, as support staffs for major school districts have been sharply reduced or eliminated.
 A new library stands empty in Hawaii; the state built it but left no money for books. The bookmobile, the only library access for many in the islands, has already been cut.
Here in Nebraska, a museum of dinosaur bones and natural wonders dismissed its only full-time staff member, costing a swath of the prairie a cultural resource that has been around nearly since the Depression.
 In a state that has vowed to try to hold onto its young people, a thousand University of Nebraska students have been told their financial aid is over, and 431 college positions were eliminated.
 For Neil Obermeyer, a graduate assistant pursuing a master of fine arts here in Lincoln, the cuts mean he will probably leave school, and may go to California, where a good job prospect awaits, he said.
 But for Jonathan Bradley, a disabled father of two, the cuts mean the end of medication that has kept him alive, said his wife, Mary. She works as a paralegal in Omaha, but the job offers no health insurance. The family had been eligible for Medicaid, the state-federal program for the poor and disabled. But to balance its budget, Nebraska raised the eligibility threshold by more than 30 percent.
 "We even considered getting a divorce just so one of us would qualify," Ms. Bradley said. "What are we supposed to do, live in a tent?"
 Measures that voters approved by wide margins -- property tax exemptions for the elderly, teacher salary increases, new parks and open space -- have been eliminated or suspended.
 Washington State, which has the nation's largest ferry fleet with 25 million passengers a year, has announced plans to drop one of its most popular boats -- a foot-passenger-only commuter ferry.
 And in Texas, 275,000 fewer children will receive health care. The state already ranks first in the number of children without medical coverage. Ohio is planning to cut 50,000 people from health coverage, which would be the largest increase of uninsured Ohioans in history.
 Colorado suspended property tax breaks for 120,000 elderly residents. The tax exemption had saved Carol DeBoer, who lives in suburban Denver, $486 a year. 
 "I'm just living one day to the next right now," said Mrs. DeBoer, whose husband has Alzheimer's disease. "We worked hard; we paid our taxes. If there is enough money for wars, shouldn't there be enough to help seniors?"
 President Bush, who was the governor of Texas, is aware of the problems states are facing, aides said. But he made clear when addressing governors in February that no significant help was on the way from the federal government. "It's because we went through a recession and we're at war," he told the National Governors Association.
 Governors point out that Mr. Bush was in his statehouse at a time of record prosperity. Now all but a handful of states have deep economic problems. On top of the recession, states are under new pressure to pay for domestic security and federal school mandates.

Education Is Not Spared
 No matter their political stripe, governors and legislators used to be united in one way: they vowed to protect and enhance education. Last year's budget cuts largely spared schools. This year, layoff notices to elementary and high school teachers have appeared in more than a dozen states.
 Colleges, the source of new jobs for so many states, have also been hit hard. Even money that was already allocated to colleges is not secure; the University of Oklahoma, for example, was told to return money to the state.
 In college towns like Athens, Ga., for-sale signs are ubiquitous.
 "You can go around town and see houses for sale that have been empty for months," said Dr. Kristin Boudreau, an associate professor of English at the University of Georgia, which has had a hiring freeze for more than a year.
 For administrators, the choices are either to raise tuition or drop staff members. Some are doing both.
 The University of Iowa increased tuition by 18 percent -- the largest increase in two decades.
 In Nebraska, rising tuition and staff cuts sparked a big protest at the Capitol last month. Among those objecting to the cuts was a former quarterback for the University of Nebraska's football team, Steve Taylor, who said tuition increases would make it hard to keep young people in the state, which has an aging population.
 The university has been told it will lose the research division of the state museum, where woolly mammoth bones and other prehistoric artifacts draw thousands of tourists.
 "Prospective students are talking about not coming here because they are not sure their programs will be here," said Joe Rowson, a spokesman for the university, which has 42,000 students at four campuses.
 Nebraska has a $761 million budget shortfall. "Education has been the target," Mr. Rowson said, "even though most of our state leaders know this could do some real long-term damage to the state."
 But Gov. Mike Johanns, a Republican in a Republican-dominated state with the nation's only unicameral legislature, said the budget hole was too deep to protect things that most people want.
 At the elementary school level, class sizes are increasing in many states as teachers are dismissed. Often, it is the music teacher or special education expert who is the first to be cut, educators say.
 Oregon has been hit particularly hard. In Portland, in a last-minute effort to keep schools open for the full school year, teachers agreed to work two weeks without pay -- the equivalent of a 5 percent pay cut.
 School districts in parts of Colorado have gone to four-day weeks to trim costs. In Idaho, where the Republican governor, Dirk Kempthorne, has proposed a tax increase to stem further cuts, towns have held bake sales and auctions to keep teachers on staff. Teachers in Twin Falls gave up a day's pay to pool enough money to keep a hearing specialist on staff.
 In California, the most populous state with the largest budget hole, about $30 billion, layoff notices have been sent to 25,000 teachers, although not all of them will be laid off.
 The cuts affect rich and poor districts alike. Summer school will not open for elementary students in San Francisco, and the Laguna Beach school district has announced layoffs of a third of its teachers.
 But schools have been squeezed the most in the Plains. Half the school districts in Kansas have cut staff. At two elementary schools, students emptied their coin jars to keep nurses and foreign-language teachers.
 "Morale is so low, many teachers are leaving the profession," said Carolyn Crowder, president of the Oklahoma Education Association. In her state, a thousand students have lost bus service, custodial staffs have been slashed and class sizes have increased -- all part of an across-the-board cut of about 9 percent.
 "We've got students and teachers cleaning the classrooms, parents bringing in furnishings and materials and no more substitute teachers," Ms. Crowder said.
 The states that have had to pare teachers and programs say their situation will only worsen as they try to meet the goals of new federal legislation that requires schools to raise standards or risk losing federal money.

The Rainy Day Arrives
 The states were flush in the 1990's. The stock market was rolling, incomes were rising and tax receipts soared. Most states chose to give much of the money back in tax cuts at the same time they followed voter directives to spend more on popular concerns like schools, parks and care for the elderly and poor.
 Tax rates dropped in 43 states in the 1990's, and many states passed laws that would make it difficult to raise taxes again. It seemed to many that the good times would never end. Still, 42 states put money into rainy-day funds.
 Critics said the states could not pander to voters' wishes for good schools and fully financed Medicaid systems while still slashing taxes. The states seemed convinced that they could.
 According to an analysis by the Cato Institute, a conservative-leaning organization, spending from the states' general funds rose an average of 5.7 percent a year between 1990 and 2001, nearly double the inflation rate.
 At the same time, taxes were cut sharply. For seven years, ending in 2002, a majority of states had net tax cuts.
 The two largest areas of state spending, Medicaid and education, are now taking the brunt of the cuts, with prisons not far behind.
 But critics say the states should not have promised to raise teacher salaries, say, or provide health care for the working poor, only to turn around and cut those areas now.
 Colorado is cutting Medicaid benefits to more than 3,500 legal immigrants, including 120 nursing home residents.
 "Without medicine, I will die," said Aleksandr Nukhman through a translator. A 78-year-old Russian immigrant, Mr. Nukhman learned he had prostate cancer last year. He takes 13 medicines daily; his tiny apartment's kitchen table is covered in orange prescription bottles filled with large purple and little pink pills. His other ailments include diabetes and high blood pressure.
 Medicaid has paid all his medical bills so far. He does not know how much his medications cost, but says he has no extra money to pay for them on his own.
 As the economy staggered, the states turned to their reserve rainy day funds, took settlement money from tobacco companies and used it for general purposes and raised taxes in the areas considered least likely to be politically harmful.
 That was in 2001 and 2002. Now the cuts are much larger, and much more unpopular politically. Tax receipts, instead of turning around, have only become worse. States are letting historic sites fade away, or not encouraging new art. In Arizona, for example, plans are under way to eliminate the arts commission.
 "It's kind of stunning to be on that list," said Shelley M. Cohn, executive director of the Arizona Commission on the Arts, which supports nonprofit arts organizations like the Arizona Opera Company and the Phoenix and Tucson symphonies and works with small arts groups.
 "Yes, these are hard times, but we have worked for three decades to change the perception that Arizona is a cultural wasteland," Ms. Cohn said. "To attract the knowledge workers, the business and the level of tourism that Arizona wants to have, we have to maintain an arts community that is high quality."
 Ms. Cohn called public support of the arts a "small but mighty" investment, because it identifies deserving arts organizations and encourages private donors to support them.
 In Indiana, the cutbacks mean some people cannot return to a favorite park, or camp within the state. Indiana has closed some campgrounds, eliminated a beekeeper inspection program and a program that provided folk music and story-telling at state parks.
 And the state will no longer pay for upkeep of 14 historic sites, including the childhood home of Ernie Pyle, the World War II reporter.
 "If there's a leak in the roof, the solution is, get a bucket," said Stephen Sellers, a spokesman for the Department of Natural Resources.
 In tiny communities, the cuts can make a huge difference, residents say. The only public swimming pool in Crawford County, in southern Indiana, will be closed because the state cannot afford $1 million in repairs.

Tax Increases Not Enough
 At the depth of their desperation, some states with strong no-new-tax traditions raised taxes. Nebraska's legislature last year overrode a veto and raised income taxes and other fees. It is still not enough, and across-the-board slashing has been ordered to fill the shortfall.
 Gov. Bob Taft of Ohio, a Republican with a family name synonymous with low taxes and streamlined government, proposed a tax increase to comply with court orders to finance schools adequately. But the legislature rejected it, prompting a round of cuts.
 At least 15 states have raised taxes, five of them by 5 percent or more. Other states are turning to gambling, but are finding that the market has gone somewhat soft.
 What the states are left with now, in some cases, are extreme measures, and infighting.
 In Illinois, some prisons have been asked to reduce pharmaceutical costs by ordering more potent prescription drugs, and then splitting them in half.
 In Washington State, after legislators said they would have to renege on a promise to raise the salary of home health care workers to $8.70 an hour from $7.86, the Senate majority leader, James West, a Republican, complained that the health care workers were "perpetual pathetics" who were always whining.
 In response, the workers union produced a woman, Sherry Beebe, who had cared for Mr. West's ailing mother.
 "I was one of the workers who took care of your mom," said Ms. Beebe in a letter to Senator West. "Stop being so selfish and think about where you would be if you had to care for your mom for almost no pay or benefits."
 The bitterness is closer to the land in Indiana, where Mary Craft, 58, and her husband, Oliver, 56, say they can no longer afford to camp in their home state, where they used to spend nights at Shakamak State Park or Lake Monroe with some of their 10 grandchildren.
 "Our wiener-roasting days are done," said Mrs. Craft, who lives in Gosport. Camping fees have risen to $23.50 a night, from $12, she said.
 "There's no sense in that," she said. "Anything that was affordable, now they're just raising it up to where an ordinary person can't afford it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Missouri, every third light bulb in most government buildings has been unscrewed. The move is one of numerous cost-saving measures being tried by states short of cash. (Associated Press); The Bradleys, from left, Courtney, Mary, Kaitlynn and Jonathan, will no longer be eligible for Medicaid because of cutbacks in Nebraska. (Kent Sievers for The New York Times); Melville and Carol DeBoer of Colorado lost a property tax break. (Kevin Moloney for The New York Times)(pg. A20) Chart: "ADDING IT UP: State Budget Shortfalls"Fourteen states and Washington, D.C., have balanced budgets, while five states face budget gaps that are more than 9 percent of their total budgets. Four states face gaps of more than $1 billion. Map of the United States shows budget shortfalls (by state) -- Percent of total fiscal year 2003 budget, Feb. 2003 estimate ALASKA: Highest -- 30% Map of the United States shows the 10 largest shortfalls (by state) -- In dollars, two tied for 10th Indiana.OhioNew YorkMassachusetts.ConnecticutNew JerseyVirgiiniaOregonColoradoCaliforniaTexas (Source: National Conference of State Legislatures.)(pg. A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); TUITION FEES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VETERINARY SERVICES (77%); MEDICAID (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); LIBRARIES (70%); MOTOR VEHICLES (70%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (70%); CHILDREN'S HEALTH (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); WEATHER (66%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (64%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (63%); GAS STATIONS (62%); WORLD WAR II (52%) STATES (US); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICAID 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SCOTTSBLUFF, NE, USA (91%); HONOLULU, HI, USA (79%); LINCOLN, NE, USA (79%) NEBRASKA, USA (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (93%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



661 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1326 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Marines Leave Baghdad As Pilgrimages Continue
The marines completed their pullout from Baghdad amid mounting political uncertainty, leaving the city under the control of an Army force that was maintaining a much lower profile. At the same time, hundreds of thousands of Shiite pilgrims were traveling on foot to their holy city of Najaf for ceremonies long banned under Saddam Hussein. A1

A scientist who claims to have worked in Iraq's chemical weapons program for more than a decade has told an American military team that Iraq destroyed chemical weapons and biological warfare equipment only days before the war began, members of the team said. A1

The collapse of the Iraqi government and the unmasking ofinterrogation centers is bringing out scores of people returning in freedom to the places of their captivity. A1

A view of the rescue of Pfc. Jessica D. Lynch from an Iraqi hospital in Nasiriya, provided by two Iraqi doctors who witnessed it firsthand, suggests that the mission was a harrowing and complicated operation that included far more than simply saving an injured prisoner of war. A12

President Bush said that he was encouraged by signs that Syria was heeding his call not to harbor former Iraqi leaders, changing his tone after several weeks in which his administration had cast Syria as a danger to the stability of the region. A14

Re-election Likely in Nigeria
Nigeria's president, Olusegun Obasanjo, appeared to be in no danger of losing his seat as election results trickled into the capital. With roughly 20 percent of local government areas reporting, he was capturing 75 percent of the votes. A2

Split Over Palestinian Cabinet
The Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, was still struggling to reach a compromise over a list of ministers with Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader. Only three days remain to form a new government by law. The impasse has become so bitter that some Palestinian officials wondered how Mr. Abbas and Mr. Arafat could work together if they came to terms on a cabinet. A3

War on Criminals in Serbia
Serbia's government is in the midst of an unrelenting attack on the crime gangs and accused war criminals who held this country of 7.5 million people in their thrall a month after Serbia's 50-year-old reformist prime minister, Zoran Djindjic, was assassinated. A4

SCIENCE/HEALTH

China Increases Case Count
The Chinese government disclosed that cases of a dangerous new respiratory disease, SARS, were many times higher than previously reported, and fired two top officials. Beijing had 339 confirmed cases of SARS and another 402 suspected cases as of Friday, a health official said. A1

Fear of the illness, as much as the disease itself, is beginning to cause measurable economic and commercial harm around the world. A1

NATIONAL A17-21

States, Facing Shortfalls, Make Cuts Large and Small
The states are struggling with their worst financial crises since World War II. They have tapped their rainy day funds, raided the tobacco money that was supposed to have provided health care for children and taxed every possible vice. Now, as states scramble to find ways to cut nearly $100 billion this year and next from budgets that must be balanced by law, the cuts are much larger, and their effects profound. A1

Medicare Drug Costs
The Bush administration, in a fundamental change, has begun to weigh cost as a factor in deciding whether Medicare should pay for new drugs and medical procedures. In recent weeks, federal officials have adopted policies to limit what Medicare pays for prescription drugs. A1

Bill to Protect Gun Industry
Many lawsuits would be stopped if a bill passed by the House of Representatives last week that grants the gun industry nationwide immunity from virtually all suits is approved by the Senate and signed into law by President Bush. A17

Soldiers' Joyful Homecoming
Families and friends turned out at Fort Bliss, Tex., to greet five returning servicemen who had been held captive in Iraq for three weeks. President Bush and his family joined two other freed prisoners of war at an Easter service at Fort Hood, Tex. A13

Suspect Carried Cash
The California man charged with killing his pregnant wife was carrying $10,000 when detectives stopped him more than 30 miles from the Mexico border and arrested him. A17

Bush Promotes Tax Cut
President Bush does not intend to give up on his tax cut without a fight. There is considerable confidence within the administration that the president can use his postwar popularity to force the tax cut back up toward $500 billion or $550 billion. A21

A Haven Before Independence
Experts in foster care say a house in Whittier, Calif., now under renovation for girls leaving foster homes, may be the only one in the nation that has as part of its mission the commitment to provide housing as long as it takes for a young person to live independently. A18

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Evidence of Inmate Abuse At New Jersey State Prison
Information supporting many inmate claims of retributive abuse has emerged five years after the fatal stabbing of a corrections officer by an inmate at Bayside State Prison. B1

Shooting Suspect Killed
A 23-year-old fugitive sought in the fatal shooting of a New Jersey police officer in Bergen County last week was killed in a gun battle with sheriffs' deputies in Florida after a high-speed chase, the authorities said. B1

Mayor Fails to Woo Labor
Mayor Bloomberg entreated municipal labor leaders to join him in finding ways to trim $600 million in labor costs when he kicked off his efforts to cut the city's budget deficit. But his efforts have gone nowhere. B3

SPORTSMONDAY D1-10

Los Angeles and Detroit Win
The Lakers, the three-time defending champions, beat the Minnesota Timberwolves, 117-98, in Game 1 of the N.B.A. playoffs. D1

The Pistons beat the Orlando Magic, 99-94. D4

Angry Words in Yankee Office
Yankee Manager Joe Torre said he is angrier than he has ever been in his eight years working for George Steinbrenner, the Yankee's principal owner, after Steinbrenner overruled Torre's decision to send a struggling pitcher to Class AAA Columbus. Torre's authority may be weakening as Steinbrenner exerts more influence over personnel moves. D1

ARTS E1-12

Hollywood Tries Reality Genre
On Friday, New Line Cinema will release a movie called "The Real Cancun," the first attempt by a Hollywood studio to transfer the reality television phenomenon to the movie screen. E1

OBITUARIES B7

Earl King
The New Orleans rhythm-and-blues guitarist and singer who wrote songs that became Mardi Gras standards, he was 69. B7

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

OPEC Faces Uncertainty
The Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries will meet this week, facing more uncertainty now that the main fighting in the war in Iraq is over than it did when it met five weeks ago to set its spring export levels. C1

Russian Oil Merger Seen
The owners of Russia's largest oil company, Yukos, and the country's No. 5 producer, Sibneft, are close to a deal on a merger, people briefed on the talks said. C2

Talks for Chubb of Britain
United Technologies is in discussions to buy Chubb, a British security systems company, for more than $1.3 billion, executives close to the talks said. C2

U.S. Sides With Record Industry
The Bush administration has sided with the recording industry in its court battle to force Internet providers to disclose the identities of subscribers who may be illegally trading materials online. C14

AT&T in Dispute Over Hacking
Victims of a telephone hacking swindle are disputing a contention by AT&T that they are responsible for costly long-distance calls fraudulently made through their voice mail systems. C7

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A22-23

Editorials: New York's lost leader; Everglades in peril; Ethan Bronner on the rules for covering dictatorships.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E10
Crossword E9
Weather D6
Metro Diary B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (90%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (86%); ELECTIONS (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); WAR CRIMES (69%); DISEASE REPORTING (63%); SARS (63%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (66%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (66%) IRAQ (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); SERBIA (93%); CHINA (92%); SYRIA (92%); NIGERIA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



662 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1300 words

HEADLINE: Fugitive Dies After Chase And Shootout 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
A 23-year-old fugitive sought in the fatal shooting of one New Jersey police officer and the wounding of another in Bergen County last week was killed in a gun battle with sheriffs' deputies on a sunbaked highway in Florida yesterday after a gunfire-punctuated high-speed chase through two counties, the authorities said.
 Three days after Officer Mary Ann Collura was shot dead in Fair Lawn as she went to the aid of the other officer, the hunt for the suspect, Omar Marti, an unemployed printer from Passaic, ended 900 miles away near a hamlet 60 miles northeast of Tampa. 
 Armed with two handguns and a stash of other weapons, the suspect stepped out of a car that had ground to a halt on its rims, its tires shredded away by roadblock spikes after a wild 20-mile chase through west-central Florida, and in a final act of defiance opened fire at six Hernando and Sumter County deputies who were closing in.
Shooting from behind the car until his .44 Magnum and .380 automatic were empty, Mr. Marti threw the guns down and raised his hands, as if to surrender, said Michael Mordaga, chief of detectives for the Bergen County prosecutor's office, who coordinated the manhunt and was in on its final moments. 
But it was a ruse. "He then stepped backward and grabbed a shotgun," Chief Mordaga said in a cellphone call from the scene of the shootout, a stretch of State Route 48 just west of a hamlet called Bevilles Corner. "He emptied the shotgun at them, then took cover behind his car to reload."
Spotting a pickup truck approaching, Mr. Marti left the cover of his 1987 gray Oldsmobile and ran toward it. "It appeared he was going to try to carjack the truck," the chief said. "But the pickup stopped. He knew he was not going to make it to the truck. He spun around and raised the shotgun."
The deputies, believing they were about to be fired upon again, fired back just as Mr. Marti raised the shotgun to his chin and fired. "He blew his jaw off just as they fired several shots that hit him in the chest," Chief Mordaga said.
While many shots were fired during the chase and in the final battle, none of the deputies were injured, said Capt. Gary Brannen of the Sumter County Sheriff's Department. "We knew he was armed and dangerous, and we're thankful that none of the deputies were injured."
At a news conference in Fair Lawn later, John L. Molinelli, the Bergen County prosecutor, praised the work of hundreds of investigators in New York, Florida and other states, and expressed satisfaction that the manhunt had ended without the need for a capital murder trial.
Calling Mr. Marti's death a case of "suicide by cop," Mr. Molinelli said, "He just chose to take the easy way out, and it certainly makes things easier for us."
Capt. Anthony Serrao of the Fair Lawn Police Department, also praised the outcome. "I'm happy with this," he said, his lips trembling and tears welling in his eyes. "But it doesn't bring back Mary Ann."
Four relatives of Mr. Marti -- his father,two brothers and a cousin -- have been charged with helping him to escape, and the cousin and a brother have also been charged with possession of marijuana with intent to distribute the drug. The slaying of the fugitive left only one man still at large in the case. He was identified yesterday as Manuel Brignoni, a friend from New Jersey who may also be a relative of Mr. Marti's. He was said to have provided Mr. Marti with the car he used to get to Florida.
A mix of emotions -- anger at the suspect, relief that he had been killed and continued mourning for Officer Collura -- overflowed at the Fair Lawn police station yesterday. A makeshift memorial of flowers, candles, posters and poems had been set up outside.
Standing beside it, Tom Kamphausen, 63, a friend of Officer Collura for many years, voiced his loss, and bitterness at the suspect. "I hope he died in pain," Mr. Kamphausen said. "There are no words to describe how great she was."
Officer Collura, 43, the first woman appointed to the force in Fair Lawn and one of only five female officers ever killed in New Jersey, responded Thursday night to a call from a Clifton, N.J., police officer, Steven Farrell, 30, who was chasing two men in a red Nissan. It ended outside a church in Fair Lawn, where both officers were shot by one of the suspects.
Both officers wore bulletproof vests. Officer Farrell was wounded in both legs and an elbow. He is still in stable condition at St. Joseph's Regional Medical Center in Paterson. Officer Collura was fatally shot in the abdomen. As she lay on the ground, the suspect who shot them -- believed to be Omar Marti -- jumped into Officer Collura's car and ran over her as he sped away.
Ivan Marti, Omar's cousin, was arrested and charged with hindering police efforts to find the fugitive and with possession of marijuana; he was held in $500,000 bail. Similar charges were made against Victor Marti 2nd, a brother of Omar, who was held in $100,000 bail. Joseph Marti, an older brother, and Victor Marti Sr., the father of Omar and Victor 2nd, were both charged with aiding the escapee.
In the investigation, the authorities learned that Mr. Marti had previously lived in Johnson City, N.Y., near Binghamton, and 100 detectives went to the area and raided 16 homes where Mr. Marti might have taken refuge, Chief Mordaga said. Investigators then learned that Mr. Marti had most likely fled to Florida with Mr. Brignoni in a borrowed car.
Early yesterday, investigators acting on a tip said they had learned that Mr. Marti was hiding in a house at Ridge Manor, in Hernando County, northeast of Tampa. But as they approached the house at 9:37 a.m., they saw the suspect flee in the borrowed Oldsmobile, heading east on State Route 50.
At least 14 police cars and more than a score of deputies from Hernando and Sumter Counties and the Florida State Police took part in the ensuing chase, in which scores of shots were fired by and at the police. Chief Mordaga said that Mr. Marti's car was "loaded" with numerous handguns, shotguns and an AK-47 assault rifle.
The chase raced east on Route 50, then turned north on Sumter County Road 469. Mr. Marti, the authorities said, shot out the rear window of his car to get clearer shots at the police. As Mr. Marti's car approached the community of Center Hill, the police set up a roadblock, laying down spikes to flatten his tires.
But he apparently saw the spikes, swerved around them and sped west on State Route 48.
Mr. Marti continued to fire at the deputies. "There will be no way to know how many shots he fired because he fired at pursuing deputies throughout the entire chase," said Lt. Bobby Caruthers, a Sumter sheriff's spokesman.
Up ahead, at a point where State Route 48 crosses County Road 471, the authorities set up another roadblock and more spikes "and this time he hit them," the lieutenant said. He said the tires deflated and eventually the rubber shredded and peeled off the rims.
The car finally came to a halt on Route 48 near Bevilles Corner. "He just couldn't go any further," Chief Mordaga said. "He got out with two guns, one in each hand -- a .44 Magnum and a .380 automatic -- and fired."
A few minutes later, he was killed in the road as he apparently tried to kill himself, shot in the chest by the deputies just as his own shotgun blast tore his jaw away. It was not immediately clear whether he died of the police bullets or his own blast. Either might have been fatal, and to some law-enforcement officials it hardly mattered, for the danger he represented was gone.
Mr. Marti's car was "loaded with guns -- handguns, shotguns, banana clips of ammo, assault rifles as well," Chief Mordaga said. "The officers in New Jersey never had a chance. The officers down here were prepared. They did their job professionally, and we're very pleased with the outcome."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Omar Marti had been sought by hundreds of investigators. (Bergen County Police Department)(pg. B5) Map of Florida highlighting Bevilles Corner, where suspect was killed: The fugitive, Omar Marti, died after high-speed police chase in Florida. (pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (93%); FIREARMS (91%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); SHERIFFS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MURDER (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); CARJACKING (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (74%); CAPITAL CRIMES (71%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (59%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ATTACKS ON POLICE; DRUG ABUSE AND TRAFFIC 

ORGANIZATION: BERGEN COUNTY PROSECUTOR'S OFFICE (55%)

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; COLLURA, MARY ANN (POLICE OFFICER); MARTI, OMAR; FARRELL, STEVEN (POLICE OFFICER); MARTI, IVAN; MARTI, JOSEPH; MARTI, VICTOR SR; MARTI, VICTOR 2ND; BRIGNONI, MANUEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) FLORIDA; FAIR LAWN (NJ); CLIFTON (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



663 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 5; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
It's Stern's World, For Better or for Worse

BYLINE:  By SELENA ROBERTS 

 BODY:
WHETHER it is the scent of a mahogany negotiating table, or the aroma of union fear, there is a Pavlovian response that jolts David Stern out of his cherubic demeanor as commissioner and into the skin of a club bouncer.
 Arms folded in a pinstripe suit hemmed for his frame, Stern is a menacing figure at the boardroom door. Eyes narrowed behind glasses carved from a jelly jar, Stern defies anyone to cross his ledger. 
 That means the N.B.A. players who were forced to hold "charity" games for themselves when their walking-around-the-Benz-lot money began drying up during the 1998 lockout. 
That means the W.N.B.A. players who were forced to face the mortality of their league last week when caught negotiating in a sagging economy during Stern's take-it-or-leave-it, springtime-only offer. Like the men, the women capitulated even though the league hasn't acknowledged the tentative deal yet. Like the men, the women needed to work given that no other options existed.
"I'm happy to be playing," Sheryl Swoopes told a Houston television station over the weekend. "Happy with the deal? No."
An equal opportunist, Stern treats both genders with the same conceit and inflexibility. He bullied the union to cap salaries to ensure that Yankee-style checkbook championships would not swallow the competitive balance of the N.B.A. -- though the Eastern Conference is ripe for contraction. He arm-twisted the union into a lengthy five-year deal to give the W.N.B.A., founded in 1997, a chance for a life on a coupon clipper's budget -- even if some owners still want to scrap the league.
Stern, the bully. Stern, the savior. Right now, the images stand side by side. But as much as Stern deserves to be commended for preserving the heartbeat of the W.N.B.A., as easy as it is to throw rose petals at the all-mighty man's leather loafers, he was also the Svengali behind a single-entity model that helped put the women's league at risk.
"In the end, the players had to pay for mistakes by a league that believed their way was the only way to grow the game," one basketball official said on condition of anonymity. 
Growth is always tricky for Stern. He has expansion-itis. Instead of allowing a buzz gap -- that period between the giddy introduction of the W.N.B.A. and the reality of a core audience base -- the league began establishing new teams before the founding franchises took root. This past year, Miami and Portland folded after three seasons, before the new-car smell wore off their team uniforms. 
The president of the Phoenix Suns, Rick Welts, whose team owns the W.N.B.A.'s Mercury, told The Times's Richard Sandomir last week: "Building on the first two years, we projected on a line straight up. I don't know if that was realistic."
Obstinacy is always an issue for Stern. He has immovable-itis. Instead of encouraging franchise development in the Pat Summitt territory of Tennessee or in the Geno Auriemma country of Connecticut during the early years, the league stubbornly clung to its geographical strategy, only providing summer rental space for the ladies in N.B.A. locations. Only recently have league officials adjusted their thinking, allowing the Mohegan Sun to buy the Miracle, moving the team to UConn Land. 
Letting go is hard for Stern. He has Daddy-itis. Instead of freeing players to maximize their local visibility and endorsement incomes, Stern put them under house rules by forbidding them to cash in on deals that competed with 18 league sponsors. For example, if General Motors is the official car of the W.N.B.A., no player could say, "Have you driven a Ford lately?" In the new deal, the sponsor restrictions have been cut to 6 from 18. 
By way of tweaks during collective bargaining, the league has tacitly admitted some culpability in the struggle of the W.N.B.A. But has it really been such a struggle? 
A year ago, Stern hailed the W.N.B.A. as a smart investment. Now, he saves it from death's door? Before bemoaning the average attendance of 9,228 for a W.N.B.A. game, note the 6,547 the Atlanta Hawks announced one night this season. Before casting suspicion on the popularity of the game in terms of TV ratings and revenue, understand that the men have also taken a hit in both. 
The difference is, there is no reservoir of history for the W.N.B.A. to draw on, no margin for error in women's sports. True, trailblazers are supposed to suffer -- and it's not as if the W.N.B.A. players' demands were that out of line with the league offer -- but the owners of start-up ventures are not into the romance phase of building a league from scratch. 
Itchy owners long for a reality-TV finale where everyone finds true love in six dates. This short-attention-span culture has been the bane of women's pro sports, many of which have debuted only to disappear over the last decade. 
Remember the American Basketball League, and its $150,000 salaries for women players? Whatever happened to it? 
Stern crushed it in 1998, after two-plus seasons. By undercutting the A.B.L.'s ability to grab major sponsor deals, Stern eliminated any potential safety net for W.N.B.A. players.
This is the conditioned-response side of Stern. One whiff of competition, and Stern snuffed it out. Whether he's Easy Dave or Big Bad Dave, he is always thinking ahead. For this, he deserves credit. It's his vision that is not always perfect, leaving room to ask, did Stern save the W.N.B.A. from itself or from himself?

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Stern threatened to cancel the W.N.B.A. season if the union would not agree to his terms. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); LOCKOUTS (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); BUDGETS (75%); TOURNAMENTS (70%); BASKETBALL TOURNAMENTS (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (51%) BASKETBALL; PLAYOFF GAMES 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (93%); DETROIT PISTONS (59%); ORLANDO MAGIC (59%) ORLANDO MAGIC; DETROIT PISTONS 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%); MIAMI, FL, USA (50%) ARIZONA, USA (71%); FLORIDA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



664 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Follow the Money 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Why do you suppose France and Russia nations that for years urged the lifting of sanctions on oil production of Saddam's Iraq -- are now preventing an end to those U.N. sanctions on free Iraq? 
 Answer: the Chirac-Putin bedfellowship wants to maintain control of the U.N.'s oil-for-food program, under which Iraq was permitted to sell oil and ostensibly use the proceeds to buy food and medicine for its people. (In reality, Saddam skimmed a huge bundle and socked it away in Swiss, French and Asian banks.) 
 Iraqis now desperately need all that the country's oil production can buy. But Jacques Chirac cares little about reconstruction of basic services; he is more concerned about maintaining U.N. control -- that is, French veto control -- of Iraq's oil. 
"Sophisticated international blackmail" is what Senator Arlen Specter called it yesterday. Blackmail is the apt word: unless the U.S. and Britain turn over primary control of Iraq to the U.N. -- none of this secondary "vital role" stuff -- Chiracism threatens to hobble oil sales and prevent recovery.
This extortion is greeted with hosannas by the thousand or more U.N. employees and contractors involved in the present oil-for-food setup, many beholden to France for their jobs. And so long as the U.N. bureaucracy handles the accounting, it is as if Arthur Andersen were back in business -- no questions are asked about who profits from the sanctions management.
My Kurdish friends, for example, who are entitled by U.N. resolution to 13 percent of the oil-for-food revenues, believe their four million people are owed billions in food and hospital supplies. I wonder: in what French banks is the money collected from past oil sales deposited? Is a competitive rate of interest being paid? Is that interest being siphoned off in "overhead" to pay other U.N. bills? 
Colin Powell apparently believes that Chirac's new fondness for sanctions could tie up Iraqi oil production with litigation for years. His advice to President Bush is to pay the ransom but nibble away at the sanctions with limited resolutions. I think we should confront the extortion scheme head on and let Chirac use his veto to isolate France further.
What other money trails need to be followed? Few doubt that vast Iraqi assets have been secretly transferred out of the country for years, and especially in the prewar months. This is done through cut-outs, phony foundations, numbered accounts, intelligence proprietaries, leveraged currency speculation through proxies in unregulated hedge funds and a hundred other financial devices. Taken together, Saddam's huge haul is now terrorism's central bank account.
This kind of money moves not in satchels but over wires. Needed to root it out is a financial Javert. Bush and Tony Blair should create a task force of the best computer sleuths at Treasury, the exchequer, the Defense Intelligence Agency, the Fed, Interpol and the Bank of England to ferret out the hidden billions that belong to the Iraqi people. (Here is how Admiral Poindexter can find gainful employment.) 
Start with the 200,000 barrels a day of Kirkuk oil that Iraq smuggled to Syria, an illegal pipeline flow ignored by the U.N. but stopped recently by Secretary Rumsfeld. 
Then follow the money: We know that President Bashar Assad turned an ophthalmologist's blind eye to Saddam's use of the Syrian port of Tartus to import missile fuel components from China and night-vision goggles from Russia. In return, Saddam sold Syria oil at a bargain price -- say, as little as $5 a barrel. That adds up to more than a billion bucks over a few years in Saddam's personal pocket, placed -- where? 
Money recaptured from the Thief of Baghdad should be used to build new villages for those Arabs he transferred north in his campaign to ethnically cleanse Kirkuk of troublesome Kurds. That would allow a peaceful return of Kurds to their ancestral homes without displacing Arab or Turkmen families. 
And here's the way the government of New Iraq can save some of the money it now loses by Russia's eager participation in blackmail in the Security Council: Declare that the $10 billion owed by Iraq under Saddam to Russia for unused tanks and planes will be repaid on the day Vladimir Putin repays the debt incurred by Russia under the czars. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); VETO (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); EXTORTION (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); CENTRAL BANKS (75%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (73%); FOOD CHARITIES (71%); INTEREST RATES (62%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (61%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (60%); TERRORISM (60%); CURRENCIES (60%); LITIGATION (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; FOOD; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); ARLEN SPECTER (52%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%) IRAQ; FRANCE; RUSSIA

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



665 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: PRESIDENT; 
Bush Now Says He Believes Syria Wants to Cooperate

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Texas, April 20 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that he was encouraged by signs that Syria was heeding his call not to harbor former Iraqi leaders, changing his tone after several weeks in which his administration had cast Syria as a rogue nation and a danger to the stability of the region.
 "I'm confident the Syrian government has heard us," Mr. Bush said. "And I believe it when they say they want to cooperate with us." 
 Mr. Bush's comments were directed primarily at the question of whether the Syrian government is allowing senior associates of Saddam Hussein to hide in its country or pass through en route to refuge in other nations. But he also appeared to be addressing the broader question of Syria's willingness to address American concerns about its links to terrorist organizations and its development of chemical weapons, topics that Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is expected to raise with the Syrian president, Bashar Assad, during a trip soon to the Middle East.
"It seems like they're beginning to get the message," Mr. Bush said of Syria.
The president made his remarks in response to questions from reporters after attending Easter church services at Fort Hood, Tex., and meeting with two of the former American prisoners of war who returned to the United States late on Saturday, Chief Warrant Officers David S. Williams and Ronald D. Young Jr.
Answering a question about North Korea's nuclear weapons program, the president said pressure from China, South Korea and Japan, along with the United States, created "a good chance of convincing North Korea to abandon her ambitions to develop nuclear arsenals."
Mr. Bush also said that he expected that establishing democracy in Iraq would be hard, and that if Mr. Hussein was alive, "I would suggest he not pop his head up."
His comments came amid an escalating debate over how long the United States will have to remain an occupying force in Iraq, and how it can retain control over Iraq's political and economic development while still winning international support for peacekeeping and rebuilding efforts.
Senator Richard Lugar of Indiana, the Republican chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, said today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press" that it could take at least five years to create a functioning democracy in Iraq.
"It is not clear to the Congress or to the American people what the cost of this will be, what the budgetary aspects are, how the currency, how the banking system, how international trade, how any of this works," Mr. Lugarthe said.
Ahmad Chalabi, an Iraqi opposition leader who has considerable backing from the Pentagon, said on "This Week" on ABC News that it would be two years before Iraq could hold democratic elections and that the United States should retain a military presence until then. 
In his remarks today, Mr. Bush did not directly address the likely length of the military occupation, and administration officials reiterated their vague pledge that the United States would not stay a day longer than necessary. Mr. Powell has raised the possibility that NATO could eventually assume a peacekeeping role in Iraq, allowing the United States to reduce its military presence, but the Pentagon is already drawing up plans for a long-term military relationship with Iraq that would include maintaining forces at four bases around the country.
Mr. Bush suggested he was unconcerned about anti-American protests in Iraq and about the prospects for the emergence of an Islamic government that might be hostile to the United States.
"I've always said democracy is going to be hard," Mr. Bush said. "It's not easy to go from being enslaved to being free. But it's going to happen, because the basic instinct of mankind is to be free. They want to be free. And so, sure, there's going to be people expressing their opinions, and we welcome that, just like here in America people can express their opinion."
Mr. Bush's remarks on Syria appeared to be both a response to what the Syrian government has done in answer to American concerns and an effort by the administration to temper concern that it might take military action against Mr. Assad's government.
In recent weeks, American officials have accused Syria of allowing shipments of military equipment to Iraq, of permitting Syrian and other Arab fighters to cross its border into Iraq to battle American forces and of allowing senior Iraqi leaders to flee across its border.
In response, the United States has cut off an oil pipeline running from Iraq into Syria and has stepped up the diplomatic pressure on Mr. Assad.
Pentagon officials, citing intelligence reports, said last week that at least seven former Iraqi officials were now in Syria, including a former official of Iraq's Republican Guards and Special Republican Guards who is No. 8 on the American wanted list. Mr. Powell said last week that the United States had provided Syria with the names of Iraqis believed to be in the country, and was waiting for a response from Damascus.
Over the last week, American officials have reported some positive signs from Syria. Today, two members of Congress who visited Mr. Assad in Damascus said he had assured them that his government would identify and expel any former Iraqi leaders found to have taken refuge in his country.
The congressmen, Representatives Nick J. Rahall II, Democrat of West Virginia, and Darrell Issa, Republican of California, recounted what they said had been the Syrian leader's assurances in a television interview on "This Week" on ABC News.
"We got a specific commitment that he will not harbor any war criminals and he will expel any that get into the country," Representative Rahall said in the television interview. "And we're conveying that back to the United States and hopefully we can count on him to enforce that promise."
After attending church at Fort Hood and answering reporters' questions, Mr. Bush flew by helicopter back to his ranch here for Easter dinner with his family, including his parents, and the last day of a five-day vacation here.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Chief Warrant Officer Ronald D. Young Jr., left, a former prisoner of war, with President Bush at Fort Hood, Tex., yesterday. After attending Easter services, Mr. Bush returned to his ranch for dinner with his family. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); ELECTIONS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (73%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); TERRORISM (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); EASTER SEASON (51%); RELIGION (51%); ARMED FORCES (50%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-SYRIA 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (81%)

ORGANIZATION: PRISONERS OF WAR (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (81%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (81%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); DICK LUGAR (78%); BASHAR AL-ASSAD (59%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); SYRIA (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%) SYRIA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



666 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1123 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Calls for Sacrifice, but Unions Say They Gave 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The very week that Michael R. Bloomberg was elected mayor 17 months ago, with hardly any union support, he surprised many New Yorkers by openly courting municipal labor leaders, knowing that their cooperation could make his life much easier.
 So when Mr. Bloomberg kicked off his efforts to cut the city's budget deficit, he understandably hoped his courtship efforts would help persuade those same union leaders to join him in finding ways to trim $600 million in labor costs. 
 But his efforts have gone nowhere, largely because City Hall and the unions have sharply clashing perceptions of how to cut the deficit and whether municipal workers should even be called on to sacrifice. After Mr. Bloomberg and the unions failed to agree on any money-saving plan, the mayor ordered a total of 4,500 layoffs and warned that 10,500 more might be necessary to help eliminate the city's nearly $4 billion budget deficit. With these moves, his relationship with labor sank to a new low. 
Exhibit A of the clashing perceptions between the mayor and labor is the unions' assertion that their proposals to save $600 million included important concessions and would satisfy Mr. Bloomberg's desire for bona fide productivity measures. Union leaders said their package, which called for early retirement incentives and stretching out the city's pension contributions, resembled money-saving proposals accepted by past mayors. 
But Mr. Bloomberg ridiculed the unions' proposals, saying they included at most $20 million in real savings. He insisted that they would merely move costs from this year to future years and would not provide the productivity increases, like shorter vacations or a longer workweek, that he was seeking.
Randi Weingarten, the president of the United Federation of Teachers and the chairwoman of the Municipal Labor Committee, which coordinates bargaining for the city's unions, defended the union proposals.
"We've been doing these kinds of things since the 1970's, when things were hard," she said. "But we have found that the rules of the game change with Bloomberg by the day. He's just raising the bar more and more each day, because he really doesn't want to reach an agreement with us. He wants to showhe's being tough."
She contended that the mayor was eager to lay off workers to show that he was as tough as his predecessor, Rudolph W. Giuliani, and to convince Albany lawmakers that the city was in desperate shape and needed a commuter tax.
Union officials argued that their early retirement package could save $200 million a year by, for example, persuading 5,000 experienced $80,000-a-year teachers to retire and replacing them with $40,000-a-year teachers. Union officials also said their proposals would save the city $300 million this year by postponing a $300 million pension contribution to future years. 
But the city's labor commissioner, James F. Hanley, asserted that these proposals might not save any money at all. The early retirement incentives, he said, would end up costing the city more because the city would have to increase its pension contributions after many newly retired teachers began receiving pensions of $50,000 a year or more. Furthermore, he said, stretching out the pension contributions would ultimately mean increased costs, not savings, because the city would have to pay 8 percent interest on the delayed contributions. 
"These would hardly be good business decisions," Mr. Hanley said. "One could argue that these things have been agreed to in the past. Maybe that's one of the reasons we're in the position we are in now. We borrowed money that we had to repay in the future, and that has caused us to mortgage our children's future."
Mr. Hanley said Ms. Weingarten appeared serious about wanting to propose real savings, but he said many other union leaders were not serious and preferred layoffs to concessions. Union leaders recognize that their re-election chances are generally jeopardized far more by concessions, which hurt all union members, than by layoffs, which hit only a small percentage. 
Diana Fortuna, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a watchdog group, praised Mr. Bloomberg for taking a different stance from his predecessors. 
"There definitely has been a history where mayors have asked for productivity savings, and the unions came up with a bunch of gimmicks that weren't real productivity, and the mayors accepted them and declared victory," she said. "Bloomberg's refusing to go down that route, which was the right thing to do. Perhaps the unions were surprised by that."
Another clashing perception that has made it hard for City Hall and the unions to agree on anything is the strong belief within labor that municipal workers made more than their share of concessions in the past. In the early 1990's, they endured an 18-month wage freeze under Mayor David N. Dinkins, and in the mid-1990's, a two-year freeze under Mr. Giuliani.
"We've given enough concessions," said Michelle Clarke Griffith, an administrative worker in the Administration for Children's Services, who has been a city employee for two decades. "We gave concessions in the 70's and the 90's. We lost a lot."
This perception that municipal workers have sacrificed disproportionately, especially when the 1990's was a boom decade for many New Yorkers, has fueled the unions' drive to enact a commuter tax, an income tax surcharge for New Yorkers who earn more than $100,000 a year, or both.
But Mr. Hanley insisted that the city's workers fared well in the 1990's. He noted that after their two-year wage freeze, most city workers received raises totaling more than 21 percent over the next five and a quarter years. Not only that, he said they stopped having to contribute 3 percent of their pay toward their pensions.
"The unions are into saying, 'We share in the pain, but not in the gain,' " Mr. Hanley said. "But the fact is their take-home pay outpaced inflation in the 1990's."
The unions are also reluctant to grant concessions because of their perception that municipal workers are generally underpaid and have a hard time making ends meet in such an expensive city.
"It's hard for me to think about concessions when I represent so many individuals who make $29,000 a year," said Lillian Roberts, executive director of District Council 37, the largest municipal union. It represents 125,000 workers, whose salaries range from $15,000 to $80,000 a year.
Mr. Hanley responded, "No one is getting rich as a city employee, but New York City employees stack up favorably with their counterparts in other cities."
But echoing the mayor, Mr. Hanley said that clash of perceptions or not, the unions have to make a choice: come up with money-saving concessions or endure even more layoffs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Two days after his election, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg met with Randi Weingarten, the teachers union president, courting labor support. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times, 2001) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MAYORS (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); EARLY RETIREMENT (89%); TEACHER UNIONS (89%); CITIES (89%); WORK WEEK (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (76%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; ORGANIZED LABOR 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (92%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%) GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



667 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: White House Memo; 
To Save Tax Cut, Bush Banks on Political Capital

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex., April 20 

 BODY:
As he ordered the invasion of Iraq last month, President Bush put his economic team on wartime footing, asking them to monitor the financial markets and business activity almost hour by hour.
 Each morning in the war's first weeks, a group of cabinet secretaries and senior White House officials crowded around the conference table in the West Wing office of Stephen Friedman, the chairman of the National Economic Council. Often, they were joined by Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman. They pored over what they called the "dashboard," a collection of economic and financial indicators, from oil prices to airline bookings, that would give them a sense of the economy's speed and direction. The numbers were updated and sent by e-mail to the officials throughout the day. 
 The red lights they were watching for never really started flashing. While employers continued to cut jobs, there was no sustained spike in oil prices, no panic on Wall Street, no serious disruption of global trade.
Instead, a crisis of a different sort seemed to blindside, and frustrate, the president's economic advisers as the war progressed: Mr. Bush's proposed $726 billion tax cut, his prescription for the economy's stubborn weakness, was shrinking before their eyes, a victim mainly of a rebellion by a few Republicans in the Senate who declined to go along with his supply-side agenda.
As Mr. Bush vacationed at his ranch here this weekend, basking in his success in Iraq, he could look back on what had happened to his tax-cut plan as a lesson in the limits of his political power, even at a time when the nation was rallying behind him as commander in chief.
But Mr. Bush has made it clear that he does not intend to give up on his tax cut without a fight. There is considerable confidence within the administration that the president can use his postwar popularity to force the tax cut back up toward $500 billion or $550 billion.
"I am concerned when people in our society can't find work," Mr. Bush said today after attending Easter services at nearby Fort Hood. "And so I've been constantly promoting an aggressive jobs and growth program."
Even if he does not succeed, administration officials said, Mr. Bush will benefit politically if he is perceived as fighting hard on behalf of a plan that he says will create jobs.
"The president thinks the policies he proposed are the right package of policies in both the short term and the long term, and he's going to continue pushing for them," a senior White House official said. "From our perspective, this is not about pushing a tax cut, it's about pushing a package to make the economy grow faster and create more jobs and increase wages."
The economic effects of Mr. Bush's plan are as uncertain as its political fate. The Congressional Budget Office, now directed by Douglas Holtz-Eakin, an economist who had been an adviser to Mr. Bush, assessed the president's proposal last month and concluded that it might have either a positive or a negative effect on the economy, but that in either case the effect would be modest.
The skirmish among Republicans about whether the nation can afford tax cuts of the scale the president is seeking is the latest flare-up in the battle for the economic soul of the party, with Mr. Bush leading the heirs of the Reagan-era supply-siders against the party's old-school fiscal hawks, who think budget deficits matter and are concerned that they are again getting out of control.
For the moment, opposition from just two Republicans, Senators George V. Voinovich of Ohio and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, stands a good chance of forcing Mr. Bush to limit his tax cut to $350 billion.
Administration officials have dropped hints about cranking up the political pressure on the two senators in their home states, and Mr. Bush is planning to visit Ohio this week, a return to his tactic in previous tax-cut battles of flying in on Air Force One to take his argument to his opponent's turf. Among the possible stops for Mr. Bush is a factory that produces tanks for the Army.
Such an appearance would give him an opportunity to take another bow with symbols of the nation's military might in the picture and to speak from the commander in chief's platform about his tax-cut plan. He sought to link his postwar popularity to his domestic agenda in the same way last week at a fighter-jet factory in St. Louis.
So far, the only direct assault on Mr. Voinovich and Ms. Snowe has come from a conservative political action committee, the Club for Growth. The group, which advocates tax cuts, said it had run television commercials in Ohio and Maine this weekend describing the two senators as "so-called Republicans" and suggesting that they were to Mr. Bush's economic agenda what President Jacques Chirac of France had been to the war on Iraq.
Mr. Bush is not shying away from hardball politics, either. In addition to stepping up his own travel with an eye toward pressing wavering lawmakers and laying the groundwork for his re-election campaign, Mr. Bush is sending his cabinet, including Treasury Secretary John W. Snow and Commerce Secretary Donald L. Evans, on swings through politically important states. Some of the states, like Louisiana, where Mr. Snow traveled last week, are home to moderate and conservative Democratic legislators who might be induced to support tax cuts of more than $350 billion.
Mr. Bush's aides are also making clear to Senator Bill Frist of Tennessee, the Senate majority leader, who agreed to the deal that would limit the tax cut to $350 billion, that he bears a responsibility to "make the situation right," as one administration official put it.
There are risks for Mr. Bush. The tax-cut fight could divide his own party rather than draw out his differences with Democrats. And given the scale of the effort to recover his tax cut, any failure would undercut his postwar political authority as he prepared to deal with issues like Medicare, never mind his re-election campaign. But one of the lessons he learned from his father is that political capital cannot be banked for a rainy day, and to the degree that Mr. Bush has extra capital now, he seems intent on using it. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAX RELIEF (87%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); LAYOFFS (53%); EASTER SEASON (50%) TAXATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) STEVENSON, RICHARD W; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



668 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1043 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: NUCLEAR STANDOFF; 
Administration Divided Over North Korea

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 20 

 BODY:
Just days before President Bush approved the opening of negotiations with North Korea over its nuclear program, Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld circulated to key members of the administration a Pentagon memorandum proposing a radically different approach: the United States, the memo argued, should team up with China to press for the ouster of North Korea's leadership.
 Mr. Rumsfeld's team, administration officials said, was urging diplomatic pressure for changing the government, not a military solution. But the classified memo, drafted by officials who are deeply opposed to opening talks that could eventually end up benefiting North Korea economically, shows how the handling of the crisis has become the newest subject of internal struggle over how to pursue Mr. Bush's determination to stop the spread of nuclear arms and other unconventional weapons. 
 Officials on all sides of the arguments say that, with the fall of President Saddam Hussein of Iraq, the internal battles that once surrounded the policy on Iraq are re-emerging over North Korea.
White House officials say a change of government in North Korea is not official administration policy -- and some suggest that the secret memorandum was circulated for discussion among high-level officials, including Vice President Dick Cheney, and may not represent Mr. Rumsfeld's view. Mr. Rumsfeld's spokeswoman, Victoria Clarke, said today that the defense secretary completely supported the president's diplomatic strategy for disarming North Korea. 
But the memo's main argument, that Washington's goal should be the collapse of Kim Jong Il's government, seems at odds with the State Department approach of convincing Mr. Kim, in the words of one senior administration official, "that we're not trying to take him out." 
The memorandum was described by several officials who have seen it, including critics of the Pentagon approach who say it is ludicrous to think that China -- which is acting as intermediary between North Korea and the United States -- would join in any American-led effort to bring about the fall of the North Korean government.
"The last thing the Chinese want," said a senior administration official dealing with the delicate diplomacy, "is a collapse of North Korea that will create a flood of refugees into China and put Western allies on the Chinese border." 
President Bush said today that China's willingness to intervene in the negotiations -- along with close coordination with Japan and South Korea about dealing with the North Korean government -- meant that there was "a good chance of convincing North Korea to abandon her ambitions to develop nuclear arsenals."
But some in the administration liken the new effort to force North Korea to give up its nuclear weapons to Mr. Bush's attempt last September to force Iraq to open up to full inspections: while the White House believes that it is worth a try, few in the administration believe it will work. Mr. Bush and Mr. Rumsfeld have carefully avoided ruling out a military strike on North Korea, though they have both publicly insisted that this is a moment for diplomacy and that no military action is currently contemplated.
Even those who urged the administration to talk to North Korea, like Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana and the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, say the threat of military action, no matter how risky, must underpin any talks. "I think that that always has to be there as a very strong possibility," Mr. Lugar said today on the NBC News program "Meet the Press."
Hard-liners in the Pentagon -- and some at the White House -- say that the United States should use its speedy victory in Iraq to drive home to North Korea that it could meet the same fate if it ignores Mr. Bush's demand that it dismantle its nuclear weapons program, ship its spent nuclear fuel out of the country and open up to intrusive inspections.
Mr. Powell's approach, officials familiar with his thinking say, is to offer North Korea assurances that the United States is not trying to undermine its government, but to make clear that until the nuclear programs are dismantled, the country will get no aid and investment. Mr. Powell received final approval for his approach in a meeting with President Bush last week, a session Mr. Rumsfeld did not attend.
"There's a sense in the Pentagon that Powell got this arranged while everyone was distracted with Iraq," said one intelligence official. "And now there is a race over who will control the next steps."
North Korea is the next case in Mr. Bush's policy of zero tolerance for "rogue states" with such weapons, because unlike Iraq it has two active nuclear programs. The Central Intelligence Agency believes that the country may have developed two weapons before a 1994 nuclear-freeze agreement. North Korea continues to sell missiles to Iran, Syria, Pakistan and other states around the world, and Mr. Powell's deputy, Richard L. Armitage, told Congress earlier this year that if the country made weapons-grade plutonium, it would probably sell it.
On Friday, in its first explicit comment on the Iraq war, North Korea said it had learned something from the fall of Mr. Hussein. "The Iraqi war teaches a lesson that in order to prevent a war and defend the security of a country and the sovereignty of a nation," North Korea said in a statement, "it is necessary to have a powerful physical deterrent."
The talks scheduled for this week were nearly scuttled on Friday when, in that same statement, North Korea appeared to suggest -- according to its own English-language translation of a government statement -- that it had already begun reprocessing its spent nuclear fuel into bomb-grade plutonium. That would mean that Mr. Bush was entering into talks with the nuclear clock ticking. Unless a quick deal was struck, North Korea would be producing weapons-grade material within weeks.
But by midday Friday, American, Japanese and South Korean officials said that when read in the original Korean, the statement said that North Korea was poised to begin producing plutonium, not that it had done so. Today the White House said it was consulting with its allies about whether to go ahead with the talks, scheduled to begin Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (71%); REFUGEES (62%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); KIM JONG IL (78%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%); DICK CHENEY (58%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); RUMSFELD, DONALD H (SEC); KIM JONG IL; CLARKE, VICTORIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%) NORTH KOREA; IRAQ; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



669 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 598 words

HEADLINE: New York's Lost Leader 

 BODY:
At the precise moment Mayor Michael Bloomberg was begging publicly for state funds to relieve New York City's worst economic plight in 70 years, the state's most powerful official -- Gov. George Pataki -- was in Albany having his own media moment. A grinning Mr. Pataki was handing out "Go Cuse" license plates to the winning basketball team from Syracuse University. Asked for his reaction to the "doomsday" budget being outlined a few hundred miles away, the governor frowned and refused to answer questions unrelated to basketball.
 It's time for Mr. Pataki to stop acting like a politician running for office. He won already. Now he needs to buckle down and start helping a very troubled state and a very needy city. Hard times have landed on his watch, and he will be remembered by how he copes with them. 
 In the last few weeks, New York City and local communities around the state have begun to recognize the devastating impact of the governor's proposed cuts of almost $4 billion. Some are talking about raising local taxes 20 percent or more to fill the Pataki gaps. Mr. Bloomberg's worst-case budget -- a budget without enough state help -- could turn New York City into a very bleak place. Loss of services, more homeless, dirtier streets and fewer police officers would translate into loss of tourism, spurring a downward economic cycle that would suck the entire state's finances further into the red. New York could be at its shabbiest in a year, just in time for the Republican convention to spotlight Mr. Pataki's stewardship of the city.
The state and the city desperately need recurring revenues, at least temporarily, but any taxes should be levied fairly. Among the least fair is a sales tax -- the one tax coming from Mr. Pataki's camp. The governor argues that if the state raises taxes, it will lose jobs. The fact that he's opened the door to the one tax that hits paupers at the same level as millionaires, while helping to drive shoppers across state lines, suggests that his real concern is not the welfare of New York but his credentials as a conservative income-tax cutter. This is a critical moment, and the last thing on Mr. Pataki's mind should be his political resume -- a piece of paper that won't be worth much anyway if he sits idle while the city fails.
With the state budget stalled in Albany, Mr. Pataki says he has put out his version and that it is now time for the Legislature's. But even under the best circumstances -- not the usual description of the operations at New York's Assembly or State Senate -- legislatures are by their very nature places that respond to initiatives from the top. They cannot hammer together the kind of package that will best serve the needs of an entire state. We elect a governor for that.
In this time of crisis, Mr. Pataki should not just be meeting occasionally with his two dancing partners -- Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver and Joseph Bruno, the Senate leader. He should be in New York City, working with Mayor Bloomberg, adding his political weight to the struggle to put together an emergency financial package. He should be holding press conferences daily and addressing the problems in major speeches. He should be, in every way, the leader. Right now he is barely on the scene. 
This budget year is as crucial to Mr. Pataki's reputation as it is to the communities and city that depend on him. This is his moment, for better or for worse. He will be remembered either as the man who led the state through one of its toughest times or as the blank slate who preferred his photo ops while New York crumbled. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); SALES TAX (76%); BASKETBALL (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

ORGANIZATION: SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (57%)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%) BLOOMBERG, MICHAEL R (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



670 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 21, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: What Is It Good For? 

BYLINE:  By BOB HERBERT; E-mail: bobherb@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Somewhere George Shultz is smiling.
 Mr. Shultz, whose photo could appropriately appear next to any definition of the military-industrial complex, was secretary of state under Ronald Reagan and has been a perennial heavyweight with the powerful Bechtel Group of San Francisco, where he previously reigned as president and is now a board member and senior counselor. 
 Unlike the antiwar soul singer Edwin Starr -- who, in an ironic bit of timing, went to his eternal reward early this month just as American ground forces were sweeping toward Baghdad -- Mr. Shultz knows what war is good for. 
And he wanted this war with Iraq. Oh, how he wanted this war. Mr. Shultz was chairman of the fiercely prowar Committee for the Liberation of Iraq, which was committed to moving beyond the mere political liberation of the oil-rich country to the all-important and conveniently profitable "reconstruction of its economy."
Under the headline "Act Now; The Danger Is Immediate," Mr. Shultz, in an op-ed article in The Washington Post last September, wrote: "A strong foundation exists for immediate military action against Hussein and for a multilateral effort to rebuild Iraq after he is gone."
Gee, I wonder which company he thought might lead that effort.
Last week Mr. Shultz's Bechtel Group was able to demonstrate exactly what wars are good for. The Bush administration gave it the first big Iraqi reconstruction contract, a prized $680 million deal over 18 months that puts Bechtel in the driver's seat for the long-term reconstruction of the country, which could cost $100 billion or more.
Bechtel essentially was given a license to make money. And that license was granted in a closed-door process that was restricted to a handful of politically connected American companies.
When the George Bushes and the George Shultzes were banging the drums for war with Iraq, we didn't hear one word from them about the benefits that would be accruing to corporate behemoths like Bechtel. And we didn't pay much attention to the grotesque conflict of interest engaged in by corporate titans and their government cronies who were pushing young American men and women into the flames of a war that ultimately would pour billions of dollars into a very select group of corporate coffers.
Now the corporations (not just Bechtel by any means) have a lock on Iraq, and U.S. taxpayers are obliged to pay the bill.
Among those in Congress who are beginning to challenge this loathsome process is Senator Ron Wyden, an Oregon Democrat who is one of the lead sponsors of a bipartisan bill that would require a public explanation of any decision to award Iraqi reconstruction contracts without a "fully open, competitive bidding process."
In an interview, he said, "You look at this process, which is secret, limited or closed bidding, and you have to ask yourself: 'Why are these companies being picked? How's this process taking place, and is this the best use of scarce taxpayer money at a time when seniors can't afford medicine, kids are having trouble getting access to a quality education and local communities are just getting pounded? The administration has been keeping the taxpayers in the dark with respect to how this money is being used, and that information ought to be shared."
The blatant war-mongering followed immediately by profiteering inevitably raise questions about the real reasons American men and women have been fighting and dying in Iraq. President Bush told us the war was about weapons of mass destruction and the need to get rid of the degenerate Saddam. There was also talk about democracy taking root in Iraq and spreading like spring flowers throughout the Arab world.
The two things that were never openly discussed, that never became part of the national conversation, were oil and money. Those crucial topics were left to the major behind-the-scenes operators, many of whom are now cashing in.
The favoritism, the secretive method by which the contracts are being awarded and the arrogant and unconscionable exclusion of the United Nations and even close U.S. allies from significant roles in the administration and reconstruction of Iraq all contribute to the most cynical interpretation of American motives.
The men and women who fought bravely in Iraq, for reasons they felt were noble and unassailable, deserve better. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); INTERVIEWS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); LEGISLATION (72%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (71%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); CONTRACT AWARDS (69%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (69%); ENGINEERING (68%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: BECHTEL GROUP INC (96%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: BECHTEL GROUP 

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (96%); SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%) SIC8711 ENGINEERING SERVICES; 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (89%); RON WYDEN (77%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (56%) SHULTZ, GEORGE P 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (57%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2003 



671 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1019 words

HEADLINE: Canada Seeks Phone Rivalry 

BYLINE:  By BERNARD SIMON

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 19 

 BODY:
More than a decade after barriers to competition began to come down in Canada's telephone industry, politicians and regulators are venting their displeasure at how little has been accomplished.
 In contrast to the United States, where AT&T was broken up long ago and curbs placed on the new regional operating companies, regulators in Canada have taken a softer approach, seeking to encourage competition without destabilizing the entrenched incumbents. The hope has been that new entrants would gain market share by building networks of their own, and, with some help from regulators, by gaining access to existing lines at reasonable cost. 
 But in late March, the industry minister, Allan Rock, told telecommunications executives that the competitive environment "is not what it could be and, certainly from where we stand, not what it should be." 
The main targets of Mr. Rock's concern were Bell Canada of Montreal and the Telus Corporation of Vancouver. Bell, a unit of BCE Inc., dominates the market in Ontario and Quebec, Canada's most populous provinces, as well as in eastern Canada. Telus, formerly owned by the province of Alberta, is strongest in the west. Verizon Communications of New York owns 21 percent of Telus. 
While Bell and Telus have lost significant share in the long-distance market and face stiff competition from cable operators in high-speed Internet services, the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission, or C.R.T.C., estimates that they shared 97.6 percent of local business and residential services in 2001. Mr. Rock said competition was also falling in long distance. 
Over the last decade, a dozen competitors have tried to challenge the supremacy of Bell and Telus in the local market, but all have either collapsed or retreated to other businesses. Meanwhile, Bell and Telus have expanded geographically through acquisitions, to the point where each is becoming the other's main rival. 
The Canadian approach has been "far more cautious than appropriate," said Christopher W. Peirce, senior vice president for regulatory and government affairs at AT&T Canada, which sought protection from its creditors last year after spending 4 billion Canadian dollars ($2.76 billion) on long-distance and local services. The company emerged from a restructuring earlier this month. As part of the arrangement, AT&T has given up its equity interest; the Canadian company plans to rename itself later this year. 
Some signs of a tougher regulatory approach have appeared recently. The C.R.T.C. has ordered Bell and Telus to curb promotions aimed at recapturing customers lost to fledgling competitors. The commission also notified Bell and Telus earlier this month that it planned to send inspectors into their offices to verify compliance with its rulings. 
With the aim of giving newcomers greater access to capital, a parliamentary committee is expected to propose on April 28 that the government lift foreign ownership restrictions on Canadian phone companies. The law now limits foreign shareholders to one-third of the voting stock of holding companies and 20 percent of operating companies. 
James Peters, executive vice president and chief general counsel at Telus, said that while "the C.R.T.C. is trying to balance the interests of newcomers and incumbents, for now the pendulum has swung a little too far towards the newcomers." 
There islittle indication, however, that these measures represent a radical departure from the cautious approach of the past. Lawson Hunter, BCE's executive vice president for regulatory affairs, said, "Things are going to be done to encourage and enable competition, but I'm not sure we're going to see any fundamental change in the philosophy." 
Paul Holman, who watches the industry for the Dominion Bond Rating Service in Toronto, said the C.R.T.C. "will continue to provide some headway for the newcomers, but they're not going to disadvantage the incumbent telcos." He added, "They're looking for some kind of balance." 
Jon Arnold, a telecommunications analyst in Toronto for Frost & Sullivan, a consultancy, said, "A lack of competition doesn't mean we have an unhealthy market." And Mr. Holman said: "Our telecoms market is probably one of the best in the world. It's very efficient and very fairly priced. It's well run and the players have ample access to capital." 
The impending relaxation of ownership restrictions is expected to have a minimal impact on competition for now. Mr. Hunter at BCE said investors would remain skittish about putting money into the sector until financial markets and the economy recovered. If anything, the recent trend has been in the opposite direction. Besides AT&T's exit, SBC Communications of San Antonio earlier this year returned to BCE the 20 percent stake in Bell Canada that it bought during the telecom boom of the late 1990's. 
Mr. Peirce at AT&T Canada said the C.R.T.C. should take bolder steps to level the playing field, especially by giving newcomers cheaper access to the incumbents' networks. Though AT&T has installed about 12,000 miles of fiber optic cables and local networks in the last decade, "we can't replicate what the incumbents have built over 100 years," Mr. Peirce said. 
Instead, the regulators dealt AT&T Canada a setback last year by turning down an application to reduce the fees that Bell and Telus charge for network access. AT&T appealed the decision to the federal cabinet last month, but without success. 
In the same speech in which he raised concerns about competition, Mr. Rock defended the price cap decision. "The value of stability, the danger of uncertainty and the current investment climate are clearly critical," he said. "We decided that, on balance, the risks of intervening in this decision marginally outweigh the benefits of doing so." 
Charles Dalfen, the C.R.T.C.'s chairman, told the parliamentary committee reviewing foreign ownership rules earlier this year: "Regulation is only one piece of the puzzle. Other pieces include the recovery of financial markets, technological developments and the quality of decision-making in the industry itself."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bell Canada dominates the eastern part Canada, as here in Toronto. Telus controls the West. Together, the two companies are estimated to have about 97 percent of Canada's local phone business. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (89%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); BROADBAND (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (71%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (69%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (66%); INTERNET & WWW (65%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CANADA; CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION 

COMPANY: TELUS CORP (94%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); BCE INC (83%); MTS ALLSTREAM INC (52%)

TICKER: TU (NYSE) (94%); T (TSX) (94%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%); BCE (TSX) (83%); BCE (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (94%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (94%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (52%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; SIC3661 TELEPHONE APPARATUS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (90%); MONTREAL, QC, CANADA (79%); VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (78%) ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); QUEBEC, CANADA (79%); BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (78%); ALBERTA, CANADA (58%) CANADA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



672 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: A Man Who Writes 

BYLINE:  By Raul Rivero

DATELINE: HAVANA 

 BODY:
Earlier this month, the Cuban government tried and sentenced some 80 writers and dissidents to lengthy prison terms. Raul Rivero, 57, a poet and the country's best-known independent journalist, was among them. He was accused of collaborating with the United States and given a sentence of 20 years. Mr. Rivero published the following essay two years ago in La Nacion, a newspaper in Argentina. It was translated by Edith Grossman from the Spanish.
 The letter of the law concerning the protection of national independence and the economy in Cuba allows the authorities in my country to sentence me to prison because of the only sovereign act I have performed since I gained the use of my reason: writing without being dictated to. 
 The path I set out on a few years ago, after a total rupture with the government's press and cultural media, has transformed me into a different human being, someone who has liberated himself on his own, someone who in threatened and hostile circumstances could begin the journey toward individual freedom.
Fear, prison and harassment have served only to give more value to these discoveries. They have contributed to the fact that my devotion to the sovereignty of the individual is now much more than an idea or a necessity; it is an untamable instinct.
And so an order written in the perishable ink of political trickery and wrapped in a clumsy maneuver to make it seem that we, a small group of journalists, were working in Cuba as allies of drug traffickers and procurers and salaried mercenaries of the United States, yields only a cocktail of repugnance in me.
The years in prison that the law promises with so much generosity must be viewed with a consternation that goes beyond the fear of confinement and punishment. It means presenting the Cuban nation as an encysted tribe in the Caribbean, closed off from information and the discussion of ideas, remote from evolution and change.
I have responded to the raised arm of this new law, to the insults from the dark functionaries of official journalism, to the threatening calls to my house -- I realize this when I am alone with my typewriter -- with the joy of knowing I am free, the certainty that reporting with objectivity and professionalism and writing my opinion about the society in which I live cannot be a grave offense.
I cannot feel guilty. It is almost as if I were being accused of breathing, or as if an eventual prison term had been predicted for me because I love my daughters, my mother, my wife, my brother, my friends.
I cannot assume I am a criminal because I recounted with precision the drama of more than 300 political prisoners, or reported that a building in Old Havana was demolished, or published an interview with a Cuban who wants a pluralistic society complete with freedom of expression.
No one, no law, can make me assume the mentality of a gangster or a criminal because I report the arrest of a dissident or a lawbreaker, or make known the prices of basic food products in Cuba, or write an article saying it's a disaster that each year thousands and thousands of Cubans go into exile, to the United States, and hundreds of others living abroad try to remain wherever they happen to be.
No one can make me feel like a criminal, or an enemy agent, or someone who does not love his country, or make me believe any of the other absurd accusations the government uses to degrade and humiliate. I am only a man who writes. And writes in the country where he was born, and where his great-grandparents were born.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Samantha Burton) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SENTENCING (91%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (73%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (70%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (67%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); ARGENTINA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



673 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 793 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL: ON THE GROUND -- In White Plains; 
Construction and Outdoor Cafes: A City Blossoms

BYLINE:  By TANYA MOHN

 BODY:
So many corporations started flocking north to White Plains and environs from Manhattan in the 1950's that one highway that became studded with their office buildings was known as the Platinum Mile. Then, starting in the 1980's, many departed, including General Foods and Texaco, in the mergers-and-acquisitions binge of the 80's and the downsizing that went with it. Soon 99-cent stores and tattoo parlors were sprouting in the formerly bustling downtown.
 Now, though, the economic decline has ended. Some companies, like PepsiCo and I.B.M., never left the area, and others, including MasterCard International and many small and medium-size businesses, have set up shop. The influx accelerated after the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, with several prominent law firms opening offices and Morgan Stanley buying the former Texaco headquarters in nearby Harrison to accommodate up to 3,000 employees and a trading floor. 
 Construction is everywhere, fueled by more than $1 billion of private investment in the last four years, much of it helped by the $320 million City Center project -- scheduled to open in October -- by a local developer, Louis R. Cappelli. The city has spruced up the business district with potted flowers, trees and new street lights and sidewalks; outdoor cafes are packed at lunch, and police officers patrol the streets on bikes.

AIRPORT
A cab from La Guardia, Kennedy International or Newark Liberty International Airports can take 30 to 90 minutes, depending on the traffic, but the WESTCHESTER COUNTY AIRPORT, built for the military in World War II, is just minutes away.
Though it is one of the nation's three busiest airports for corporate and charter flights and is served by more than a dozen airlines, it has not lost its country club feel. Lawrence C. Salley, the county's commissioner of transportation, says a new security master plan will "go above and beyond" federal requirements.

HOTELS
At the newly renovated CROWNE PLAZA (914-682-0050, $199 to $239) downtown, courtesy shuttle buses will take you anywhere within seven miles. Its bar is a popular local hangout for its large-screen projection television and Friday night karaoke. "These people really care about doing it right," said Dr. Gerald Gardner, an orthodontist who holds professional meetings there. The staff even held an impromptu pajama party during a recent blizzard. 
For easy airport access, try the DORAL ARROWWOOD CONFERENCE RESORT (914-939-5500, $200 to $225) in Rye Brook, which specializes in corporate business retreats and meetings. Christine C. Counihan, a program training coordinator for Citigroup in Manhattan who runs executive training programs there, likes the rates and the free movies and popcorn offered some evenings; her participants like the indoor and outdoor tennis courts, the pool and the nine-hole golf course.

RESTAURANTS
Dan Tearno, a vice president of Heineken USA in White Plains, recommends MULINO'S (914-761-1818, $110 for dinner for two, including wine and tip) for its northern Italian cuisine and the tables that look out on a courtyard garden with waterfalls. "It's where the political movers and shakers in the county eat," he said. He also likes the Mediterranean fare at TROTTERS (914-421-5012, $85). It features live jazz or a D.J. at the cocktail lounge Wednesday through Saturday. It's also the place to see and be seen.
Richard G. Baccari, managing partner of the Richard G. Baccari & Company accounting firm, says if you want to do something a little different, take a client to the recently opened SEASON'S JAPANESE BISTRO (914-421-1163, $40; no liquor license yet, so bring your own) for sushi and soup. Another newcomer is VINTAGE (914-328-5803, $100). It is in a refurbished Art Deco building and serves eclectic dishes like Thai peanut shrimp lo mein.
For power breakfasts, Richard P. Biondi, a vice president for the White Plains Hospital Center, says CITY LIMITS DINER (914-686-9000) "has the greatest homemade granola in the world" as well as delightful aromas wafting in from the bakery.

ENTERTAINMENT
 Mr. Biondi likes GRYPHON'S (914-682-0048), "a relaxing little place for beer and darts," great burgers and Peruvian-Italian fusion food. Mr. Tearno enjoys DOOLEY MAC'S (914-428-0211), which he describes as "a good Irish pub," and MICHAEL'S RESTAURANT AND SPORTS CAFE (914-946-9385), a haven for Yankee fans.
LAZY BOY SALOON (914-761-0272) is a good place to shoot pool over one or two of the more than 400 brands of beer on the menu. For a quiet alternative, LOLOVIVI (914-682-4128), a new wine-and-dessert bar, serves espresso, gourmet teas and light fare amid overstuffed pillows and lots of candlelight.

This feature about places to stay, eat and visit in leading business destinations appears every Tuesday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis R. Cappelli, a White Plains developer, is briefed by an engineer at the site of the City Center project, scheduled to open in October. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIRLINES (87%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (71%); TATTOO PARLORS (71%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (70%); RESORTS (70%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (69%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); GOLF (67%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (67%); HOTELS & MOTELS (66%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (66%); WORLD WAR II (64%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (64%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (61%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (60%); MANAGER TRAINING (60%); TENNIS (60%); SPORTS (60%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (54%) NEW YORK CITY; AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HOTELS AND RESORTS; RESTAURANTS 

COMPANY: MASTERCARD INC (71%); PEPSICO INC (57%); MORGAN STANLEY (56%); CITIGROUP INC (55%); HEINEKEN USA INC (50%)

TICKER: MA (NYSE) (71%); PEP (NYSE) (57%); MS (NYSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (55%); C (BMV) (55%); 8710 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (71%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (71%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



674 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 701 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS AND BONDS; 
Shares Dip on Profit Taking After Last Week's Advance

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press

 BODY:
Stocks declined yesterday as investors played it safe and cashed in some gains from a rally last week despite encouraging earnings from 3M and Merck.
 Analysts said many traders were waiting and watching in advance of a rush of earnings news due this week. Volume was light after the long weekend; United States markets were closed to observe Good Friday, and many traders took yesterday off as well. 
 "We had a nice rally last week, so now we're seeing a little bit of profit taking," said Todd Leone, managing director of equity trading at SG Cowen Securities. "It's more of a market not going in a straight line up anymore. Investors are trying to figure out which way to go." 
The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 8.75 points, or 0.1 percent, at 8,328.90, having gained 1.6 percent last week. Earlier in the day, the index rose as much as 60 points.
The broader market also slipped. The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.13 points, or about 0.1 percent, to 1,424.37, after a weekly advance of 4.9 percent. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 1.57 points, or nearly 0.2 percent, to 892.01, after climbing 2.9 percent last week.
With the war in Iraq largely over, investors are now turning their attention to the strength of corporate profits. While first-quarter earnings have generally been better than expected, the market remains concerned about the economic outlook.
Charles White, vice chairman and portfolio strategist at Avatar Associates, said some investors were avoiding making big purchases until reports come out on Friday on gross domestic product and consumer confidence.
"Investors are looking for some indication that sustainable economic growth is coming," he said. 
A report yesterday forecasting a drop in economic activity put pressure on the market. The New York-based Conference Board said its index of leading economic indicators fell 0.2 percent last month, to 110.6. The result was in line with analysts' expectations.
3M, a Dow component, fell 15 cents, to $129.83, after it reported first-quarter earnings that beat Wall Street's estimates; it also reaffirmed its outlook for the year.
Southwest Airlines fell 36 cents, or 2.3 percent, to $15.16, despite reporting first-quarter earnings that met Wall Street expectations.
And AMR plummeted $1.15, or 23 percent, to $3.85, after the union representing flight attendants at its American Airlines unit said its members wanted a new vote on a package of concessions in light of the carrier's plans, now dropped, to guarantee executives large bonuses. The move renewed fears of a possible bankruptcy court filing.
Gainers included a Dow component, Merck, which rose $1.07, to $56.96, after it posted quarterly profits that were in line with analysts' expectations.
Whirlpool increased $1.05, to $54.73, after it notched a first-quarter profit but also lowered its 2003 outlook, citing the uncertain economy.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Fall
By Bloomberg News
United States government notes fell yesterday as analysts speculated that the Treasury Department would sell a record amount of debt at its quarterly auctions next month to finance a budget deficit inflated by the Iraq war.
The Treasury may offer $64 billion in 3-, 5- and 10-year notes, about 44 percent more than the high set in 1996, according to Barclays Capital Inc., one of 22 bond firms that trade with the Federal Reserve. The Treasury said yesterday that it planned to sell a record-tying $27 billion in two-year notes at its monthly auction tomorrow.
The 10-year note dropped 7/32, to a price of 99 3/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.99 percent from 3.96 on Thursday.
The two-year note edged down 1/32 to 99 28/32; its yield was unchanged at 1.69 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	 	 		3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Price	99.707	99.401	High Rate	1.160	1.185	Investment Rate	1.182	1.212	Low Rate	1.13%	1.15%	Median Rate	1.15%	1.17%	Total applied for	$45,012,314	$39,554,605	Accepted	$19,763,507	$22,068,915	Noncompetitive	$1,454,383	$1,053,011	

Both issues are dated April 21. The three-month bills mature on July 24, and the six-month bills mature on Oct. 23.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks bills from December-April.High rate at weekly auction. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); AIRLINES (84%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (64%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (60%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%); AVATAR ASSOCIATES (54%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (51%)

TICKER: LUV (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



675 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Fashion Page; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: For Spring, Color Is the New Black 

BYLINE:  By GUY TREBAY

 BODY:
Well before a bum economy, terrorism and war had entered the picture, retailers were intoning a mantra suggesting that Americans already owned all the basic wardrobe elements anyone could ever require. After submitting the image struggles of chains like the Gap to endless dissection, their underlying problems turn out to be rooted in something surprisingly simple: khaki fatigue.
 One could credit springtime, or swipe a term from the pollsters (try "apparel purchase intent"), but consumers appear to be making forays back into stores. The reason is that there are some new things to look at, and those things are pattern and color. For too long, there was too much of very little to look at, industry insiders say. The collective eye got bored. 
 The Gap diagnosed the problem and responded by filling its stores this season with surfer-style apparel in graphic floral prints. It is far from the only retailer to suddenly decide to "banish the black," if one may resuscitate an overquoted line from "Funny Face," and to bring back clothing that is patterned, colored, playful and exuberant. After years of bad gags about black being the new black, the streets are unexpectedly populated with people wearing trippy stripes, flowered graphics or clothes the colors of Bazooka or the walls of the playhouse where Pee-wee Herman held court.
"The black, gray, navy solid thing, which was so chic, used to be a way to look different," said Jeffrey Kalinsky, the owner of Jeffrey in Manhattan and Atlanta, referring to the late years of the last century. "The new way to look different is to wear a print and color." There is "a real feel-good quality" to be derived from wearing colors in combination, Mr. Kalinsky suggested, a fact that cannot be unrelated to the overall cultural mood.
Robert Burke, the fashion director of Bergdorf Goodman, said, "If you see how basics are selling, compared to special items, there's no comparison." At a trunk show last month, for instance, orders for Donna Karan's sunny retro dresses ran to $700,000, Ms. Karan's best season in years.
At Henri Bendel, the ratio, in sales terms, is now "2 to 1, color over black and white," said Ed Burstell, the store's general manager. "We've had terrific sell-through with Anna Molinari, which is so colorful, and with Eley Kishimoto's quirky, happy prints." ("Sell through" is industry-speak for the percentage of an order that is sold.) Even clothing by Zandra Rhodes, the zany British designer whose first experiments with Day-Glo color date to a time just after the Earth cooled, roughly 1972, sold out at what Mr. Burstell called "quite aggressive price points." 
The reasons are not that difficult to divine, Mr. Burstell said. Consumers are in need of "a little bit of exuberance, some distractions," Mr. Burstell said, noting the success of such escapist cinematic fare as "Bringing Down the House," the Queen Latifah vehicle that although drubbed by critics has grossed $122.7 million to date. 
This year, more than most, American consumers are hankering for "the emotional life" that color and pattern provide, said Wendy Liebmann, president of WSL Strategic Retail, a New York consulting company.
"We saw the beginning of it with the blush of pink all over the runways," Ms. Liebmann said. "Gap's pink raincoats were shown in the windows about six weeks ago," she said, a jolt of color that affected some like a crocus sighting in the snow. The Gap raincoats were "virtually all out of stock within 10 days," she added. "I think that this was the first sign that humans were ready for a little brightness." 
Among women especially, there is "renewed excitement about spring colors," said Art Spar, the chairman of STS Market Research, whose recent surveys indicate that Americans are ready to shake out their piggy banks and head into stores. 
And Linda Dresner, a Manhattan retailer who also operates a store outside Detroit, said yesterday that "we have been selling very much color and even prints," from designers as varied as Marni, Dries van Noten and Jil Sander, whose spring collection hinged on a shade of orange reminiscent of traffic cones. "It's mood lifting, which is what we can all go for right now," Ms. Dresner said. 
This is not to suggest that black is in any danger of losing its style hegemony. "Black will always be best and most popular," said Francesca Sterlacci, chairwoman of the fashion design department at the Fashion Institute of Technology. Citing the current proliferation of "40's-patterned flowers," wallpaper prints and stripes that seem to call up earlier and presumably less complex times, Ms. Sterlacci said that "women right now are looking for color to make them feel better about themselves and all that the world holds for them."
Will it surprise anyone that women are not alone in that desire? Although it has been some time since men ventured into the arenas of mixed stripes and patterns (since, say, Steve Martin and Dan Aykroyd's plaid-afflicted wild-and-crazy guys made their debut on "Saturday Night Live"), even men have lately begun "gnawing at the edges of pattern and color," said Alan Flusser, the men's wear designer and author of "Dressing the Man" (HarperCollins, 2002). 
The proof is abundantly displayed on the retail landscape: bandanna-print suits from Etro at Bergdorf Goodman; cardigans in the full range of sherbet colors arrayed at Polo Ralph Lauren; acid-yellow corduroy jeans by Helmut Lang at Jeffrey; and, at Barney's, the Carnaby Street stripes that Paul Smith used to kick off the entire trend. By tradition it may have been "beyond ridiculously difficult to get men in color," said Mr. Kalinsky of Jeffrey. But these are not traditional times. 
"You can't be bland," said Marshal Cohen, co-president of NPD Fashionworld, a market research company that tracks the apparel industry, referring to retailers. "You can't afford to have subtle things. You have to have drama if you want to ignite the senses." 
Color, Mr. Cohen said, "is one of the few things retailers are doing that's working. It's the colors that are making it pop."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Marc by Marc Jacobs polka-dot dress, at Bergdorf Goodman. At the Etro fashion show in Milan, men get in on the color craze. (FirstView.com); At Saks Fifth Avenue, Dolce & Gabbana and Christian Lacroix combine basic black with this season's prints. A vivid selection at Agnes B. (Photographs by Barbara Alper for The New York Times); The actresses Shiva Rose McDermott, left, in floral Miu Miu, and Claire Danes in a springlike Zac Posen. (Vince Bucci/Getty Images, left; right, Scott Gries/Getty Images); An Andrew Gn outfit, at Henri Bendel. Top and skirt by Alice Temperley, at Bendel's. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); PURCHASE INTENT (76%); TERRORISM (73%); FASHION DESIGNERS (73%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DAY-GLO COLOR CORP (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2851 PAINTS, VARNISHES, LACQUERS, ENAMELS & ALLIED PRODUCTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



676 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
The tortured review for the prized California Lottery account heads to a third round.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott

 BODY:
WHAT may well be the wildest Western account review ever has taken another wacky turn as the California Lottery Commission has asked agencies to compete for the lucrative assignment for the third time in 18 months.
 Lottery executives, in a decision made on Friday, in effect tossed out the results of two previous lengthy and lawsuit-generating reviews for the account, which had been handled for the last five years by the Los Angeles office of Grey Worldwide, part of the Grey Global Group. 
 Grey is one of four big agencies that had been competing for the lottery prize -- a five-year contract with total billings of $125 million -- since the fall of 2001. Now, any agencies interested in handling the account are being asked to apply along with the four finalists. 
"We've been through an extraordinarily bizarre, tortured process," said one top executive at an agency involved in the review since its early days, who spoke yesterday only on the condition of anonymity.
"If someone would only come along and cut this Gordian knot," the executive said.
The latest twist to the lottery review underscores the hunger of agencies for large accounts as the advertising industry struggles to emerge from one of the steepest downturns in memory. Accounts like the lottery commission's -- long-term contracts awarded under required reviews by government or quasi-governmental offices -- are especially fought over because they represent stability in an increasingly uncertain economy.
What adds to the allure of the lottery account is that such assignments are almost never placed in review before the contract's expiration. By contrast, accounts for private-sector advertisers are often subject to the whims of a new chief executive or vice president for marketing.
Also, contracts for government accounts typically include one or more one-year renewal options, which are often exercised before the next required review.
"The reality is, this is a $125 million piece of business, and there had been only four agencies pitching for it," said Jerry Gibbons, executive vice president for the Western region of the American Association of Advertising Agencies, the industry trade organization, who is based in San Francisco.
Still, the vagaries of the bidding process for the California Lottery account would almost certainly have tried the patience of Junipero Serra, the priest credited as the founder of California, or even Saint Francis, after whom San Francisco is named.
The first review for the assignment, then a four-year, $100 million contract, ended in January 2002 with the selection of the Los Angeles office of DDB Worldwide, part of the Omnicom Group. 
But the incumbent agency, Grey, protested that DDB had not adhered to the disclosure rules by not sufficiently identifying the parentage of the agency it was to work with on the media planning and buying parts of the account. (That agency, OMD, is, like DDB, owned by Omnicom.)
So the commission resumed the review, and in August 2002 selected the San Francisco office of Foote, Cone & Belding, part of the FCB Group division of the Interpublic Group of Companies. This time, DDB lodged a protest, complaining that Foote, Cone had submitted a "low ball" bid for the media part of the account.
So the review was started again with the finalists asked to submit only media proposals. DDB and Grey refused to take part, leaving two participants, Foote, Cone and the Los Angeles office of McCann-Erickson Worldwide Advertising, part of the McCann-Erickson World Group division of Interpublic.
Foote, Cone submitted its paperwork by fax rather than hard copy as stipulated by the commission rules, so it was disqualified. That left McCann-Erickson as the sole finalist and apparent winner, as designated by the commission last month.
But guess what? Yes, another protest, this time from DDB, charging that McCann-Erickson had failed to indicate that its media partner, Universal McCann, was also owned by Interpublic. McCann-Erickson hit back by contending that DDB and Grey colluded in deciding against taking part in the most recent round.
All that bickering led the commission to its decision on Friday, announced by Joan Wilson, director and chief executive of the commission, to seek bidders all over again.
"We're starting over, reopening the process to the world, so anyone can enter," said Norma Minas, a spokeswoman for the commission, based in Sacramento. 
Ms. Minas characterized the process for the previous reviews as tough but fair.
"We want to keep our integrity, our security and our fairness," Ms. Minas said, "so our rules are strict."
"If you're not able to follow the rules," she added, "we're not able to award a contract."
But in recognition that some agencies found the rules governing the requests for proposals byzantine, "We're also thinking of having a tutorial on how to fill out the paperwork and all the necessary elements of disclosure," Ms. Minas said, "trying to hand-hold" agencies through the process.
DDB has not decided whether to seek another shot at the lottery millions, said Rick Carpenter, president of the Los Angeles office.
Jan Sneed, a spokeswoman for Grey, said her agency would decline comment. Bill Haney, a spokesman for Foote, Cone, said executives there were not available for comment.
McCann-Erickson did not return calls seeking comment. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOTTERIES (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); CONTRACT AWARDS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); MEDIA PLANNING & BUYING (66%) ADVERTISING AND MARKETING 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); GREY GLOBAL GROUP INC (58%); GREY WORLDWIDE (57%)

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%) SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



677 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: March Indicators' Fall Shows Effects ofConcern Over War 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
The index of leading economic indicatorsfell in March for a second consecutive month, a private industry group reported today, evidence that anticipation of the Iraq war dimmed the economic outlook.
 The group, the Conference Board, said its gauge of how the economy would perform over the next three to six months dropped 0.2 percent last month after falling 0.5 percent in February. Before February, the index had risen for three consecutive months. 
 Before the war began on March 19, crude oil prices rose to a 12-year high, damping consumer confidence and causing companies to trim costs by cutting payrolls. Mounting job losses may jeopardize consumer spending, which accounts for more than two-thirds of the economy.
The report "is signaling a continued slowing in economic momentum," said Edgar E. Peters, chief investment officer at PanAgora Asset Management in Boston. "The decline in economic momentum does not signal a double-dip recession, but does point toward the economic costs of war."
The February reading, which met expectations, was revised from an initially reported decline of 0.4 percent.
Five of the 10 indicators the Conference Board uses to derive the index contributed to the fall and four signaled the reverse. One measure, the number of hours worked by factory employees, was unchanged.
Besides falling consumer sentiment and rising job losses, a drop in permits to build new homes was the biggest drag on the index. A decline in the money supply adjusted for inflation, and a narrowing spread between the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note and the rate that banks charge each other for overnight loans, also contributed to the drop.
These were only partly offset by an increase in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index; a jump in new orders for consumer goods and for plant and equipment; and a rise in how long it takes producers to deliver goods, which suggests that factories are having difficulty in keeping up with orders.
Still, the winding-down of the war has led to a rebound in consumer expectations and the S.& P. 500 has registered additional gains. That suggests growth may accelerate.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Leading Indicators: Component Analysis"Components of the index of leading economic indicators and their net weighted contribution to the index's change from February to March. Contribution to index Average workweek of production workers in manufacturing: Unch.Average initial weekly claims for state unemployment insurance*: -0.09New orders for consumer goods and materials, adjusted for inflation: +0.02Vendor performance (companies receiving slower deliveries from suppliers): +0.03New orders for nonmilitary capital goods, adjusted for inflation: +0.03New building permits issued: -0.15Index of stock prices: +0.03Money supply: M-2, adjusted for inflation: -0.02Spread between rates on 10-year Treasury notes and federal funds: -0.03Index of consumer expectations: -0.01 *Series is inverted in computing index; that is, a decrease in the series is considered upward movement. (Source: The Conference Board) Chart: "Leading Indicators"Index of 10 indicators that are considered to "lead" or predict total economic activity; 1996=100. Monthly Change March: -0.2%Feb.: -0.5Jan.: +0.1 Graph tracks proposed economic activity from October 2001-March 2003. (Source: The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TRENDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); NEW ORDERS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BONDS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); RECESSION (77%); FACTORY ORDERS (75%); MONEY SUPPLY (73%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (56%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: PANAGORA ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



678 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Payments for Fighting Cocks Bring Criticism 

BYLINE:  By BARBARA WHITAKER

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 21 

 BODY:
Officials in California are destroying millions of birds in an effort to stop the spread of a deadly avian disease, and they are paying owners, including many suspected of cockfighting, for their losses.
 The latter situation has caused outrage in some quarters. 
 "We do not believe the federal government should use Americans' hard-earned tax dollars to compensate cockfighters," said Wayne Pacelle, senior vice president of the Humane Society of the United States.
In a recent letter to the secretary of agriculture, Ann M. Venneman, seven members of Congress agreed. The asked the Department of Agriculture to outline measures to prevent cockfighting and stop the spread of the avian disease, Exotic Newcastle Disease, an influenza that does not affect humans but is easily transmitted among fowl. 
"By paying owners of fighting birds at black market rates," the representatives wrote, "the U.S.D.A. is endorsing the practice of cockfighting, which is illegal in the state of California. The government has no responsibility to compensate those engaged in illegal activities."
But officials with the Exotic Newcastle Disease Task Force, which is made up of state and federal agencies, said they had no choice but to reimburse owners of game fowl, some of which are used for show.
"There is no law against owning the birds," said Larry Cooper, a spokesman for the task force in California. "There is no law against raising the birds. The only interest we have is if we find in someone's backyard gamecocks either infected with Exotic Newcastle or considered a dangerous contact."
The authorities are investigating whether fighting birds played a role in bringing the disease into Southern California or in helping it spread through the state and the nation. Eight Southern California counties are under quarantines to restrict the movement of birds. 
The disease has been found among fighting birds in backyard flocks in Nevada, New Mexico and Texas.
In response to the outbreak in California, State Senator Nell Soto, an Ontario Democrat, has introduced legislation that would allow district attorneys to charge cockfighters with a felony; cockfighting is currently a misdemeanor. Nationally, a ban on interstate transportation of fighting birds will take effect in May, and legislation has been introduced to increase jail time to two years from one year for violators of laws against animal fights.
The Exotic Newcastle Disease outbreak in California was discovered in October in a flock of backyard birds. As of April 4, state and federal officials had spent nearly $93 million trying to eradicate the disease. 
About $12.5 million of that was paid to poultry producers, which have destroyed more than 3.1 million birds. Owners of "backyard birds," including chickens, exotic pets and game fowl, were reimbursed $5.1 million. Some 138,000 of those birds have been killed; about 35 percent were game fowl.
"I can't say 35 percent are fighting cocks, but a high percentage are," Mr. Cooper said. "There were a lot more cockfighters in people's backyards than we expected to find."
In the early 1970's the disease devastated the state's poultry industry. Twelve million hens and other birds were destroyed, at a cost of $60 million. Eradication took three years.
In recent months, investigators have fanned out over several neighborhoods in Southern California in an effort to identify infected birds. When birds are identified as infected or as being a threat, they are killed. A price is negotiated with the owner based on factors like the bird's breed, age and quality of care.
A federal appraisal list values game fowl from $20 to $200. Critics charge that the government has been paying even more. Payments have ranged from $5 for a chicken to $1,850 for a yellow-throated parrot.
Investigators are relying on several sources, including mail carriers, to identify where birds are kept. And the door-to-door campaign has distressed many bird owners. In March, several sued Gov. Gray Davis and government agencies, demanding that steps be taken to keep birds from being killed arbitrarily.
But in California, which has a $3.5 billion poultry industry, stemming the disease is foremost, officials said.
"We are very much concerned about game birds and how they can affect the future of our industry," said Bill Mattos, president of the California Poultry Federation, a trade group. "But right now there's too much at stake to worry about how much people are being paid and whether the birds are used for fighting. Right now we just want to get rid of the disease."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Agriculture Department investigators have been combing Southern California for birds with Exotic Newcastle Disease. Nine-year-old Guillerma Vargas's parents keep a rooster in South Los Angeles. (J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ANIMAL ABUSE & NEGLECT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ANIMAL QUARANTINE (89%); LIVESTOCK DISEASE (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); POULTRY (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); ANIMALS (78%); PETS (78%); EPIDEMICS (78%); ANIMAL RIGHTS (77%); FELONIES (77%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (75%); COMMUNICABLE DISEASE CONTROL (74%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (73%); ANIMAL WELFARE (73%); MISDEMEANORS (72%); INFLUENZA (69%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (68%); LAWYERS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HUMANE SOCIETY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



679 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1080 words

HEADLINE: Vowing to Enforce the Clean Air Act, While Also Trying to Change It 

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8. LEE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
This week, attorneys general from five states are sharing the spotlight with the Environmental Protection Agency for pushing through the largest settlement ever under the Clean Air Act: Dominion Resources, the eighth-largest polluting utility, will spend $1.2 billion over 12 years to clean up eight coal-burning power plants.
 Atthe same time, three of those attorneys general -- from New York, Connecticut and New Jersey -- are suing the environmental agency to prevent it from relaxing the regulations that brought about the Dominion settlement. They have also vociferously criticized the Bush administration's proposal to revamp the Clean Air Act, legislation that the agency's top officials support. 
 The agency's "friend today, foe tomorrow" relationship with the Northeastern States stems from a personality split within the agency itself. On one hand, its top officials have criticized the laws as being cumbersome and a disincentive for polluting power plants to modernize. On the other hand, those officials have vowed to enforce vigorously the laws that exist. 
Older power plants that upgrade are required to install new pollution controls under the "new source review" provision in the Clean Air Act. Routine maintenance, however, does not trigger the increased pollution controls, and enforcement officials say that power plants have been doing substantive upgrades for decades under the guise of routine maintenance. The E.P.A. and the Justice Department have eight outstanding lawsuits and more than 15 active investigations against the utility companies relating to that issue.
The administration is more than willing to take credit for recent settlements. "This administration is not afraid to enforce," said Christie Whitman, the agency administrator. "A good two-by-four between the eyes wakes people up to the fact you are not getting a free ride." 
The Northeastern States and environmental groups dispute that claim, saying that the Clean Air settlements that are bearing fruit now were all started under the Clinton administration. They also note that the agency has not brought any new enforcement cases in the past two years. Settlements from Alcoa and Archer Daniels Midland announced two weeks ago stemmed from investigations in the Clinton era. Even the Dominion settlement is simply a re-affirmation of a two-and-a-half-year-old tentative agreement.
"With the previous administration there was an enthusiastic collaboration between E.P.A. and these states which were trying to achieve cleaner air," said Peter Lehner, the top environmental lawyer in the New York state attorney general's office. "In this administration, the collaboration at the highest levels is at best grudging. The administration would really prefer the aggressive states go away."
In fact, an energy task force assembled by Vice President Dick Cheney asked the Justice Department in 2000 to re-evaluate the legal basis for all the pollution cases. That request was widely denounced as a thinly veiled attempt to drop the cases. 
"It's like putting toothpaste back in a tube to reach over to the Justice Department and say, 'We are just kidding. We are not going to file these lawsuits,' " said Eric Schaeffer, the former head of civil enforcement at the E.P.A. who resigned last year, saying he was frustrated by the administration's lax enforcement of the Clean Air Act.
The effort to review the cases, which some viewed as the administration's political faux pas revealed a simple feature of the American psyche: the public generally has tolerance for political influence at the front end of lawmaking -- lobbying on legislation and regulations. But at the back end, once those laws and regulations are in place, the public wants the political influence to stop. "Enforcement is not a lobbying process," said John Walke, director of clean air programs at the Natural Resources Defense Council, an environmental advocacy group. "Once that law is firm, we expect it to be enforced according to the letter." 
The fissure between the agency's political leadership and enforcement division has its roots in a 1994 reorganization of the E.P.A that spun out an enforcement division separate from the water, air and other programs. After dusting off the New Source Review air pollution statutes, top enforcement officials went after the highest polluting industries -- steel, oil refineries, paper and coal-fired power plants. While these legal cases generated some nervousness within the Clinton administration at the time, the Bush administration was downright hostile to pursuing such investigations. Thus, the enforcement division has formed an alliance with the Northeastern States, which bear the brunt of the pollution from coal-burning plants.
Of course, not all states share the zeal of the Northeastern States, even West Virginia and Virginia, which were part of the Dominion settlement. At the final stages of the negotiations, Dominion executives had to persuade Virginia officials, who have been skeptical of enforcement, to sign on to shield the company from further lawsuits in its home state.
Many contend that the Dominion settlement, equivalent to a quarter of all emissions reductions from settlements to date, demonstrates that effective enforcement can reduce pollution. "It shows the enforcement of the law works," said Eliot L. Spitzer, the New York attorney general. "We don't need to rewrite the law."
But enforcement has its limits. Mrs. Whitman says the enforcement is too time-consuming and works only after companies have broken the law. Industry officials say enforcement does not address the underlying weakness of the statutes. 
"Just because people are settling doesn't resolve that this is an unclear program," said Frank Maisano, a spokesman for the Electric Reliability Coordinating Council, a coalition of utilities. "There can be a million different settlements, but until there is a bright line distinction as to what routine maintenance is, we are not going to make any progress."
Indeed, a report issued today by the National Academy of Public Administration, a bipartisan organization, recommends a thorough revamping of the New Source Review statutes. The report says Congress should set clear standards, close loopholes and give the older power plants a strict timeline to upgrade.
But those changes are far off. Until then the report recommends a simple strategy to produce environment benefits and deter future violations: continued vigorous enforcement.

CORRECTION-DATE: April 24, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A news analysis article on Tuesday about the Bush administration's enforcement of clean air rules misstated the origin of an investigation that led to a recent settlement involving Alcoa. It was set off by a citizens' suit filed in Texas in September 2001; it was not begun by the Clinton adminstration.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Big Power Producers Under Scrutiny"The E.P.A. has cases pending against the largest power generators in the country (when ranked by electric output) charging that some of their emissions violate the Clean Air Act. Total emissions are shown below. RANK -- COMPANY UNDER INVESTIGATION 1 -- American Electric Power2 -- Southern Company3 -- Tenn. Valley Authority7-- Duke Energy13 -- FirstEnergy16 -- Cinergy37 -- Dynegy82 -- Vectren Graph tracks emissions in 2000 (in millions of tons) for power generators in the country. (Sources: Environmental Protection Agency; Center for Environmentally Responsible Economies)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (94%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (92%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

COMPANY: ARCHER-DANIELS-MIDLAND CO (63%); DOMINION RESOURCES INC (58%); ALCOA INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (54%)

TICKER: ADM (NYSE) (63%); D (NYSE) (58%); AAI (ASX) (52%); AA (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (63%); NAICS311224 SOYBEAN & OTHER OILSEED PROCESSING (63%); NAICS311211 FLOUR MILLING (63%); NAICS111191 OILSEED & GRAIN COMBINATION FARMING (63%); SIC2075 SOYBEAN OIL MILLS (63%); SIC2066 CHOCOLATE & COCOA PRODUCTS (63%); SIC2041 FLOUR & OTHER GRAIN MILL PRODUCTS (63%); NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (58%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4922 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (52%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (52%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



680 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: Furious, American's Unions Talk of New Votes 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
Still fuming over the failure of American Airlines to inform them of its compensation plans for senior management, all three of the company's major unions said yesterday that they would vote again or were considering voting again on $1.62 billion in annual concessions that their members had approved last week.
 But Donald J. Carty, chief executive of the AMR Corporation, the parent of American, said that the airline had already begun to carry out some of those cost cuts and would continue to do so. He also apologized for not disclosing the compensation packages more quickly, nevertheless he defended them as justified. 
 Just last Wednesday, the airline was pounding its chest over winning huge labor concessions that it said were needed to avoid filing for bankruptcy protection. Unions for the pilots and the ground workers approved measures last Tuesday to give the company $660 million and $620 million respectively in annual savings. The flight attendants' union said that day that its members had rejected $340 million in cuts by 51 percent. But it agreed to extend the voting by one day, and on Wednesday it announced that members had approved the deal by 52 percent. 
The next morning, workers became infuriated after reading newspaper reports that American's board had decided to give seven top executives cash bonuses in 2004 and 2005 equal to up to twice their base annual salary if they stayed with the company until January 2005. Workers also learned that American had started putting money into a trust fund set up to protect the pension benefits of 45 executives from creditors in the event of a bankruptcy-protection filing. These executive benefits were disclosed in a filing with the Securities and Exchange Commission made by AMR on Tuesday night, after voting had ended at two unions and almost ended at the third one.
Mr. Carty said yesterday that a payment of $41 million, with $16 million of that going to federal taxes, had been put into the executive pension fund last October.
On Friday, the day after the unions learned of the executive compensation plans, Mr. Carty said he would get rid of the so-called retention bonuses for the seven executives, though he added that the company would not withdraw its executive pension payment. That announcement was clearly an attempt to appease the workers, but it did little to douse the flames. John Ward, president of the Association of Professional Flight Attendants, said that night that his members would vote again on their share of the concessions. The Transport Workers Union said the same thing yesterday.
"The only way to assure credibility is to allow a full revote with the full membership knowledge of all relevant company actions," James C. Little, director of the Air Transport Division of the T.W.U., said in a message to workers posted on the union's Web site.
Sam Mayer, a member of the board of the Allied Pilots Association, said in a message to workers that the board of that union was discussing holding another membership vote on concessions if the other two unions went ahead and did so. "We are ruling nothing out at this time," he said.
None of the unions gave further details on the timing of the new vote processes.
It would be an understatement to say that all this comes as stunningly bad news for American. The airline has lost $5.2 billion over the last two years and is expected to announce another significant first-quarter loss tomorrow.
Mr. Carty, though, only appeared half-contrite yesterday during an evening news conference. He said his mistake in not earlier disclosing the executive compensation packages was a "big one."
But he also said those packages were perfectly justified, because the board wanted to keep executives from being lured away to work at other companies.
"Throughout all this, I should say, the AMR board operated well within the standards of all corporate guidelines" to "address a very retention issue," he said.
But many critics of executive pay do not accept such justifications for giving retention bonuses and setting up protected executive-pension trusts. 
First, retention bonuses are given to executives just for staying in a job and not for how they or the company actually perform, critics say. Such bonuses also assume the executives should be kept around, they say, and American's dismal financial performance, especially as the world's largest airline, suggests that perhaps the wrong people are running the company.
Second, the critics say, executives' annual compensation packages are already so much higher than the pay of average workers that troubled companies should not take extra measures to protect those parts of executive pension benefits that are not already federally guaranteed. American's $41 million payment last October to the trust fund also indicated that executives were not willing to make the sacrifices they were demanding of their workers, they added.
The other question critics are asking is: Why did American delay its annual filing with the S.E.C., which outlined the compensation, until Tuesday night? The most cynical workers say American was withholding the information so as not to jeopardize the votes. Whether one buys that argument, everyone, including Mr. Carty, agrees that the timing was disastrous.
Mr. Carty said yesterday that the company had kept putting off the filing because it was in the middle of labor negotiations and circumstances were changing by the day. He said he believed that delaying the filing would give it a greater chance of getting what is known as an unqualified opinion from its auditor, Ernst & Young.
That means the auditor had approved the filing with no reservations.
"These guys paid their money and took their chances," said Brian Foley, an executive-pay consultant based in White Plains. "They have no one to blame but themselves."
Several experts in labor law said yesterday that the unions had proper legal grounds to redo the votes.
For one thing, none of the union presidents have actually signed off on the concessions, an action needed to make the contracts binding, said Charles B. Craver, a professor of labor law at George Washington University. Holding a broad membership vote is an arrangement that is relevant to the internal operations of a union, but not to the actual legal procedure required for sealing a contract, he said. The unions also have enough grounds to accuse management of bargaining in bad faith, Professor Craver said.
David L. Gregory, a professor of labor law at St. John's University, said that the flight attendants' union could also redo their vote on the grounds that management was unduly interfering with the election process. That is because management put pressure on the vote's timing, then asked union leaders to extend the voting in hopes the concessions would be ratified, he said.
He added that the constant warnings of bankruptcy from management could also count as undue interference.
Yesterday, Mr. Carty reiterated those warnings of what would happen in a bankruptcy filing. "The consequence for our employees," he said, "is really pretty ugly."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Two American Airlines flight attendants, Cindy Zagorski, left, and Denise Locke, reacted last week after their union approved concessions. (Associated Press)(pg. C2); Employees of American Airlines protested on Friday outside the company's maintenance center in Tulsa, Okla. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); APPROVALS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (89%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (88%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PENSION FUNDS (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BONUS PAY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (63%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT 

COMPANY: AMR CORP (83%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



681 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Building Residents Prepare To Step In if Workers Strike 

BYLINE:  By TINA KELLEY and STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
With apartment building workers preparing for a possible strike after midnight tonight, residents in about 3,000 unionized buildings in New York City are planning ways to step in for their doormen, janitors, elevator operators, superintendents and handymen.
 For some residents, that means being ready to serve a stint at the front desk. For others, it means preparing to bring in their own takeout food and to pick up their laundry instead of having it delivered. 
 "We've hired a temporary security guard, and all the tenants are going to take turns sitting with him, and sorting mail and so forth," said Ruth Kraus, who was walking near her building on Riverside Drive and 72nd Street yesterday afternoon. "It's all on a volunteer basis so far." 
Negotiators said yesterday that there was a real possibility that many of the city's apartment building workers would go on strike early tomorrow morning. The union representing 28,000 workers and the organization of building owners reported little progress after repeated negotiating sessions yesterday, the first day they had met face to face in more than a week. The strike would affect about one million residents.
"We don't have any progress to report," said Michael Fishman, president of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, at an afternoon news conference. "At this point we are not close. We are so far apart that a strike is a good possibility."
At a separate news conference minutes later, James F. Berg, president of the Realty Advisory Board, which negotiates for building owners and managers, was a bit more optimistic. "Both sides are far apart," Mr. Berg said. "But we're talking, and as long as we're talking, that's a good sign."
A strike would involve doormen, janitors, elevator operators, superintendents and handymen at buildings in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island. Unionized buildings in the Bronx are covered by a separate agreement.
The two sides said they were presenting modified offers in their talks yesterday at the Sheraton New York Hotel, but declined to discuss details.
As a result of the new offers, Mr. Berg said, "I think we've moved at least a tiny bit closer together."
The two top negotiators made it clear that wages were the main point of contention. In its original offer, management proposed a wage freeze for three years, with one-time payments of $500 in the second and third years. Without giving specific numbers, Local 32BJ officials said they were seeking a substantial raise that more than kept up with inflation.
Mr. Berg argued that a wage freeze was appropriate because the real estate market was weak and because building operating costs have soared as a result of higher property taxes, fuel costs and insurance premiums. "The real estate market has had a very difficult time over the past year," he said. "Operating costs are sky high."
But Mr. Fishman said he would not compromise on his refusal to accept a wage freeze. He said that real estate prices remained well above levels of the late 1990's and that apartment building workers, too, had faced higher costs, including subway fares and gasoline prices. "To ask us to give up a raise when the industry is still healthy is not reasonable," Mr. Fishman said.
He said the union had appointed 450 strike captains and set up eight strike offices around the city to distribute about 30,000 picket signs and coordinate shifts for pickets. Under the union's plan, if there is a strike, doormen will demonstrate outside the buildings where they work.
John Battle, a doorman on the East Side, said, "We believe the tenants are backing us 100 percent."
The Realty Advisory Board has sent manuals to its unionized buildings, advising tenants on preparations. Many buildings have asked tenants to carry garbage downstairs and have set up a schedule for tenants who have volunteered to watch the front door. Some building managers also plan to hire security guards for the front door.
The starting salary for doormen and janitors is $27,400, rising to $34,300 after 30 months, making them the nation's highest-paid building service workers.
Asserting that this level of pay was not unreasonable, Mr. Fishman said, "In the highest-cost city in the country, these are not very high wages."
But Mr. Berg said wage restraint was needed because with fringe benefits, the total compensation for Local 32BJ's members was $53,000 a year. While refusing to say what the union was demanding, Mr. Berg said Local 32BJ was asking for raises of more than 3 percent a year. He indicated that both sides would change their wage offers as the evening progressed.
Mr. Fishman said, "I'm hopeful that we reach an agreement, but I'm not optimistic."
At the Park Belvedere Condominiums at 101 West 79th Street, where residents were told they could not have painting or construction done during a strike and should minimize entertaining, a 35-year-old resident spoke in favor of the union. "I come from a working-class neighborhood, and both my parents were blue collar," said the man, a lawyer who gave only his first name, Richard. "I'm happy to support these guys, and I can take my own garbage out."
A doorman at the Majestic, at Central Park West and 72nd Street, said his tenants had been compassionate. "They're worried about their security, but they understand that we've got to do what we've got to do," he said. "It's a real problem: after Sept. 11, everyone wants extra security, but they're not willing to pay for it." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (90%); STRIKES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PROPERTY TAX (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



682 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 123 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
TYSON TO CLOSE MARYLAND PLANT AND LAY OFF 600

BYLINE:  AP

 BODY:
 Tyson Foods Inc. said yesterday that it would lay off about 600 workers and end the contracts of several dozen poultry farmers as it phases out operations at a chicken processing plant in Berlin, Md. The company, based in Springdale, Ark., said it would immediately begin reducing operations at the plant, which processes about a million chickens a week. 
It plans to close the plant by the end of the year, putting an end to its operations in Maryland. Tyson also said it had signed a letter of intent to sell its feed mill in Westover, Md., to Mountaire Farms Inc. of Selbyville, Del., for an undisclosed sum. Mountaire said it expected to enter into contracts with about half the 155 Tyson poultry farms now serving the Berlin plant. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POULTRY (92%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); POULTRY PROCESSING (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (88%); CLOSINGS (87%); LIVESTOCK FEED MFG (71%) COMPANY REPORTS AND FORECASTS; LABOR AND UNEMPLOYMENT; FOOD AND COOKING 

COMPANY: TYSON FOODS INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: TYSON FOODS INC (TSN) 

TICKER: TSN (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (93%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (93%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (93%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (93%) SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (73%) MARYLAND, USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (92%); DELAWARE, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (73%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



683 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 61 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: Albany: No Major Job Growth Seen This Year 

BYLINE:  By Jeanne B. Pinder (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez)

 BODY:
 New York State lost 293,000 jobs in 2001 and 2002, more than two-thirds of them, 206,000, in New York City, state officials said yesterday. 
This year, the rate of job loss has slowed and there are "promising economic signs" in some areas. "But we do not expect to see any major job growth this year," State Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi said. Jeanne B. Pinder (NYT)

GRAPHIC: Photo

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); DISMISSALS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (86%); PUBLIC FINANCE (85%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (89%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (89%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



684 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 475 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Ambassador to India Resigning Post After 2 Years 

BYLINE:  By AMY WALDMAN

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, April 21 

 BODY:
The United States ambassador to India, Robert D. Blackwill, said today that he was resigning to return to his academic career at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government. He said that he had informed President Bush of his decision in January, and that he would leave near the end of the summer.
 Mr. Blackwill's tenure has been marked by the strengthening of ties between India and the United States, and included a serious enough erosion in relations between India and Pakistan to prompt American intervention. 
 Mr. Blackwill was appointed ambassador in June 2001, after serving as a foreign policy adviser to Mr. Bush during the 2000 presidential campaign.
Along with Mr. Bush, he was a committed advocate of taking India seriously as an American ally, and implicitly as a bulwark against China's growing power. The result was perhaps the closest tie between India, the world's most populous democracy, and the United States since India's independence in 1947.
The changing relationship has been evident on several fronts, noted by Mr. Blackwill in the statement he released today. Almost 100 members of Mr. Bush's cabinet and senior American officials have visited India in the past two years, a sharp increase from previous administrations. Economic penalties applied by the United States against India for its 1998 nuclear tests were lifted. The American and Indian military forces have jointly completed six major training exercises.
Mr. Blackwill's management style prompted complaints from embassy staff members and led to a review by the State Department's inspector general, although the complaints have since died down.
He has been an unusually high-profile ambassador, often blunt in the advocacy of his positions. He was disappointed by India's halting progress on economic reform and the tepid economic ties between India and the United States, for example, and did not hesitate to say so.
Last summer, after a series of terrorist attacks for which India blamed Pakistan, the two nuclear-armed nations nearly went to war. As tensions rose, Mr. Blackwill was said to have been a strong advocate of a State Department advisory against travel to India, which prompted the evacuation of embassy staff members.
Whether intended as a pressure tactic or not, the advisory put a crimp in India's economy and tourism, and was partly credited for drawing India away from war.
Mr. Blackwill continuously prodded India to resume dialogue with Pakistan. But he also offered India support in its effort to halt terrorism emanating from Pakistan.
In his statement today, he said the fight against international terrorism would not be won until terrorism against India ended. The statement read, "There can be no other legitimate stance by the United States, no American compromise whatever on this elemental geopolitical and moral truth." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); TERRORISM (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); TRAVEL WARNINGS (69%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (66%); COUNTERTERRORISM (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



685 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 524 words

HEADLINE: With Spring Comes a Debate On Cross-Sound Cable for L.I. 

BYLINE:  By ELISSA GOOTMAN

DATELINE: MELVILLE, N.Y., April 21 

 BODY:
As spates of warm weather have reawakened the region's air-conditioners and heated swimming pools, Long Island officials are starting to fret publicly about whether there will be enough electricity to power such devices this summer.
 In recent years, discussion about electricity on Long Island, which is isolated from regional power grids because of its geography but hungry for electricity because of its growing population, has involved plans for a 330-megawatt cable beneath Long Island Sound. 
 Last year, the Cross-Sound Cable Company, a partnership between TransEnergie US and UIL Holdings, received final approval and completed the cable, which stretches from New Haven to Shoreham in Suffolk County. 
But even with the cable in place, the Cross-Sound company and the Long Island Power Authority, which has a 20-year lease on the cable, have found themselves in a bind.
In seven spots in New Haven Harbor, bedrock and other obstacles prevented the cable from being laid as deeply as its permit required. But when the cable company asked the Connecticut Department of Environmental Protection to change its permit and allow for a different type of dredging, which would break through the bedrock and clear the way for a deeper cable, the agency refused, citing a moratorium on new cable projects that the Connecticut legislature passed last year.
The moratorium is scheduled to expire in early June, but the permit forbids work on the project from June through September to protect the marine life.
In a letter dated today, Senator Charles E. Schumer of New York asked the federal energy secretary, Spencer Abraham, to issue an emergency order allowing the cable to operate this summer, as is.
Mr. Abraham issued such a temporary order last August, although in the end, there was enough electricity without it and the cable was never used. 
Mr. Schumer said that this year he was seeking permission early to use the cable so that regional energy regulators could plan to route electricity through it.
"I am deeply concerned that if the cable is not made available for emergency operation, the residents of Long Island could face serious threats to public safety and economic security," Mr. Schumer wrote.
At a news conference here today, Mr. Schumer was joined by Mitchell H. Pally, the vice president for government affairs for the Long Island Association, a business group, and Edward Grilli, chief of staff for the power authority.
Mr. Grillisaid he believed Connecticut would also benefit from the cable, even though environmental groups there and some politicians, notably the attorney general, Richard Blumenthal, have fought it on the grounds that it will harm the underwater environment and raise electricity prices.
Today, Mr. Blumenthal criticized Mr. Schumer's efforts to activate the cable. There is no energy emergency, he said in a statement, and therefore no justification "for the federal government to arrogantly override Connecticut environmental laws."
Mr. Abraham, in a response to a previous request by Mr. Schumer, wrote in February that he would activate the cable only if an emergency arose, and not in anticipation of one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (68%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (56%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (77%); RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (57%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



686 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: White House May Reduce Plan for Dividend Tax Cut 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
Acknowledging that Democratic opposition and a revolt among moderate Republicans had forced them to lower their ambitions, Bush administration officials said today that they were considering scaling back President Bush's proposal to eliminate the tax that individual investors pay on stock dividends.
 The officials said they were considering cutting the proposed break on dividends by half, to a 50 percentreduction in the tax, instead of the 100 percent cut Mr. Bush favors. But the officials said they would press Congress to phase in the tax's total elimination over the next decade. 
 "That is one of many options that the president is going to push," Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, said.
The retreat exposes the box the White House has found itself in since an anxious and rebellious Congress, worried about the cost of tax cuts at a time of war and deficits, set limits on a $726 billion tax reduction plan that Mr. Bush introduced in January in Chicago.
The House set its cap at $550 billion while the Senate effectively backed only $350 billion, forcing Mr. Bush to lower his tax-cut target to the House limit. Even so, White House officials said the final deal would probably be closer to $350 billion.
Today's machinations reflected the political and mathematical quandary of how to reduce a $726 billion tax-cut plan to $550 billion and probably less. The most obvious solution, administration officials said, was lowering their sights on the dividend tax cut, a proposal much loved by conservatives that has little support in Congress.
"There's no question about it, they have no choice," said Bruce Bartlett, a conservative economist who worked in the administrations of President Ronald Reagan and Mr. Bush's father, of the change in White House plans. "This administration's strategy from the beginning has been to take what they can get and come back for more. They'd look like utter fools if they didn't admit there was some necessity to scale back their proposal."
Administration officials insisted today that they did not yet know how much they would save by scaling back the dividend tax cut, but one budget official estimated that reducing it to 50 percent -- and not adopting the more expensive option of phasing it in over a decade -- would save $180 billion. 
Another savings option, Republicans said, would be to delay income tax cuts for the wealthiest taxpayers, who under Mr. Bush's proposal would face a top individual tax rate this year of 35 percent, down from 38.6 percent. The Wall Street Journal reported today that Treasury Secretary John W. Snow said he was willing to consider a delay in the rate cut, but administration officials immediately backpedaled on that. Economic advisers said the White House was adamant on not acquiesing to critics who say the top rate cuts are a giveaway to the rich and should be eliminated or reduced.
"The president believes that the best way to help the economy is to make them effective now," Dan Bartlett, the White House spokesman, said of the rate cuts.
The president's tax plan is being revised before Congress returns next week by three men: Stephen Friedman, the chairman of the National Economic Council; Josh Bolten, the deputy White House chief of staff; and Mr. Snow.
Mr. Bush, who returned to Washington today after a five-day Easter break at his ranch in Texas, is to begin promoting his plan this week during a trip to Ohio, the home of George V. Voinovich, a Republican senator who is a key opponent of the White House tax-cut plan. One Ohio Republican said today that on Thursday Mr. Bush planned to visit the Lima Army Tank Plant, the only producer of the Abrams M1-A1 and M1-A2 tanks, the main battle tanks that American armored forces used in Iraq. 
Mr. Bush's advisers say that he will spend the next weeks capitalizing on the victory in Iraq to push through Congress as large a tax cut as possible. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX RELIEF (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BUDGETS (77%); DIVIDENDS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); INCOME TAX (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (50%)

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); RONALD REAGAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



687 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Jobs, Jobs, Jobs 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Did you know that President Bush's economic plan will create 1.4 million jobs? Oh, and did I mention that the plan will create 1.4 million jobs? And don't forget, the plan will create 1.4 million jobs.
 Republican politicians are obviously under instructions to push that job number. On the Sunday talk shows some of them said "1.4 million jobs" so often that it sounded like an embarrassing nervous tic. 
 Of course, there's no reason to take that number seriously. Basically, the job-creation estimate came from the same place where Joseph McCarthy learned that there were 57 card-carrying Communists in the State Department. Still, let's pretend that the Bush administration really thinks that its $726 billion tax-cut plan will create 1.4 million jobs. At what price would those jobs be created? 
By price I don't just mean the budget cost; I also mean the cost of sacrificing other potential pro-employment policies on the altar of tax cuts. Once you take those sacrifices into account, it becomes clear that the Bush plan is actually a job-destroying package.
Not that the budget cost is minor. The average American worker earns only about $40,000 per year; why does the administration, even on its own estimates, need to offer $500,000 in tax cuts for each job created? If it's all about jobs, wouldn't it be far cheaper just to have the government hire people? Franklin Roosevelt's Works Progress Administration put the unemployed to work doing all kinds of useful things; why not do something similar now? (Hint: this would be a good time to do something serious, finally, about port security.)
The answer is that we can't have a modern version of the W.P.A. because, um . . . because tax cuts are essential to promote long-run economic growth. Yes, that must be it. Just look at a new study by the Congressional Budget Office, now headed by an economist handpicked by the Bush administration. It concludes that the Bush plan may have either a positive or a negative effect on long-run growth, but that in any case the effect will be small. Wait, that's not the answer we wanted. Quick, find another expert!
Meanwhile, the United States is in effect about to run a W.P.A. program in reverse. That is, as a nation we're about to reduce spending on basic needs like education, health care and infrastructure by at least $100 billion, maybe more. And these spending cuts -- the result of the fiscal crisis of the states -- amount to a job destruction program bigger than any likely positive effects of the Bush tax cut.
Until recently it has been hard to get people excited about the states' worst fiscal crisis since the Great Depression. For about two years state governments were able to use fancy financial footwork to put off the full effects, and the public probably regarded warnings about looming catastrophe as exaggerated. But now, as Timothy Egan reported yesterday in The New York Times, states are "withdrawing health care for the poor and mentally ill. They are also dismissing state troopers, closing parks and schools, dropping bus routes, eliminating college scholarships and slashing a host of other services." Not to mention unscrewing every third light bulb in Missouri government offices. (Honest.)
Aside from their cruelty and their adverse effect on the quality of life, these cuts will be a major drag on the national economy. So if the administration really cared about jobs, it would provide an emergency package of aid to state governments -- not to pay for new spending, but simply to maintain basic services. How about $78 billion -- the same sum just allocated for the Iraq war?
Oh, never mind. Anything that would distract from the tax-cut message is out of the question. In fact, rather than compromise on its goal of maximum long-run tax cuts for the wealthy, the administration now says that it's willing to phase tax cuts in gradually -- making them even less effective as an economic stimulus.
So when you take the policy consequences into account, it's clear that the administration's tax-cut obsession isn't just busting the budget; it's also indirectly destroying jobs by preventing any rational response to a weak economy. In its determination to stay on message, the administration is also determined not to do anything that would actually help ordinary families.
But did I mention that the Bush tax plan will create 1.4 million jobs? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TAX INCENTIVES (88%); TAX LAW (88%); TAX RELIEF (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



688 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Clever Marketers Outwit Efforts to Eliminate Spam
Online marketers have been forced to become more creative, confronted by an increasing number of individuals, businesses and Internet service providers using software meant to identify and discard unwanted junk e-mail messages -- commonly known as spam.
 In the cat-and-mouse game of e-mail marketers and those trying to stop them, the spammers are still winning. Page A1. 

RealNetworks to Buy Music Service
RealNetworks, a maker of software that plays Internet audio and video files, said that it would buy Listen.com, a closely held concern, for $36 million in cash and stock to obtain an Internet music subscription service. C6.

Merck Profit Rises 5% in Quarter
Merck said that its first-quarter profit climbed 5 percent because of the weaker dollar and demand for its osteoporosis treatment Fosamax. Pharmaceutical sales jumped 18 percent, almost double the industry average, as wholesalers stocked up on some medicines ahead of price increases. C4.

GlaxoSmithKline has settled a patent suit with Pentech Pharmaceuticals, opening up the sale of a generic form of the antidepressant drug Paxil in Puerto Rico but not in the rest of the United States. C4.

U-Haul Owner Sues Former Auditor
Amerco, the parent of U-Haul International, said that it had sued its former auditor, PricewaterhouseCoopers, for more than $2.5 billion in damages. In the suit, Amerco accused PricewaterhouseCoopers of providing financial advice that it said was flawed and led it to the brink of bankruptcy. C13.

3M's Profit and Sales Jump 11%
3M, the maker of Scotch tape and thousands of other products, said first-quarter sales and profit rose 11 percent, helped by a drop in the exchange value of the dollar. C5.

Third Time Is the Charm for Lottery
The California Lottery Commission has asked advertising agencies to compete for its account for the third time in 18 months. The move in effect tosses out the results of two previous lengthy and lawsuit-generating reviews. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. C12.

Main Gauges Drop on Profit Taking
Stocks declined as investors played it safe and cashed in some gains from a rally last week. The Dow Jones industrial average closed down 8.75 points, to 8,328.90. The Nasdaq composite index fell 1.13 points, to 1,424.37. And The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index shed 1.57 points, to 892.01. C13.

Sale of Steel Assets Is Approved
National Steel won bankruptcy court approval to sell its assets to U.S. Steel for $850 million. It beat a higher offer by AK Steel Holding that did not include an agreement with the steelworkers' union. C4.

Leading Indicators Fall as Expected
The index of leading economic indicators fell 0.2 percent in March for a second consecutive month, a private industry group reported yesterday, evidence that anticipation of the Iraq war dimmed the economic outlook. The February reading, which met expectations, was revised from an initially reported decline of 0.4 percent. C2.

Korea Debtor Fires Back at Goldman
Jinro, a well-known South Korean maker of alcoholic drinks that has been floundering on the edge of insolvency for more than five years, has begun a legal counterattack against an adviser that became one of the company's biggest and most impatient creditors: Goldman Sachs. World Business, Section W.

A Sound Check of Airport Hotels
One of the things business travelers say they most dread about airport-vicinity hotels is that they tend to be noisy. A meter reading of four airport hotels visited on four consecutive nights. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. C10.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,328.90 down 8.75Nasdaq composite -- 1,424.37 down 1.1310-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.99% up 0.03The euro -- $1.0868 down 0.0014The dollar -- 120.51 yen up 0.82 Graph tracks share prices of Merck for the week. Graph tracks leading economic indicators from November through March. (March: -0.2%)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (92%); EMAIL MARKETING (92%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTERNET AUDIO (90%); ACCOUNTING & AUDITING FIRMS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (90%); LOTTERIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (88%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNET VIDEO (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (78%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); OSTEOPOROSIS (75%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); STOCK EXCHANGES (74%); GENERIC DRUGS (74%); PHARMACEUTICAL DRUG & DEVICES LITIGATION (74%); US DOLLAR (73%); CURRENCIES (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (73%); ANTIDEPRESSANTS (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); CENTRAL NERVOUS SYSTEM DRUGS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (68%); PATENT LAW (67%); APPROVALS (67%); LITIGATION (67%); TRUCK & TRAILER RENTAL & LEASING (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (62%); PATENTS (52%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: LISTEN.COM (57%); GLAXOSMITHKLINE PLC (56%); U-HAUL INTERNATIONAL INC (55%); PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (55%); AMERCO (55%); AK STEEL HOLDING CORP (50%)

TICKER: GSK (NYSE) (56%); GSK (LSE) (56%); BIOC (EGX) (56%); UHAL (NASDAQ) (55%); AKS (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (56%); NAICS532120 TRUCK, UTILITY TRAILER & RV (RECREATIONAL VEHICLE) RENTAL & LEASING (55%); SIC7513 TRUCK RENTAL & LEASING WITHOUT DRIVERS (55%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (55%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (55%); NAICS531130 LESSORS OF MINIWAREHOUSES & SELF-STORAGE UNITS (55%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (55%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (55%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (55%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%); PUERTO RICO (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



689 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Observer; 
Try Telling the Politicians in Maine That Tax Cuts Are a Great Blessing

BYLINE:  By FRANCIS X. CLINES

DATELINE: AUGUSTA, Me. 

 BODY:
During a break in the Statehouse labors of stanching Maine's revenue hemorrhage, Representative Peter Mills, a rock-ribbed Republican and fiscal conservative, laughed out loud at the very notion of President Bush's dispatching emissaries to lobby the nation for still another big tax cut for wealthy Americans.
 "They can't talk to us," Mr. Mills warned, stunned at the tax-cutting hubris of the White House. "We're in no mood to listen." 
 In truth, the dozens of political cadres being sent by the president to put pressure on the few Senate Republicans balking at another $550 billion in upper-bracket cuts should be required to stop first at the nation's statehouses. For this is where grass-roots fiscal triage is the relentless agenda lately. Republicans in Washington brag about further choking the downward flow of federal revenues, while ground-zero politicians like Mr. Mills are reduced to being role players in a budgetary version of M*A*S*H.
"I can't wait! Olympia's fighting for a mere $350 billion tax cut!" the legislator said of Senator Olympia Snowe of Maine, his friend and the lead Republican targeted by the president. "Thank you so," said Mr. Mills, a career Republican, dripping sarcasm at the chilling effects he expects with the next round of federal tax cuts, whatever the eventual size.
Factors like the wallowing economy, the costly war and the ballooning federal deficit are troubling enough. But from his seat on the appropriations committee, Mr. Mills estimates that at least 25 cents of every dollar in his state's deficit emergency can be traced to the first Bush tax cuts. The detax fever means parallel losses here unless the state decouples its rates from the shrinking federal schedule. Other losses come from the slowdown in federal spending to make up for tax cuts, a worsening state problem as fresh cuts are enacted. The chance of emergency federal help for deficit-bedeviled states wanes as each new tax cut is sold in Washington.
Maine has just finished freezing salaries and crimping benefits for state workers and retirees in enacting a dozen fiscal rollovers and rainy-day tricks even before the next federal cut hits. These are moves familiar in numerous states, now wrestling with scores of billions of dollars in deficits this year alone as statehouses and city halls become grim catch basins for the trickle-down conceits enacted in Washington.
In the reshaping of budgetary politics, a marginal school-aid increase was managed here as incumbents scrambled for their own survival before the next federal cut bites home. But it is coming at the expense of critical reductions in Medicaid and other help for the poor.
"Let's face it: the community forces for schools speak louder than the needy do, so we beat up on the helpless," said Mr. Mills, risking a level of candor foreign to the "growth" nostrums that the president and his roving sales staff are pushing.
The tax-cut triumphalism of the G.O.P.'s ascendancy in Washington echoes out here like gross revelry from a cloud-veiled penthouse. The fiscal bill for the easy politics of detaxation is being bucked down the red-ink road toward needful states where politicians still dare to believe in federal government and services and even the graduated income tax. (Maine gets back $1.30 for every dollar sent to federal coffers.)
"This is the real Reagan era," said Christopher St. John, director of the Maine Center for Economic Policy and a budget advocate for low-income needs. Not quite. Even Ronald Reagan, for all his supply-side ardor, eventually had to recognize deficit blowouts and patch them with a tax increase.
"Will they really be so foolish as to go with the dividend tax cut?" Mr. St. John asked of the president's still-determined plan to do exactly that in the next revenue reduction. The dividend boon for wealthy taxpayers would instantly make them less interested in the tax-shelter investments that have been a creative way to channel development loans to poor communities, Mr. St. John noted. He is trying hard not to believe the ultimate devil theory to be heard in statehouses: that administration zealots, time-warped with the old loathing of the New Deal, are intent on shrinking the federal government down to a debt-soaked relic of itself.
Such traditional Republicans as Mr. Mills have to wonder if there's some truth to that as they face more shrinkage and pain with the next tax cut. "Nobody is listening to us," he said as the Statehouse bell summoned lawmakers back to their unpromising business. "Nobody in Washington is thinking deeply about the future," he said, ruing the spectacle of his party leaders' blazing a path into a decade of historic detax-and-spend budgeting and open-ended borrowing.
Mr. Mills quickly corrected himself to pay homage to one of the aberrant G.O.P. resisters. "Olympia is listening," he said. "Can the president change Olympia's mind? No. She's a rock. She came out of this building," he said of the Statehouse, betting the president's emissaries will avoid the place like a fiscal plague. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); NATIONAL DEBT (75%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); MEDICAID (63%); WAGES & SALARIES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: OLYMPIA SNOWE (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUGUSTA, ME, USA (78%) MAINE, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



690 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1364 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: DAMASCUS; 
Syria Is Forced to Adapt To a New Power Next Door

BYLINE:  By NEIL MacFARQUHAR

DATELINE: DAMASCUS, Syria, April 21 

 BODY:
Riad al-Turk, Syria's most outspoken dissident, ticks off the roughly one-third of his life spent as a political prisoner: 13 months under the current president, Bashar al-Assad, a whopping 18 years in solitary confinement under Mr. Assad's late father and sundry years or months stretching almost back to independence in 1946. 
 Now, like everyone in the Middle East, he has a new political factor to consider: the United States military, setting up next door in Iraq as the latest occupying power. 
 Like many Syrians, he is horrified, yet he -- like other government critics -- also recognizes that the welcome toppling of Saddam Hussein, if handled right, may push the kind of political and economic opening that they have sought for decades.
"Iraq had a bloodier system -- when we compare the number of victims here to the number in Iraq, it had many, many more," said Mr. Turk, 73. "But in substance they are the same." 
After Mr. Hussein's swift collapse, President Bush and senior administration officials sought to capitalize on the new American presence in the region by warning other Middle Eastern governments that Washington seeks change.
Syria rapidly attracted Washington's ire. The Bush administration was angered by the prospect that Damascus would grant safe haven to Mr. Hussein or his fleeing aides, right after it let hundreds of Arab volunteers pour into Iraq to fight the Americans and supposedly helped Baghdad acquire banned items like night vision goggles. 
The initial tension appears to have eased, with Foreign Minister Farouk al-Sharaa emphasizing today that the Syrian-Iraqi border was sealed and that Iraqis without visas would be turned away. He also welcomed renewed dialogue beginning with an impending visit by Secretary of State Colin L. Powell. Mr. Sharaa's remarks came a day after soothing statements by President Bush about Syria's cooperation. 
However, even Syrians much closer to the establishment than Mr. Turk is seem certain that this country, and the region, will adapt -- even if the American action in Iraq smacks of the kind of external control from which the Arabs have been trying to free themselves for the better part of a century.
"We don't know what will happen to us after the Iraq war," said Haitham Kilani, a retired diplomat and general. "But it is certain there will be change."
Syria in some ways feels like the Iraq of old, and will probably be prominent on Washington's list of despotic states needing evolution.
Like Mr. Hussein's Iraq, Syria stands accused of developing chemical weapons and aiding groups that Washington considers terrorists -- in Syria's case, Hezbollah, which dominates southern Lebanon and threatens Israel from that base. Syria also allows most Palestinian groups to maintain what it insists are information offices here, including Hamas and Islamic Jihad.
In the post-Hussein sweepstakes for the title of most repressive Middle Eastern nation, Syria's powerful secret police agencies, its shadowy governing party and the lack of free expression will also probably pull Syria -- at least in American eyes -- ahead of competitors like Libya or American allies including Egypt, Jordan and Saudi Arabia. 
Both Iraq and Syria have been ruled for decades by bitterly opposed branches of the Baath Party, founded in Syria in 1947 on the ideals of defeating colonialism, fostering Arab unity and socialism. Both Mr. Hussein and the late President Hafez al-Assad basically first used the party's secular creed to help establish the dominance of their respective religious minorities -- Sunni Muslims in Iraq and Alawites, an offshoot of Shiite Islam, in Syria. 
Once ensconced, both carried out one-man rule. In Syria, emergency laws giving the police sweeping powers have been in effect since 1963. 
Last year, nine dissidents were sentenced to up to 10 years in jail for attacking one-party rule. Ibrahim Hamidi, the Damascus bureau chief for the London-based newspaper Al Hayat, was arrested in December for violating the press law by publishing articles about what might have been said in presidential meetings. His court hearings have been secret. 
Syrian television broadcast a documentary on Islamic architecture during the toppling of Mr. Hussein's statue on April 9, but most Syrians saw the startling scene in Baghdad on satellite stations.
In Damascus, although the younger Mr. Assad has sought to play down displays of personal power, statues of his father are everywhere. One such statue, 20 feet high, with Mr. Assad's arm outstretched, dominates a park in Damascus. A group of young men wondered one recent night whether the statue would budge if pushed.
In a month spent here, by far the most frequent complaint -- voiced by teachers, restaurant owners or doctors with private clinics -- centers on the pervasive bribes demanded by the security services. 
"The most important problem here is corruption," said a 42-year-old Baath Party member from the provinces, bemoaning what he said was a "river of money" into party coffers. "The party is fragile because of this corruption."
The man, like many Syrians, blamed the ruling clique rather than the president himself. There is, however, widespread grumbling that presidential relatives own a piece of most major businesses. 
President Assad, 37, promised to fight corruption when he inherited the job from his father nearly three years ago. Syrians were prepared to overlook the fact that he was simply handed the reins of the country because they thought a young, computer-savvy British-trained ophthalmologist would improve their standard of living. 
Instead, with the Palestinian uprising against Israel and the American war on Iraq, the younger Mr. Assad has sought to burnish Syria's treasured position as the conscience of the Arabs, lashing out at Western attempts to dominate them. 
Promised reforms stalled, including the introduction of private banks and private universities. Introduced piecemeal by presidential order, most change founders on the shoals of bureaucratic red tape. 
For example, Baath Party apparatchiks kept private universities at bay by trying to push them outside major cities. "It's an art form, they pretend to implement reform, but all they do is create obstacles," one Damascus University professor said. 
The minister of higher education, Hassan Risheh, found himself battling for support for a virtual university accessible throughout Syria because the word in Arabic for virtual translates as "supposed." 
"There are a lot of people who don't like these things because they think in a conventional way and they don't understand them," he said.
Economic reform has not fared well, either, and the economy is expected to plunge with the loss of 200,000 barrels a day of subsidized Iraqi oil and some $2 billion in exports to Iraq. 
"We don't have a program as to what kind of economic reform we want," said Nabil Sukkar, a business consultant and former World Bank economist. "There is no priority, no defined steps."
Much speculation focuses on whether Mr. Assad will try to dump the Baath Party because it is thwarting any change, and Alawites have begun to worry it might sink them. But no one is sure who advises him. Both the president and his wife, Azma Akhras, a Sunni Muslim and former investment banker in London, remain largely aloof. They have one son, Hafez, age 16 months. 
Almost nothing is more sensitive then the question of Alawite dominance in Syria. Although official figures do not exist, Syria's 17 million people are believed to be about 75 percent Sunni Muslim, about 13 percent Alawite, and around 10 percent Christian.
Government officials generally dismiss any question about Alawite dominance either by saying Syria benefits from secular rule or noting the number of Sunni Muslims in top positions. 
Asked about American hints on change in the Middle East, Buthaina Shaaban, the Foreign Ministry spokeswoman, was adamant that it was none of Washington's business. 
"Internal change will be decided by Syrians at the pace that Syrians want for the purposes that Syrians desire to achieve," she said last week. She also rejected absolutely any similarity to Iraq, saying, "They simply cannot be compared."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Riad al-Turk, a Syrian dissident, sees a chance for political changes. (Jehad Nga/Corbis, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TERRORISM (73%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (70%); IRAQ WAR (70%); MILITARY WEAPONS (70%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (69%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (69%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (62%); HEZBOLLAH (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (88%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (94%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) SYRIA (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); LEBANON (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



691 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 22, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: BUSH'S AIDES PLAN LATE SPRINT IN '04 

BYLINE:  By ADAM NAGOURNEY and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 21 

 BODY:
President Bush's advisers have drafted a re-election strategy built around staging the latest nominating convention in the party's history, allowing Mr. Bush to begin his formal campaign near the third anniversary of the Sept. 11 attacks and to enhance his fund-raising advantage, Republicans close to the White House say.
 In addition, Mr. Bush's advisers say they are prepared to spend as much as $200 million -- twice the amount of his first campaign -- to finance television advertising and other campaign expenses through the primary season that leads up to the Republican convention in September 2004. That would be a record amount by a presidential candidate, and would be especially notable because Mr. Bush faces no serious opposition for his party's nomination. 
 The president is planning a sprint of a campaign that would start, at least officially, with his acceptance speech at the Republican convention, a speech now set for Sept. 2. 
The convention, to be held in New York City, will be the latest since the Republican Party was founded in 1856, and Mr. Bush's advisers said they chose the date so the event would flow into the commemorations of the third anniversary of the World Trade Center and Pentagon attacks.
The back-to-back events would complete the framework for a general election campaign that is being built around national security and Mr. Bush's role in combatting terrorism, Republicans said. Not incidentally, they said they hoped it would deprive the Democratic nominee of critical news coverage during the opening weeks of the general election campaign. 
The strategy, described by Republicans close to the White House, is intended to highlight what Mr. Bush's advisers want to be the main issue of his campaign, national security, while intensifying his already formidable fund-raising advantage in the general election campaign.
By scheduling the start of the convention for Aug. 30, a month after Democrats choose their candidate, the White House has put off the imposition of spending ceilings that take effect when the parties officially nominate their candidates. 
Under campaign spending laws, candidates who accept public financing will have about $75 million to spend between the nominating conventions and Election Day. Because the Democrats scheduled their convention for late July, the party's candidate will have to stretch out the same allocation over a longer period. The nominees of both parties are expected to accept public financing.
Even though Mr. Bush will not begin his formal campaign until after the convention, his political team is preparing to begin broadcasting television advertisements as early as next spring. By that point, the White House expects the Democratic candidate to be settled, but battered and sapped of money from the primaries, and thus unable to counter a Republican advertising assault.
The strategy of starting so late and building the campaign around the events in New York is not without risks. Mr. Bush's advisers said they were wary of being portrayed as exploiting the trauma of Sept. 11, a perception that might be particularly difficult to rebut as Mr. Bush shuttles between political events at Madison Square Garden and memorial services at ground zero. 
In addition, Mr. Bush's advisers said they remained worried by the economy's persistent weakness, an issue that could trump national security if the threat from terrorism appeared to recede.
But they said the Democratic Party was making a mistake in building its hopes for 2004 on the fate of Mr. Bush's father in 1992. The current president, White House officials said, has already dispatched with his father's biggest problem, the perception that he was out of touch with the nation's economic woes, by pushing his economic program nearly every time he appears in public.
"This isn't 1991," an adviser to Mr. Bush said. "People clearly see this as a chapter in a struggle against a new kind of threat. Al Qaeda is still out there. The security and national security issue is going to remain very, very strong."
White House officials have portrayed Mr. Bush as a president with little involvement to date in planning his re-election campaign. The matter is so sensitive that Republicans who have been consulted by the White House officials said they had been warned not to divulge discussions about the campaign. The concern is that such conversations might run counter to the portrayal by Republicans of a White House paying little mind to politics.
Behind the scenes, Mr. Bush's advisers have been assembling the framework for the 2004 campaign. They have set fund-raising targets, made personnel decisions and made calculations of the contest's ideological and geographic contours to try to turn Mr. Bush's incumbency to his advantage at every opportunity.
White House officials, led by Mr.Bush's chief political adviser, Karl Rove, are in the midst of an extensive examination of the history of previous re-election campaigns. Since the start of the year, they have conducted in-depth interviews with Republicans who have run recent presidential campaigns, reflecting Mr. Rove's fascination with political history and the determination of the White House not to repeat what they see as the mistakes of past Republican candidates, especially Mr. Bush's father in 1992.
Some advisers said they were hopeful that the 2004 contest would mirror the 1984 re-election of Ronald Reagan, who loped to an overwhelming victory over Walter F. Mondale. Other Bush advisers said the apter model appeared to be Franklin D. Roosevelt's election to a third term over Wendell L. Willkie in 1940, at a time when the nation was unsettled by the spreading global war and the pressure on the United States to enter the conflict.
For the next 18 months, Mr. Bush's explicitly political appearances will be limited almost exclusively to fund-raisers and tending-the-vineyard visits to important political states like New Hampshire. 
Republicans close to White House described the strategy as being in the formative stages, saying much would depend on what happened in the world and to the American economy over the next year, as well as on whom the Democrats nominate. White House officials, as well as Democrats, said they expected the Democratic opponent to become clear by the first or second week of March 2004.
Although the White House has put out the word that Mr. Bush was prepared to raise $200 million for the pre-convention period, several Republicans said the figure was not based on a determined need, but by a desire to rally their fund-raising network to work hard and to rattle Democrats by reminding them of the fund-raising dominance of the president.
"We have the capability to raise it," an adviser to Mr. Bush said. "Whether we do so will depend on the need."'
In presenting Mr. Bush as being unengaged with the demands of his re-election campaign, Republicans close to the White House have been trying to draw a contrast with the Democrats. They have systematically sought to discredit the Democratic field by portraying nearly everything those candidates do and say as politically motivated.
That said, nearly every appearance Mr. Bush makes has political overtones, and with the war in Iraq effectively over, he is already shifting back into a more recognizable partisan mode.
Already, the president's travel schedule is emphasizing states that will prove pivotal in the 2004 election. He went to Missouri last week and is heading for Ohio this week. Since those trips are presented as official White House travel, they were not billed against Mr. Bush's re-election campaign.
The White House has made clear that Mr. Bush will not provide an easy opening for Democrats by neglecting a domestic agenda, as he now moves to draw on his political strength as the leader of the nation during a time at war to advance his domestic record. To that end, he visited a fighter-jet production factory last week to pitch his tax cut plan and is likely to use the setting of a tank factory in Ohio this week to advance the same subject.
In Washington, Mr. Rove has quietly begun putting together the team that will run the campaign, officials close to the White House say. Ken Mehlman, the White House political director, is expected to become the campaign manager. Jack Oliver, the deputy chairman of the Republican National Committee, is expected to become finance director. Matthew Dowd will be the pollster, as he was in 2000, and Mark McKinnon will be Mr. Bush's media strategist.
Karen P. Hughes, Mr. Bush's longtime communications strategist, is likely to be a floating adviser in 2004. Donald Evans, who was chairman of the 2000 Bush campaign and is now commerce secretary, is expected to stay in the administration but to counsel Mr. Bush in Washington. Mr. Rove is planning to stay at the White House.
Even as Mr. Bush has remained silent, the Republican National Committee, at the direction of the White House, has methodically distributed information intended to discredit his possible challengers and has set up a full-fledged research effort into their backgrounds..
For example, when the Democrat that many of Mr. Bush's advisers see as the most likely to win the nomination, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts, said in New Hampshire that it was time for a "regime change" in the United States, Republican organizations orchestrated attacks on Mr. Kerry. That forced Mr. Kerry to explain his remarks for a week.
In assessing Mr. Bush's potential opponents, Mr. Bush's advisers said Mr. Kerry could be presented as ideologically and culturally out of step, both because of his liberal positions on some issues as well as his Boston lineage and what some Bush advisers described as his haughty air.
Marc Racicot, the Republican national chairman, said recently that Mr. Kerry "is going to have a hard time translating out of New England." Another Bush adviser said of Mr. Kerry, "He looks French."
Several said that another leading Democratic contender, Senator John Edwards of North Carolina, could be the one Democrat who could compete with Mr. Bush in the South. But they argued that Mr. Edwards was open to attack both for his close ties with trial lawyers and for his lack of experience in government.
Mr. Racicot said Mr. Edwards could be portrayed as "slick and shallow," while another Bush associate described Mr. Edwards as the Breck Girl of politics, a reference to the shiny-hair model for a popular shampoo in the 1960's.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Karl Rove, President Bush's chief political adviser, is leading an examination of previous re-election campaigns by Republicans. (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. A18) Chart: "WHO'S WHO: An Eye On 2004"Political advisers to President Bush have devised a strategy for his reelection that highlights national security and makes the most of Mr. Bush's fundraising advantage. Some of the main players in the reelection effort: Karl Rove, 52The iron-willed and hard-nosed master strategist, his plan is to emphasize national security, show the president hard at work on the economy and use the calendar to maximize President Bush's fund-raising advantage over Democrats. Ken Mehlman, 36The White Houses political director shuns the spotlight, but his extensive political knowledge and network will make him a powerful figure as the president's likely campaign manager. He will work closely with Mr. Rove to drive Mr. Bush's message and pick the president's battleground states next year. Matthew Dowd, 41An amiable figure in a highly regimented White House, he is the pollster for an administration that likes to present itself as not being poll-driven. His insights into the electorate are already shaping tactics, including the issues Mr. Bush promotes, how he presents them and where he travels. Mark McKinnon, 48A former songwriter for Kris Kristofferson, Mr. McKinnon will reprise his role from 2000 as the campaigns media adviser, helping to frame how and when Mr. Bush presents his message to voters and deciding on when to use the campaigns big war chest to buy advertising time on television. Jack Oliver, 34A fast-talking, often brash Missourian, he is likely to be the campaigns finance director charged with the task of raising as much as $200 million from his lists of the partys most generous donors. (pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (91%); ANNIVERSARIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); FUNDRAISING (77%); TERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (75%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (94%); KARL ROVE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2003 



692 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 814 words

HEADLINE: ART APPRECIATION; 
A Place to Hang Out and Learn a Thing or Two

BYLINE:  By TESSA DeCARLO 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
THE most revolutionary thing about the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art's new education center is neither its slickly minimal design nor the array of technologies it uses, but its location: 7,000 square feet on the museum's second floor, right next to the permanent collection.
 The Koret Visitor Education Center, named for a local foundation that helped pay for its construction, includes the standard museum education facilities, like classroom and studio space for school, teenage and family groups and resources for teachers. But front and center is a drop-in Learning Lounge with computer kiosks, movable film screens and sofas, where visitors can read books and catalogs, watch videos, tap into multimedia presentations about museum offerings and talk to education resource staff members. All these activities are free with admission to the museum. 
 "We didn't put it in the basement, which is what museums typically do," said John Weber, the education curator. "It's just a few feet away from the art and designed to be part of your regular visit -- free, with staff you can talk to, a place to hang out. That is so radical, and yet it shouldn't be, because it's so obvious."
Others in the field agree. "It breaks new territory in museum-education design," said Sarah Loudon, the senior museum educator at the Seattle Art Museum, who visited the Koret center recently. "It's certainly a model we'll be looking to."
Even before the education center opened, the museum was known for its innovative education efforts. Its multimedia programs introducing important issues in modern and contemporary art have won numerous national awards, and Mr. Weber and his team are widely respected.
"The exceptional thing about SFMOMA's Education Department is their intelligence," said Elisabeth Sussman, a New York writer who co-curated the museum's Eva Hesse retrospective last year. "In their hands what could be an objectionable dumbing-down process becomes instead a very subtle educational tool. After the Hesse show opened, many people spoke to me particularly about how much they liked the wall labels. I've never had that happen before."
The museum's eagerness to educate its audience reflects both idealism and an awareness of the bottom line. "We're a big museum in a tourist market," Mr. Weber said, with more than 600,000 visitors every year. "But we show a lot of contemporary work. We get a lot of people who are comfortable with Matisse but have never seen Andrea Zittel or Robert Gober or Brice Marden. We have to meet them at least halfway."
The center's generous space used to be occupied by staff members, who have moved into rented quarters next door. Planning began during the economic boom a few years ago, but by the time the center opened in October the collapsing stock market had dealt a body blow to the museum's endowment.
That has led to cutbacks, including opening the center only on Thursdays, Fridays and Saturdays. 
"The center represents a real commitment on the part of the institution that translates into real resources," said Madeleine Grynsztejn, the museum's senior curator of painting and sculpture. Like Mr. Weber, she hopes the Koret center will eventually be open to the public whenever the museum is.
"It's the best I've ever seen," she said. "Not only is it architecturally integrated, it's capacious and physically welcoming and therefore intellectually welcoming."
IF the center looks radical to museum professionals, it can be puzzling to visitors. On a recent Friday afternoon, about 20 people were in the Learning Lounge, most watching a film about the artist Robert Motherwell.
Several other museumgoers peeked in and scuttled away. Michael Richards, a docent, posted himself by the door and encouraged the timid to come in and explore. "I tell them, 'This space was designed with you in mind,' " he said.
Celeste Belcher of Virginia Beach, Va., heeded Mr. Richards's invitation. "We're pretty traditional, and this museum is a little offbeat for us," she said. She didn't care for Motherwell's work but was interested to learn more about him. "My ambition is to know a little bit of the history, not just the main names but the ones that go alongside," she said, adding, "And my husband was tired and wanted a good place to sit down."
Visitors are still figuring out how to use the center, said Jasmine Granados, an education resource specialist there. "We have very slow times and then 600 people will come in one Saturday," she said.
While she gets many questions on the order of "Where's the bathroom?," she also helps visitors find information about everything from Sol LeWitt's wall drawings to the Harlem Renaissance.
"People are not trained to use a resource center as part of their gallerygoing experience," she said. "That's where we have our work cut out for us. It will take a little time to see if we're having the impact we want to."

GRAPHIC: Photo: PRIME LOCATION -- The new education center at the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art is right next to the permanent collection, where anyone can find it. (Terrence McCarthy for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); FILM (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ELECTRONIC KIOSKS (70%); WRITERS (69%); TOURISM (50%) ART; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS 

ORGANIZATION: SAN FRANCISCO MUSEUM OF MODERN ART 

PERSON: DECARLO, TESSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



693 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1603 words

HEADLINE: NUTS AND BOLTS; 
Renovation Question: Stay Open or Shut?

BYLINE:  By FRED A. BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
PLEXIGLASS boxes protect the lions flanking its south entrance, and a plywood ramp covers its stairs, the better to roll crates of precious artworks into moving vans. Most of the collection is already in storage; next week , the Pierpont Morgan Library, one of New York's best-loved museums, will close for a $100 million renovation.
 Charles E. Pierce Jr., the director, said that he had never intended to shut the museum. "But from the first moment that I met Renzo Piano," Mr. Pierce said, referring to the architect of the renovation, "he said I should get used to the idea that the most efficient and economical way to do this project was to close for at least two years. 
 "I was startled and a tad shaken, but I gradually came to see that he was absolutely right." 
Many other museum directors are reaching the same conclusion. Later this year, the Corcoran Gallery of Art in Washington will close so that its 19th-century building can be renovated and a 21st-century addition by Frank O. Gehry constructed. The Aldrich Museum of Contemporary Art, in Ridgefield, Conn., will close in August so its original building can be renovated and a 1980's addition replaced. 
They will join numerous museums that are already closed. In San Francisco, the M. H. de Young Memorial Museum (part of the Fine Arts Museums of San Francisco) has been closed since Dec. 31, 2000. Its new building, by the Swiss firm Herzog & de Meuron, is expected to open in 2005. And the Smithsonian American Art Museum closed in January 2000 for a renovation that has not progressed beyond interior demolition. If Congress allocates the funds -- more than $100 million -- the museum could reopen in 2006, according to its director, Elizabeth Broun. In Hartford, the venerable Wadsworth Atheneum Museum of Art plans to close for a reconstruction designed by the Dutch firm UN Studio, although the timing will not be known until the museum's new director, Willard J. Holmes, begins work next week. 
The spate of temporary closings represents a new phase in the building boom that began in the go-go 90's, when institutions found it relatively easy to raise large sums. Some museums are refurbishing old buildings; some are commissioning new ones. Others, like the Corcoran and the Aldrich, are doing both.
For directors who shut down their institutions, consequences go beyond the obvious loss of revenue and the danger that the museum's support will erode. The impact is felt most keenly by employees who are laid off, but also extends to scholars who are dependent on easy access to artworks. 
Some directors refuse to close even during large-scale renovations. Katharine Lee Reid, the director of the Cleveland Museum of Art, has arranged to add more than 170,000 square feet to the museum in stages, so that that it can remain open. "Our general contractor recommended that we close," she said. "And a lot of the more practical people on the staff agreed. But along with our curators, our external affairs department and not least our trustees, I felt very strongly that we should keep the museum open. It's about not wanting to disrupt the relationship with the public, about keeping the habit of visiting the museum alive."
But Emily Rauh Pulitzer, the founder and president of the Pulitzer Foundation for the Arts in St. Louis, said that although closing was inconvenient to the public, it was often the right choice. A museum's "first obligation," she said, "is to preserve its collection." That, she said, means that artworks have to be shielded from the dust and vibration of construction.
The Corcoran was one of several museums whose directors said they had no choice but to close. "We've got a building that's over 100 years old, and it's never been renovated," said David C. Levy, the Corcoran's president and director. Updating the building, he said, will involve not only replacing every mechanical system but also removing and rebuilding the roof. "Your art, to say nothing of people, is in great danger." 
For other museums, it is a matter of saving time or money or both. At the Aldrich, the assistant director, Richard Klein, said that once the trustees had decided to renovate the museum's old building and erect a new one, "it became clear that we were going to save a lot of money -- as much as $400,000 -- by overlapping both phases of construction."
Still, a number of the museums that shut temporarily had a choice: to do less extensive renovations or build new facilities away from existing ones.
Victoria Newhouse, the author of "Towards a New Museum," points to the example of the Louvre, which over the years has "thrown off" a number of smaller museums, she said, the most recent being the Musee d'Orsay, which focuses on 19th-century French art. 
"Bigger isn't always better," Ms. Newhouse said, adding, "I have felt, for a long time, that museums have overexpanded." 
Some institutions move into temporary spaces, following the lead of the Museum of Modern Art, which is operating out of a renovated warehouse in Queens while it enlarges its Manhattan site. In San Francisco, the 150-year-old California Academy of Sciences is in temporary quarters, while a new building by Mr. Piano replaces its longtime home in Golden Gate Park.
Other museums stay put while building elsewhere. These include the Forum for Contemporary Art in St. Louis; the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston; and the Contemporary Arts Center in Cincinnati, whose new building is to open next month. 
But the Corcoran, the Morgan and the Smithsonian art museum -- with their historic buildings -- are not about to move. Ms. Broun described the Old Patent Office Building, which houses her museum and the National Portrait Gallery, as "perhaps the finest neo-Classical building in America." Interior demolition, which was painstaking, required 22 months, she said. 
AT the de Young in San Francisco, the decision to close followed the 1989 Loma Prieta earthquake, which damaged an "already seismically suspect" building, according to the director, Harry S. Parker 3rd. The de Young was shut in 2000; its new building is expected to open in 2005.
Mr. Parker said that nearly half the museum's financing was earned income, a category that includes admission fees and profits from gift shops, cafeterias and building rentals. (Government subsidies and private donations are considered unearned income, and memberships, a form of philanthropy that also buys free admission, straddles the two categories.)
Closing the de Young meant sacrificing nearly all its earned income, Mr. Parker said. (Museums like the Morgan, with its large endowment, and the Smithsonian art museum, which is financed by Congress, rely less on earned income than the de Young, he said.)
At the same time, Mr. Parker said, many costs -- from utility bills to security guards' salaries -- were reduced or eliminated when the museum closed. 
Not everyone benefits from these reductions. At the Morgan, a dozen cafe workers will lose their jobs when the museum closes next month, according to a worker, who did not want her name used. She said, "A couple of years ago, it would have been O.K., but in this economy, it's tough."
Museum workers' jobs are not the only ones threatened. Terri Hahn, a member of the community board for the Manhattan neighborhood that includes the Morgan, said she worried that some local businesses, including restaurants, would be hurt by the closing. 
There are other costs, according to Ms. Broun of the Smithsonian art museum, who with her employees has worked in an anonymous office suite since 2000. "A lot of staff," she said, "are lowly paid, but they love being around the artworks. Now that they're away from the museum, they feel kind of deprived of their purpose."
All the museums try to remain in the public eye while closed. The Morgan lent many of its finest medieval objects to the Metropolitan Museum of Art, where they are on display. In San Francisco, the de Young is affiliated with the California Palace of the Legion of Honor and has mounted several exhibitions there. Ms. Broun said that her curators organized the highlights of the museum's collection into eight touring shows that will be seen at 80 museums. Other objects have been exhibited at the Renwick Gallery, another Smithsonian museum, a block from the White House. "It got us out from behind our desks," she said. "And of course we're open on the Web."
But closing usually requires museums to put collections in deep storage, making them difficult to retrieve. Mr. Pierce said that the Morgan had imposed a moratorium on lending for now. "We don't like doing it, but it's the only sensible thing under the circumstances," he said. The museum will try to make objects available to scholars "on a limited basis," he added. "But things will take longer; it won't be business as usual."
The biggest danger to the museums would seem to be audience attrition. Mr. Parker said that the de Young had lost about 20 percent of its membership during the closing, but that could be from the economic downturn. At the same time, he said, "We believe we're positioning the museum for the next 100 years."
At the Corcoran, Mr. Levy said, "attendance is extremely exhibition-specific.
"If we have something people love, they'll line up for hours," he said. "If we don't, the building is practically empty. So being closed will be like having an exhibition people don't love." When the museum reopens, he added, attendance will return to previous levels "instantaneously -- I don't see any ramping up.
"It's not like you're running a restaurant, and if you close for three years, people forget about you."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 28, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in the special Museums section on Wednesday about museum renovations referred incorrectly to the California Academy of Sciences in San Francisco. The academy will remain open at its home in Golden Gate Park through the end of this year. When the building is razed and construction begins next year, the museum will move temporarily to 875 Howard Street and reopen early in 2004. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALTERNATE ROUTE -- The Museum of Modern Art reopened in temporary quarters in Queens for the duration of work to enlarge its home in Midtown Manhattan.; WORK IN PROGRESS -- The Pierpoint Morgan Library in Manhattan is about to close for at least two years to allow a $100 million expansion to move ahead. A museum building boom has led to many such shuttings nationwide. (Photographs by Aaron Lee Fineman for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); CLOSINGS (77%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); LIBRARIES (72%); LAYOFFS (70%) MUSEUMS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

PERSON: FRANK GEHRY (55%) BERNSTEIN, FRED A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (70%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%); CONNECTICUT, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



694 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 4; Museums; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1564 words

HEADLINE: SMALL GEMS; 
A Traveler Lured Beyond The Brand-Name Galleries

BYLINE:  By GERALDINE FABRIKANT 

 BODY:
ON a recent trip to Atlanta, I set aside time for a visit to the city's best known art institution, the High Museum of Art, only to decide that the special exhibitions did not intrigue me. Having gone to the museum nearly every visit in the past, I queried a friend for names of the city's smaller art collections.
 "You mean you've never been to the Michael Carlos Museum?" she asked. "You should really see it." 
My cousins, who are also Atlanta residents, were not familiar with the museum, nor were some business associates. 
Still, the Michael C. Carlos Museum, on the Emory University campus, turned out to be wonderful, filled with stunning Greek and Roman artifacts and an Egyptian collection.
That visit prompted a search for other lesser-known museums, particularly in cities where brand-name institutions are far more familiar to travelers and even to most residents. Each of them provided a sense of discovery and the opportunity to see art in the relative tranquillity that larger, busier institutions often lack.
Some of these museums prosper with grants from private donations. For example, Michael C. Carlos, an Atlanta wine and spirits wholesaler of Greek origin, gave $20 million to the Emory University Museum over a 20-year period; the money was to be used to expand its collection of Greek art. The museum was renamed in Mr. Carlos's honor in 1993 when he financed an addition designed by the architect Michael Graves. 
But there are also museums created by collectors who want to keep their collections intact by establishing a museum to house them. A friend who collects rare books told me about a museum in Philadelphia, established by the Rosenbachs, brothers who dealt in books and decorative objects and left their home and jewel-like collection of 4,000 rare books to the public.
Nationwide, there are hundreds of such museums devoted to specific interests. Two guides are "America's Art Museums: A Traveler's Guide to Great Collections Large and Small" by Suzanne Loebl, and "Little Museums: Over 1,000 Small (and Not-So-Small) American Showplaces," by Lynne Arany and Archie Hobson.

Michael C. Carlos Museum
571 South Kilgo St., Atlanta, (404) 727-4282. Tuesday, Wednesday, Friday and Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sunday, noon to 5 p.m.; www.carlos.emory.edu.
This museum has been eagerly adding to a stunning collection of Roman and Greek pieces. Today its 16,000 objects include Egyptian, South American and African art.
The sources of the acquisitions are diverse. In 1999, for example, when the Niagara Falls Museum was liquidating, the Carlos museum bought 10 mummies, 9 coffins and other artifacts for $2 million. Part of the financing was raised from Atlanta residents after a newspaper article said the museum did not have enough money for the purchase.
Later research determined that one mummy may be Ramses I, the only Egyptian pharaoh whose body was not in Egypt. The museum has agreed to return him to Egypt, but before then the mummy and other art and artifacts from his reign will be on display from Saturday through Sept. 14.
Among the other holdings is a delicately carved garnet head of Berenice, a distant grandmother of Cleopatra.
The Greek collection, which has expanded in the last five years, now includes a krater from 430 B.C. with scenes from the myth of Actaeon. Another recent purchase is a statue of a female, possibly Aphrodite. The museum also owns the Makron drinking cup, which bears one of the earliest studies of a female nude in Western art. There are extensive Maya and Inca works as well.

Rosenbach Museum and Library
2008-2010 DeLancey Pl., Philadelphia, (215) 732-1600. Tuesday, Thursday, Friday and weekends, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Wednesday, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m.; www.rosenbach.org.
Every June 16, the Rosenbach participates in a worldwide celebration of Bloomsday, when James Joyce and his future wife, Nora Barnacle, walked the streets of Dublin in 1904. That journey was immortalized as Leopold Bloom's odyssey in "Ulysses."
The museum has reason to offer readings from parts of the masterpiece: it owns the original, handwritten 837-page manuscript. Several pages are displayed in the library, which occupies two elegant Federal-style houses. A. S. W. Rosenbach, a rare book dealer and the museum's co-founder, lived with his brother Philip in one of the houses.
Joyce published his work in 1922. But, needing money, he sold the manuscript, and Dr. A.S.W. Rosenbach bought it at auction in 1924 for $1,975. It was a pittance compared with the $72,000 he had spent for several Joseph Conrad works, and Joyce was so upset by the low price that he offered to buy the manuscript back.
Fortunately for Philadelphia, Dr. Rosenbach was eager to keep it. He and his brother, who bought and sold decorative objects, had opened the Rosenbach Company in 1903. Dr. Rosenbach had already developed a reputation as a collector and dealer.
A passionate buyer whose acquisitions found their way to several major libraries, he built up a personal collection that included Lewis Carroll's own copy of an 1865 edition of "Alice's Adventures in Wonderland" and several sketches by Sir John Tenniel. He also bought the first published work by an African-American: the slave Phillis Wheatley's 1773 "Poems on Various Subjects, Religious and Moral"; the handwritten edition of Dickens's "The Pickwick Papers" and handwritten notes and an outline for Bram Stoker's vampire novel "Dracula." This week, the newly renovated museum is opening an exhibition of drawings by the children's book author and illustrator Maurice Sendak, who donated the collection.

Arthur M. Sackler Museum
485 Broadway, Cambridge, Mass.; (617) 495-9400. Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Sunday, 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; www.artmuseums.harvard.edu.
I had known about the Sackler for years, but on my infrequent trips to Boston, I inevitably spent time instead at the Museum of Fine Arts, the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum or the Fogg Art Museum at Harvard. 
So on a rainy Saturday afternoon, it was a treat to finally visit the Sackler, with its exotic collection of Chinese bronze and jade and Buddhist sculpture.
The museum, which is part of the Harvard University Art Museums complex, was originally meant to house the overflow of Asian, Islamic and ancient objects from the Fogg. Then in 1985, after Mr. Sackler put up the money for a new building to accommodate the collection, it was renamed in his honor. Since then, the collections have continued to grow. The holdings also include Greek, Roman, Indian, Korean and Islamic works.
The Chinese collection was largely the gift of Grenville L. Winthrop. Among its most highly prized objects is a 13th-century B.C. bronze-covered wine vessel with the head of a tiger and a pale jade ritual disc shot with veins of brown from the warring states period, the 5th to 3rd centuries B.C. It is thought to have been used for paying homage to the heavens.
The museum also contains an expanding collection of Korean works. 
Some of the donors to the Sackler are as well known as the art. John Kenneth Galbraith, a professor emeritus of economics at Harvard and former ambassador to India, gave 95 Indian artworks to the museum, including "An Encounter at a Well," from the Rajasthan school and painted in 1745.

Norton Museum of Art
1451 South Olive Ave., West Palm Beach, Fla. (561) 832-5196.Monday through Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Sunday 1 p.m. to 5 p.m.; www.norton.org.
On a weekend visit to Palm Beach, I asked my hosts for the name of the best local museum, and they immediately sent me to the Norton, a sprawling complex where the architectural style has a local flavor, but the collection, which was started by Ralph and Elizabeth Norton, is both diverse and sophisticated. 
As the chairman of the Acme Steel Company in Chicago, Mr. Norton accumulated a fortune that the he and his wife used to acquire works that appealed to their "reasonably catholic" tastes, as Mr. Norton once described the origins of the collection.
After the couple retired to Palm Beach in 1939, they created the museum as a home for the art, which was mostly focused on 19th- and 20th-century European and American pieces that "gave us aesthetic satisfaction," Mr. Norton once said.
Though the museum does have pre-1870 European works, the Nortons' collection of European painting after 1870 is widely regarded as the highlight of the painting holdings; these include Cezanne's "Portrait of Alfred Hauge," Boudin's "Beach Scene at Trouville," Gris's "Le Journal" and Lipchitz's "Rescue II."
In the last decade, wealthy Palm Beach denizens have poured $60 million into the museum. Today, it also owns a substantial collection of American paintings from the corresponding European period, includingHopper's haunting "August in the City" and Prendergast's airy "Bridge and Steps, Venice."
It is now building a more modern collection, with works like Duane Hanson's sculputure, "Young Workman." It has benefited as well from donations like the Baroness Jeane von Oppenheim's 650 photographs.
Last month, the Norton grew strikingly larger when it opened a new wing that expanded its galleries 75 percent. The original space, with an indoor courtyard and fountain, has a traditional feel, while the wing is far more modern. Fourteen galleries ensure ample room to show work from the more modern collections, as well as the museum's highly prized Chinese bronzes and jades.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ART COLLECTING (90%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (89%); CLASSICS (88%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (74%); LIBRARIES (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (51%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE WHOLESALERS (51%) MUSEUMS 

ORGANIZATION: CARLOS, MICHAEL C, MUSEUM (ATLANTA); ROSENBACH MUSEUM AND LIBRARY (PHILADELPHIA); SACKLER, ARTHUR M, MUSEUM (CAMBRIDGE, MASS); NORTON MUSEUM OF ART (WEST PALM BEACH, FLA) 

PERSON: FABRIKANT, GERALDINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



695 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: MARKETING; 
Temples of Culture Are Needy, Too. Tai Chi, Anyone?

BYLINE:  By BERNARD STAMLER 

 BODY:
IN Texas, they held late-night hours and classes in yoga and tai chi meditation. In Oregon, a bunch of grandmothers marched. In Minnesota, they tried air fresheners with reproductions of paintings on the back, and a museum staff member dressed up like a mummy -- all for the sake of art.
 Odd? Perhaps. But with tourism down, endowments depressed and, in many cases, governmental subsidies vanishing, museums are in need of new financing sources. Lately, in the hunt for revenue, many have turned to imaginative marketing. 
 The trend is by no means universal. Museums fashion themselves as temples of culture, and are conservative by definition. They are wary of appearing "crass or commercial" or of "compromising their integrity and credibility," said Edward H. Abel, president of the American Association of Museums in Washington. 
This means that for many museums, marketing "has been pretty much the same for the last 10 years," according to Peter Marzio, director of the Museum of Fine Arts in Houston. Many institutions have small marketing budgets, he said, and, loath to try anything different, do only what they have done for years, like teaming up with tourism groups and hotels to create visitor packages.
Then there are museums that are trying new things.
For example, the Dallas Museum of Art celebrated its centennial by staying open for 100 consecutive hours during the middle of January. Yoga and tai chi were featured, along with more conventional activities, like gallery tours. The result: more than 45,000 visitors, nearly 20,000 more than predicted, many of them in the wee hours.
"We tried to change the nature of the way people experience the museum," said Bonnie Pitman, the museum's deputy director. "And we learned a lot of lessons." They are now considering nontraditional hours, she added, and the tai chi classes continue on Saturday mornings. 
At the Portland Art Museum in Oregon, there is no meditation. But there have been grandmothers, or at least people costumed as grandmothers, a number of whom marched in the city's annual parade held the day after Thanksgiving. They were promoting an exhibition of the paintings of Grandma Moses, according to the museum's spokeswoman, Beth Sorensen, who said that a cross-promotion was also held with the nearby Portland Center for the Performing Arts. There, rocking chairs decorated by local arts groups were displayed to -- and sat upon by -- the public.
In Minnesota, coffee, doughnuts and air fresheners decorated with art reproductions were part of a presentation made by the Minneapolis Institute of Arts last year to cabdrivers to familiarize them with the museum. And the employee in the mummy suit was publicizing a recent Egyptian exhibition. He was sent to prowl malls, and also appeared on television and at home games of the Minnesota Timberwolves and the University of Minnesota Gophers.
"We've all had to trim," said Anne-Marie Wagener, director of external affairs at the institute, explaining the rationale behind these inexpensive marketing ploys, which she said had garnered a fair amount of local attention despite their low cost. "There's no extra money flying around."
Of course, what works for one museum doesn't necessarily work for another, regardless of how daring it might be. Indeed, the kind of marketing depends upon the revenue model of a particular institution -- whether, for example, it charges for admission or extra for special shows, or receives significant government aid.
Whatever their admission policies, most museums recognize that their local markets offer the best opportunity for growth, even if they have taken them for granted before. That has led many to begin publicizing and enhancing the benefits of museum membership, so that more people will join and pay for the privilege.
Thus, the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, where the director Malcolm Rogers called members "our closest family," is looking at new ways to "add value to membership" -- like increasing restaurant discounts. The Art Institute of Chicago -- which has the largest museum membership in the United States, according to its spokeswoman, Eileen Harakal -- will soon be installing bar-coded member and donor attendance tracking, she said, to tailor appeals to its members and increase revenues. And at the Cleveland Museum of Art, where basic admission is free, various incentives, including shop discounts, free access to special exhibitions and a partnership with a chain of bookstores, are used to encourage visitors to join.
On the West Coast, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art is undertaking a detailed mapping project to identify areas of the city and its environs where there is "a potential for higher membership," according to Jim Rawitsch, associate vice president of external affairs. The museum has also initiated a free membership program to anyone under 18 to "open doors to the next generation of museumgoers," he said.
Then there are ancillary business activities like restaurants, museum shops, online sales and licensing. Recognizing this, many institutions began some years ago to hire staff members with business backgrounds, the better to run these operations and to expand them. 
For example, the Field Museum in Chicago has vastly increased the revenues of its stores over the last several years, according to Laura Sadler, director of business enterprises. "It was 'Retail 101,' " said Ms. Sadler of their efforts. "We tightened inventory controls, hired strong staff and improved the merchandise."
Most recently, the museum started a licensing program featuring Sue, the Tyrannosaurus rex whose skeleton first went on display there in 2000. In an arrangement similar to those at many other institutions, the museum's restaurants are now run by private operators, including McDonald's, which pay rent as well as a percentage of their sales to the Field. And the museum now courts so-called external special events aggressively, and about 200 of these corporate, social or convention-related gatherings are held at the Field each year. There are public events, too, often sponsored by radio stations.
But no matter how aggressive a museum's marketing strategy, the success of its commercial enterprises is still tied in large measure to attendance. A drop in the number of visitors often means a drop in store sales, which happened last year at many museums, including the Field. 
Moreover, off-site business activities, while not directly affected by museum attendance, are still suffering from the economic downturn.
The Metropolitan Museum of Art, which has stores at the museum in New York and in cities and malls throughout the country, reported a loss for retail operations during the 2002 fiscal year. And continuing losses last month led the Museum of Fine Arts in Boston, to put up for sale Museum Enterprise Partners, a private company it founded in 2001 to run its merchandising operations. A number of retail stores have been closed, and the company lost nearly $3 million last year, according to a report in The Boston Globe.
None of this means that it is impossible to make money nowadays from retail and business marketing. But it is very difficult. And, at least in the short term, things are probably not going to get very much better for museums.
For example, Smithsonian Business Ventures, which runs all the business and revenue-producing operations of its namesake institution, last year had a $16.6 million "net gain" -- defined as net operating income after expenses -- but that figure was nearly $10 million lower than in 2001. And the division's net may drop even more this year, with museum attendance and sales and concession revenues still running significantly below pre-Sept. 11 levels, according to Gary M. Beer, its chief executive.
In a sentiment echoed by many museum officials, Mr. Beer recently cited "continued threats of terrorism and the war in Iraq" as ground for his pessimism, at least in the short-term.
"Any hope we had for a substantial recovery this spring and summer," he said, "is now very much in question."
This means, no doubt, that marketing will be even more important than ever.

The Metropolitan Turns Mondays From Blue to Green
ONE way that museums can raise attendance -- and money -- is by expanding their hours. In New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art is doing just that: on Mondays, when it is normally closed, visitors are admitted to see its current exhibition, "Manet/Velazquez: The French Taste for Spanish Painting."
The opportunity does not come cheaply. The museum is charging $50 apiece to those who seek the offer, which is technically open to museum members and groups. (Nonmembers who show up at the Met on Mondays may also be admitted, if space allows.)
This represents a significant departure from normal admission practices at the Met. By virtue of its arrangement with New York City, which owns the building, the Met is required to charge only a suggested admission price, currently $12. As a policy, it does not sell separate or timed tickets to its blockbuster shows, unlike many other institutions, including the Museum of Modern Art, which is charging $20 apiece for tickets to its current "Matisse Picasso" exhibition. The Philadelphia Museum of Art, showing "Degas and the Dance,"' also costs $20 a person.
This means that access to the Met is cheaper than at many other major museums. But it also means that the Met is forgoing a significant revenue opportunity and that the galleries can be crowded and the lines long. For example, at the height of its popularity, the Met's recent show, "Leonardo da Vinci: Master Draftsman," often created wait times well beyond one hour. On some weekends, more than 8,000 people a day visited the show, or more than 1,000 an hour. For the impatient or time starved person, or for those who hate crowds, such conditions present an obstacle.
That is why the museum began Monday visiting hours, which were devised "as a way of expanding resources without restricting access" on public days, said Emily K. Rafferty, the Met's senior vice president for external affairs. First intended only for "Manet/Velazquez," which opened last month, the expanded hours were also arranged for the da Vinci exhibition during its final weeks. Tickets are limited; for "Manet/Velazquez," for example, the museum is planning to sell a maximum of perhaps 300 an hour.
So far, the experiment has been successful, Ms. Rafferty said, and the museum may hold Monday hours next fall, when it plans to open an El Greco exhibition. She said that the net income from Mondays at the da Vinci and "Manet/Velazquez" shows would be in the $250,000 range.
"It's absolutely worth it," said Alan Mantell, a businessman who was at the Met with his wife, Laura, a doctor. Longtime museum members, they know how crowded it can get.
"The viewing experience is enhanced and much more relaxed," Mr. Mantell said, looking around the nearly empty galleries. "I don't have to worry about blocking someone else's view or going back to look at something again."
 BERNARD STAMLER

GRAPHIC: Photos: NO CROWDS -- For $50, the Met offers access to special exhibitions on Mondays. (Carrie Boretz for The New York Times); FORM AND FUNCTION -- When the Dallas Museum of Art celebrated its centennial, tai chi and yoga classes helped lure more visitors. (Mark Graham for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (95%); YOGA (90%); MEDITATION (90%); PAINTING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); TRENDS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); EVENT MARKETING (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (71%); BUDGETS (71%); THANKSGIVING (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (70%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); PARADES & MARCHES (61%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (56%) MUSEUMS; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ASSOCIATION OF MUSEUMS (56%)

PERSON: STAMLER, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%); PORTLAND, OR, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (91%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (94%); OREGON, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



696 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1374 words

HEADLINE: IN THE ATTIC; 
A Collection Based On Good Connections

BYLINE:  By DONNA WILKINSON 

 BODY:
YOU never know what you'll find at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum in New York. Last July, for instance, a British art expert was combing through a box of drawings and unearthed a Michelangelo. In a collection of 250,000 objects that spans 23 centuries -- a quirky mix that runs the gamut from birdcages to buttons, blenders to books -- surprises turn up everywhere.
 But not all of the museum's 150,000 yearly visitors may realize how rich the Cooper-Hewitt's holdings are. Though the museum features its collection in shows, lends many works to other institutions and offers full access to researchers, it does not have a permanent gallery to display its treasures. In fact, a good portion of the collection has never been shown. This means that aside from two floors for temporary exhibitions, the museum -- located in the Andrew Carnegie mansion, a 64-room landmark at Fifth Avenue and 91st Street -- is one big attic. 
 "Nearly everything is stored in the mansion and in two attached brownstones," said Barbara Bloemink, the curatorial director of the Cooper-Hewitt. "It's an enormous collection for the size of our building." 
Above the exhibition floors -- where the "National Design Triennial: Inside Design Now" show is on display -- every alcove of the building's former bedrooms, ladies' parlors and butlers' pantries is filled with the stuff of design.
It is a collection based on good connections. The museum was called the Cooper Union Museum for the Arts of Decoration when Sarah, Eleanor and Amy Hewitt established it in 1897. The sisters were the granddaughters of the industrialist Peter Cooper, the founder of the Cooper Union for the Advancement of Science and Art. Inspired by the Musee des Arts Decoratifs in Paris and the Victoria and Albert Museum in London, they wanted to create a visual resource for the school. With help from friends like J. P. Morgan, they gathered a voluminous assortment of decorative arts objects. Even after the last sister's death in 1930, the museum continued to grow, remaining at Cooper Union until 1967, when it came under the umbrella of the Smithsonian Institution. In 1976, the Smithsonian reopened it at the mansion built by Carnegie, who was said to be an admirer of Peter Cooper.
The museum has four departments -- drawings, prints and graphic design; product design and decorative arts; textiles; and wallcoverings -- and a library.
On the fourth floor of the mansion, in the former servants' quarters, are three temperature-controlled storerooms for 160,000 works on paper in the Drue Heinz Study Center for Drawing, Prints and Graphic Design. Rows of wire shelves are stacked with hundreds of wooden Solander boxes -- protective containers lined with acid-free paper that hold 25 drawings apiece.
One major surprise: there are more than 300 drawings and oil paintings by Winslow Homer, and 2,000 drawings and oil sketches by Frederic Edwin Church -- the largest collections in the United States. And there are 83 drawings and watercolors of the American West by Thomas Moran.
"The mythology is that the Hewitt sisters played bridge with Charles Savage Homer Jr., who was Winslow Homer's brother," said Gail S. Davidson, associate curator of the department. "And in 1912, he gifted the contents of Homer's studio in Prouts Neck," in Maine, "to the museum."
Every piece has a story. There is a Rene Lalique design of a jewel-encrusted brooch that was bought by a Romanian princess in 1900; original 1801 gouache drawings of the interiors of the Brighton Pavilion in England, which was destroyed by fire; the original 1932 design of the lounges at Radio City Music Hall by Donald Deskey. "When the architects did the renovation of Radio City, they came here to study our drawings," Ms. Davidson said.
Is there another Michelangelo drawing lurking about? "It's possible there are hidden treasures we don't know about because a lot of our drawings are unsigned," Ms. Davidson said. "This is particularly true in the decorative arts where drawings were not intended to be collected but were part of the design process to help the fabricator make the objects."
One challenge for the museum is that while it is a repository of the past, it must keep an eye on the present. "We are the only museum in the country of both historic and contemporary design," Ms. Bloemink said.
For example, in the product design and decorative arts department, which is in adjoining brownstones, there are eight storage rooms brimming with about 40,000 objects -- glassware, jewelry, cutlery, ceramics, furniture and appliances. Glassware includes everything from ancient Roman vessels to vases by Alvar Aalto from 1936 and Yoichi Ohira from the late 90's.
In one room with about 400 chairs, there is an elaborate 18th-century English chair with griffons; a Barcelona chair by Mies van der Rohe from 1929; a furry Yeti rocking chair by Mario Scheichenbauer from 1968; and a laminated plywood library chair by Dakota Jackson from 1995.
"We basically don't rule out very much," said Cynthia Trope, the collections manager of the department. "We are a museum of design, so it's exploring design through man-made things."
This includes 2,000 buttons, some dating to the 18th century; fanciful birdcages -- including one shaped like the Rialto Bridge; and appliances -- a Bakelite "radio nurse," a baby monitor by Isamu Noguchi from 1936; the Ericofon, a Swedish all-in-one phone from 1956; and a Sunbeam Mixmaster from 1995. 
The scope is just as broad in the textiles department, which has 30,000 works representing weaving, printing, embroidering, lace making and dyeing. Objects include costumes, hats, gloves, delicate fans, samplers, quilts, tassels and all kinds of fabrics. There is a Peruvian fragment from 300-100 B.C. and a rare early-17th-century velvet panel from Persia. "It's our Michelangelo," said Matilda McQuaid, the exhibitions curator and head of the department.
But the department is also interested in high tech, "things that are molded and three-dimensional -- everything from geotextiles, which prevent soil erosion, to waste-water-treatment fabrics," Ms. McQuaid said. "Many of these things are very functional but are very beautiful too."
The challenge for each department is preserving its holdings. In wallcoverings, papers are stored in boxes and drawers with acid-free paper in darkened temperature-controlled rooms.
With more than 10,000 wallcoverings, the collection is the largest and most comprehensive in the United States. It is particularly strong in French papers of the late-18th and early-19th centuries, including the floral and arabesque designs of the royal printer Jean Baptiste Reveillon; there are also 50 artist-designed wallpapers, including ones by Henri Matisse, Andy Warhol and Charles Burchfield. "It was common for artists to sell their designs to get money," said Gregory Herringshaw, the department's collections manager. "The first artist to design wallpaper was Albrecht Durer back in the 16th century."
The guiding philosophy of the Hewitt sisters was education -- and that focus still remains. All of the collection is accessible to scholars and the general public by appointment. The library, on the third floor of the mansion, provides researchers with 60,000 volumes -- featuring archives of 30 designers, like Henry Dreyfuss; 600 pop-up books, dating as far back as the 16th century; 7,000 rare books; and more than 4,500 trade catalogs, including a 1753 first edition from Chippendale. "Trade catalogs show how people displayed products," said Stephen Van Dyk, chief librarian. "They're a rich source of marketing techniques." 
The public will soon get a better peek into the attic. This October, the museum is opening a collections gallery in the mansion's former music room. Appropriately, the show is called "Treasures From the Collection." "It will give people a little taste," Ms. Bloemink said.
At the Cooper-Hewitt, space constraints are a major consideration. Over the next two years, a digital design gallery will be added below the ground floor. Ms. Bloemink has other dreams, too. "Someday I would love to have a satellite museum or an under-the-garden gallery," she said. "But that's going to have to wait until better economic times, I'm afraid."

GRAPHIC: Photos: OUT OF SIGHT -- A quarter of a million objects are stored in the Cooper-Hewitt Museum on Fifth Avenue, among them a 19th-century hand-painted fan, left, and a Savoy Vase designed by Alvar Aalto, above right. Cynthia Trope, right, working in the museum's glass storeroom. Gregory Herringshaw, below, with blue glass-beaded wallpaper designed by Borek Sipek. (Photographs by Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); VISUAL ARTS (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (74%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%) DESIGN 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (91%) COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM 

PERSON: WILKINSON, DONNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



697 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: ON THE ROAD; 
The Extras Pay Off on a First-Class Art Tour of China

BYLINE:  By JUDITH H. DOBRZYNSKI 

 BODY:
THE Forbidden City, home to China's emperors, loomed ahead, under a cloudy sky. One after another, this vast collection of ancient buildings, all vermilion and yellow, unfolded -- a tad mysterious for a first-time visitor to Beijing, as I was in October. 
 After passing through a beautiful garden, my fellow travelers and I were ushered into the Lodge of Fresh Fragrance, a private apartment of the emperor Qianlong, a great arts patron. Inside, we inspected an early-18th-century famille-rose porcelain bowl; his jade-bolted, carved wooden furniture; and the bed where he sat to watch performances staged just for him. Walking out, I fell in next to Ross Terrill, who related how Qianlong, a Manchu from the north, had become "very Chinese" by his death in 1799. 
 Yes, that Ross Terrill, the Harvard-based author of seven books on China who first ventured to the mainland in 1964. Yes, that little lodge, normally off limits to the hordes of tourists that roam the Forbidden City these days. And yes, a magnificent bowl, and two other imperial pieces, brought out for an up-close view and mini-lecture by a resident expert. 
It was my first day in China, and the first, but hardly the last, time my group and I were made to feel special during our 16-day trip. As travelers with the Metropolitan Museum of Art, we simply got used to it. When, in fact, the police escorts that helped speed our buses through Beijing's dense traffic disappeared after two days, we felt a bit deprived. (They reappeared for a while in Shanghai.) And when, on a cruise down the Yangtze River, we mixed with other groups, it felt somewhat odd. 
The Met, like many cultural institutions, has long been offering an impressive docket of tours every year. "It's grown and grown," said Harriet Friedlander, the chairwoman of Academic Arrangements Abroad, which organizes trips for dozens of cultural institutions and affinity groups. (A China trip similar to mine leaves New York on Sept. 10.)
For the institutions, the tours are a way to make money, especially in these days of economic retreat and retrenchment from the late 90's. Sponsored trips allow museums to cultivate donors and strengthen ties between curators and visitors. Originally, many institutions required tour members to make a tax-deductible donation, paid by separate check, but these days such donations are usually voluntary, Ms. Friedlander said. Instead, the museums factor the costs of staff time to help develop trips and the administrative fees into the price, leaving a profit. The trips are also in line with a museum's educational mission.
For travelers -- even independent and experienced ones who normally shun organized tours (like me) -- these trips have many attractions. They would have to: although prices vary significantly, depending on the trip and the institution, they tend to be more expensive than other tours. My trip to China cost more than $8,000 (a person, double occupancy), plus airfare. I found nearly comparable trips on the Web at about $5,000.
But this is where Mr. Terrill and the other extras come in. Museums sell their entree to private art collections, private sites and private events -- a chance to be on the A-list even when you're not. And they sell the presence of experts; besides Mr. Terrill, Diane Schafer, a lecturer in Chinese art at the Met, accompanied us.
My companions, a well-heeled group of about 40 people who ranged in age from 40 to 82, included doctors, lawyers, real estate investors, a "retired" Wall Streeter and a hospital administrator; they had little interest in the schlocky sites and what we got of that was minimal. 
In Xian, which served as the capital of 11 dynasties, we visited the Shaanxi Provincial Museum, which houses a rich collection of artifacts. Before viewing them, however, we were led down to the storage rooms, where murals and frescoes from Tang dynasty tombs are kept -- murals that our local guide, William, said he had never seen.
ASHAANXI guide began her discussion of them -- "This is an important building" -- but some of us were bewildered until Ms. Schafer stepped in to describe life then, about 700 A.D. She pointed out the elaborate hairdos and elegant shoes, the silk garments and troops of musicians entertaining the aristocrats. Through her, we learned that the big nose on a diplomat in one painting was meant to signify he was a foreigner, a Westerner, and that another diplomat, standing at the back wearing leather trousers and a leather hat, was depicted that way to suggest he was probably from northeastern China, a small area.
Don't get me wrong. China's guides in the cities and inside the museums, at least ours, were terrific. They spoke excellent English; they worked hard both to relate history and provide contemporary information. They answered questions, even silly ones, with respect and aplomb. They told jokes.
Sometimes, though, they seemed too well schooled by the Chinese tourist organizations. They rarely strayed from their well-honed texts. More than one refuted old "misconceptions," say, that "Chinese don't eat dogs." (Some do, mainly in the poor rural areas.) More than one told the same story about vanity license plates in China (demand so clamorous that the government suspended sales). 
Sometimes, there was simply no substitute for having an independent voice from the West answering questions.
The visit to Tiananmen Square was such an occasion. My Blue Guide to China contains one sentence on the reason it is so well known: " . . . it had just seen its bloodiest suppression, that of the students and citizens supporting a movement for greater press freedom and democracy on 4 June 1989." Our Chinese guide, Henry, walked us around the square, pointing out Mao's mausoleum and other buildings, and when asked how many died there in 1989, he replied: "The BBC and the Voice of America say 3,000, and the Chinese government says 300. We don't believe either one, and we don't care -- that's history."
Mr. Terrill, walking with us, made that history come alive. Hand on his chin, he told of watching the infamous confrontation between the Chinese Army and pro-democracy students from the rooftop of the Beijing Hotel nearby. "I arrived the night of June 3," he said. "Troops had been advancing on the city, and no taxi would take me into the city. I found someone to take me in, and I heard on the radio: 'Citizens of Beijing, return to your homes. Above all, do not go to Tiananmen Square.' "
Pointing to where Mao's portrait hangs, Mr. Terrill continued: "Students had erected a goddess of democracy there. Troops shot into the crowd. Two or three hours later, tanks came from the west into the square and dismantled the tents. There were deaths. By 4 a.m., it was quite calm. The tanks were neatly arrayed, blocking entrance to the square. There was an acrid smell; helicopters above. There were feverish crowds at the hospitals.
"No buses ran, no People's Daily was published on June 4," he said. "Thereafter, the Hong Kong Press was faxed and copied and posted on trees and posts. The students had started as simply marking the anniversary of an early 1900 battle. . . . They were surprised by the public support." 
As Mr. Terrill's you-are-there description shows, the special moments on this trip were hardly confined to the visual arts. At the Quanjude Restaurant in Beijing, a place known for Peking duck and an almost obligatory tourist stop, we ate in a private room decorated in pagoda style. More important, we were serenaded by the Beijing Women's Traditional Instruments Ensemble, a group that has toured the West. The women, dressed head to toe in silk, each a different color (red, pale yellow, pink and turquoise), played traditional Chinese songs like "Moonlight of the Spring," as well as American folk songs.
Unlike Europe, China has few private art collections for travelers to see; on that score, I suppose this trip disappoints. The one home we did visit, in Beijing, was owned by Western expatriates. 
But China is so seductive that my trip would have been memorable even without singular moments. The facets that the Met arranged added to its allure. Consider one mark of its success: on a trip as high end as this, the traveler is king, and there was little pressure to attend every event on the agenda. But on my trip, most of us did, willingly. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Yvetta Fedorova) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (77%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); WRITERS (68%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; MUSEUMS 

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (82%) METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (NYC) 

PERSON: DOBRZYNSKI, JUDITH H 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); EAST CHINA (73%); YANGTZE RIVER (73%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



698 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1069 words

HEADLINE: WINE TALK; 
For $2, a Bottle Of Wine and Change

BYLINE:  By Frank J. Prial 

 BODY:
MOVE over Mondavi. Step aside Gevrey-Chambertin. And Grgich Hills, get lost. Make way for Two-Buck Chuck, at $1.99 a bottle the hottest thing in the wine market since, well, since nothing. There's never been anything like it.
 The wine's real name is Charles Shaw. It's a year-old line of California wines produced and bottled by the Bronco Wine Company of Ceres, Calif., and sold only in Trader Joe's stores, of which there are 193, most of them on the West Coast. The Two-Buck Chuck nickname is said to have come from a Trader Joe's employee who, one hopes, was quickly made a marketing director. 
 These Charles Shaw wines first appeared last spring, with three vintages -- 1999, 2000 and 2001 -- arriving simultaneously. But it wasn't until late fall that sales started to move. "They were doing 350, 500 cases a day in some stores," said Jon Fredrikson, a California wine consultant. "By the end of the year, they'd sold almost two million cases." 
Tales abound of how, as the holidays approached, customers carted off 10 to 15 cases at a time in their S.U.V.'s. They would buy a bottle, them come back for cases, said one manager of a Trader Joe's store in Emeryville, Calif. Sales of Two-Buck Chuck could reach five million cases this year, Mr. Fredrikson said, adding: "It's the fastest-growing table wine in the U.S. wine industry's history. Here in California, they are currently outselling all the Gallo labels combined."
Harvey Posert, a public relations consultant working for Bronco, said: "We've never seen anything like it. It's sort of a reverse cult wine."
So-called cult wines like Screaming Eagle and Grace Family Vineyards are produced in tiny quantities by small wineries and sold at astonishingly high prices. Two-Buck Chuck appears to have reversed the process by attracting thousands of customers who ordinarily pay much more for their wine. Suddenly, it's chic to boast that you are serving a $2 wine. 
Wine chat rooms on the Internet quickly took up the Two-Buck Chuck story and are credited, at least in part, for the wine's rapid rise to fame. 
Two-Buck Chuck is a phenomenon of the current California wine market, which has been hard hit by the economic downturn and is trying to rid itself of an ocean of surplus wine. The wholesale price of bulk wine, as high as $10 a gallon in the late 1990's, was down to about $1 last year.
Bronco's president, Fred Franzia, has made a success of picking up the labels of bankrupt or otherwise dormant wineries and using them on lines of inexpensive wines. Among the has-beens whose names he owns -- in addition to Charles Shaw -- are Grand Cru, Hacienda, Rutherford Vintners and Napa Ridge. Napa Ridge is in Napa but its wines are made from bulk wine trucked in from other parts of California. Charles Shaw wines are bottled at Napa Ridge. 
Several years ago, the Napa Valley Vintners Association sued Bronco for what it contended was the illegal use of the "Napa" name on wines "bulked in" from elsewhere. The vintners lost.
And many California vintners seem to be losing again, as Mr. Frederikson said that the $1.99 bottle has taken business away from other wineries.
CHARLES F. SHAW was a Chicago investment banker who fell in love with the wine business and, in the late 1970's, bought 50 acres off the Silverado Trail in the Napa Valley. There, he planted gamay grapes to make a California version of Beaujolais. The Charles F. Shaw Vineyard and Winery opened for business in 1979. 
Eventually, Mr. Shaw was making 10,000 cases a year of gamay and sauvignon blanc. But a dozen years later, after his gamay gamble had met with little success in cabernet country, Mr. Shaw declared bankruptcy and returned to Chicago. Bronco stepped in and bought the name, keeping it in deep freeze for about another 12 years. 
There are four wines now in the Charles Shaw Two-Buck Chuck line: cabernet sauvignon, merlot, chardonnay and sauvignon blanc. They are all priced at $1.99 in California's Trader Joe's stores. In the chain's stores in Washington and other states, the wine has often been priced at $2.99. But it is not yet available in the New York area. 
Two-Buck Chuck has been compared with Franzia three- and five-liter bag-in-the-box wines but, in fact, those wines are not made by Bronco, but by the Wine Group, another big California company, which some years ago purchased the Franzia name.
The Charles Shaw wines are relatively dry for inexpensive wines. This puts them in competition with more sophisticated table wines rather than the bag-in-a-box wines. The cabernet, the only one I have tried, is light, pleasant and easy to drink and has little varietal character. It could have been merlot for all I knew. Nondescript would not be too harsh a characterization. Nothing wrong with that: wine is supposed to accompany food and Charles Shaw will do that quite adequately. Someone referred to it recently as the ultimate fund-raiser wine -- perfect for large groups of people who really don't care what they are drinking. 
No one is sure how long the Two-Buck Chuck phenomenon will last. Bulk wine prices have climbed to as high as $1.50 a gallon in recent weeks, but as Mr. Posert of Bronco noted, there is a wine glut all over the world working to keep prices down. He sees the Charles Shaw wines doing well for another two to five years. 
The wines quickly spawned competitors, the most interesting of which happens to be called, yes, Two Buck Chuck. The difference is that with the Charles Shaw wines, Two-Buck Chuck is merely a clever, informal nickname. Two weeks ago, the new Two Buck Chuck appeared in California, at the stores of a chain called Beverages & More. Only this second Two Buck Chuck was registered with the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms as a legitimate proprietary name.
This other Two Buck Chuck is made at the Adler Fels winery in Santa Rosa, Calif., which also bottles private-label wines for chain stores. The winemaker David Coleman said that Beverages & More had asked him to make the wine some months ago and that he had had no idea someone else was using the name Two Buck Chuck. Mr. Coleman said he doesn't see the $2 wine phenomenon lasting more than "three or four months." He now has a 2000 cabernet sauvignon and a 2001 chardonnay.
In the meantime, he told the Wine Business Insider, a trade publication: "It's amazing how much wine is out there and how inexpensive it is. I wish I could run my car with it." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: WHO'S CHUCK? -- The name Charles Shaw, out of the wine limelight for a dozen years, is now back with a series of cheap and popular wines. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F9); LIKE HOT CAKES -- Charles Shaw wines at a Trader Joe's in California. (Peter DaSilva for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINERIES (89%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (77%); BEVERAGE PRICES (77%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); CHAT ROOMS (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WINES 

COMPANY: BRONCO WINE CO (72%); TRADER JOE'S CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: BRONCO WINE CO; TRADER JOE'S (GOURMET FOOD CHAIN) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (72%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (72%); NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (57%)

PERSON: PRIAL, FRANK J 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); WEST USA (77%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



699 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: 2 New Chiefs in Japan Honed Skills in U.S. 

BYLINE:  By KEN BELSON with MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: TOKYO, April 22 

 BODY:
In a sign of Japan's increasing reliance on the American consumer, twoof the country's largest and most profitable companies -- Honda Motor and Takeda Chemical Industries -- named leaders today who have long track records of experience in the United States.
 With high labor costs, falling prices and economic stagnation in Japan for most of the last decade, leading manufacturers here have found it increasingly difficult to prosper in their home market and have turned more of their attention overseas, especially to the United States. 
 The trend has widened the gap between Japan's strongest companies and the large numbers of smaller and less robust companies that have muddled along at home, coddled by lenient lenders and protected by government regulators who discourage imports. Exports have been the only dependable growth engine for Japan, the world's second-largest economy, through its last three recessions. 
Honda Motor knows this better than most companies: it sells two-thirds of its cars in the United States. Today, the company said it had designated Takeo Fukui, the president of its research and development unit, to succeed Hiroyuki Yoshino as chief executive of Honda Motor. Mr. Fukui, is an engineer who spent four years at the company's American operation, running it from 1996 to 1998. 
Though Honda is Japan's second-largest automaker and is expected to report record profits this year, it has lost market share in Japan to rivals.
Takeda Chemical, Japan's largest drug maker and one of the 10 biggest companies on the Tokyo Stock Exchange, said today that it had chosen Yasuchika Hasegawa to succeed Kunio Takeda as president. Mr. Takeda, a descendant of the company's 18th-century founder, has led Takeda for the last decade, the most prosperous period in its history.
Mr. Hasegawa, the company's director of strategy, once ran its main American operation and speaks English well, an advantage in dealing with foreign investors and partners.
With costs outrunning revenue in the Japanese national health plan, the government is trying to encourage use of generic drugs and to trim payments to health care providers. Though Takeda has posted strong and growing profits for nine straight years, stiffer competition at home has pushed it to look overseas for alliances, fresh products and new customers.
For decades, Japanese executives headed for the top were groomed in the head office; overseas assignments, if any, were usually meant merely to round out a resume.
But with the fading of Japan's high-growth years and the economy's protracted slump, a posting overseas has come to be seen as a necessity to keep abreast of innovations and trends. Executives with experience overseas also help reassure foreign investors, who now play a larger role in Japan as shareholders.
Mr. Hasegawa and Mr. Fukui will take up their new posts in June when the current occupants retire.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hiroyuki Yoshino, chief executive of Honda Motor, will be succeeded by Takeo Fukui, president of its research and development unit, right. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHEMICALS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CHEMICALS MFG (90%); TRENDS (89%); CHEMICALS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); IMPORT TRADE (75%); HEALTH CARE (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (73%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (73%); MARKET SHARE (72%); GENERIC DRUGS (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (71%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); STOCK EXCHANGES (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (93%); TAKEDA PHARMACEUTICAL CO LTD (58%)

ORGANIZATION: HONDA MOTOR CO; TAKEDA CHEMICAL INDUSTRIES LTD 

TICKER: HNDA (LSE) (93%); HMC (NYSE) (93%); 7267 (TSE) (93%); 4502 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC2844 TOILET PREPARATIONS; 

PERSON: FUKUI, TAKEO; YOSHINO, HIROYUKI; HASEGAWA, YASUCHIKA; TAKEDA, KUNIO; BELSON, KEN; MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



700 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 1; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: An Old Box Factory Is a Haven for New Art 

BYLINE:  By CAROL VOGEL 

DATELINE: BEACON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
Michael Govan remembers the day he got his first glimpse of the abandoned 1929 factory built of steel, concrete and glass that overlooks the Hudson River and has since been transformed into Dia:Beacon, a $50 million art museum opening on May 18.
 "It had a faded Nabisco sign," recalled Mr. Govan, director of the Dia Art Foundation, which runs the museum. "When I walked into the building the light was beautiful. So were the hardwood maple floors." 
 That was five years ago. Mr. Govan was seeking a home for the Dia's collection of work by artists who emerged during the 1960's and 1970's. And this example of 1920's industrial architecture, with its graceful sequence of large, uninterrupted rooms and its 36,000 square feet of skylights and high ceilings, had everything he could want for a museum that shows monumental sculptures and delicate drawings. 
The building was for sale. The owner, the International Paper Company, was asking $2 million. It had been empty since 1991, having been built by Nabisco to make boxes for its products. Officials at Dia, with help from Governor George E. Pataki, persuaded the paper company to give the building to the foundation as long as Dia paid for a required $1 million environmental cleanup.
Beacon is an economically depressed town about an hour north of Manhattan, and its location offered the opportunity to combine culture and urban renewal. So eager is the state to transform this corner of the Hudson Valley into a thriving tourist destination that state and local governments have contributed a total of $2.7 million toward the museum's construction. The project is expected to create about 20 jobs and to attract about 100,000 visitors a year, and Mr. Govan said it would generate about $7.4 million annually in tourist revenue.
Using new museums to infuse down-at-the-heels cities with cash is hardly a novel idea. Bilbao, Spain, did just that in 1997 with the opening of the Guggenheim Bilbao, the museum designed by Frank Gehry. So did North Adams, Mass., a blue-collar town where the Massachusetts Museum of Contemporary Art opened in May 1999 with a promise of revitalization. 
The Dia:Beacon is on 31 acres along the Hudson and is a five-minute walk from a Metro North train station. Its 240,000 square feet of exhibition space is more than four times the exhibition space of the Whitney Museum of American Art and not quite twice the size of the Tate Modern in London. 
The Dia Art Foundation was created in 1974 by the German art dealer Heiner Friedrich and the Houston arts patron Philippa de Menil, who is his wife. It has a collection of nearly 700 works by artists like Joseph Beuys, John Chamberlain, Walter De Maria, Dan Flavin, Donald Judd, Hanne Darboven, Agnes Martin, On Kawara, Blinky Palermo, Robert Ryman, Richard Serra and Andy Warhol. Each is an artist who Mr. Friedrich represented and loved.
The Beacon museum becomes the sixth location overseen by Dia. It has two galleries on West 22nd Street in Chelsea, and runs several site-specific art installations, including Mr. De Maria's "New York Earth Room" and "Broken Kilometer," both in Manhattan; "The Lightning Field," in New Mexico; and the Dan Flavin Art Institute in Bridgehampton, N.Y. Dia also helped found the Andy Warhol Museum in Pittsburgh, and the Cy Twombly Gallery in Houston. 
Dia was one of the first art centers in Chelsea, more than a decade before that area became populated with contemporary art galleries. It owns and will continue to operate two warehouses and a garage there, including its primary exhibition space, in a renovated warehouse on West 22nd Street.
"Even if you added up all three buildings and converted them into galleries for the collection, it only comes to 55,000 square feet with mostly low ceilings and without the diversity of spaces," Mr. Govan said. "It's simply not comparable to Beacon." 
Dia:Beacon is not the only art center in the area. A 15-minute drive away, in Mountainville, N.Y., is the Storm King Art Center, devoted primarily to outdoor sculpture. About a mile away, still in Beacon, is the Tallix Foundry, where artists like Frank Stella and Claes Oldenburg have worked. 
And Dia is but one of the institutions working to transform the area. Near Dia:Beacon, Scenic Hudson, a nonprofit environmental organization and land trust, has bought more than 2,000 acres to create a $40 million development on 23 acres along the east bank of the Hudson, where it plans to build a hotel, conference center, restaurants, spa, shops, harbor, public waterfront, a park and a network of hiking trails over the next three years. 
William S. Ehrlich, a Manhattan real estate developer, has also joined the crowd. When he heard of Dia's plans, Mr. Ehrlich bought real estate here valued at about $14 million. He has opened a small gallery on Main Street. And on April 28 a performing arts center designed by Mr. Gehry will open at nearby Bard College. To accommodate all this growth, Metro North is investing about $11 million to improve the Beacon train station. 
"This is one of our fastest-growing stations. Ridership is up 250 percent from 1985," said Marjorie Anders, a spokesperson for Metro North. "Dia:Beacon will contribute to an existing trend." 
The new museum will allow Dia to show off its collection of large-scale and multimedia works surrounded by light and space. It will also give Dia its first opportunity to exhibit its permanent collection, most of which has been languishing in storage, coming out only piecemeal for particular exhibitions. 
Unlike so many new museums that have become tourist attractions because of their celebrity architects, Dia:Beacon is the undesigned museum. "It's supposed to look raw and simple," Mr. Govan said. "The building didn't need to be redesigned. It just needed to be tweaked and humanized." 
Mr. Govan enlisted Robert Irwin, a California artist who designed the central garden for the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, to help Dia conceive a master plan for the complex. He also designed the surrounding landscape, including a grid of flowering trees that form a canopy over the parking lot. Open Office, a young Chelsea architectural firm, also collaborated on the factory renovation. 
Most of the gallery spaces are skylighted, with no electricity except mandatory emergency lighting. As a result, the museum's hours will change with the seasons, staying open only until 4:00 p.m. in winter when the sun sets early and until 6:00 p.m. during spring and summer. 
Others involved in the project are many of the artists whose works are on view.
"It's like a campus of single-artist environments," Mr. Govan said. One of the first rooms visitors will see is devoted to Warhol's "Shadows," a 1979 work commissioned by Dia that consists of 78 canvases. Four rooms have been devoted to the postwar painter Robert Ryman, with works from 1958 to 2003. Mr. Ryman helped install many paintings himself, like "Third Prototype, 2003," 14 panels 22-inches-square that are virtually painted onto the wall. 
John Chamberlain has been consulting on the placements of his sculptures, including "Privet," which is nearly 62 feet long and 12 feet tall and made of chrome and painted steel.
The only upstairs spaces, called the attic, are a series of brick lined galleries where the sculptor Louise Bourgeois is represented. One room consists of "Spider" (1997), a 21-foot-tall welded steel spider sitting on a steel mesh cage lined with ancient tapestries. 
Since the announcement of its new building, Dia has been able to nearly double the number of artists in its collection. Leonard Riggio, chairman of Barnes & Noble and of Dia, who has headed this museum's building effort, has given about $30 million towards Dia: Beacon, as well as many crucial artworks like three monumental steel sculptures by Richard Serra called "Torqued Ellipses."
The Lannan Foundation of Santa Fe, N.M., the museum's other major benefactor, has given or loaned Dia about $15 million worth of art, enabling it to double the number of artists in its collection, which now totals 24. 
Many works were specifically created for the museum. The painter Agnes Martin, for instance, was commissioned to create an eight-painting series, "Innocent Love" (1999). The Lannan Foundation also paid for four works from the estate of the earth artist Robert Smithson, including "Map of Broken Glass (Atlantis)" (1969).
Mr. Govan said that the installation visitors would see when the museum opens will be on view long-term, although not everything would be part of the permanent collection. Some loans and works on paper would rotate, and there would be some galleries for changing exhibitions.
"We will have one major exhibition each spring," Mr. Govan said. "I do think this will be a destination not just to return to see favorite artworks, but also to see Beacon as it keeps changing." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The renovated box factory that has become the Dia:Beacon has landscaping by Robert Irwin that includes a grid of flowering trees.; John Chamberlain's "Privet," made of chrome and painted steel, will be on view at the Dia:Beacon. (Photographs by Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. E5); Michael Govan, of the Dia Art Foundation, in a renovated factory that opens as the Dia:Beacon museum on May 18 in Beacon, N.Y. (Susan Stava for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PAPER & PACKAGING (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); ART DEALERS (88%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); PAPER MFG (78%); SCULPTURE (77%); ART COLLECTING (77%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); LEISURE TRAVEL (69%); TOURISM (65%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (65%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (64%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (51%) ART 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL PAPER CO (69%)

ORGANIZATION: DIA ART FOUNDATION; DIA: BEACON (MUSEUM) (BEACON, NY) 

TICKER: IP (NYSE) (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS322110 PULP MILLS (69%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (69%)

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; GOVAN, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (58%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (92%); NEW YORK, USA (58%) UNITED STATES (92%); SPAIN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



701 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Envoys Arrive in China For Talks With North Korea 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 22 

 BODY:
American envoys arrived here today for talks with North Korea on its nuclear weapons program, breaking a six-month diplomatic impasse and at least temporarily easing fears of a military confrontation between the Korean War enemies. 
 James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for Asia and Pacific affairs, was leading the United States delegation at the trilateral talks, which include China. The meeting, scheduled to get under way on Wednesday morning and continue through Friday, will be the first direct negotiations since October, when North Korea acknowledged that it had begun to enrich uranium in contravention of a 1994 pact to end its nuclear weapons program. 
 The face-to-face meeting, which will be held out of the media spotlight, has raised hopes in the region that a peaceful solution to the crisis is possible after months of belligerent posturing on both sides. 
North Korea is viewed as highly reluctant to accede to American demands to give up its nuclear program, which it has used as a bargaining chip to extract vital economic and food aid from the West and to help preserve the power of its insular government. 
To underscore the point, North Korea engaged in brinkmanship on the eve of the talks. The government said in the English translation of a statement issued over the weekend that it had already started to reprocess spent nuclear fuel rods. 
Though North Korea subsequently retracted the statement, the government made clear that it could at any time take that crucial step toward producing plutonium for nuclear bombs. 
It is also unclear how committed the Bush administration is to reaching a deal. Senior officials in the Pentagon and Vice President Dick Cheney's office have warned against allowing North Korea to blackmail the United States into offering aid or other benefits in exchange for an agreement not to develop nuclear weapons. They warned that the North Koreans could violate a new agreement just as they did the 1994 agreement negotiated by the Clinton administration. 
China is a traditional ally of North Korea and its economic lifeline to the outside world, but it has also backed the American position that the Korean peninsula should remain nuclear free. 
President Bush said on Sunday that he expected China to help exert pressure on North Korea. 
"China is assuming a very important responsibility," Mr. Bush said of the country's willingness to take part in the negotiations. 
Officials in Beijing say that China will play more of a mediating role and that the United States and North Korea will have to work out an agreement on their own. 
The Chinese Foreign Ministry, confirming today for the first time that the talks would take place, said it expected modest results. 
The dialogue, the ministry said, is intended to allow the United States and North Korea to understand each other's position more clearly. 
"We hope that the talks will be conducive to relevant parties for having a better knowledge and to relieve the tensions," said Liu Jianchao, the Foreign Ministry spokesman. 
Before the discussions got under way, a leading North Korean military official made diplomatic rounds in Beijing. Vice Marshal Jo Myong Rok, who is expected to represent North Korea in the talks, met Hu Jintao and top Chinese military officials to discuss "international and regional issues," Chinese state news media reported. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); KOREAN WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (87%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (78%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); EXTORTION (68%); POLITICS (63%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FOREIGN AID; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%) KAHN, JOSEPH; KELLY, JAMES A (ASST SEC); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (72%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); ASIA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



702 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Release Set for Man Accused of Spying for North Korea 

BYLINE:  By CALVIN SIMS 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, April 22 

 BODY:
A local businessman was scheduled to be released on bail on Wednesday after he was arrested two months ago and accused of being an agent for North Korea and secretly providing information to it.
 The businessman, John Joungwoong Yai, a naturalized United States citizen who lives in Santa Monica, Calif., was set to be released on $400,000 bond, after a ruling by a federal court last week that he was not a flight risk, as prosecutors had contended. 
 Magistrate Judge Victor B. Kenton of Federal District Court said that the information Mr. Yai is accused of passing to North Korea was nothing more than newspaper clippings and public documents available on the Internet. 
Mr. Yai, 59, still faces federal charges of failing to register as an agent of a foreign government, of failing to report bringing more than $10,000 in currency into the country and of making false statements to United States customs inspectors. If convicted of the charges, Mr. Yai faces a maximum sentence of 30 years in prison.
William Genego, Mr. Yai's lawyer, said his client had provided North Korea with the information, including newspaper articles on United States policy toward the nation, as part of his efforts to help reunify the Koreas, which have been divided along the 38th parallel since 1953.
The lawyer said that at the time Mr. Yai sent the information to North Korea, the country did not have access to the Internet. He said the federal government would be "hard pressed" to prove that Mr. Yai, whom friends and associates described as a peaceful family man, was a spy.
Mr. Yai's case comes amid rising tension between the United States and North Korea, which the Bush administration says has reactivated its nuclear program and developed nuclear weapons. President Bush has expressed disdain for North Korea's leader, Kim Jong Il, in much the way he did for Saddam Hussein.
In addition to the case against Mr. Yai, another espionage scandal is unfolding in Southern California. A former F.B.I. agent and a bureau informant accused of being a Chinese double-agent were arrested in Los Angeles on April 9. The authorities said the F.B.I. agent, James J. Smith, had allowed a prominent local businesswoman, Katrina Leung, whom he recruited as an informer, to gain access to secret material that she then passed on to China.
Federal prosecutors have not accused Mr. Yai of providing North Korea with any sensitive material, and his supporters said today that if nothing else, his detention raised questions about how the government had "exploited" his case.
The Rev. S. Joseph Paik, pastor of West Anaheim United Methodist Church, who has worked with Mr. Yai on efforts to reunify the Korean peninsula, said his friend was being made a "scapegoat" for the North Korean nuclear issue.
"He's not a spy, and he poses no danger to the United States," Mr. Paik said of Mr. Yai. "He is a very honest and reliable person who loves his family."
 Mr. Genego said the government had focused on his client to send a message to others who might support North Korea. In a court filing, Mr. Genego cited an F.B.I. document that said the bureau's Los Angeles field office sought criminal charges not to send Mr. Yai to jail, but to "neutralize" him and "send a message to other supporters of North Korea in the United States."
 Federal prosecutors, who declined a request for an interview, said in court filings that Mr. Yai had provided information to the North Korean government about American military, economic and political trends. They also contended that he was trying to recruit other Korean-Americans to work for North Korea's Communist government.
 For his work, prosecutors said, Mr. Yai received $18,000 in cash from North Korean intelligence agents in Europe. He and his wife, Susan Youngja, were accused of not declaring to customs inspectors that they had more than $10,000 in currency when they returned from a trip to Vienna and Prague.
 The prosecutors said Mr. Yai had filed reports to North Korea analyzing the Bush administration's policy toward the country as recently as January. In the January report, the court papers said, Mr. Yai wrote that the Central Intelligence Agency was trying to make contact with employees of Western embassies stationed in Pyongyang in an effort to determine whether North Korea had activated a nuclear facility.
Esther Kim, a reporter for The Korea Daily, a Korean-language newspaper in Los Angeles, said Mr. Yai's detention had come as a shock to the Korean-American community here, the largest in the United States. "It was the first time that one of our own had been accused of espionage," she said.
Ms. Kim said that based on her reporting in Los Angeles's Koreatown district, the community was split 50-50 on whether Mr. Yai was guilty. "Everyone is eagerly awaiting the outcome of all this," she said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Joungwoong Yai, charged with spying for North Korea, was scheduled yesterday to be released. Above, Mr. Yai's wife, Susan Youngja, and son, Dennis Yai, left federal court in February after bail was first denied. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); BAIL (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); MAGISTRATES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SCANDALS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); JUDGES (76%); LAWYERS (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (62%) ESPIONAGE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BAIL 

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (56%)

PERSON: KIM JONG IL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%) KENTON, VICTOR B (JUDGE); YAI, JOHN JOUNGWOONG; SIMS, CALVIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); CHINA (79%) NORTH KOREA; UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



703 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: New Ammunition for Backers of Do-or-Die Exams 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER

 BODY:
The rocky terrain of educational research has gotten even rockier.
 Two new studies make the case that do-or-die exams -- which decide whether students graduate, teachers are dismissed or schools are shut in more than half the states in the nation -- have brought about at least a modicum of academic progress, especially for minority students who may get scant attention otherwise. 
 The studies entirely contradict what some other scholars have found and are bound to feed an already fiery debate over the phenomenon known as high-stakes testing, a course of educational change that teachers resent, the Bush administration embraces and states are hurriedly adopting.
Neither the authors nor their peers contend that the new research ends the dispute, given the many remaining open questions. But taken together, the studies appear to push the research pendulum away from critics who have argued that the fixation with make-or-break exams undermines teachers, stifles analytical learning and squeezes out struggling students, all without providing any clear benefits. 
"If I were gambling on whether to put in a high-stakes system or not, I would put one in," said Martin Carnoy, the Stanford University professor who co-wrote one of the studies. "There's some probability I would be wrong. But if I were to put my money on something right now, I would try this."
In his study, published next month in Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis, a peer-reviewed journal, Mr. Carnoy and a colleague, Susanna Loeb, examined whether states with serious test consequences did better on a nationwide math assessment than their counterparts bearing none at all. 
While there seemed to be little to no difference in the performance of white students, the study found that the more consequences a state imposed, the better its minority students typically did.
In fact, for every additional layer of sanction or reward placed on schools, teachers and children, about 3.5 percent more black students and 3 to 4 percent more Latinos grasped the basics of eighth-grade math.
The same pattern did not prove true for Latinos in math in the lower grades, but for black students it did, leading Mr. Carnoy to speculate that the threat of consequences may compel schools to demand more from students whom they may have otherwise written off. 
No less importantly, the study found that do-or-die exams did not lead to more dropouts, as other researchers have argued. Still, there was no evidence that they improved graduation rates. 
"If that's not the aim, what is all this about?" asked Mr. Carnoy, whose study was financed by the federal government. "Why do we care about raising test scores if more people aren't going to finish high school and go on to college?"
Another peer-reviewed study to be published next month found that when states imposed consequences on their own exams, their students tend to do better on nationwide math assessments as well.
Margaret E. Raymond and Eric A. Hanushek of the Hoover Institution at Stanford, two supporters of high-stakes tests, found that national math scores between 1996 and 2000 rose an average of seven-tenths of 1 percent in states with no consequences, 1.2 percent in those that simply published the results in the newspaper and 1.6 percent in states that either rewarded success or penalized failure. 
Small though they may seem, the differences between the gains are meaningful, the authors argue, because national math scores have barely moved in decades. 
"The systems that we had in place by 2000 are not going to revolutionize our schools, that's clear," Mr. Hanushek said. "But they are an element in moving our schools forward." 
The study was paid for by the Packard Humanities Institute and the Smith Richardson Foundation, neither of which claims a position on the issue. 
There is a caveat to all this data, educational researchers warn. Just because a correlation may exist between make-or-break exams and achievement does not mean the exams are to thank for any progress. Indeed, there are so many factors influencing test scores, be they economic or curricular, that proving a causal link between consequences and results may never be done. 
"That goes for both sides of the debate," said Robert L. Linn, president of the American Educational Research Association. "To be able to definitively attribute results to the stakes of a test is a stretch for any of them."
Underneath the academic dispute over the efficacy of make-or-break exams is a strong distaste for them among teachers. A survey of more than 4,000 teachers last February found that about three quarters of them, whether or not they taught under the threat of serious consequences, said that state testing programs "were not worth the time and money involved." 
Perhaps more worrisome, 76 percent of teachers facing the highest stakes and 63 percent of those encountering the lowest said that mandatory testing led to teaching in ways that contradicted their own ideas of sound educational practice.
"Teachers are saying look, we're not opposed to high standards, but when you put so much emphasis on this one testing measure, it really becomes problematic," said Joseph J. Pedulla, who helped coordinate the survey for National Board on Educational Testing and Public Policy at Boston College. It was financed by The Atlantic Philanthropies, which takes no position on the testing question. 
The idea of teaching to the test bothers many educators, but others argue that it does not preclude learning thinking skills that can be transferred from one context to another. 
A study last February by the Manhattan Institute, which was not peer-reviewed, found that the results on state exams closely paralleled those on other, independent tests.
Though it looked at less than 10 percent of the nation's schools, the study suggested that whatever controversy surrounds make-or-break exams, they can be reliable instruments for gauging student learning.
"Which should we believe, the teachers or the tests?" said Jay P. Greene, the study's author. "We might wonder whether the teachers have it right and the test has it wrong. But it's also quite possible that the test has it right." 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Carrot-and-Stick Approach to Testing"Make-or-break tests have produced improvement in students math scores, according to a new study. The tests carry consequences ranging from publishing results in newspapers to schools potentially being shut down. Map of the U.S. shows Degree of sanctions or rewards for schools, districts and students, per state. What this means for national math scoresBelow are the largest changes in students reaching competence when an additional layer of consequences was placed on them and their schools. EIGHTH GRADEWhite -- 1.37%Black -- 3.65Hispanic -- 4.06 FOURTH GRADEWhite -- -0.19%*Black -- 3.42Hispanic -- 1.69* *Not statistically signficant, according to researchers.(Source: Stanford University study to be published in Educational Evaluation and Policy Analysis)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESEARCH REPORTS (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GRADUATION RATES (77%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); WRITERS (74%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



704 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Move Higher on Earnings Vigor

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Stocks rose yesterday, driving the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a three-month high, as improved sales at insurance companies and drug makers fueled optimism that corporate earnings would exceed estimates.
 Insurers like the American International Group rallied after the Everest Re Group, a reinsurer, increased its 2003 profit forecast to reflect a jump in sales. Pharmaceutical shares rose as revenue growth at Pfizer and Eli Lilly met or exceeded analysts' projections. 
 "We are not just getting better-than-anticipated earnings, but a little gift from heaven with the reasonably favorable sales," said David Sowerby, who helps manage $55 billion at Loomis, Sayles & Company in Bloomfield Hills, Mich. "It's been a good catalyst for the market in the last week." 
The S.& P. 500 rose 19.36 points, an increase of 2.2 percent, to 911.37, its highest since Jan. 16. Insurers and drug stocks contributed 18 percent to its advance. The Dow Jones industrial average added 156.09 points, or 1.9 percent, ending at 8,484.99. The Nasdaq composite index gained 26.99 points, or 1.9 percent, settling at 1,451.36.
Almost three stocks advanced for every one that declined on the New York Stock Exchange, making yesterday's the broadest rally since Jan. 6. Some 1.6 billion shares were traded on the Big Board, up 18 percent from the three-month daily average.
The performance erased this year's losses in the Dow average. The Dow has now risen 1.7 percent, the S.& P. 500 has gained 3.6 percent and the Nasdaq has climbed 8.7 percent in 2003.
About 200 companies in the S.& P. 500 have reported first-quarter results, and earnings have climbed an average 9.2 percent, Thomson First Call said. Analysts expect average growth of 11 percent for all of the index's members.
Stocks are rising "in anticipation that things are getting better," said Nicholas Angilletta, head of equity sales trading at Citigroup Global Markets.
All 25 members of the S.& P. 500 insurance index rose. Everest Re, which sells insurance to primary underwriters, said its sales jumped 68 percent last quarter and earnings this year would now be $7.75 to $8.25 a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call had expected the company to earn an average $6.92 a share.
Reinsurers are raising prices after losing billions of dollars from the Sept. 11 attacks, asbestos lawsuits, market losses and underpriced policies. Everest Re surged $10.25, to $71.70, its biggest one-day advance since the company went public in October 1995.
Shares of ACE Ltd., the Bermuda-based business insurer, gained $2.26, to $33.94. The company is due to report earnings next Tuesday. XL Capital Ltd., which reports next Monday, added $5.29, to $85. American International, which owns the reinsurer Transatlantic Holdings, rose $2.41, to $56.91.
Pfizer rose 22 cents, to $31.82. Revenue climbed 10 percent on higher demand for its cholesterol treatment Lipitor.
Eli Lilly, the maker of the antidepressant Prozac, gained $1.82, to $61.29, after sales rose 13 percent, helped by demand for the schizophrenia medicine Zyprexa.
Merck jumped $1.93, to $58.89, bringing its two-day gain to 5.4 percent. The company said on Monday that its first-quarter sales rose 10 percent, to $13.4 billion, compared with the average $13.1 billion expected by analysts.
Merck also said it planned to spin off its Medco pharmacy-benefits management unit after postponing a public offering for part of the business last year.
Bond prices rose yesterday. The 10-year note gained 5/32, to a price of 99 8/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.97 percent from 3.99 percent on Monday. And the 30-year bond rose 3/32, to 107 10/32. Its yield dropped to 4.89 percent from 4.90 percent.
Following are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of a four-week bill:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)

Price: 99.913
High Rate: 1.115
Coupon Yield: 1.138
Low Rate: 1.100
Median Rate: 1.110
Total applied for: $41,811,325
Accepted: $16,241,471
Noncompetitive: $45,228

The four-week bills mature May 22.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Chart: "Treasury Yield Curve"Yields of selected Treasury securities. Short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. Graph tracks yields from yesterday and one month ago. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); INSURANCE (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); REINSURANCE (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); ASBESTOS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: ACE LTD (84%); XL GROUP PLC (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (72%); EVEREST RE GROUP LTD (58%); PFIZER INC (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); ELI LILLY & CO (57%); LOOMIS SAYLES & CO LP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: AEX (FRA) (84%); ACE (NYSE) (84%); XL (NYSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (72%); 8685 (TSE) (72%); RE (NYSE) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFEB (BRU) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); LLY (SWX) (57%); LLY (NYSE) (57%); LEL (LSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (72%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (58%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (93%); BERMUDA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



705 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: RECONSTRUCTION; 
Oil Experts Say U.S. Hasn't Come to Grips With Blueprint for Industry

BYLINE:  By NEELA BANERJEE 

 BODY:
The United States, which is counting on oil to finance Iraq's reconstruction, has been struggling to bring some order to the nation's oil industry, according to industry analysts, some current Iraqi oil officials and several former officials in exile.
 Though the civil administration of retired Lt. Gen. Jay Garner is settling into Baghdad this week, no one has been designated to oversee the oil sector, and the administration has not explained how it will be organized. Officials in Washington said yesterday that the White House would reveal its plan for the industry in the next few days. 
 With American officials reluctant to rely on executives from the Hussein-era oil ministry, the State Department has been approaching former senior Iraqi oil officials who now live in exile, asking them to serve as in crucial posts and as advisers. Several of those people have declined to take posts under General Garner, in part because they do not want to be tainted by helping what many Iraqis see as an occupation government, according to industry experts and longtime Iraqi oil officials.
"There's not a collective decision among any of us about the United States," said Issam A. R. al-Chalabi, Iraq's oil minister from 1987 to 1990 and now an independent oil consultant based in Amman, Jordan. "But for us, so many of whom started in the oil industry in the 1960's, we did not work all those years to be on an advisory board. I hope the Americans do a good job."
In Iraq, meanwhile, senior employees of Iraq's various oil companies are scrambling to fill the power vacuum, in the process giving conflicting information about the resumption of oil production. As one result, it is unclear who, if anyone, will represent Iraq at this week's meeting of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries in Vienna.
"What needs to happen to get Iraqi oil technocrats to cooperate with the United States is that a clear message needs to be sent by Washington that the oil industry will be run by Iraqis," said Walid Khadduri, an expatriate Iraqi and the editor of the Middle East Economic Survey in Cyprus. "But that message is not being sent."
A spokesman for the National Security Council said that the administration wanted to turn the oil industry over to Iraqis at the earliest opportunity. 
The spokesman said that from the White House perspective, the industry was slowly getting back to normal.
"Our teams are on the ground working together with Iraqis in the oil sector -- in the fields, in the refineries and all related facilities -- and have been since as early as late March," he said. "Workers are returning to their jobs in the sector, and the focus is on production for domestic Iraqi consumption."
The resumption of exports, though, seems distant, at least from northern Iraq's huge Kirkuk field. Adil al-Qazzaz, acting director general of the Northern Oil Company, which manages the Kirkuk field, said that exports could not begin for several months, given how thoroughly looters had ransacked the facilities. 
The United States knows that it must rely on Iraqis to learn about the intricacies of the country's oil operations, said a spokesman for the Army Corps of Engineers, which is overseeing the restoration of the oil fields. 
But while people who have been managing Iraq's oil fields and refineries day to day may know the most about them, experts who have talked with the Bush administration about its plans said officials prefer to work with exiled veterans of the industry, who would represent a break from the immediate past.
"The guys on the inside know the industry like the backs of their hands," said Raad Alkadiri, a director at PFC Energy, a Washington consulting group. "But the bottom line is bringing in people from the outside gives you a better chance of controlling the oil sector, even indirectly."
Yet information that has trickled out about Washington's plans has not sat well with some of the exiles whom Washington has approached. In particular, they have bridled at reports that Philip J. Carroll, a former chief executive of the American subsidiary of Royal Dutch/Shell, is likely to oversee the exploration and production of Iraqi oil under General Garner. 
"For the last 30 years, the Iraqis have run things themselves. Why should they accept foreigners?" said Fadhil J. Chalabi, a former acting secretary general of OPEC from Iraq and now executive director of the Center for Global Energy Studies, a research and consulting firm in London. "I don't know if the Americans understand this." 
Many senior Iraqi oil officials are foreign educated and highly respected within the international oil community. Even after the nationalization of foreign oil interests in the early 1970's, Iraqi officials continued to work with foreign corporations, mainly the oil field service companies that the Corps of Engineers is now calling upon to repair Iraq's oil fields. 
Issam al-Chalabi said that in 1973, he signed an agreement with Brown & Root, the American construction company, to build the Mina al-Bakr oil loading terminal in the Persian Gulf. Brown & Root is now part of Kellogg Brown & Root, the Halliburton unit that has the American contract to fight oil fires in Iraq.
That history of working with foreign companies -- and Iraq's more recent experience producing oil under the sharp constraints of United Nations sanctions -- qualifies Iraqi oil specialists to negotiate the contracts to rebuild the country's fields, exiled Iraqis contend. 
"They learned things on the ground, the hard way," Mr. Khadduri said. "Why should other countries decide who gets the oil service contracts when the Iraqis themselves know what is needed?"
Another concern of Iraqi oil experts is that Washington seems to want to pump oil quickly, rather than take time to repair damage done to fields under Saddam Hussein.
At a meeting earlier this month with newspaper editors in New Orleans, Vice President Dick Cheney said that Iraq could be producing up to 3 million barrels a day by the end of the year, more than its prewar capacity of 2.7 million barrels .
Under Mr. Hussein, production levels were political decisions, said Tariq Shafiq, a founding vice chairman of the Iraqi National Oil Company. The thinking, he said, was "Saddam needs this much money, so produce this much and who cares about oil reservoir management?" 
He added, "I hope the Americans don't do 2.5 million to 3 million barrels a day. That would be the same thing Saddam did."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Issam A. R. al-Chalabi, left, was oil minister of Iraq from 1987 to 1990. The war with the United States and Britain has left the country's oil industry in a shambles, and Washington has not made its plans clear. (Steve Forrest/Insight, for The New York Times) Chart/MapNORTHERN OIL FIELDSKirkuk is the main field in this region, which had produced about a million barrels a day before the war. SOUTHERN OIL FIELDSDominated by the Rumaila field, this area produced about 1.5 million barrels a day before the war. Map of Iraq highlighting oil fields, gas fields, oil pipelines, and gas pipelines. (Source: Deutsche Bank)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); EXPORT TRADE (67%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT 

PERSON: BANERJEE, NEELA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (88%); AMMAN, JORDAN (74%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); JORDAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); CYPRUS (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



706 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1068 words

HEADLINE: Senate G.O.P. and Pataki Square Off 

BYLINE:  By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr. 

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 22 

 BODY:
The leader of the Republican majority in the Senate declared today that his chamber would approve additional money for local school districts early next week, even if it meant a bruising political battle with Gov. George E. Pataki.
 The pledge from the majority leader, Senator Joseph L. Bruno, appeared intended to send a message to Mr. Pataki that he was alive and robust, politically speaking, and in full control of his caucus, despite a recent barrage of attacks from the right wing of his party and the leader of the Conservative Party. 
Senator Bruno has been at loggerheads with Mr. Pataki, also a Republican, over the governor's insistence on cutting $1.2 billion from state aid to schools. Mr. Pataki has said he prefers cutting education funds to raising state taxes on income or corporate profits to close an $11.5 billion shortfall in this year's budget.
 But Mr. Bruno has broken with the governor, saying the steep reduction in school aid will only drive up local property taxes. He has agreed with the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, a Democrat, to pass a budget that restores about $700 million of the school aid and includes some sort of tax increase to pay for it.
 While he promised to pass a school-aid bill next week, he said it was unlikely the two houses would work out an agreement on a tax bill to pay for the restorations by then.
In recent days, the chairman of the Conservative Party, Michael R. Long, and other conservative Republicans have accused the senator, in newspaper columns and on talk-radio shows, of betraying his party's traditional stance against higher taxes.
 The attacks are widely perceived in Albany to have been coordinated by the governor's office, legislative aides say, but aides to Mr. Pataki strongly deny that they had a hand in them.
 Still, aides to Mr. Pataki have in recent days let Republican senators know they may face a challenge from the right in next year's elections if they vote to raise income taxes. They have also released to the news media campaign-style fact sheets that try to portray a tax increase as a heavy burden on the middle class.
 Mr. Bruno issued a muscular response today. He appeared in an immaculate suit before the cameras and paraphrased Mark Twain with a smile, saying: "The reports of my demise are greatly exaggerated."
 Then he said the 37 other Republican senators stood united behind him in opposing the governor's proposed cuts to school aid. He vowed to pass an appropriation bill on Monday or Tuesday that would restore part of the aid, letting school districts know how much they may expect from the state.
 He said the Senate wanted to avoid school districts' putting budgets before their voters "without the restorations we know are going to take place one way or another."
 By law, the districts must submit their budgets to the state's Education Department on Monday and put them before the voters on May 20. Once their budgets are approved, they may not use any extra money they later receive from the state for new programs. 
Education officials said that the Monday deadline was somewhat flexible, and that districts may amend their budget proposals until May 13, as long as they have not yet sent out absentee ballots.
 The Legislature overwhelmingly voted to pass a two-week extension of the May 20 voting deadline to give lawmakers more time to fashion a new budget that would help the schools, but the governor vetoed it last week, intending to put pressure on legislators to reach a budget agreement. Mr. Bruno made it plain today that his chamber would override that veto if an agreement on an appropriations bill for the schools could not be hammered out by Monday.
 The senator said he was bothered by the attacks he had received from the right wing, but felt confident a majority of Republican senators did not agree with the governor's stance against tax increases no matter the price to students or local taxpayers. "What people can't afford are increased property taxes," he said.
 "I'm not dealing with the fringes of the left or the right," Senator Bruno added. He also said that whatever tax increase the Legislature agreed to pass would be modest and would not slow down the economy, as the governor has asserted.
 Lisa Dewald Stoll, the governor's chief spokeswoman, said the governor was at a loss to respond to Mr. Bruno's promise, since neither the Senate nor the Assembly had put forward a concrete proposal or explained what taxes they would raise. She said the governor remained adamantly opposed to raising broad-based taxes.
 Aides to Mr. Silver said the Assembly, which is dominated by Democrats, was also prepared to act Monday on an education bill. Legislative staffs from both chambers are working long hours to reach agreement on thousands of pages of appropriations.
 David Ernst, a spokesman for the New York State School Boards Association, said the Legislature's action next week on a school-aid bill would still leave many school boards wondering what to do. He said they still faced the threat of the governor's veto and the uncertainty about whether the divided Legislature could muster the votes to override it.
 "We wouldn't have the governor's reaction to what the Legislature has negotiated and, until we do, districts are still going to be uncertain about how much money they can bank on," Mr. Ernst said.
 Mr. Long, the chairman of the Conservative Party, said he had not coordinated his attacks on Mr. Bruno with the governor's office. He said he was trying to persuade senators not to support the majority leader's decision to ally himself with the Assembly Democrats and raise spending by $1.9 billion.
 "It means you have to impose a commuter tax, or personal income tax, or a sales tax or all of the above," he said. "That's unhealthy."
 Yet Senator Bruno said he was confident that attempts by conservatives like Mr. Long or Mr. Pataki's right-leaning allies to undermine his support among senators would not work. He remains very popular within the Senate, as was evinced when a majority of Republicans voted for a ban on smoking in workplaces at his request earlier this year, despite strong opposition in their districts.
Senator Bruno has been through battles with the governor before. Three years ago, he neatly nipped in the bud a tentative move by Mr. Pataki to oust him.
 "We have had differences in the past," Mr. Bruno said today. "I'm still here. He's still here." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONTUSIONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); TAX LAW (89%); INCOME TAX (88%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); POLITICS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; BRUNO, JOSEPH L (SEN); PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



707 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: 11th-Hour Deal Averts Strike By Doormen And Janitors 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
The union representing 28,000 apartment building service workers announced early this morning that it had reached a tentative three-year contract with the association of building owners, averting a strike threatened against 3,000 buildings in New York City. After two days of exhausting talks, negotiators for the two sides announced a settlement that calls for wage increases averaging 2.8 percent a year over three years, as well as for increased employer contributions for health care and pensions. 
 At an early morning news conference, Michael Fishman, president of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, said, "We all consider it a fair agreement for the times we live in." 
 The union and the Realty Advisory Board, which negotiates for building owners and managers, reached the settlement about 50 minutes after a strike deadline of 12:01 a.m. today. 
The agreement, reached in talks at the Sheraton New York Hotel in Midtown, was a compromise, with management abandoning its original demand for a wage freeze and the union giving up its demand for raises far above inflation.
But some management officials acknowledged that the negotiations were especially tough and that the wage settlement was higher than they would have liked. 
James F. Berg, president of the Realty Advisory Board, said, "We've come to a solution that we deem to be fair to our employees and something we find acceptable to do."
With increases in fringe benefits included, the agreement calls for annual increases in compensation of about 3.5 percent annually, the two sides said.
The threatened walkout would have hit buildings in Manhattan, Brooklyn, Queens and Staten Island and would have involved janitors, superintendents, doormen, elevator operators and handymen. Unionized buildings in Bronx are covered by a separate contract.
Apartment residents across much of the city spent yesterday completing their preparations for a possible walkout by making plans to sort mail and haul garbage downstairs and by arranging schedules for volunteers to monitor the front door. The last strike by apartment building workers was a 12-day walkout in 1991.
Negotiators for the two sides said the talks were tougher than in many previous rounds because management at first insisted on a wage freeze. Mr. Berg originally argued that the industry could not afford more, because New York's real estate market has been weak and because building operating costs have soared as a result of higher property taxes, fuel costs and insurance premiums. "Our costs have risen the past year by more than 10 percent, and in some cases 15 to 18 percent," Mr. Berg said.
But union leaders argued that building employees needed across-the-board raises of at least 3 percent because the workers also faced higher taxes and higher fuel costs as well as increased subway fares. 
Speaking several hours before the settlement was announced, Mr. Fishman said, "Our position is the same it's always been -- we want a fair and equitable increase that keeps up with inflation."
Management's initial offer called for a three-year wage freeze and one-time payments of $500 in the second and third years. In its first offer, the union called for raises of more than 5 percent a year, management negotiators said.
Management's early insistence on a wage freeze angered the union, but union officials grew more optimistic Monday night when Mr. Berg withdrew management's call for a wage freeze. Instead, the Realty Advisory Board offered raises of $10 a week in each of three years, translating into an across-the-board wage increase of 1.5 percent a year. 
Mr. Berg sweetened that proposal early yesterday by offering a one-time payment of $100 in the first year, and $150 in each of the next two years.
For much of yesterday, the union attacked management's $10-a-week proposal, saying that for an average building worker, higher gasoline prices, the subway fare increase and taxes on any wage increase would exceed the proposed $10-a-week increase. "Their $10 dollar offer doesn't even keep up with these three items," Mr. Fishman said at an afternoon news conference. At the time, he said the two sides had a long way to go.
Mr. Berg said union officials were unfairly dismissing management's proposal because they were ignoring management's offer to increase its contributions for pensions and health coverage. Those increased contributions for benefits, he said, meant an additional 1.5 percent a year.
Officials for the two sides said that after Mr. Fishman said he would never accept the one-time payment, management raised its offer for across-the-board raises to 2 percent a year, then to 2.5 percent a year, and finally to 2.8 percent a year.
Throughout the talks, union leaders said they wanted raises of 3 percent, before factoring in increased management contributions for benefits.
The two sides held talks until 1:30 a.m. yesterday and then resumed negotiations at 9:30 a.m. Management officials said the talks were more uncomfortable and tense than some past rounds of bargaining because Mr. Fishman often insisted on having his union's whole 50-member negotiating team at the table. Late yesterday, the two sides were meeting in smaller sessions, which management officials said were more conducive to candor and progress.
In offers that helped move the sides closer together, the union withdrew its demand for more sick days and vacation days while management withdrew its call for fewer vacation and sick days. 
Management also withdrew its proposal to increase the length of time, to 42 months, from the current 30 months, that doormen and janitors receive a $27,400 starting salary, before moving to $34,300. The union dropped its demand to end that lower starting salary.
Officials involved in the talks said the Bloomberg administration had offered to send a senior official to assist in the talks, but the two sides responded that they did not think they needed a third party at the table because the talks were making progress. One administration official confirmed that City Hall had offered its assistance.
Under the agreement, the workers, whose wages average $660 a week, will receive cumulative raises of $18 the first year, $19 the second and $20 the third. Union officials said a ratification vote by mail will be held over the next two weeks.
In the agreement, management dropped its demand to raise co-payments for doctor visits to $25, from the current $10. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Paul Salvatore, left, a lawyer for the Realty Advisory Board, whispered to James F. Berg, its president, at a news conference yesterday on talks to avert a strike by service workers at 3,000 apartment buildings. At right, Michael Fishman, president of the workers' union, also spoke to reporters. (Photographs by Vincent Laforet/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); STRIKES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (60%) BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; STRIKES; WAGES AND SALARIES; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (83%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION; REALTY ADVISORY BOARD ON LABOR RELATIONS 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



708 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1751 words

HEADLINE: Popovers, and a Century of Advice 

BYLINE:  By ALEX WITCHEL 

 BODY:
ELLEN LEVINE moved her company into a new building a few weeks back, and when she tried to close the fancy double doors to her office, they kept jamming. She gave up and laughed. "I'm the housewife from hell this week," she said easily, sitting cross-legged on the couch.
 As the editor in chief of Good Housekeeping, Ms. Levine is certainly more than a housewife. When the magazine was first published in 1885, it did define the role of the American housewife and her home, but when Ms. Levine became its editor in 1995, she updated its focus to reflect its working mom readers. She was the first woman in its 110-year history to hold the job. 
 That's rather incredible, isn't it? That men were telling women how to run their homes until only eight years ago? 
Ms. Levine, 60, flashed a red-lipsticked smile and kept her mouth shut. She didn't make it this far for nothing. Good Housekeeping magazine -- which incorporates the Good Housekeeping Institute, the consumer product evaluation laboratory founded in 1900 that tests everything from hair spray to vacuum cleaners and administers the Good Housekeeping Seal -- has a circulation of 4.6 million. And that isn't just heartland reading. Even in the New York metropolitan area, 270,000 women are less interested in what Prada is making than in what they can make for dinner in 20 minutes or less. 
"I'm not editing for the person addicted to high-fashion magazines," Ms. Levine said. "I grew up in the suburbs, went to a public high school, got married at 21 and was a Little League mom. If I can find an editor who grew up in North Dakota instead of one who went to New York City prep schools, I hire her."
During this month of upheaval (its publisher, the Hearst Corporation, is moving out of its landmark building at Eighth Avenue and 57th Street for three years of expansion), Good Housekeeping gets a new home while celebrating the reissue of "The Good Housekeeping Hostess: An Old-Fashioned Guide to Gracious Living" (Hearst Books), originally published in 1904, and the "Good Housekeeping Everyday Cook Book" (Hearst Books), from 1903, which tells you how to make the jellied prune ring of your dreams.
Of the hostess manual, Ms. Levine said: "When I read it, I thought, 'Wow, these women could have been special events planners.' Their interest in originality surprised me." Among the suggested gatherings is one that would be equally welcome today, the Cold Comfort Dinner: "Each course at one of these affairs is served cold and the comfort extends equally to hostess, guest and maid," the description reads. "The woman who does not keep a maid can entertain charmingly in this way and without the addition of that final course so often seen in maidless entertaining, of 'hot, wornout hostess.' "
Ms. Levine said: "The one thing that hasn't changed in 100 years is caring about having people in your home. Years ago I used to be a wreck before a dinner party. I'm much calmer now. I set the table the same way all the time. I know the flowers I want, and I no longer worry that the guests might not like the food. My mother's generation never got over being nervous about a party." She sighed. "There are so many decisions to be made in the course of a day," she said. "How the party goes isn't going to be the mountain I die on."
Still on the couch, she tossed her silver-white hair away from her face. If being a good hostess means being secure enough to concentrate on other people's happiness instead of your own insecurities, Ms. Levine is a perfect example. She is the rare powerful woman in New York City who admits her age in an instant and has let her hair turn from brown to gray to white with nary a highlight. "When the kids were little," she said, "I told one of them I was going to turn my hair back to brown, and he started to cry. He said, 'I like you the way you are.' So that was it."
She is also the rare New York woman in power who has not had plastic surgery. While most of her contemporaries' faces could double as porcelain plates, Ms. Levine's face moves in every direction and she almost never looks tired. She is enormously curious about everything, and she frequently goes into that unmistakable editor's trance where, in the middle of a conversation, she tunes out, considering the topic at hand as a story idea -- yes, no, maybe -- then just as suddenly tunes back in. She is never off duty.
"I'm married to a surgeon who thinks elective surgery is a very scary thing," she said, and smiled. "Who's to say five years from now. But I feel kind of comfortable being who I am." 
Her husband of almost 40 years is Dr. Richard Levine, vice chairman of the obstetrics and gynecology department at the Columbia-Presbyterian Center. Before they met in a summer job car pool when she was 18, she was Ellen Jacobson of Englewood, N.J. Six months after she graduated from Wellesley College and began her career as a reporter for The Record in Hackensack, N.J., she married him, and she had her two sons, Daniel and Peter, soon after. In 1976 she returned to work full time as a senior editor at Cosmopolitan. In 1982 she became editor in chief of Woman's Day, and in 1990, editor in chief of Redbook before taking over Good Housekeeping in 1995.
Since then, she has been giving lunches in the magazine's living room and dining room suite, which features an original Grandma Moses painting and a display of distinctive glass rolling pins from the turn of the last century. Ms. Levine recently presided over the final lunch there (the dining room will move to 250 West 55th Street along with the test kitchens and the institute), and the 15 guests celebrated a feature from the April issue, "Get-Rich Secrets of Successful Women." Two of them attended: Mellody Hobson, president of Ariel Capital Management, a Chicago-based investment firm, and a financial correspondent on "Good Morning America," and Barbara Corcoran, who founded the Corcoran Group, one of the largest residential real estate firms in New York City.
As is Ms. Levine's custom, she uses these lunches -- she gives six to 10 of them each year -- as the social equivalent of an editor's ideas meeting. Staff members took notes around the table as the guests, mostly women on that day, spoke about their relationship to money. Speakers at recent lunches have ranged from Laura Bush, talking about reading, to Representative Carolyn McCarthy on gun control, to Marie Osmond recounting her postpartum depression.
But no matter who attends, the real stars of the lunches are the fresh-from-the-oven popovers that have been served as far back as anyone can remember, for at least the last 60 years. They have become the lunch's trademark, and the printed recipe is given to guests to take home. This final event in the old building celebrated popovers as its theme and included variations in both the entree and dessert.
"It was the kind of thing people used to eat in restaurants, as a treat at someone else's table, because they felt it was too hard to make at home," Ms. Levine said. "But it's not the chemistry that's difficult, it's the time."
Even more difficult was concentrating on the subject of investments as the popovers were served, their warm, yeasty aroma preceding the presentation of the golden scene stealers. While Jane Bryant Quinn, who writes on financial issues for both Good Housekeeping and Newsweek, admitted to her own math anxiety, guests twisted off pieces of the eggy bread in tortured little bites, while eating their salads. Except for Gayle King, editor at large at O, the Oprah Magazine, who was the only guest who ate her popover with gusto, even using the butter curls that accompanied it. "I'll just work out harder tonight," she said. 
When the main course of stuffed Cornish hen with cremini and porcini mushrooms, organic baby carrots and flaky vol-au-vents (popover!) was cleared, only three guests had left their real popovers untouched. An act of superhuman will. Or the most sour of self-disciplines.
Then, as Alexandra Lebenthal, president of Lebenthal, talked about fear and the market, and Ms. Hobson talked about the economic tide turning for the better, dessert was served. In addition to strawberry shortcake (popover!), there were three selections from the hostess manual: strawberry eclairs; ojalda, a zeppolelike cookie covered with confectioners' sugar; and orange cups, a custard that tasted like a melted Creamsicle, but better. From the show of hands, it was clearly the winner.
Ms. Levine wrapped up the lunch as briskly as she had begun and headed to the test kitchen for a review of the food to be featured in the September issue. "I changed the food pages when I came," she said. "The recipes were pretty fatty, and each one took an hour and a half."
As her food editor, she hired Susan Westmoreland, daughter-in-law of Gen. William C. Westmoreland, and the mother of an 8-year-old son. "We brought the magazine into reality for women who cook after work and need to make what their kid would eat," Ms. Levine said. "A reader wrote to us early on and said: 'Brussels sprouts? I can't serve that.' We have to not get carried away with what we like to eat." 
Ms. Levine sat down and ate the second or third reinterpretation of a cookie she had discovered at Vice Versa, an Italian restaurant on West 51st Street. She had taken it back to Ms. Westmoreland, whose crew ultimately recreated a no-bake version by crumbling graham crackers, mixing them with Rice Krispies and melted chocolate, then refrigerating. "This is to die," Ms. Levine said worshipfully. "That's a winner."
As she headed back to her office, she put on her "Can Do" baseball cap and wiped the chocolate from her fingertips. "The ordinary things of life," she said, "are what really resonate."

POPOVERS
Adapted from Good Housekeeping
Time: 1 hour 15 minutes

5 tablespoons unsalted butter, melted
3 large eggs
1 cup whole milk
1 cup all-purpose flour
1/2 teaspoon salt.
1. Heat oven to 375 degrees. If using a popover tin with 6-ounce cups, grease 6 cups with 2 tablespoons butter. If using a muffin tin with cups 2 1/2 inches wide by 1 1/4 inches deep, grease 12 cups. With 6-ounce custard cups, grease 8 cups.
2. In large bowl of mixer, beat eggs until frothy; beat in milk and remaining butter. Lower speed and beat in flour and salt.
3. Divide batter among prepared cups. Bake 50 minutes; make slit in each to let out steam; bake 10 minutes more. Immediately remove from cups. Serve hot with butter.
Yield: 6 popovers in popover tin, 12 in muffin tin, 8 in custard cups.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A LONG TIME COMING -- Ellen Levine is the first woman to be editor of Good Housekeeping.; EVERY WHICH WAY -- Popovers in several guises were featured at a lunch at the magazine. (Photographs by Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. F8); A POWER LUNCH FOR WOMEN ONLY -- Ellen Levine (standing), editor in chief of Good Housekeeping, with her guests and staff members at the Hearst Building in Midtown. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COOKING & ENTERTAINING (90%); WOMEN (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); PUBLISHING (76%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (76%); WORKING MOTHERS (74%); PRODUCT REVIEWS (71%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (67%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (66%); TEST LABORATORIES (66%); CITIES (65%); SUBURBS (65%); HIGH SCHOOLS (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (50%) MAGAZINES; COOKING AND COOKBOOKS; RECIPES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: HEARST CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: GOOD HOUSEKEEPING (MAGAZINE) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (85%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (85%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (85%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (85%)

PERSON: LEVINE, ELLEN; WITCHEL, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



709 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
Want to Beat the Enemy? Win the Information War

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL O'HANLON 

 BODY:
THE NEW FACE OF WAR
How War Will Be Fought in the 21st Century
By Bruce Berkowitz
257 pages. The Free Press. $26.
 Bruce Berkowitz, a noted analyst at the RAND Corporation and the Hoover Institution at Stanford, has produced a readable and well-informed study of information technology and its implications for future warfare. Even though he wrote his book just before the conflict in Iraq, his observations about technology and its role in future warfare have not been radically altered by the outcome of the war to overthrow Saddam Hussein. 
 Mr. Berkowitz was prepared to conduct such a study, given his good grasp of several critical fields related to the broader subject: military technology, Pentagon bureaucratic politics and the recent history of American defense policymaking. His book has ample vignettes of interesting people and ideas in modern United States military history, and it displays a comprehension of the science behind much of the electronics and computer revolutions. It is a perfectly fine read for anyone looking for such an overview. 
But the book also disappoints on multiple fronts. As technology analysis, it is too thin and falls flat by comparison with many other popular science books about the computer and Internet era written by even more expert individuals. As a history of important figures in modern American defense policy, it provides brief sketches of many remarkable people but without the depth and zest needed to make such a human-interest story come alive. 
As defense prognostication, it is a bit chatty and anecdotal, offering bold statements about how modern information technologies promise the greatest change in warfare, not just in decades but in millennia, without a serious defense of such a grandiose thesis.
Nor does Mr. Berkowitz offer any particularly original thought about what future warfare will be like, or even do a good job of summarizing the prognostications of scholars like Alvin Toffler or a number of his own colleagues at RAND. Because he tries to do a bit of all of these things in such a short volume, he does none of them as well as he could or should.
Mr. Berkowitz's book does display a considerable depth of knowledge. His various topics and anecdotes, each typically two or three pages long, range from the invention of the airplane to the invention of the Internet to the tactics of Al Qaeda to the pioneers of modern American dogfighting to the new cyberwarriors of American defense policy. 
He briefly examines the 1991 Persian Gulf war, NATO's 1999 war over Kosovo, the Afghanistan war, the Vietnam War, the two world wars and the cold war through the prism of information technology. All of these cases are used in one way or another to bolster his thesis that astronomical changes in information processing are producing radical changes in warfare today. All the dots are well connected in this narrative.
For the reader wishing a little bit of everything, this book therefore succeeds. But it is less impressive at informing in detail about anything in particular, or about proving its main point. Mr. Berkowitz does not do enough to explain the individual dots in his argument. And the connections between them may sometimes be the wrong ones.
Part of the problem with his thesis is that he uses the term information to encompass too much. He claims that information is the crucial element in warfare, especially modern warfare, and hence he seems to place great stock in the modern computer and the Internet. In effect, however, Mr. Berkowitz places almost everything in warfare except main combat vehicles under the term information. For him the word includes the sensors that acquire battlefield data, the communications systems that move it around, the individuals who assess it, the military leaders who devise tactics based upon it and even the broader national strategies used to guide countries in their basic decisions about when and how to use force.
But by granting the term information such an expansive scope, Mr. Berkowitz makes his argument fuzzy. What are the implications of his thesis, if the role of information in modern warfare includes everything from spy satellites to the education of commanders to the global communications systems carrying data around the world to the computers processing the raw bits and bytes? 
If his chief point is simply to claim that all of these things matter even more than in the past, and that the sexy performance parameters of traditional weapons like tanks and aircraft matter at least somewhat less, he is probably right. And that conclusion is important. But it is neither particularly original nor quite as radical a thesis as he seems to want to claim for his book.
Take one specific example: the performance of coalition forces in Desert Storm in 1991. Mr. Berkowitz heralds this conflict as the dawning of the age of information in warfare, writing that "information technology has become so important in defining military power that it overwhelms almost everything else." Among the major manifestations of this new reality were the United States-led coalition's ability to use precision weapons, its possession of satellite guidance systems for many troops on the ground (if not yet for bombs themselves), and its ability to carry out the famous "left hook" maneuver so decisively against Saddam Hussein's forces because Iraq did not enjoy similar information capabilities.
There are two big problems with this claim, however. First, despite another 12 years of improvements in our information warfare capabilities that Mr. Berkowitz chronicles and raves about, and despite the relative dearth of modern information systems within Iraqi society and armed forces, the recent war highlighted other aspects of American military excellence just as much as information systems and high technology.
Specifically, the performance of special operations forces in the war's early hours and days, as well as the skill of American and British ground forces in the urban battles of the war's latter phases, were perhaps the most exceptional aspects of an impressive campaign. Airpower played an important role, as did modern information and communications systems, but they were perhaps less dominant than in the country's previous wars. 
That is not to knock technology or the personnel flying our airplanes and operating our command and control networks; it is a reflection that every war is different from its predecessors, and that traditional combat skills still matter a great deal. But Mr. Berkowitz's thesis does not allow much room for such nuance. In the end he strays uncomfortably close to technophilia and technological determinism rather than balanced strategic analysis.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bruce Berkowitz (Mark Regan) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); INFORMATION WARFARE (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); HISTORY (78%); DESERT STORM (78%); COLD WAR (78%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (60%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; WAR AND REVOLUTION; REVIEWS 

COMPANY: RAND CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: HOOVER INSTITUTION ON WAR REVOLUTION & PEACE (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (73%) O'HANLON, MICHAEL; BERKOWITZ, BRUCE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); KOSOVO (79%); GULF STATES (57%)

TITLE: NEW FACE OF WAR, THE (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



710 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Cultivating a Partnership 

BYLINE:  By TONYSMITH 

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil, April 22 

 BODY:
In Portuguese, "business from China" means a deal sent from heaven, a once-in-a-lifetime chance to get rich. So it should be no surprise that Brazilian business is suddenly looking east. 
 To wean itself from dependence on foreign investment, Brazil needs to export more, and China, the world's most populous and fastest-growing economy, is a new priority for producers of everything from soybeans and chicken to iron ore, compact cars and regional jets. 
 And while even the biggest Brazilian companies often cannot compete with North American and European rivals in trade financing, their prices are usually lower and they have another, vital competitive advantage: China seems to like them. 
Deals announced in recent months include a $500 million, five-year contract for Volkswagen Brasil to supply assembly kits for its best-selling Gol compact and for a new factory in Harbin province to build Embraer regional jets. 
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, the world's largest iron ore producer, already has a joint venture with the Shanghai Baosteel Group Corporation, China's biggest steelmaker, and is negotiating with Chinese investors to build slab plants in northern Brazil. The chief executive, Roger Agnelli, said last week that growing demand for the company's iron ore "is sustained by China," where demand is expected to rise by 28 million tons this year, according to UBS Warburg. 
In agribusiness, Brazil's soy exporters have more than doubled shipments to China in the last three years and expect to sell five million tons of beans there this year. 
Exporters of paper and cellulose, orange juice and sugar are also looking hungrily at China. The coffee industry is mesmerized by the fact that espresso -- costing $5 in Beijing's trendiest cafes -- is a new fad among China's growing urban middle classes, expected to swell by 150 million people in the next three years. 
Brazil's left-leaning president, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, who is less than enthusiastic about the Free Trade Area of the Americas agreement now being negotiated with the United States, is training his sights very publicly on China. 
"Brazil's new foreign policy has defined China as a fundamental partner," Mr. da Silva told Brazil's business elite recently at the opening of "China -- the Xi'an Warriors and Treasures of the Forbidden City," the largest exhibit about China ever staged here. 
"This partnership," he said, "has an economic and, more specifically, a trade dimension."
The exhibit's organizers said its sheer dimensions -- nearly 500 pieces, including 11 life-size terra-cotta warriors from Xi'an Province -- make it a symbol of the new, cozier relations. Brazil will stage a return exhibit next year in a pavilion inside the Forbidden City, the first country to receive such an invitation from the Beijing government. 
"It might be exaggerated to compare this to the Nixon visit to Beijing, but it certainly marks a new, important moment in our bilateral relations," said Edmar Cid Ferreira, president of Sao Paulo-based Banco Santos and an organizer of the exhibit. "The Lula governmentis certainly going to play the Chinese card as much as it can." 
Brazilian business can only hope so. 
Brazil was courted assiduously by the Chinese in the years following the 1989 Tiananmen Square massacre, when Beijing was seeking out "nonideological" business partners. Six of the seven members of the Communist Party's recently retired Politburo visited Brazil, and President Jiang Zemin came twice. 
"No other country was visited by so many high-level Chinese officials," said Jaime Spitzcovsky, a China-watcher in Sao Paulo. 
But Brazil, mired in its own economic problems at the time, failed to seize opportunities. 
The country does not, for example, have a significant role in China's Three Gorges Dam project, despite several visits by Chinese delegations to Brazil's giant Itaipu hydroelectric plant over the past decade. 
Still, top executives here say Brazil has not missed the train. 
"Brazil's profile is attractive to China," said Carlo Lovatelli, president of Brazil's association of vegetable oil exporters. "Our trade accounts are complementary, and Brazil's political neutrality is a competitive advantage."
Mr. Lovatelli expects Brazilian soy exports to China to top 5 million tons this year, up from 1.8 million in 2000, and the industry also wants to export more soybean oil. 
China imported 64 million tons of Brazilian soy oil in 2000, but only 17 million in 2001, causing pessimism among Brazilian exporters. But last year, exports boomed again, to more than 300 million tons, because China's 6,000-plus small, antiquated crushing plants cannot keep pace with growing demand. 
Short on water, and with much of its fertile land dedicated to rice growing, China will be increasingly dependent on soy imports for the foreseeable future, Mr. Lovatelli said. 
"We have to develop this relationship with a lot of care, because we are not the only ones interested in China," he said. "There's a lot of competition to occupy this space, and the Chinese know that and are playing their cards very well." 
On the other hand, Brazil's combative stance in the World Trade Organization -- it has gone head to head with Canada over airplanes, and challenged the United States on steel and the European Union over sugar and instant coffee -- has won it friends in China. 
"Apart from it being a huge market for us, I get the feeling China is going to be a partner in quite a few strategic issues," said Henrique Rzezinski, vice president for international business at Embraer. 
But others see China's entry into the trade organization as a two-edged sword. Its labor force is so inexpensive that it even undercuts Brazil's. 
"China is now in the W.T.O. and is competing on terms that are difficult to beat," said Carlos Alberto Rossi, chairman of the Sao Paulo law firm Trench, Rossi and Watanabe. 
The firm recently opened an office in China's business capital, Shanghai, in association with Chicago's Baker & McKenzie, and are expecting a flood of work dealing with joint ventures, trademark protection and trade deals and disputes.
"There's increasing interest from our clients, but also increased uncertainty," he said. "China will protect itself against our products, and investing there is very complex because the rules of the game are still not very clear."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Edmar Cid Ferreira, the president of Banco Santos, with an exhibit of nearly 500 Chinese artifacts and pieces of art in Sao Paulo. He said the exhibit was a symbol of warmth in Brazil's relations with China. (Adriana Zehbrauskas for The New York Times); Wang Bin, front left, and Cui Suewen, second from right, both Chinese aviation officials, celebrating a pact for Embraer jets with Frederico Curado, second from left, and Carlos Vilela, of Embraer. (Bloomberg News)(pg. W1); A worker at a Volkswagen Brasil plant inspects Gol compact cars. A $500 million, five-year contract to supply assembly kits for the Gol is among recent deals reached to export Brazilian products to China. (Reuters)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (90%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); COFFEE & TEA (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); COFFEE (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (76%); IRON MINING (76%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (71%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (68%); JOINT VENTURES (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); AGRICULTURE (64%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (57%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BRAZIL-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-CHINA 

COMPANY: VALE SA (91%); EMBRAER SA (84%); BAOSTEEL GROUP CORP (69%); UBS INVESTMENT BANK (54%)

TICKER: VALE3 (PAR) (91%); VALE3 (BOVESPA) (91%); VALE (NYSE) (91%); 6210 (HKSE) (91%); ERJ (NYSE) (84%); EMBR3 (BOVESPA) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212324 KAOLIN & BALL CLAY MINING (91%); NAICS212299 ALL OTHER METAL ORE MINING (91%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (91%); NAICS336413 OTHER AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3728 AIRCRAFT PARTS & AUXILIARY EQUIPMENT, NEC (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (89%) DA SILVA, LUIZ INACIO LULA (PRES); SMITH, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (92%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (78%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); BRAZIL (99%); PORTUGAL (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (50%) BRAZIL; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



711 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Verizon 1st-Quarter Earnings Meet Wall Street Expectations 

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Weathering a weak economy that has hit the telecommunications industry hard, Verizon Communications Inc. announced first-quarter earnings yesterday that matched Wall Street expectations.
 Revenue fell slightly on asset sales and a continued loss of local subscribers to competitors that are allowed to lease its equipment. 
The wireless business showed strong gains. 
 Verizon posted net income of $3.91 billion, or $1.41 a share, for the January-March period. In the same quarter last year, the company lost $501 million, or 18 cents a share, on investment write-downs.
Excluding a $2.15 billion gain from a change in accounting, Verizon earned $1.76 billion, or 63 cents a share, in the latest quarter, matching the average forecast of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call.
Revenue slipped 0.9 percent, to $16.28 billion. Analysts were expecting revenue to match last year's $16.43 billion.
Verizon said the drop was because of the sale of 1.3 million phone lines since last year. Excluding those lines, revenue rose 0.6 percent from last year's first quarter.
Analysts largely dismissed the revenue shortfall. Mike Barclay, at Independence Investments in Boston, said the results were solid considering the "war of attrition" in the telecommunications business.
Verizon's chief executive, Ivan G. Seidenberg, said the results showed "steady progress" in controlling costs and improving the balance sheet.
Verizon, which is based in New York, said it still expected to earn $2.70 to $2.80 a share for the full year and to increase revenue up to 2 percent. Analysts expect annual earnings of $2.72 a share.
In trading on the New York Stock Exchange, Verizon shares rose 82 cents, or 2.5 percent, to close yesterday at $33.99. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (92%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); EXECUTIVES (51%) COMPANY REPORTS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS 

COMPANY: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (96%); VZ (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (96%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

PERSON: IVAN SEIDENBERG (58%) SEIDENBERG, IVAN G 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



712 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 568 words

PERSON: Norbert Anthony Schlei 

HEADLINE: Norbert A. Schlei, 73, Legal Adviser in Kennedy-Johnson Era 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
Norbert Anthony Schlei, a legal adviser in the Kennedy and Johnson White House who played major roles in the Cuban missile crisis and civil rights legislation, died on Thursday in Los Angeles. He was 73 and lived and practiced law in Santa Monica, Calif.
 The cause was complications of a heart attack, said his wife, Joan. 
 Mr. Schlei was an assistant attorney general and chief of the Justice Department's Office of General Counsel from 1962 to 1966. He coordinated the legal groundwork for the Civil Rights Act and the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, and the Voting Rights Act and the Immigration Reform Act passed the next year.
He also provided the legal underpinnings for President John F. Kennedy's order for a naval quarantine of Cuba after the discovery of Soviet missile deployment on the island.
After leaving the federal government, Mr. Schlei ran for California secretary of state in 1966, but was buried in Ronald Reagan's landslide election as governor. 
But his legal career prospered, with lucrative clients like the Howard R. Hughes interests and Atlantic Richfield, and high-visibility ones like Egil Krogh Jr., an aide implicated in the Nixon White House scandals. His law practice branched into corporate dealings in land development and other businesses reaching into Hawaii, Asia and Europe. 
His fortunes turned in the 1990's with what he said was his offer to help Japanese clients redeem securities issued by their government in 1983. Federal prosecutors in Florida charged himwith being an accessory to a billion-dollar scheme involving bogus bonds, and a jury in Tampa convicted him in 1995 of securities fraud and conspiracy. The judge sentenced him to five years in prison, but a federal appeals court vacated most of that judgment.
Mr. Schlei denied all wrongdoing and was allowed to negotiate a settlement that reduced his offense to a misdemeanor and let him return to law practice.
Mr. Schlei was born in Dayton, Ohio, and worked his way through Ohio State University, where he earned three varsity letters and a commission as a Navy ensign and graduated with honors in 1950. After military service, he received his law degree at Yale magna cum laude in 1956.
He clerked for Justice John Marshall Harlan of the Supreme Court, in 1956 and 1957 and then practiced law in Los Angeles. In 1962, Kennedy chose him to become an assistant attorney general and put him in charge of the Office of the General Counsel. 
Mr. Schlei was considered one of the department's foremost intellects. He formulated the "quarantine" concept in the Cuban crisis and was a principal author of civil rights initiatives pushed into law by President Lyndon B. Johnson and immigration reforms that abolished the nation-of-origin quota system.
Twice divorced, Mr. Schlei is survived by his third wife, Joan Masson Schlei; three daughters, Kit Buczynski of Richmond, Mich., and Blake L. Schlei and Elizabeth Eldridge of Malibu, Calif.; three sons, William K., of Aix-en-Provence, France, Andrew M., of Los Angeles, and Bradford L., of Santa Monica; a brother, David, of Port Charlotte, Fla.; and four grandchildren.
Mr. Schlei had barely set foot in the Justice Department when he was sent to Oxford, Miss., to overcome the University of Mississippi's refusal to enroll James H. Meredith, a black student. He advised President Kennedy on sending federal troops to disperse a mob and get Mr. Meredith admitted.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DEATHS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); NEW ISSUES (86%); POLITICAL SCANDALS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); CONSPIRACY (77%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); ARMED FORCES (74%); SENTENCING (73%); SUPREME COURTS (71%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (71%); JUDGES (71%); SCANDALS (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (69%); JURY TRIALS (69%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (69%); MISDEMEANORS (69%); JAIL SENTENCING (64%); APPEALS COURTS (63%) DEATHS (OBITUARIES) 

COMPANY: BP PLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (57%)

TICKER: BP (NYSE) (55%); BP (LSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS447110 GASOLINE STATIONS WITH CONVENIENCE STORES (55%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (55%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (55%)

JOHN F KENNEDY (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%) SCHLEI, NORBERT ANTHONY; SAXON, WOLFGANG 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); DAYTON, OH, USA (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); OHIO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%)

CATEGORY: Law 

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



713 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: PRESIDENT WILLING TO GIVE GREENSPAN NEW TERM AT FED 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD W. STEVENSON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 22 

 BODY:
President Bush said today that Alan Greenspan deserved appointment to a fifth term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, in effect leaving to Mr. Greenspan the decision of whether to extend his long tenure as head of the central bank. 
 Responding to a question in an interview with financial journalists about whether Mr. Greenspan had done well enough to be reappointed, Mr. Bush replied: "Yes. I think Alan Greenspan should get another term." White House officials said later that Mr. Bush would renominate Mr. Greenspan next year before Mr. Greenspan's current four-year term expires in June. 
 The chief effect of Mr. Bush's statement was to end any speculation about whether the White House might seek to name someone else as Fed chairman next year, in the heat of the presidential campaign, when the state of the economy is likely to be a political issue.
Mr. Greenspan, who turned 77 last month, has been Fed chairman since 1987, serving four presidents and seeing the economy through two recessions, a stock market bubble and the longest expansion on record. Speculation about his future has been rife on Wall Street and in Washington for years and flared up again late on Monday when the Fed announced that Mr. Greenspan would undergo routine surgery today for an enlarged prostate.
Late today, the Fed issued a statement saying the surgery was successful. Mr. Greenspan, the statement said, "will be recuperating in the hospital overnight and expects to be back in his office later this week."
On Monday, the Fed said tests for prostate cancer had been negative. Mr. Greenspan underwent similar surgery, for what is known as benign prostatic hypertrophy, in 1994.
Fed officials said they had no word on whether Mr. Greenspan wanted to continue beyond his current term, which expires June 20, 2004. If Mr. Greenspan were to step down then, he would have been in office 16 years and 10 months, making him the second-longest-serving Fed chairman after William McChesney Martin, who held the job for 18 years and nine months, ending in 1970.
Mr. Bush's statement helped push stock prices higher today as Wall Street also focused on improved corporate earnings. The Dow Jones industrial average closed at 8,484.99, up 156.09 points, or 1.9 percent. The Nasdaq composite index gained 26.99 points, also 1.9 percent, at 1,451.36.
Although Mr. Greenspan is a conservative Republican who is generally a strong supporter of tax cuts, he angered some conservatives this year by suggesting that Mr. Bush's proposed $726 billion tax cut was too big at a time when the federal budget deficit is growing rapidly and that it was probably not necessary to help the economy recover.
Mr. Greenspan has also had a complicated relationship with the Bush family. President Bush's father and some Republicans who served with him criticized Mr. Greenspan for not doing enough to help the economy during the 1992 presidential campaign.
But Mr. Bush made smoothing over relations with Mr. Greenspan a priority even before he took the oath of office, and since then he has been consistently complimentary to him in public, saying last year that Mr. Greenspan was doing a "fabulous job in running the Federal Reserve."
Mr. Greenspan has for the most part worked closely with Mr. Bush and his team, most recently joining forces to help monitor the economy almost hour by hour during the first weeks of the war in Iraq. Mr. Greenspan also has a close friendship with Vice President Dick Cheney.
Administration officials said Mr. Bush viewed Mr. Greenspan as an able practitioner of the art of raising and lowering interest rates, the Fed's primary task, although they did not mention Mr. Greenspan's views on tax and budget policy, a more sensitive arena in which the Fed chairman has often clashed with members of both parties.
"The president thinks he has done a very able job as a steward of the economy, making certain that we have the proper monetary policies in place," said Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman.
But ending speculation about his intentions toward Mr. Greenspan also serves a political purpose for Mr. Bush by tamping down any concern in the markets about a transfer of power at the Fed. Many Republican strategists have identified the stock market's health as an important concern for people who tend to vote, a concern reflected in Mr. Bush's insistence on sticking by his plan to eliminate taxation of most dividends despite lukewarm support in Congress.
After becoming almost an icon in the 1990's as the economy boomed and stock prices surged, Mr. Greenspan has been bruised in the last few years by criticism that the Fed could have done more to prevent or gently deflate the stock market bubble. His response has been that there is no way to anticipate bubbles, or to end them without the risk of driving the economy into recession.
Even as the markets and the economy have struggled over the last several years, Mr. Greenspan has stuck by his optimistic long-term outlook, saying that technology is allowing businesses to make deep-rooted improvements in their productivity, the best indicator of an economy's ability to grow at healthy rates without igniting inflation. His legacy, whenever it is settled, could rest as much on the accuracy of his predictions about technology-driven improvements in productivity as on any short-term fluctuations in the markets or the unemployment rate.
Assuming Mr. Greenspan wants to serve again -- and given his obvious love of the job, the assumption among economists and throughout Washington is that he is more likely to stay than to go -- there is at least one impediment to his serving another full term.
The Fed chairman also serves as a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, and by law a governor can be nominated to only one full 14-year term in that capacity. When he was first appointed chairman in 1987, Mr. Greenspan filled an unexpired board term that ended in 1992. He was then confirmed to a full 14-year term in 1992 that will expire on Jan. 30, 2006, about a year and a half into a fifth term as chairman.
For Mr. Greenspan to serve beyond early 2006 would require a change in the law or another arrangement allowing him to remain chairman in an expired board seat.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan, 77, a conservative Republican, has been the Federal Reserve chairman since 1987, serving four presidents in the process. (Reuters)(pg. C11) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PROSTATE DISEASE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CONSERVATISM (88%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); APPOINTMENTS (79%); INTERVIEWS (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (66%); MEN'S HEALTH (65%); PROSTATE CANCER (65%); TAX LAW (63%); CANCER SCREENING & DETECTION (50%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); GEORGE W BUSH (91%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); STEVENSON, RICHARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



714 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 578 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Bush Supports Greenspan For Fifth Term as Fed Chief
President Bush said Alan Greenspan, left, deserved a fifth term as chairman of the Federal Reserve, essentially leaving the decision to Mr. Greenspan, who turned 77 last month.
 Mr. Bush's statement ends speculation about whether the White House might seek to name someone else as Fed chairman before Mr. Greenspan's current four-year term expires in June 2004. Page A1. 

U.S. to Announce Plan for Oil in Iraq
The United States, which is counting on oil to finance Iraq's reconstruction, is expected to announce its plan for Iraq's oil industry in the next few days. A17.

Five German Banks to Pool Loans
Five of Germany's largest banks, mired in their worst downturn since World War II, plan to announce today that they will pool up to $50 billion worth of investment-grade loans in a new joint venture. The move, which is dependent on a change in German tax laws, could help to lighten the overburdened balance sheets of the banks. World Business, Section W.

Record Concerns Sue to End Piracy
The record industry has filed lawsuits against four college students, accusing them of unauthorized copying of digital music and asking for billions of dollars in damages. A1.

Another Solid Year at Nissan Motor
Nissan Motor is expected to announce record profits today , as cost-cutting measures and a new lineup of cars offset stiffer competition in the United States. C6.

Depositors' Fears Are Unfounded
Panicky depositors lined up outside three branches of the Abacus Federal Savings Bank in New York to withdraw money after hearing that the manager of one of the bank's six branches had been fired for embezzling more than $1 million. The bank, however, said the depositors' fears were unfounded. A1.

A Strong First Quarter at Viacom
Shares of Viacom rose $2.60, or 6.4 percent, to $43.44, after the company reported strong first-quarter results, in large part on the performance of its cable networks. But poor results at its radio business continued to worry both investors and management. Viacom also confirmed that it had agreed to buy the 50 percent of Comedy Central that it did not already own from AOL Time Warner. C10.

Kmart Overhaul Plan Is Approved
A federal court approved Kmart's reorganization plan, paving the way for it to emerge from bankruptcy in less than two weeks. C7.

S.&P. 500 Reaches 3-Month High
Stocks rose, driving the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a three-month high. The S.& P. 500 gained 19.36 points, or 2.2 percent, to 911.37. The Dow Jones industrial average jumped 156.09 points, or 1.9 percent, to 8,484.99, while the Nasdaq composite index increased 26.99 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,451.36. C11.

A Mixed Message From Drug Makers
Earnings at Pfizer more than doubled in the first quarter, while Eli Lilly reported profits fell 35 percent. C4.

Sales Up at Lockheed and Raytheon
First-quarter sales rose at Lockheed Martin and Raytheon, led by demand for fighter jets, missiles and radar products. C6.

Brazil Finds a Market for Exports
Brazilian businesses have started selling products to China, the world's fastest-growing economy. World Business, Section W.

Washington Office Market Softens
Rental signs in the Washington office market have become more common. In fact, one real estate company calculated the vacancy rate among office buildings that are not government owned stood at 6.2 percent at the end of the last quarter, up from 4 percent in 2000. Commercial Real Estate. C8.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,484.99 up 156.09Nasdaq composite -- 1,451.36 up 26.9910-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.97% down 0.02The euro -- $1.0966 up 0.0098The dollar -- 119.90 yen down 0.61 Graph tracks the daily closing price of Viacom shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); DAMAGES (77%); APPROVALS (75%); SAVINGS & LOANS (74%); BANK BRANCHES (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); LITIGATION (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (69%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (69%); TAX LAW (67%); EMBEZZLEMENT (67%); MUSIC (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (63%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); WORLD WAR II (54%); TAXES & TAXATION (54%); JOINT VENTURES (53%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (51%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: VIACOM INC (82%); ABACUS FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (66%); AOL INC (63%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (54%)

TICKER: VIA (NASDAQ) (82%); AOL (NYSE) (63%); 7201 (TSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (66%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (66%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (63%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (63%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (91%); GERMANY (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



715 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: THE INTERIM LEADER; 
American Overseer in Iraq Returns to a Kurdish Zone

BYLINE:  By DAVID ROHDE with MICHAEL MOSS 

DATELINE: SULAIMANIYA, Iraq, April 22 

 BODY:
Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general appointed by the Bush administration to oversee Iraq's reconstruction, made an emotional return to northern Iraq today, 12 years after commanding a relief mission here that saved the lives of thousands of Kurds who had broken with Saddam Hussein's government.
 General Garner, 65, received a rapturous welcome in this Kurdish-controlled city, a day after getting a muted welcome from residents in Baghdad in his first public appearance in Iraq. 
 For much of the time here, the general worked crowds like a gleeful political candidate, displaying the blunt talk and folksy manner that former colleagues say will either charm or complicate his mission.
Dressed in slacks and a buttoned-down shirt, he strode to the center of a stage at a local university this afternoon with his sleeves rolled up and a microphone in one hand. 
"This day, for me," he said to shouts of approval from the crowd, "is like returning home."
General Garner hailed Kurdish self-rule in northern Iraq, which has lasted more than a decade under American protection, as an example for the rest of the country. "What you've done here is marvelous," he said. "What you've done here will serve as a model for the rest of Iraq."
At the end of a meeting with two senior Kurdish leaders this afternoon, the general appeared jubilant, flashing two thumbs up and declaring it "a great day." 
During a brief news conference, General Garner played down reports of Kurds expelling hundreds of Arabs from homes and villages in northern Iraq. He also made no mention of the frustration some American military commanders have expressed with the conduct of some Kurdish forces.
After saying an ethnically and religiously diverse committee would be established to resolve property disputes, General Garner suggested that Kurdish forces were not carrying out a deliberate policy of expulsion. Kurdish officials have said they initially lost control of the situation, but Arab residents have reported that expulsions are continuing nearly two weeks after the collapse of Iraqi forces here.
"I think the message there is that the only ethnic cleansing that has been done in Iraq was by Saddam Hussein," General Garner said. "This is a different era with different leaders, and you're not going to see that again. Next question, please."
It was a satisfying day for the general. Twelve years ago, he commanded an American mission to aid Kurds after Mr. Hussein crushed an uprising in northern Iraq.
Victor Tanner, an aide consultant who worked in northern Iraq at the time, said the general's manner should help him.
"I have friends who were horrified by his appointment," he said. "But I think many Iraqis will warm to him.
"He's affable in a sort of gruff, twinkle-in-your-eyes sort of way, with a Southern aw-shucks manner to him," Mr. Tanner added, "but he's also quite tough. He wasn't standoffish, but mixed well in the crowds, and dealt well with the leaders, as well as the refugees."
But those who worked with General Garner said he lacked a crucial ally who aided him in 1991: Fred Cuny, an experienced civilian expert who was later killed in Chechnya.
Mark Frohardt, who worked closely with General Garner and Mr. Cuny in northern Iraq in 1991, recalled how Mr. Cuny had proposed that the Americans try to trick Iraqis forces into leaving the city of Dohuk. General Garner approved a plan in which two dozen Marines took a hill overlooking the city and several military policemen joined a convoy of aid vehicles that drove toward Dohuk. The Iraqis fled. "That was the thing about Garner," Mr. Frohardt recalled. "He was willing to listen to unorthodox advice."
But Mr. Garner faces a far more politically complex mission than in 1991. He will have to wield power assertively to rebuild the country, but at the same time be perceived as a liberator by Iraqis. He has said he hopes to shift some responsibilities to Iraqis within 90 to 120 days.
General Garner will be managing a staff of several hundred retired generals and officers, aid experts and diplomats. The group includes teams from the Defense Department, where he heads the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance, and the State Department. 
Relations between the departments have been contentious at times. A member of the general's delegation said the group was stunned when a senior official on the general's staff recently said the delegation did not know who the Kurds were.
General Garner also met today with two senior Kurdish officials: Massoud Barzani, the leader of the Kurdistan Democratic Party, which controls the western half of the Kurdish enclave; and Jalal Talabani, the leader of the Patriotic Union of Kurdistan, which controls the eastern half.
General Garner later praised both men, who have curbed their intense personal rivalry and helped the Kurdish enclave experience far faster economic growth than the rest of Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Map of Iraq highlighting Sulaimaniya: Lt. Gen. Jay Garner visited Sulaimaniya, a Kurdish-controlled city. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (77%); POLITICS (75%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); ARMED FORCES (68%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (63%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (60%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; KURDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%) ROHDE, DAVID; MOSS, MICHAEL; GARNER, JAY (LT GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (95%) IRAQ; SULAIMANIYA (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



716 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1337 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: UNITED NATIONS; 
France Urging U.N. to Suspend Iraq Penalties

BYLINE:  By FELICITY BARRINGER with ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, April 22 

 BODY:
The French ambassador to the United Nations called today for the immediate suspension of most United Nations sanctions against Iraq, allowing unrestricted nonmilitary trade to resume.
 The move by the ambassador, Jean Marc de la Sabliere, was intended to avert a new Security Council showdown over the role of the United Nations and could also be an attempt by France to avoid the possibility of being frozen out of plans for a postwar Iraq. 
 The suspension of most sanctions -- though not the United Nations arms embargo -- would fall short of President Bush's call for the Security Council to lift all sanctions. But even though it is unclear how much the French proposal would extend civilian trade with Iraq, the move sends a clear signal that France is seeking to shed its image as a leading antagonist of the United States on the war in Iraq.
Bush administration officials had a lukewarm reaction to the proposal. Richard A. Boucher, the State Department spokesman, said it "may be a move, you know, sort of in the right direction." 
"But the situation is so much different" than it was when Saddam Hussein was in power, he "that there is no need for sanctions anymore, and we need all to look at how they can be lifted and how the Iraqi people can go back to a normal relationship with the world."
Meanwhile, President Bush said in an interview with magazine reporters that he had no plans for another war, according to excerpts disclosed by Newsweek.
Despite speculation that Syria or Iran might be a future target, Mr. Bush said: "I have no specific operation in mind at this point in time. I can't think of a specific moment or incident that would require military action as we speak."
White House officials also indicated publicly today for the first time that they were adamantly opposed to the quick return of United Nations weapons inspectors to Iraq. They said that since a military team of American, British and Australian officials was now aggressively looking for biological and chemical weapons in Iraq, there was no need for a United Nations team led by Hans Blix to duplicate the efforts. Administration officials insisted that Mr. Blix's team would be a hindrance, not a help, and that they did not want two separate groups asking for the same documents and interviewing the same scientists.
"We are looking forward, not backward," said Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, when asked if the United States wanted weapons inspectors to return soon. "Saddam Hussein's regime is gone." 
Mr. Fleischer added that the White House had "high confidence" in the military team now searching for unconventional weapons.
In an interview this afternoon, Mr. Blix said he did not doubt the competence of the current inspection teams, some of whose members used to work for the United Nations.
"I think the inspectors they're using are professional people," he said. "They will seek as objective information as they can."
"But clearly there is a difference," he added. "International inspectors operate under U.N. rules. They are under statutory obligations not to take instructions from any government, and governments are also under obligation not to instruct them."
"Therefore," he added, "testimony by international inspections, provided that has been prepared professionally, carries I think greater credibility with the international community."
Mr. Blix, in a pointed reference to the limited results of the current United States-led inspections, added, "We found as little, but with less cost." He paused, then added, "so far," making it clear he felt the American efforts could still bear fruit.
While the Bush administration's public statements were generally dismissive, officials did not rule out the eventual return of United Nations inspectors led by Mr. Blix and Dr. Mohamed ElBaradei, the director general of the International Atomic Energy Agency.
But with an indeterminate time required to stabilize the situation in Iraq -- a condition Mr. Fleischer said would be necessary to ensure the inspectors' safety -- it seemed unlikely that Mr. Blix, who has said he will leave his post when his contract expires on June 30, will still be in place if inspections resume.
White House officials said they were concerned that France might try to extract a price for its offer and repeated Mr. Bush's insistence that the United Nations immediately lift the sanctions, not just suspend them.
Administration officials made it clear they did not trust Mr. Blix, who infuriated the White House before the war with what many in the administration considered an overly compliant approach to Mr. Hussein's government and an overly critical attitude toward the intelligence he was given.
Whether he is there or not, the two inspection processes could easily be coordinated, Mr. Blix suggested. He said today that he told the Security Council: "I do not foresee any adversarial relations between the two. After all, we are both looking at the truth and they are trying to be as objective as they can."
Nonetheless, a number of officials in the administration said today that they would be willing to have the United Nations inspectors return to Iraq to verify any biological or chemical weapons that the military teams might find. The view is that a third-party validation would help convince a skeptical Arab world that the weapons had been found and not planted by the United States. 
"We're not at the point yet where inspectors can go in," one administration official said, adding, "As we talk about moving toward counting weapons and destroying them in a secure environment, then we can start talking about whether there is a need for outside inspectors."
The suddenness of the French proposal left other nations on the Security Council struggling for ways to respond while keeping their options open. 
The Russian envoy, Sergey Lavrov, went into the morning meeting saying: "What we are insisting upon is that Security Council resolutions must be implemented. We all want to know that there are no weapons of mass destruction in Iraq. And the only way to verify it is to have inspectors in Iraq who would report back to the Security Council."
When he emerged, he made similar points, but far less bluntly, and he said he was open to discussion of the French proposal.
The United States' envoy, John D. Negroponte, told reporters after the morning meeting: "Our view is that in light of the dramatically changed circumstances in Iraq that sanctions should be lifted as soon as possible.
So we now need to work with France and other countries to see how best that can be achieved and how quickly." The French proposal would permit commercial flights and the revival of the financial securities industry, but would not affect the current arms embargo.
Sanctions were initially imposed on Iraq in 1990 after Mr. Hussein's invasion of Kuwait. Iraqi oil could not be legally exported and most trade with Iraq was forbidden. After that war ended, the United Nations made the lifting of the sanctions contingent on Iraq's compliance with the United Nations' disarmament demands. 
In 1995, in response to protests that the sanctions were depriving innocent Iraqis of food, medicine and other necessities, the Security Council created the oil-for-food program. This program, which started operation in 1996, established United Nations control over Iraqi oil revenues, which could be spent only under United Nations supervision. This program, Mr. de la Sabliere said, should be phased out gradually.
The head of the program, Benon Sevan, met with the Security Council this afternoon and emphasized that "you cannot just cut the umbilical cord," and further disrupt a program that has been suspended since the eve of the war. 
Even though the program has at least 8.5 million barrels of oil ready to deliver, one Council diplomat pointed out, none of it can be lifted from the tanks in the Turkish port of Ceyhan until a legally recognized authority assumes the ownership role once held by Mr. Hussein's State Oil Marketing Organization.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Hans Blix, a chief United Nations weapons inspector, outside the Security Council chambers. Mr. Blix addressed a closed Council session. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (93%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (92%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMS TRADE (78%); ARMS EMBARGOES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (71%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (66%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; IRAQ-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FRANCE-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%) UNITED NATIONS; SECURITY COUNCIL (UN) 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) BARRINGER, FELICITY; BUMILLER, ELISABETH; SABLIERE, JEAN MARC DE LA (AMB); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLIX, HANS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); SYRIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ; FRANCE; GREAT BRITAIN; AUSTRALIA

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2003 



717 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 23, 2003
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; AFTEREFFECTS: KARBALA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1189 words

HEADLINE: In Hotbed of Shiite Emotion, Clerics Jockey for Leadership

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: KARBALA, Iraq, April 22 

 BODY:
With pilgrims clogging every road, a police car led a convoy of four or five sport utility vehicles toward a mosque here. The convoy was carrying the brother of Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, who leads one of the main exiled opposition parties trying to consolidate its power in Iraq. 
 A crowd of several thousand pressed around the entrance to a small hotel nearby, where the convoy's occupants had disappeared. The crowd chanted, ''Yes, yes, Islam,'' and ''Our blood and soul, we sacrifice for you Hakim.'' 
 They were not the only partisans of a particular religious figure expressing such views here today.
 While fervent crowds continued to build for a festival mourning the death of the Shiite martyr Hussein, who was killed here nearly 1,400 years ago, clergy were engaged in a more modern passion play that is defining political divisions among the religious groups competing for leadership of Iraq's Shiite majority. 
 The Shiites, who account for at least 60 percent of Iraq's population of about 25 million, will play a major, if not dominant role in any democratic system here. Sunni Muslims make up about 37 percent of the population, and Christians and others make up the remaining 3 percent. The United States hopes to win the Shiites' support and block Iranian influence.
 But the common thread linking the religious groups here was strong opposition to American influence in Iraqi affairs, now that Saddam Hussein is no longer in power.
 ''Anyone supported by the United States is cursed by us,'' said Sheik Kadhem al-Ebadi al-Nasseri, 30, a follower of Moqtadah al-Sadr, the son of the late Shiite leader Muhammad al-Sadr, who is quickly becoming the most visible power among the Shiites in Iraq. Many look toward Shiite Iran as a friendly power.
 ''We want an Islamic state here similar to the Iranian model,'' said Omran Kadhem, a doctoral student and public affairs officer at Karbala University. ''We tried liberalism, Communism and secularism, but none of them worked, so why not try an Islamic state?''
 The brilliant blue-tiled gates to Hussein's mosque were plastered with posters of rival imams, some now in Iran, appealing to the public for support.
 Banners and announcements from the Dawa Party, an Iranian-based Shiite opposition group, were also scattered throughout the town. 
 At Karbala's seminary, imams huddled to discuss religious edicts, or fatwas, and offered veiled or outright criticism of their rivals, depending on where they stood in still-shifting alliances of Shiite politics.
 Byzantine as that world may seem, it is critically important to the United States as it moves into the nation-building phase of its Iraq program, having pledged to create a stable democracy in place of Mr. Hussein's dictatorship. 
 It is not yet clear how responsive the Shiite community will be to the religious hierarchy that controls its mosques and provides many of its social services. 
 Mr. Sadr's organization has rushed to fill the void left by the collapse of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party government, setting up administrative offices in major Shiite centers around the country, fielding militias to keep the peace and even doling out funds to pay some civil servants' salaries. But no one knows whether that effort will translate into popular political support.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Sadr's rivals for that support are growing.
 The political maneuvering here is being carried out against the backdrop of an emotional Shiite revival, with Shiites from across the country performing long-banned rituals of self-flagellation.
 Crosscurrents of melodic chanting, hundreds of voices strong, echoed across the center of the city throughout the day as groups of men beat themselves with increasing abandon to the rhythm of the chants. Their fervor spread like waves into the crowds, the mass thumping of chests quickening pulses and reaching to the black-clad women on balconies lining the streets, who beat their chests as well.
 By nightfall, the mood on the streets had grown electric.
 At about 9 p.m., the convoy arrived carrying Abdul Aziz al-Hakim, whose brother, Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, leads the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a group that is based in Tehran.
 But several imams here have already made it clear that neither Mr. Hakim nor his brother would be welcome by everyone.
 ''He is acting as if he is the most important leader in the Iraqi religious opposition,'' Mr. Nasseri -- the follower of Moqtadah al-Sadr -- said of Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim. He dismissed Mr. Hakim as a politician rather than a religious leader. ''All those who claim to be opposition figures were traitors who left Iraq and left us suffering here,'' he said.
 Yet, in a twist that characterizes the complexity of Shiite politics, Mr. Nasseri said that Mr. Sadr, who does not have the authority to issue fatwas, had allied himself with an exiled imam in Iran, Kadhem al- Haeri. That alliance was forged to deflect criticism by Iraq's senior cleric, Ayatollah Ali al-Sestani.
 Mr. Sestani, who was freed by the American invasion from years of house arrest under Mr. Hussein, has taught that the role of Shiite clerics is to offer spiritual guidance without getting involved in the administration of the Shiite community. 
 The young Mr. Sadr's father, Muhammad al-Sadr, had preached the opposite, advocating religious activism and urging clerics to intervene in their communities. He was assassinated in 1999, presumably on Mr. Hussein's orders.
 Since the collapse of Mr. Hussein's government, the young Mr. Sadr has taken up his father's principles, installing clerics in administrative roles across the country and sending them money to get things done.
 His followers openly call for an Islamic state along the lines of Iran, where Shiite clergy would rule.
 ''Our ambition is to establish an Islamic state where Islamic theory is completely applied,'' said Mr. Nasseri. ''After all, the Shiites are the majority in Iraq and if we want to apply the democracy that the West is propagating for Iraq, then the government should be elected by the majority, and the majority are Shiite.''
 But Mr. Sadr has come under criticism from Mr. Sestani's followers because he is not a senior cleric, and many people are disturbed by his growing power. Earlier this month, Mr. Sestani issued a fatwa advising the clergy against ''involvement in administrative and executive affairs,'' and explicitly stating that only fatwas from living clergy should be obeyed -- a blatant swipe at the many edicts Mr. Sadr has issued based on his father's authority.
 Countering Mr. Sestani's criticism, Mr. Nasseri said Mr. Sadr was now backed by fatwas from Mr. Haeri in Iran. Though Mr. Haeri was born in Karbala, his ties to Mr. Sadr suggest growing Iranian influence in the Shiite community here.
 ''Sadr believes in the rule of the religious clergy, which means they should intervene in all aspects of society, whether it be the military or the economy, like Ayatollah Khomeini did in Iran,'' said Mr. Nasseri. ''I want a Shiite cleric to rule Iraq, whether it be Iraqi or Iranian. I would rather have someone like Mr. Khomeini rule Iraq rather than any secular Iraqi.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Shiite Muslim pilgrims in Karbala, Iraq, pounded themselves with whips and swords yesterday in rites forbidden under Saddam Hussein's rule. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A1)
Fervent crowds gathered around the mosque of Hussein yesterday in Karbala, where groups competed for leadership of Iraq's Shiite population. (Ozier Muhammad/The New York Times)(pg. A13)Chart: ''An Islamic Fault Line''Hundreds of thousands of Muslims are making a pilgrimage to the holy city of Karbala, which plays a central role in the Shiite faith dating back to the seventh century when Muhammad's grandson Hussein was killed there.MUHAMMAD'S DESCENDANTSMUHAMMAD -- KHADIJAHFATIMA (daughter) -- ALIHUSSEIN (son)ZAYNAB (daughter)UMM KULTHUM (daughter)HASAN (son)SUCCESSOR TO MUHAMMADAfter the death of Muhammad in 632, there was a divison among Muslims as to who should succeed him. Some believed the caliph, or leader, should be chosen based on leadership qualities
followers of this group became known as Sunnis. Others believed that the leader should come from Muhammad's family, and supported Ali, his cousin and son-in-law
they became known as Shiites.TENSIONS FLAREAfter Ali was assassinated, leadership of the Shiites passed to his sons, Hasan and Hussein. In 680, a new Sunni leader, Yazid, demanded Hussein's allegiance. He refused, and left his home in Medina to travel to Kufa, where there was a large Shiite contingent.BATTLE AT KARBALABefore Hussein and his party of 150 people reached Kufa, they were attacked by Yazid's military forces at Karbala, and all the men were killed. Last to be killed was Hussein, who was decapitated. His body was buried in Karbala, and his head sent back to Yazid in Damascus.IRAQ TODAYWhile Saddam Hussein's government was Sunnidominated, Shiites make up about 60 percent of Iraq's population.Map of Iraq highlights major cities such as Baghdad, Karbala, Kufa, Basra, Mosul, and KirkukMap also shows the following religious denominations and their concentrations within Iraq:ShiiteSunniSunni/Shiite mix(Sources: Barbara R. von Schlegell, University of Pennsylvania
 Central Intelligence Agency)(pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (92%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); POLITICS (89%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); POPULATION SIZE (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (72%); LIBERALISM (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); SYRIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2004



718 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 153 words

HEADLINE: Punishing the Cubans 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 I plead with United States leaders to consider the devastating consequences that increased restrictions on travel to Cuba and cash remittances will have on the Cuban people ("U.S. May Punish Cuba for Imprisoning Critics," news article, April 17). 
 Many Cuban families depend on cash payments from American relatives, as the peso's plummeting value equates the dollar with survival. Travel restrictions estrange families -- propelling some to risk their lives on a dangerous sea to be reunited --while feeding Cuban isolationism. 
Fidel Castro persists despite the embargo and the Soviet empire's demise. His politics thrives on the embargo's existence, which he blames for Cuba's economic and sociopolitical woes while wielding it as a legitimate example of human rights abuse against Cubans by the United States government. The only victims are the Cuban people.

ANIKA DENALI
Portland, Ore., April 22, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%) EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (57%) DENALI, ANIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (79%) CUBA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



719 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: City Without Fear 

BYLINE:  By Tom Vanderbilt; Tom Vanderbilt is author of "Survival City: Adventures Among the Ruins of Atomic America."

 BODY:
An anxious city hangs between fear and indifference. Vague color-coded alert signals flicker in and out of consciousness. Homes are stocked with supplies that seem futile against powerful, unseen weaponry. The dilemma of urbanity weighs on city residents: the traits that make cities desirable also render them prime targets.
 The place: New York City. The year: 1954. In the first of a compulsory, soon-to-be annual ritual, the city girds for Operation Alert. In the scenario envisioned in the drill, an atomic bomb hits Williamsburg, in northwest Brooklyn. A three-minute blast of an air raid siren, and the city vanishes into shelters. Traffic stills. At Yankee Stadium, ground crews point water hoses at 17,000 fans, presumably to wash away the expected fallout. Imaginary casualty lists have more than 2.9 million dead. 
 New York again finds itself living under threat of attack. City officials have again devised a security plan, Operation Atlas, to protect citizens against terrorists. National Guardsmen patrol the subways. There are checkpoints at bridges and tunnels. Yet New Yorkers have not built bunkers or fled Gotham en masse. According to a recent poll, New Yorkers -- living in the city that's Code Orange when everywhere else is Code Yellow -- are the least prepared for an emergency among residents of America's 10 biggest cities. The fact is striking, considering which city was attacked 19 months ago.
Outsiders may wonder why New Yorkers, while living with the awareness that a devastating attack is quite possible, continue to immerse themselves in urban life. But New Yorkers of the 1950's -- when the threat was arguably greater, more ultimately devastating -- whistled past their atomic graveyard with similar chutzpah. Indeed, the New York skyline today defiantly attests that its residents faced danger not by hunkering down but by building up. 
Despite drills like Operation Alert, federal civil defense officials in the 1950's essentially wrote off the city as an inevitable atomic fatality. Its residents were too concentrated, its departure routes too congested, its adequate shelters too few. "The sad fact is," Consumer Reports observed, "that there isn't much that can be done for the vulnerable central cores of our cities." Prophets of anti-urbanism said that the future lay in far-flung "linear cities," away from metropolitan centers.
To guard against nuclear attack, one urban planner, Tracy Augur, suggested that Americans leave the cities, calling them "obsolete" and "economically unsound and dangerous." Those who couldn't be persuaded to evacuate were expected to live under an austere set of aesthetic guidelines. "Unlike the new U.N. building," civil defense officials advised, "atom-resistant structures should have a minimum of glass and decorative stone slabs to limit the dangers from flying debris." If New York had followed these rules, the buildings of the 1950's and 1960's would all have resembled the AT&T switching center in Lower Manhattan, a looming, nearly windowless obelisk of flame-treated granite.
Instead, the city responded with a glass shield, fragile crystal towers that offered little shelter from a nuclear blast but provided a glittering, transparent rebuke to cold-war darkness and secrecy. New York at mid-century saw the reign of the glass-curtain wall of high modernism, expressed in such monuments as the United Nations, the Seagram Building and Lever House, which Lewis Mumford called "a laughing refutation of imperialist warmongering." 
In standing their ground, New Yorkers may have been calling the lie on civil defense, the idea that nuclear war was survivable. Or they may have been saying, grimly, stoically, that life without cities was not worth living. Perhaps being a prime target increased, however mordantly, civic pride. It was Mumford who observed that "the riches of cities -- material, social, cultural -- have long made them a visible object for collective aggression." Their strategic weaknesses are their very strengths. That these riches are at risk increases their value.
Global dangers have again given New Yorkers the chance to leave for safer realms. Again, they have resisted. New Yorkers may be in denial. But by being New Yorkers, by not living as if under siege -- even as new walls and guns appear, as they have in all great cities under peril -- what might seem like denial is an implicit defense. For what civilization ever thrived without its metropolis?
With memories of the 1950's dimming, New Yorkers now reinvoke a deep-dyed, venerable spirit, an inner civil defense. In a city where one has to fight for everything, fighting for survival is second nature. We stock our symbolic survival kits with the enduring idea of New York, which is more resilient than any of its architecture.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); BOMBINGS (77%); TERRORISM (75%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (75%); HIJACKING (74%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (72%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (69%); LAND USE PLANNING (68%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (67%); AIRLINES (61%) TERRORISM; WORLD TRADE CENTER (NYC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; HIJACKING; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CIVIL DEFENSE; SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) WASHINGTON (DC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



720 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
The pundits were wrong: Using the Internet to buy cars does save consumers money.

BYLINE:  By Virginia Postrel; Virginia Postrel is the author of "The Future and Its Enemies." Her book on the increasing economic and cultural importance of aesthetics will be published in September by HarperCollins. E-mail: vpostrel@dynamist.com.

 BODY:
THE 21st century hasn't brought us flying cars. But it has made the nonflying kind a lot easier to buy.
 Back in 1986, when I purchased my first Honda Civic, car shopping meant going from dealer to dealer to dealer, taking test drives and hearing sales pitches. The process was time-consuming and unpleasant. It required a lot of driving around, and to get a price, you had to be willing to dicker for hours. 
 Car buyers no longer have to go through all that. When I replaced my old Civic with a 2003 model, I test drove a couple of cars and, when I was ready to buy, filled out an online form. Within 30 minutes, a dealer e-mailed me an excellent offer. Two hours later, I had a new car.
In the early days of e-commerce, six or seven years ago, car sales were the pundits' favorite caveat. Customers will always want to kick the tires, they said, so the Internet is no place for selling cars.
How wrong they were.
"By now it's an incredibly widely used medium for buying cars," said Florian Zettelmeyer, an economist at the Haas School of Business at the University of California at Berkeley.
Car buyers still kick the tires, but they increasingly get price offers from Internet referral services like Autobytel, the market leader, and CarsDirect, the site I used. 
These services don't actually sell cars. Rather, they contract with dealers who agree to follow certain rules. Only about one out of five dealers has a referral-service contract, which encourages lots of sales at relatively low prices. When a car shopper fills out an online form, the referral service forwards the information to its local affiliates, which respond with price offers.
Consumers who use Internet referral services pay about 2 percent less for their cars than people who shop the old-fashioned way, according to research by Professor Zettelmeyer, Fiona M. Scott Morton of the Yale School of Management and Jorge Silva-Risso of the Anderson Graduate School of Management at the University of California at Los Angeles.
They found about the same savings in studies using different data from different years, 1999 and 2002, in which different proportions of car shoppers used the services, about 12 percent in 1999 versus 58 percent in 2002.
But maybe the savings are an illusion. Maybe those smart shoppers are the same hard bargainers who would have gotten a good price the old-fashioned way. 
Using data from J. D. Power & Associates and Autobytel, the economists tracked about 700,000 car sales in 1999 and early 2000. (Their paper is available at http://papers.ssrn.com/abstractid=288601.) Comparing equivalent buyers who shopped online and offline, they found the exact opposite of what they had suspected.
"The people who use this medium," Professor Zettelmeyer said, "are those who in the offline world would have done worse than average." Internet referral services are, in effect, transferring money from car dealers to the consumers who used to pay the most.
In that case, online services might lower prices for women or traditionally disadvantaged ethnic groups. In a second paper, recently published in the journal Quantitative Marketing and Economics, the researchers first used their huge data set to separate race and gender from other demographic factors, like education and income. Since it is harder to shop if you don't already own a car, they also factored in whether a buyer traded in an old car.
These variables, they found, account for about two-thirds of the 2 to 2.3 percent premium that blacks and Hispanics pay for cars. (Gender is harder to separate, because women tend to shop for cars with men.)
Using an Internet referral service not only eliminates the remaining markup -- 0.8 percent for blacks, 0.6 percent for Hispanics -- but wipes out the differences from education, income and search costs.
On the Internet, "everybody paid the white male price," Professor Zettelmeyer said. "Suddenly it became totally irrelevant what your race or gender or income or education was."
In their most recent work, which includes a survey of car buyers, the economists try to determine how Internet shopping lowers prices. They find two effects. Using the Internet makes consumers better informed and, hence, better able to bargain -- the information effect. And the referral services use their own power to make sure dealers keep prices low -- the contract effect.
Looking at all car buyers, the economists find that those who use Internet referral services save about 1.5 percent on the cars they buy. But that average hides the full story. The two different effects have different results, depending on the car buyers' personalities.
The information effect saves about 1.7 percent, but only for people like me who don't like bargaining. Skillful bargainers, it turns out, can get good deals no matter how little information they have. The contract effect, by contrast, helps all consumers, saving about 0.8 percent.
State franchise laws protect car dealers from the full implications of Internet shopping. Carmakers have to treat all dealers the same -- they can't reward low prices the way referral services can -- and they can't simply replace dealers with test-drive centers. In the long run, that will have to change, Professor Scott Morton suggested.
If the only value car dealers provide comes from a test drive and some paperwork, they don't have much reason to exist. The Internet already offers better information on insurance and financing, and cars' increasing reliability makes repair services less important.
"If it's totally obvious to everyone that the dealer's not doing anything, then I think we will get eventual weakening of those protections," she said. In the meantime, more and more car shoppers will flock to the Internet, if only to avoid spending hours in the dealership.
"An element that we sometimes underestimate, which doesn't show up anywhere in the G.D.P., is the sheer amount of disutility that consumers derive" from dickering with car salesmen, Professor Zettelmeyer said.
Internet car shopping saves not just money. "A lot of people just dread this process," he said. "To the degree that we can reduce the dread factor, that is providing real value."

GRAPHIC: Photo: According to some recent research, the thrill of kicking the tires isn't what it used to be. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (69%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (66%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: AUTOBYTEL INC (54%); J D POWER & ASSOCIATES (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (55%)

TICKER: ABTL (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (54%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (51%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (51%)

PERSON: POSTREL, VIRGINIA 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



721 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 655 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Positive Earnings Outlooks and Results Give Shares a Lift

BYLINE:  By Reuters 

 BODY:
Stocks climbed yesterday, driving the technology-laden Nasdaq to its highest level since early December, as solid results and upbeat forecasts from eBay and AT&T eased investors' concerns about corporate profits.
 Gains in the blue-chip Dow were tempered, however, by a drop in Eastman Kodak, which warned that its full-year results could be at the low end of estimates. 
 "The tone has generally been pretty good onthe earnings front, and that's what's driving the market higher," said Peter D. Gottlieb, portfolio manager at First Albany Asset Management. "It appears that there may be a light at the end of the tunnel, but I don't think that anyone has been convinced that we've gotten an all-clear signal yet." 
The mood on Wall Street has brightened in recent days with much of corporate America meeting or beating expectations for the first quarter. The market rose for a second straight day, pushing the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index to a three-month high.
"Earnings so far have been a pleasant surprise," said Kevin Connellan, head of equity trading at Northern Trust. "The fact that it's holding yesterday's gains is really a positive."
The Dow Jones industrial average advanced 30.67 points, or 0.36 percent, to 8,515.66, its highest close since mid-March. The broader S.& P. 500-stock index finished at its highest level since mid-January, up 7.65 points, or 0.84 percent, at 919.02. The Nasdaq gained 14.8 points, or 1.02 percent, to 1,466.16, a closing level unseen since early December.
This month, the S.& P. 500 has risen 8 percent, the Dow is up 6.5 percent and the Nasdaq is up 9 percent.
The stock market dipped briefly after the Federal Reserve issued its monthly beige book report, which showed overall economic activity remained lackluster in March and early April as the war in Iraq kept consumers wary. But analysts said the report came as little surprise, and investors remain firmly focused on the earnings picture.
Weaker oil prices gave the market some relief, easing concerns that consumers and companies will take a hit from higher energy prices. The price of crude oil fell 4.79 percent, as record imports pushed United States crude stockpiles sharply higher.
AT&T surged $3.20, or 23 percent, to $17.01, and ranked as the biggest gainer in the Dow. The company turned a first-quarter profit despite lower revenue and said its 2003 revenue and margins would meet or exceed its previous forecasts.
BellSouth rose $2.50, or 11.5 percent, to $24.21. The company said it swung to profit in the first quarter, but revenue fell slightly as demand for telephone and data services softened.
But Eastman Kodak fell $1.65, or 5 percent to $30, after earlier sinking as low as $28.93. The company said quarterly earnings fell almost 70 percent and warned that weak demand for film could hit its full-year results.
EBay rose $5.10, or 6 percent, to $94.32. The company posted first-quarter profit that more than doubled on triple-digit growth, and it raised its earnings and revenue targets for both the current quarter and 2003.
Treasury bond prices were mixed. The Treasury auctioned $27 billion of two-year notes; at auction they were priced to yield 1.704 percent. By late in the day, on a when-issued basis, the yield fell to 1.69 percent on good investor demand.
The 10-year note fell 3/32, to 99 5/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.98 percent from 3.97 percent on Tuesday. The 30-year bond, meanwhile, rose on the decline in crude oil prices, gaining 5/32, to 107 15/32. Its yield fell to 4.88 percent from 4.89 percent.
Here are the results of yesterday's Treasury auction of two-year notes:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
High Price: 99.845
High Yield: 1.704%
Low Yield: 1.640%
Median Yield: 1.689%
Accepted at low price: 11%
Total applied for: $65,583,286
Accepted: $34,293,046
Noncompetitive: $773,236
Interest set at: 1 5/8

The two-year notes mature April 30, 2005.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (88%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (79%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (76%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); PUBLIC DEBT (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (66%); IMPORT TRADE (65%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); IRAQ WAR (61%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: EASTMAN KODAK CO (58%); FIRST ALBANY ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (57%); NORTHERN TRUST CORP (55%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (50%)

TICKER: NTRS (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325992 PHOTOGRAPHIC FILM, PAPER, PLATE & CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (50%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (50%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (50%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (72%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



722 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: THE SARS EPIDEMIC: ECONOMY; 
Epidemic Spurs Plan To Revive Hong Kong

BYLINE:  By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: HONG KONG, April 23 

 BODY:
Officials today announced a $1.5 billion package of tax breaks, loan guarantees for businesses and short-term janitorial jobs to clean and disinfect the homes of victims of the new respiratory disease, SARS.
 It is one of the largest initiatives in Hong Kong's history, and it is 11 times the size of a plan unveiled by Singapore, which has had far fewer SARS cases. The plan here calls for government spending and tax cuts concentrated in the next four months that will equal 1 percent of the territory's annual economic output. 
 In an echo of the Works Progress Administration that the United States used to address unemployment during the Depression, the plan calls for creating 21,500 short-term government jobs. The announcement of the program coincides with signs that the economic effects of SARS, severe acute respiratory syndrome, are spreading elsewhere as well. 
Except in South Korea, where no cases of SARS have yet been reported, stock markets in Asia have generally been flat or falling in recent days, even as markets elsewhere, especially Wall Street, have risen.
Saudi Arabia's oil minister, Ali Naimi, said today that SARS was reducing global oil demand and would have to be considered by ministers of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries when they meet in Vienna on Thursday. 
"I know that SARS is affecting demand," he said. "It's having an effect on everything," especially demand for jet fuel in Asia.
Stores, hotels, restaurants, tour agencies and movie theaters here have reported that business is off by more than 50 percent. Those businesses will receive most of the benefits from today's initiatives.
More than half of the 21,500 government jobs will be for people to clean and disinfect the homes of the elderly and disabled, as well as back alleys. Other jobs will include training positions to teach laid-off service workers to perform their tasks better when the economy recovers.
Cheung Kin-chung, Hong Kong's secretary for economic development and labor, said the program was unparalleled for this former British colony. The territory has a tradition of very limited government involvement in the economy that has largely persisted, even after its transfer to Chinese rule in 1997.
Anthony Leung, Hong Kong's financial secretary, said the territory faced an emergency that demanded a departure from that longtime economic philosophy.
The measures come just seven weeks after the government announced higher taxes and deep cuts in welfare benefits and other social programs to reduce an enormous budget deficit. J. P. Morgan Chase estimated today that with today's program and other budget effects from SARS, the deficit would rise to 7.3 percent of economic output here, compared with a previous estimate of 5.6 percent.
Takahira Ogawa, the director of Asian and Pacific government debt ratings at Standard and Poor's, said today's program would not affect the territory's credit rating, because all of the plan's components were temporary measures that would affect the budget deficit only this year.
SARS has crippled air travel in Asia. Mr. Leung said the Hong Kong Airport Authority was likely to announce separate plans to help airlines but declined to be specific. Cathay Pacific Airways and other airlines have asked the authority to reduce landing fees.
In addition to creating temporary government jobs, Hong Kong will waive water and sewage charges for the general public for up to four months, increase income tax rebates, waive license fees for heavily affected industries, guarantee $450 million in loans to businesses in those industries, increase medical research spending and reduce commercial rents for stores at public housing sites and other government-controlled properties.
Few details were available today on the rules for many of the programs. "It's on the plate, but we haven't had a chance to digest it yet," said Nigel Roberts, the general manager of the 487-room Great Eagle Hotel, which is less than 10 percent full.
Many customers have repeatedly postponed their reservations by a week at a time, he said. The World Health Organization is still advising travelers to consider postponing trips here.
Li Kui-wai, the director of the Asian studies center at Hong Kong's City University, said that the spending programs made sense but that the tax cuts might not do much to revive the economy as long as many people here remained afraid to leave their homes. "Whether we have another $1,000 in the pocket may not make a difference," he said. "The problem is confidence." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SARS (96%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (94%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (75%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); LAYOFFS (74%); TRENDS (72%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (71%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (71%); RESTAURANTS (64%); EXPORT TRADE (51%); JET FUEL (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; TAXATION; CREDIT; DISINFECTANTS 

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (51%); JPM (LSE) (51%); 8634 (TSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (51%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (51%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (51%)

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG (97%); SINGAPORE (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) HONG KONG

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



723 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 951 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Meets Today, Without Iraq, and Plans to Rein In Members' Production Levels 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PFANNER, International Herald Tribune 

DATELINE: VIENNA, April 23 

 BODY:
Amid fears of a postwar oil glut, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries prepared today to cut output significantly in an effort to bolster prices ahead of the eventual resumption of Iraqi exports.
 The swift execution of the war in Iraq has OPEC worried about a collapse in prices, even though Iraq's oil industry remains in disarray. While Abdullah al-Attiyah, the OPEC president, said he hoped that Iraq would eventually return to "play a very important role" in the organization, he added that the country would not be discussed, or represented, at OPEC's meeting on Thursday. 
 Instead, analysts said, the 10 other members of OPEC will probably agree to cut production by as much as 2 million barrels a day, though they are unlikely to cut their official production ceiling of 24.5 million barrels. That limit, representing about a third of the world's oil consumption, was breached over the last few months as OPEC members, led by Saudi Arabia, moved to prevent a spike in prices during the war. 
"We will discuss all options," said Mr. Attiyah, who is also Qatar's oil minister, as he arrived at the Intercontinental Hotel in Vienna. "Personally, I believe there is a two million surplus in the markets."
Reflecting a declared desire to manage the markets and keep prices stable, OPEC agreed in January to raise its production quota by 7 percent as war loomed and political strife in Venezuela, normally the group's third-largest producer, curtailed its output. But OPEC members actually pumped about 1.7 million barrels a day more than the official limit in March, according to PetroLogistics, a consulting firm in Geneva, and prices have eased after climbing in light of the war.
"OPEC knows it has been through an exceptional period," said Raad Alkadiri, a director at PFC Energy, a Washington consulting firm. "Now that the war is over, they realize they have to get back to the quotas."
On Wednesday, after a report showing a sharp rise in United States stockpiles, crude oil prices fell sharply in trading in New York, down $1.34, to $26.65 a barrel. OPEC's stated goal is to keep the price of a basket of crudes at $22 to $28 a barrel, and it is now in those bounds. 
But the uncertain course of the global economy has made it particularly difficult to predict consumption totals. Adding to the uncertainty, Iraq is expected to step up production as wartime damage to production sites is repaired and Western oil companies help tap what experts say are the world's second-largest oil reserves, exceeded only by Saudi Arabia's.
Though some oil started flowing again today from Iraq's southern oil fields, that is for domestic consumption, and any significant resumption of exports is weeks or months away, analysts say. 
A variety of political issues must be addressed. United Nations sanctions, which have restricted Iraqi exports since the first Persian Gulf war, in 1991, remain in place for now. And it is still unclear how Iraq's oil industry will be organized, or even who owns the oil fields, with no effective transitional government yet in place. 
While Iraq has remained one of OPEC's 11 members since its invasion of Kuwait 13 years ago, it has been outside the group's quota system, as its exports were monitored under the United Nations oil-for-food program.
"We don't have agovernment today in Iraq, so we don't have any representative," Mr. Attiyah said. 
OPEC's program for the meeting, prepared during the war, still lists Amir Muhammad Rashid, oil minister in Saddam Hussein's administration, as Iraq's official representative to the cartel. But he is also included in the deck of playing cards depicting 55 members of the regime sought by the United States, and his whereabouts is unknown.
Over the weekend, a former Iraqi general, Jawdat al-Obeidi, said he would represent Iraq at the meeting, but analysts said no gate-crashers were likely to arrive in Vienna. 
"Whoever would have been here, it wouldn't have changed a thing," said Vera de Ladoucette, a senior director at Cambridge Energy Research Associates. 
Indeed, OPEC ministers arriving in Vienna sought to portray the discussion of Iraq as a sideshow. For now, they emphasized, the group's focus was on oil prices, not politics. 
"This meeting is to make sure we keep the market where it is, to make sure prices stay in the band, preferably right in the middle," the Saudi oil minister, Ali al-Naimi, told reporters. "OPEC should be given a big credit for putting as much crude as we have done into the market." 
By pumping at full tilt during the war, Saudi Arabia sought to portray itself as the responsible citizen of the oil community, analysts say, regardless of the eventual effect of the conflict on the market.
For that reason, these analysts said, Saudi Arabia would probably try to abide by any new production limits for now, even though OPEC members have frequently cheated on quotas, and doing so, in the case of Saudi Arabia, has provided a recent windfall. 
While Mr. Attiyah said he hoped Iraq would remain an OPEC member, some advisers in Washington have suggested that the group's leverage over oil prices could be weakened if a new, pro-American government in Iraq steered a course independent of OPEC. Iraq, together with Russia, where output is rising, could then form an effective counterweight to the organization.
But analysts say it could take years just to get Iraqi production back to where it stood before the 1991 war, when the nation pumped more than three million barrels a day, without even tapping the potential of its huge reserves.
"It's going to take a long time to get Iraq up to speed," Mr. Alkadiri said. "In the short term, it will be sort of a marginal issue for OPEC."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks crude oil prices (near-month contract), since November 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets). It also lists the 52-week highs and lows of selected commodities, along with their closes yesterday and their changes, yesterday, year to date, and over the past 52 weeks. Chart: "Exceeding Their Quotas"OPEC's members have routinely been surpassing the crude oil production limits set by the organization. Here are figures for March. Saudi ArabiaQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 7.96PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 9.46 IranQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 3.60PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 3.76 KuwaitQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.97PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 2.30 United Arab EmiratesQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 2.14PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 2.29 VenezuelaQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 2.82PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 2.28 NigeriaQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 2.02PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.93 IraqQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: *PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.44 LibyaQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.31PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.41 AlgeriaQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 0.78PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.11 IndonesiaQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.27PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 1.04 QatarQUOTA MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 0.64PRODUCTION MILLIONS OF BARRELS A DAY: 0.76 *Iraqs production was set by the United Nations oil-for-food program(Source: Platts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); CONSUMPTION (88%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); FUTURES (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (74%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRODUCTION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING 

COMPANY: PETROLOGISTICS LP (53%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%); UNITED NATIONS (59%) ORGANIZATION OF PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES 

TICKER: PDH (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424720 PETROLEUM & PETROLEUM PRODUCTS MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (EXCEPT BULK STATIONS & TERMINALS) (53%)

PERSON: PFANNER, ERIC; ATTIYAH, ABDULLAH BIN HAMAD AL- (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (93%); AUSTRIA (90%); SWITZERLAND (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); QATAR (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



724 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Takes Firmest Stand Against Higher Tax on Rich 

BYLINE:  By AL BAKER

DATELINE: ALBANY, April 23 

 BODY:
Gov. George E. Pataki, facing a huge budget shortfall, questions about his leadership and a new poll that showed his approval rating dropping fast, stood firm today in his opposition to increasing income taxes on New York's wealthiest residents.
 He also warned that the state's two top legislative leaders should not send him a budget in separate pieces, as they have promised to do next week. The leaders have said they will pass a school-aid bill first, then a plan that includes a tax increase to pay for it. 
 In the strongest and clearest terms he has used so far, Mr. Pataki reiterated his opposition to increasing income taxes on the wealthy. One proposal, by union leaders, would add a surcharge of seven-tenths of 1 percent on the tax rate for people earning more than $100,000 a year.
"I would hope that they will not pass it," Mr. Pataki said when asked at a news conference in the Capitol whether he would veto any plan by the Legislature to increase taxes on the wealthy.
"But I have made it very plain that I will oppose and fight any job-killing tax, such as a personal income tax surcharge, that I believe would really hurt this state's economic competitiveness and drive jobs out," he said. "I don't want to speculate, but I am certainly not going to approve of something like that."
Mr. Pataki also lodged a counter-attack on Joseph L. Bruno, the Senate majority leader, who said Monday that the governor's planned reduction in school aid would drive up local property taxes, a position that the Assembly speaker, Sheldon Silver, has been stating since Jan. 29, when the governor presented his budget.
Mr. Pataki said his proposed $1.2 billion reduction in school aid averaged about 4 percent a district, far less than the percentage by which state government agencies have been asked to reduce their spending.
"We're not looking to raise state taxes," Mr. Pataki said. "We're not looking to raise local taxes. Obviously, I would like to have more funds for schools, everyone would like to have more funds for schools, but the way we've been able to make the record investments in education, in health care, in the environment, over the course of the past five, six, seven, years has been because we have put in place the policies that created the right economic climate so the private sector grew and generated the revenues, the government revenues, that we could use for school districts."
Yet the three-term governor has been barraged by criticism from all sides, including powerful labor unions, newspaper editorial boards and standard-bearers in his own Republican Party who have split with him over his insistence on cutting health care and education to close an $11.5 billion gap in the state budget.
A statewide poll released today by the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute found that most registered voters surveyed would rather tax the rich than reduce spending on schools, said Maurice Carroll, director of the institute. It is the same message Republican state senators from the suburbs said they had been bombarded with.
The poll, taken by telephone from April 15 to April 21, surveyed 885 registered voters and has a margin of sampling error of plus or minus 3 percentage points. It found that 71 percent of voters supported a temporary tax increase on the wealthy, as did 68 percent of those whose families earn $100,000 or more a year.
Overall, the poll found the percentage of voters who approved of Mr. Pataki's performance had fallen to its lowest level in more than seven years, a development that was attributed to disapproval of his handling of the budget. 
It found that 43 percent of registered voters surveyed approved of Mr. Pataki's job performance and 45 percent disapproved. His approval rating had not been below 45 percent since Nov. 6, 1995, during his first term as governor, according to the poll.
Despite the poll results, Mr. Pataki responded strongly to reporters' questions about the budget problems and his plan to handle them with deep cuts rather than with increased state taxes on income or corporate profits.
After a recent news conference, the governor's leadership qualities were questioned by critics. Today he sought to answer the criticism, saying his leadership would see New York, and its residents, through these tough economic times, as it had in the past.
"You have to provide the leadership necessary to make sure the state gets through not just a fiscal problem for the state but also an economic problem for the people of the state and the people of the country," Mr. Pataki said. "And that's what we're doing."
He added: "You make the tough decisions because you're proud to be a leader, and I am. And I don't know how many times I've said over the course of the last eight years, 'The polls go up, the polls go down.' They do, and that in no way affects my view as to what is right for the state or the type of leadership this state needs."
Mr. Pataki sought to put to rest a theory commonly stated in the capital that he actually wants the Legislature to pass a tax increase and then override his veto so he can present himself as the lone defender of low taxes and restrained spending. His opposition to taxes is sincere and principled, he said.
"And I might make it very plain that there is no wink and there is no nod when it comes to that opposition," he said, adding that he hoped the legislative leaders "get the message."
An aide to Mr. Bruno said the senator hoped Mr. Pataki would agree on the final budget before it is passed. Mr. Silver's aides said the budget was likely to be passed as a series of bills over several days. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (86%); VETO (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); LABOR UNIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



725 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 537 words

HEADLINE: Strike in Zimbabwe Shuts Businesses, Imperiling the Economy 

BYLINE:  By GINGER THOMPSON 

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG, April 23 

 BODY:
In another blow to Zimbabwe's economy, most major stores and factories were closed today in support of a three-day strike called by the country's principal labor movement to protest the government's decision to triple the price of gasoline.
 The government raised gas prices to about 55 cents per liter from 18 cents in an effort to attract new imports and stem a shortage that has left consumers waiting in line for days at a time to fill up their tanks. The Zimbabwe Congress of Trade Unions charged that the price increase would mean that more than 60 percent of the average worker's salary of $30 a month would be spent on transportation. 
 Inflation is a record 228 percent compared with a year ago, and unemployment is more than 60 percent, the union officials pointed out, leaving most people struggling to provide for their families' basic needs.
Zimbabwe's power company reportedly issued warnings earlier this week about increased blackouts because it has not been able to pay millions of dollars owed to foreign suppliers.
At the start of the trading season for Zimbabwean tobacco, which generates some 31 percent of the nation's foreign currency, the chairman of the Tobacco Industry and Marketing Board estimated that production would drop this year by one-third compared with last year.
Zimbabwe is second to Brazil among suppliers of flue-cured tobacco used in American-blend and other cigarettes on the international market, and exports 98 percent of its tobacco crop. This brings in about one-third of the country's desperately needed foreign exchange, making tobacco the country's second-largest earner of foreign exchange after gold.
Meanwhile, there are conflicting forecasts about whether Zimbabwe's farmers will produce enough corn during next month's harvest to supply the country. Corn is a staple in Zimbabwe.
Officials at the World Food Program estimate that at least 60 percent of the population face shortages of food.
Government officials called today's strike an illegal attempt to undermine the government of President Robert Mugabe, and the police detained at least eight union leaders for questioning. It was the latest political challenge for the beleaguered President Mugabe, who has governed the country since the end of white minority rule more than 20 years ago.
Last month, the nation's largest opposition party, the Movement for Democratic Change, brought economic activity to a near standstill by calling a two-day strike, considered the largest public protest against President Mugabe since he was re-elected last year in a contest that was marred by widespread allegations of fraud. That strike was followed by reports of repression by state security officials, including the arrest and torture of hundreds of government opponents.
In an interview televised Monday night, President Mugabe shrugged off the rising condemnation against his government by the United States and Britain.
He charged that the economy had been sabotaged by government opponents, with the support of Western governments, aimed at subverting his campaign to seize white-owned farms for redistribution to landless blacks.
He said, "The majority of people are a happy lot despite the hardships we're going through." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); STRIKES (89%); TOBACCO MFG (89%); POLITICS (85%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (76%); EXPORT TRADE (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); POWER FAILURES (76%); CURRENCIES (75%); TOBACCO FARMING (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (67%); TOBACCO GRADING & CURING (66%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; STRIKES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: THOMPSON, GINGER; MUGABE, ROBERT (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (99%); UNITED STATES (92%) ZIMBABWE

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



726 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 741 words

HEADLINE: China Offers Its Help in U.S.-North Korea Nuclear Talks 

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 23 

 BODY:
As American envoys today completed a first day of talks to persuade North Korea to abandon its nuclear weapons program, China appeared to be playing an unusually assertive role in pressing both sides to keep open lines of communication even if an initial round of discussion produces no breakthrough.
 Chinese officials and analysts say they are merely convening the talks and providing a forum for the two sides to talk after a six-month diplomatic impasse that led to fears here and around the region that the former Korean War enemies were on a path to a new conflict. 
 But the Chinese role appears to be more than that of host: officials and analysts describe Beijing as determined to keep the two sides talking, first in low-level diplomatic exchanges, then perhaps in more direct negotiations between decision makers, to soften entrenched positions and force both sides to focus on howto bring about a diplomatic outcome.
"The main achievement is just to get them talking," a Foreign Ministry official said. "We have low expectations of what could come out of the talks this time, but just having the meeting is a success." 
None of the three parties had anything to say about the discussions today, the first of three scheduled days of face-to-face meetings being held at the Diaoyutai State Guest House in Beijing. James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for East Asian affairs, met with Li Gun, deputy director of North Korea's Foreign Ministry, and Wang Yi, China's deputy foreign minister. Mr. Kelly told waiting reporters, "No words today, thank you." 
China and the United States have both set the bar low. Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said the Bush administration would not introduce any new proposals during the meetings, but hinted that if they went well they would lead to future rounds.
"In this first set of meetings, nothing is being put on the table," Mr. Powell said in a television interview. "We'll begin a set of discussion. They will hear what we think about the situation."
The talks are the result of a bold diplomatic venture by China, which had remained on the sidelines during previous rounds of talks over North Korea's nuclear program. Diplomats say it was China's deft footwork that made the talks possible so soon after the Iraq war, when some worried that the Bush administration would be disinclined to undertake a prolonged and potentially inconclusive dialogue with North Korea.
North Korea had been insisting for months that it would discuss its nuclear program and its security concerns only in direct negotiations with the United States. Washington, meanwhile, had been seeking to internationalize the issue through the United Nations Security Council or in regional talks.
The three-party talks proposed by China appeared to provide both sides with a face-saving compromise.
"Both sides gave a bit to make this happen," said the Foreign Ministry official. "North Korea gave a little to allow a mediator. The U.S. changed a bit to allow direct talks."
The discussions are the first between Washington and North Korea since October, when the Bush administration presented evidence that North Korea had violated a 1994 pact to dismantle its nuclear program. North Korea admitted that it had a covert program to make highly enriched uranium for nuclear arms.
President Bush has branded North Korea a member of the "axis of evil" along with Iran and Iraq under Saddam Hussein. North Korea has vowed to build a nuclear arsenal to fend off an American attack, which its state media has warned is imminent.
Some senior Pentagon officials have opposed any talks with North Korea, arguing that the United States should oust the government there as it did in Iraq. 
Chinese experts say they are cautiously optimistic about an agreement being reached. They say North Korea has two main concerns, both of which can be addressed in the talks. One is that its economy is a shambles and relies heavily on outside food assistance. The second is that it fears the United States has plans to attack it.
To facilitate discussion, China has presented itself as a reliable mediator that does not formally back either side. China has let North Korea know that it backs the North's desire for a security guarantee from the United States, according to the Communist Party newspaper Global Times. China has also signaled its willingness to work with the United States in taking a tougher line on North Korea if it does not cooperate.

GRAPHIC: Photo: James A. Kelly, an assistant secretary of state, center, and Brig. Gen. Gary L. North, left, in Beijing for talks with North Korea and China. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); DISARMAMENT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); KOREAN WAR (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); IRAQ WAR (70%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-NORTH KOREA; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; TERRORISM 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); ASIA (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



727 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Parties Near Agreement On Creating Asbestos Trust
Companies, insurers, unions and Democratic and Republican senators are nearing an agreement to end all asbestos lawsuits and instead pay people with asbestos-related diseases from a national, privately financed trust, people who have participated in the talks said.
 The trust, which would have to be approved by Congress and President Bush, would pay more than $100 billion to hundreds of thousands of asbestos victims over the next 30 years. Page A1. 

AOL Time Warner Reverses Loss
AOL Time Warner reported a larger-than-expected quarterly net income of $396 million, or 9 cents a share, in contrast to a net loss of $54.2 million, or $12.25 a share, in the period a year earlier. It was the first earnings release since America Online acquired Time Warner more than two years ago that was not marred by unpleasant surprises. C5.

OPEC Prepares to Cut Production
Amid fears of a postwar oil glut, members of the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries prepared to cut output significantly in an effort to bolster prices ahead of the eventual resumption of Iraqi exports. C7.

AMR Posts $1 Billion Quarterly Loss
AMR, the parent of American Airlines, reported a first-quarter loss of $1.04 billion, or $6.68 a share. Analysts had expected a loss of $6.08 a share. "Our first-quarter results were truly dreadful," said Donald J. Carty, the company's chief executive. C6.

Boeing lost $478 million in the first quarter after taking nearly $1 billion in charges. C6.

Programmer Loses U.S. Financing
A Canadian computer programmer is contending that the United States government severed financing for a security project he was working on after he made critical remarks about the American military. A21.

Universal Insurance Costs Estimated
The debate over providing health care for the 41 million Americans without insurance moved into the realm of dollars and cents as sponsors of several plans for universal insurance coverage produced cost estimates. A24.

Upbeat 2003 Forecast From AT&T
Although its revenue and profit margins continue to fall, AT&T reported a first-quarter profit, and said it would meet or exceed its projections for the full year. C2.

Lucent Technologies reported a reduced net loss as revenue fell sharply but it cut operating costs nearly in half. C4.

BellSouth posted earnings of $1.2 billion, or 66 cents a share, beating expectations. C2.

Steel Maker Names Top Executive
The Corus Group, the British-Dutch steel maker, said that it had chosen Philippe Varin, left, a former senior executive at the French metals conglomerate Pechiney, to be chief executive. He succeeds Tony Pedder, who resigned in March when Corus announced that it had lost $730 million in 2002, its fourth consecutive losing year. World Business, Section W.

Key Stock Gauges Lock In Gains
Stocks rose, lifting the Dow Jones industrial average 30.67 points, to 8,515.66. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 7.65 points, at 919.02, while the Nasdaq gained 14.8 points, to 1,466.16. C7.

How Much Is That Civic Online?
More car buyers are turning to the Internet -- and, not surprisingly, many of them are saving money. But how much? Three economists try to pinpoint who saves what, and why. Virginia Postrel: Economic Scene. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,515.66 up 30.67Nasdaq composite -- 1,466.16 up 14.8010-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.98% up 0.01The euro -- $1.0969 up 0.0003The dollar -- 120.41 yen up 0.51 Graph: "TODAY" shows Durable Goods Orders since September.March figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern Time.Expected: -0.5% Graph tracks AOL Time Warner share price for last week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASBESTOS (91%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); TOXIC TORTS (90%); INSURANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); CARTELS (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); INSURANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); COMPANY REVENUES (75%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (73%); APPROVALS (71%); EXPORT TRADE (67%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (92%); ALCATEL-LUCENT SA (63%); TATA STEEL EUROPE (62%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (55%); BOEING CO (54%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (83%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (92%); ALU (PAR) (63%); ALU (NYSE) (63%); ALU (BIT) (63%); BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (63%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (63%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (63%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (63%); NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (62%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (62%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (62%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (55%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (51%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (51%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (51%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%); PHILIPPE VARIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (79%); NETHERLANDS (68%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



728 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: HOW IT WORKS; 
Online, All the Time, an All-Seeing Surveillance System

BYLINE:  By JEFFREY SELINGO 

 BODY:
IN the 2001 remake of the film "Ocean's Eleven," a band of thieves switches surveillance cameras pointed at a Las Vegas casino's safe to a recorded image of a replica safe that they have built in a nearby warehouse. By the time casino officials discover that the safe they are monitoring is not the real one, the thieves are well on their way to making off with $150 million.
 Fooling security systems always seems to work in Hollywood. But in real life, it's not so easy these days. Not only are surveillance cameras more common in this era of increased concern about security, but they are also much more sophisticated. 
Such systems no longer depend on a limited number of analog cameras with dedicated fiber optic wiring and banks of monitors connected to video recorders. Today, so-called network cameras use digital images, which can be easily stored and manipulated on a computer server and monitored from remote locations by using the Internet. Tiny cameras can be added to a security system, sometimes for temporary use, by simply hooking them up to a computer network. It is even possible to route video from analog cameras through servers that turn their images into digital pictures.
 "Two PC servers can now do all the recording that used to take 100 VCR's," said Fredrik Nilsson, director of business development for Axis Communications, a Swedish company that sells network video cameras. 
 The systems have become popular with school officials and managers of shopping malls and convention centers and with local and state transportation departments, which provide live pictures that motorists can view over the Internet before heading out. "The biggest advantage is that it uses the existing infrastructure," Mr. Nilsson said. "It's as easy as plugging the camera into a computer network."
 But the ease with which the high-tech surveillance cameras can be set up and used worries people who are concerned about the invasion of privacy. The Washington Police Department came under fire for a system it purchased from Axis that enables it to monitor activities through a network of cameras mounted at busy intersections, in the subway system and at tourist sites like the National Mall. 
 The system, which is activated during heightened terror alerts, allows the authorities to manipulate the cameras so they can, for instance, pan and zoom in on activity they consider suspicious. The remote access also means that officers can view images on computer monitors installed in squad cars. 
 Axis also supplied cameras to the Salt Palace Convention Center in Salt Lake City for the 2002 Winter Olympics. Bart Allen, director of operations at the convention center, which continues to use the system, said the cameras were economical and improved security. With the center's old analog system, he said, security guards could record the images from only 5 of the 80 cameras located around the center at any one time. "So if something happened in an area we weren't recording, we didn't have a record of it," Mr. Allen said. Now, images at all 80 locations can be recorded. 
 What's more, because cameras can easily be added or moved anywhere a network connection is available, the system can cover much more ground than an analog system. If a vendor brings valuable equipment to a trade show at the convention center, for example, Mr. Allen said, he can set up a camera to watch it. Network cameras can be programmed to record only when there is movement in the field of vision so that no computer memory is wasted on monitoring empty rooms. And it is easier to find a specific moment on a digitized video, as anyone who has tried to locate a specific scene in a movie on a DVD or a videotape knows.
 The new system has already foiled burglaries at the convention center, Mr. Allen said. "We put a camera on a bunch of laptops in a room and we ended up catching one of our own security guards helping himself to a few of them," he said. "Big Brother is everywhere."
 Sean Grogan, vice president for operations for Springfield Food Court, a company that operates food courts in shopping malls and airports, said he was attracted to the network cameras because they can store a digital archive at little cost. With his old analog system, he had a videotape for each day of the week. Each Tuesday, for instance, he taped over the previous Tuesday's tape.
 When the company was sued recently by an employee who claimed to have fallen at work four months earlier, Mr. Grogan was able to find the digital images from that day on his computer server. It showed that no one had fallen, he said. "If we had the old system," he said, "it would have been my word against theirs."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (The New York Times; illustration by Frank O'Connell) Chart: "Instantly Before Your Eyes"Tiny digital video cameras can send images to a server computer for storage or archiving or ship them directly to the Internet. Such cameras add flexibility to surveillance and control systems and can offer consumers constant updates on matters like traffic and weather conditions. IMAGING SENSORA chip called a charge-coupled device, or C.C.D., captures the image the camera sees by registering the location, color and intensity of light focused by the lens. CENTRAL PROCESSING UNITA Linux-based computer on a chip that controls and coordinates the cameras components. ETHERNET CONTROLLERDetects network settings and transmits data to the network. TERMINAL BLOCKAccepts directcurrent power. JPEG COMPRESSION CHIPReceives the digital signal from the imaging sensor system and compresses it into a JPEG-format image for faster transmission. The degree of compression determines image quality, file size and frame rate; less compression produces better image quality but larger file sizes and slower frame rates. IRIS CONTROL BOARDControls the lens aperture setting. The amount of light that reaches the image sensor must be controlled because too much light can damage it by overloading its processing capacity. VIDEO DISPLAY CHIPReceives the image data from the C.C.D. (via the amplifier and converter) and sends it on to the JPEG compression chip. A TYPICAL NETWORKIn a citywide surveillance system, cameras in various places send images through a router and a high-speed modem to an Internet service provider. Law enforcement users then view them on the Web. TIMING AND DRIVERGoverns the sequence of operations of the C.C.D., amplifier, converter and video display chip. LENS ASSEMBLYTamron lens with focal length of 3.5 to 8 millimeters and aperture setting range of f/1.4 to f/90. AUTO IRIS MOTOR HOUSINGOpens and closes the iris according to instructions from the iris control board. (Source: Axis Communications)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK SERVERS (91%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (91%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (88%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (78%); POLICE FORCES (77%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (77%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); COMPUTER MONITORS (73%); FIBER OPTICS (73%); RETAILERS (64%); OLYMPICS (60%); WINTER OLYMPICS (50%) SECURITY AND WARNING SYSTEMS; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (62%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (62%)

PERSON: SELINGO, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%) UTAH, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



729 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: In a Bank Run, Money Outtalks a Bullhorn 

BYLINE:  By GREG RETSINAS 

 BODY:
Nervous depositors hoping to withdraw their money were lined up eight-across outside the Abacus Federal Savings Bank branches in Chinatown for the second day in a row yesterday. Joining them were the police, the news media and and the bank's chief executive, who used a bullhorn to beg the throng to leave its money where it was.
 Thomas Sung, a sharply dressed businessman who came to the United States at age 16 and founded what is now one of the largest minority-owned banks in the country, urged people to go home. Community leaders did the same, in different dialects but always in pleading tones. 
 Despite Mr. Sung's air of confidence and smile, thousands of people withdrew their money, emptied their safe deposit boxes or just checked for themselves that their money was safe at the bank's two Chinatown branches. A similar rush was reported at the Abacus branch in Philadelphia, but the bank's three other branches did not report significant increases in traffic yesterday.
Regulators said they could not recall a run of this intensity since the Great Depression. It began on Tuesday, when word circulated around Chinatown that a manager at the Canal Street branch, Carol Lim, was fired after she was accused of embezzling money. 
"This isn't that uncommon," Robert Albanese, northeast regional director for the United States Office of Thrift Supervision, said of the fraud accusation. "What's uncommon is for there to be a panic. It's very important that the people in this community settle down."
More details of the actions Ms. Lim is suspected of were revealed yesterday. While Mr. Sung declined to discuss the allegations at a news conference with English-language journalists, he elaborated at length in interviews with Chinese-language reporters. 
Ms. Lim, a 15-year employee who lives in Brooklyn, could not be reached for comment. F.B.I. officials said they were investigating the bank's allegations but had not arrested or charged anyone.
Bank officials said she created new accounts as well as tampered with existing ones and then assigned high interest rates to some of those accounts and withdrew money from them. When some bank customers checked their balances about five weeks ago, bank auditors noticed discrepancies.
Bank officials said Ms. Lim was placed on a leave of absence in March and was fired on April 13. She is accused by bank officials of embezzling more than $1 million from about 30 accounts, although Mr. Sung said officials were reviewing each of the 10,000 accounts at the Canal Street branch to look for additional discrepancies. 
Bank officials said Ms. Lim knew she was under investigation by the bank and even returned some of the missing money. But while she was on leave, bank officials said, Ms. Lim continued to intercept deposits.
The intensity and persistence of the run baffled regulators. But some suggested the contrasts between American culture and that of many of the depositors' homeland, China, could partly explain the response.
With most American bank accounts now insured and banks mainly owned by huge, wealthy parent corporations, bank runs are virtually unheard of in the United States. Even during the savings-and-loan crisis of the 1980's, institutions closed before runs could occur. 
In China, it's a different story. Bank runs are not uncommon as the major, state-run banks are generally in poor financial shape and are frequently confronted with rumor-driven mass withdrawals.
Community leaders in Chinatown said the rush at Abacus was unnecessary but understandable. 
Suspicion among Chinese immigrants over the Chinese government's handling of the SARS outbreak has only fueled suspicion. 
"This is just another hit for everyone here," said Mela Malin, a reporter for NTD-TV, one of several Chinese-language TV stations covering the bank run. "Chinese people have just an inherent distrust of government and financial institutions."
The scene at both Chinatown bank branches was relatively calm yesterday. Most people came prepared for a wait. Some brought their lunches and some played cards.
"I'm not leaving here until you all understand what is happening," Mr. Sung told journalists and then people waiting on Mott Street and Bowery. The police estimated that about 4,000 people were in line at the two Chinatown branches yesterday and they were being let into the bank in groups of 10. The police handed out fliers warning people not to carry large sums of money or valuables when leaving the bank but to request bank checks instead.
Mr. Albanese said the bank would have enough cash to meet the needs of its depositors. The 20-year-old bank has nearly $300 million in assets. Mr. Albanese said his agency conducted its annual review of the bank recently and found it to be in excellent financial shape.
That prognosis, he acknowledged, could change if everyone with an account at the bank withdraws their money.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas Sung, who came to the United States at age 16, is the founder and chief executive of the Abacus Federal Savings Bank. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK BRANCHES (91%); SAVINGS & LOANS (90%); EMBEZZLEMENT (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); ACCOUNTING (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (71%); WRITERS (63%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) BANKS AND BANKING; EMBEZZLEMENT 

COMPANY: ABACUS FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK (91%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THRIFT SUPERVISION (54%) ABACUS FEDERAL SAVINGS BANK 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (91%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (91%)

PERSON: RETSINAS, GREG; SUNG, THOMAS; LIM, CAROL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CHINATOWN (NYC); NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



730 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Both Sides Seen as Winners in Settlement That Averted a Strike by Apartment Workers 

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Negotiators for building owners and apartment building workers said yesterday that both sides had emerged victorious by reaching a settlement at the brink of a strike, but union officials sounded happier than management about the agreement.
 The tentative three-year contract, announced at 1:10 a.m. yesterday, 70 minutes after a strike deadline, provides raises averaging 2.8 percent a year and increases employer contributions for health coverage and pensions. 
 "Certainly this was an agreement in which, given the condition of New York's real estate industry, we would have liked to pay less," said Paul Salvatore, a lawyer for the Realty Advisory Board, which negotiates contracts for 3,000 unionized apartment buildings.
Management originally called for a three-year wage freeze for the 28,000 apartment building workers, with one-time payments of $500 in the second and third years. Management's negotiators argued that they could not afford across-the-board raises because the real estate market was soft and because building operating costs had soared as a result of increases in property taxes, fuel prices and insurance premiums. 
Nonetheless, management ultimately agreed to a package that, with fringe benefits included, will raise overall compensation by 3.5 percent a year. Several officials said management accepted terms more generous than it intended because shortly before midnight it appeared that a lower offer would provoke a strike by the union of doormen, janitors, superintendents, elevator operators and handymen.
"There were three points last night when, if you asked me what were the chances of a strike, I'd say 99 percent," said James F. Berg, president of the Realty Advisory Board.
He said each side was unhappy with aspects of the deal, which union members will vote on later this month. 
"It's a little more than we would have liked, and it's a little bit less than the union would like to have accepted," Mr. Berg said.
Under the accord, the building workers, whose pay averages $660 a week, will receive raises of $18 the first year, $19 the second and $20 the third.
Michael Fishman, president of Local 32BJ of the Service Employees International Union, said that an hour before the deadline, a walkout seemed fairly certain because management appeared unwilling to budge from its offer of raises of $15 each year, equivalent to increases of 2.3 percent a year.
Throughout the talks, Mr. Fishman said the workers needed raises of 3 percent or more to keep pace with inflation.
"It was a very, very tough fight," he said. "We were enough apart that we thought we couldn't get there."
But, officials involved in the talks said, management increased its proposal above $15 a week after its negotiating team caucused. Some building owners argued that management was already offering too much and that it was outlandish for the overall package, including fringe benefits, to exceed 3 percent a year. But other management negotiators told Mr. Berg to increase the offer by a few dollars per week if that was what it would take to avoid a strike. Generally, several negotiators said, co-op boards and condo associations advocated a more accommodating position than profit-minded building owners.
"There comes a point when both sides have to look at each other and look at their responsiblities to the city, and that was the point both sides got to," Mr. Salvatore said. "The union wanted us to pay more, we wanted to pay less, so we had to ask, 'was it worth having a strike that would cause all this disruption?' "
Mr. Fishman said, "We're comfortable with what we got."
David L. Gregory, a labor law professor at St. John's University, said, "I think the union has done extraordinarily well given the deepening recessionary economy; the significant job losses, especially in New York City; and the economic constraints on the industry, like the 18 percent-plus property tax increase."
He said worries about jeopardizing security made it hard for management to drive such a hard bargain that it might trigger a strike.
Management negotiators said one factor that pushed them to go higher than they wanted to was the tradition that the apartment building contract is patterned after the same union's contract for 30,000 office building workers. The office building workers' three-year contract, signed 17 months ago, provided raises of slightly more than 3 percent a year.
Officials involved in the talks said Mr. Fishman warned of dire consequences if management insisted on abandoning that pattern and giving far lower wage increases because the real estate market was weak. Mr. Fishman warned that if management broke the pattern, the union would go to the mat every time it was negotiating when the real estate market was strong.
To help seal a deal, management withdrew its call for fewer vacation and sick days, while the union abandoned its proposal for more sick days and vacation days. Management also withdrew its proposal to increase the length of time, to 42 months from the current 30, that doormen and janitors receive a $27,400 starting salary before moving to $34,300. The union dropped its demand to end the reduced starting salary.
Andrew Hoffman, vice president of Clarendon Management, a real estate company that owns London Terrace Gardens in Chelsea, said: "Management gave more than they were hoping, but I'm satisfied with the outcome. I think it was a fair settlement for the workers, and it's a settlement I can live with."
Saying that management's negotiators did the best they could, Mr. Berg said, "The contract's going to be another hit on operating costs. There's no question about that." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); STRIKES (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); HEALTH INSURANCE (71%); PROPERTY TAX (69%); TAX INCREASES (52%) BUILDING SERVICE EMPLOYEES; STRIKES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; HEALTH INSURANCE AND MANAGED CARE; PENSIONS AND RETIREMENT PLANS; FRINGE BENEFITS 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION; REALTY ADVISORY BOARD ON LABOR RELATIONS 

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



731 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: RECONSTRUCTION; 
U.S. WARNS IRAQIS AGAINST CLAIMING AUTHORITY IN VOID

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL R. GORDON and JOHN KIFNER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, April 23 

 BODY:
The American military moved today to strip Baghdad's self-appointed administrator of his authority and warned Iraqi factions not to take advantage of the confusion and the political void in the country by trying to grab power.
 Lt. Gen. David McKiernan, the commander of ground forces in Iraq, issued a proclamation putting Iraq's politicians on notice, saying, "The coalition alone retains absolute authority within Iraq." He warned that anyone challenging the American-led authority would be subject to arrest. 
 However, the American military presence is sparse in several areas of the city. With nobody to stop them, long-banned groups ranging from Shiite radicals to communists have been seizing villas in Baghdad and adorning them with their respective emblems. 
Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general who will lead reconstruction efforts, just arrived in Baghdad on Monday and has been traveling in the north these past two days. General McKiernan and his force are supposed to provide the security to enable rebuilding.
General Garner, traveling in the Kurdish-held northern region of Iraq, said today that anti-American sentiment would soon subside.
"The majority of people realize we are only going to stay here long enough to start a democratic government for them," he said. "We're only going to stay here long enough to get their economy going." Once that was grasped, General Garner added, "In a very short order you'll see a change in the attitudes and the will of the people themselves."
The toppling of Saddam Hussein two weeks ago has left a power vacuum. American military forces in Iraq continue to round up members of the old government. Today they captured four former Iraqi officials, including two senior members of Iraqi intelligence. Page A19. 
But American troops are still being killed and wounded as they try to make Iraq safer and as political factions and clerics rush to fill the void of authority. 
Three American marines died today in an accident involving a rocket-propelled grenade near the city of Kut, about 100 miles southeast of Baghdad. Earlier this week, an Army soldier was killed south of Baghdad when he fell from a truck. "That's the big problem we're going to face now, accidents," a Marine captain said.
But outside the military sphere, large political problems loomed. Among those engaged in the rush for power were two longtime Iraqi exiles. American concern over the activities of these two men -- Muhammad Mohsen Zobeidi and Ahmad Chalabi -- has begun to grow, military officials said.
Mr. Zobeidi, who recently returned to Iraq, asserts that he was chosen to lead an executive council charged with administering Baghdad. He has reportedly sought to appoint a police chief, ignoring the police official installed by the Army's Third Infantry Division, and his supporters have appropriated government vehicles.
Mr. Zobeidi, who says his qualifications for running Baghdad include participation in a disaster control management course arranged by the State Department, has also proposed sending a delegation to represent Iraq's interest at an OPEC meeting.
American officials said today that it was Mr. Zobeidi's efforts to expand his powers that prompted the Americans to crack down.
Mr. Zobeidi was given a copy of General McKiernan's proclamation, American official said, and he was informed by the American military today that he had no authority to appoint anybody. 
He was asked to vacate his office at the Palestine Hotel and told to return any property seized by his men. American troops have been stationed near the hotel to provide a measure of security for the reporters who are staying there. The concern was that Mr. Zobeidi would portray the deployments as indications that the American military was actually there to protect him and to support his political aspirations.
Mr. Zobeidi has been meeting with traditional sheiks, with tribal chieftains in gold-embroidered robes and headdresses and with men in business suits. His entourage now includes police and army officers in their old uniforms, the shoulder boards spattered with stars and eagles.
Today, he held a meeting to hear neighborhood grievances, which, as gatherings here do, quickly turned into a cacophony of shouting about relatives lost under Mr. Hussein, seized property since his fall, a lack of security and the loss of electricity. "I don't have a magic wand," Mr. Zobeidi said at several points.
Then he was surrounded by aides and flanked by a Sunni tribal sheik and a Shiite clergyman whose black turban marked him as a descendent of the Prophet Muhammad.
The entourage jumped in and out of a caravan of cars and pickup trucks, stopping at a fire station, a water purification plant and a hospital. It also visited the newly seized headquarters of the Kurdish Democratic Party, headed by the Barzani clan, as well as the Assyrian Democratic Movement, equipped with a purple flag and militiamen in camouflage.
Such is Iraq today: a mesmerizing labyrinth of conflicting interests operating in something close to a void as American generals strive to maintain a minimum of order and a retired American general speaks of building a stable, democratic future.
The American military is also keeping a close eye on the activities of Mr. Chalabi, the leader of the Iraqi National Congress, who has ensconced himself in a club in Baghdad and is seeking to play an important role in Iraq's effort to restore civil authority.
Mr. Chalabi has enjoyed strong support from Defense Department officials, who say he is committed to democracy in Iraq, a pro-Western foreign policy and the Middle East peace process.
Mr. Chalabi's role could be important as Iraqi political figures meet over the next several weeks to discuss arrangements for a temporary administration as a stepping stone to a democratic government. Some Bush administration officials, however, have been skeptical that Mr. Chalabi, who spent the past few decades in exile, would attract much of a following in iraq. And allied military officials have been concerned that Mr. Chalabi's men are throwing their weight around to build a political base for their leader.
Mr. Chalabi has about 700 fighters in his entourage who were flown to the Iraqi air base at Tallil several weeks ago by the American military at the request of Pentagon officials. American forces then scoured the country for arms and ammunition to equip the fighters so that they could participate in the campaign to oust Mr. Hussein.
American military lawyers ruled that the weapons could be provided to Mr. Chalabi's men without Congressional approval because they were not intended for a foreign government but for a fighting force attached to the American military. Special Forces were assigned to supervise the fighters, who were officially called the Free Iraqi Freedom Fighters.
But the fighting drew to a close before the fighters could join the fray. After American forces took Baghdad, some of Mr. Chalibi's fighters helped capture an aide to Mr. Hussein who was on the allies' most wanted list. But American officials are also worried that some are being reorganized as a private security force for Mr. Chalabi, and they suspect them of setting up their own checkpoints and even detaining Iraqis.
Just a few weeks after helping establish Mr. Chalabi's force, allied commanders are now considering a plan either to demobilize the force or put them formally under allied command, officials said.
Maj. Gen. Albert Whitley, the senior British officer in General McKiernan's command, put General McKiernan's edict into effort at a meeting today with railway representatives.
The allies are trying to restore Iraq's basic services, and its railroad is one of them. The allies are trying to fix the track and ensure that workers' salaries are paid. The aim is to use the railroad to move fuel to power plants and to move food north from the port of Umm Qasr.
As General Whitley opened the meeting at the central train station in Baghdad, he was told by his Iraqi counterparts that Mr. Chalabi's representatives had been in touch with them and had been taking credit for restoring the railroad.
Such claims follow a pattern, allied officials say, in which supporters of Mr. Zobeidi and Mr. Chalibi have sought to claim credit for allied efforts to rebuild the country in order to build political support. 
"Nobody has authority unless General McKiernan says so," General Whitley advised. "Mr. Zobeidi and Mr. Chalabi have no authority. If we say you run the railroad, you run the railroad. If anybody comes and tells you differently, tell us. We will ask them to stop interfering. If we have to, we will arrest them." 
But after General Whitley left, a vehicle appeared and aides to Mr. Chalabi got out, one witness said. They urged the railroad representatives to work with Mr. Chalabi, according to Thaibit M. Gharib, the director of the railroad.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Muhammad Mohsen Zobeidi, left, Baghdad's self-appointed administrator, meets with local Iraqis. American military officials moved yesterday to strip him of his authority and warned Iraqi factions not to grab power. (Niko Price/Associated Press); Iraqis plead with United States marines during a standoff in Kut, south of Baghdad. Protesters blocked marines trying to cross the Tigris River in a four-hour impasse set off by the detention of two local men. (Wally Santana/Associated Press)(pg. A16) Chart/Map: "Where Iraqis Live"Iraq's population is 24 million, according to 2002 figures, and most of it is clustered around the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers, which run through the center of the country. About threequarters of Iraq's people live in urban areas. The desert in the south and west is mostly uninhabited. City Population5,605,000 (Baghdad)2,000,000500,000 Population DensityUNPOPULATEDSPARSEMEDIUMDENSE Mosul: 1,740,000Erbil: 840,000Kirkuk: 729,000Sulaimaniya: 643,000Tikrit: 29,000Samarra: 201,000Ramadiya: 423,000Baquba: 280,000Baghdad: 5,605,000Hilla: 525,000Kut: 381,000Najaf: 563,000Karbala: 550,000Amara: 340,000Diwanaya: 421,000Nasiriya: 535,000Basra: 1,338,000 Map of Iraq highlighting the cities listed above. (Sources: Central Intelligence Agency; LandScan population database)(pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (85%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); RELIGION (74%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (73%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TRENDS (64%); TERRORISM (62%); POLICE FORCES (58%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; KURDS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; POPULATION; SHIITE MUSLIMS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (59%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) GORDON, MICHAEL R; KIFNER, JOHN; MCKIERNAN, DAVID (LT GEN); CHALABI, AHMAD; GARNER, JAY (LT GEN); ZOBEIDI, MUHAMMAD MOHSEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (97%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (98%) IRAQ; BAGHDAD (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003



732 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Restitution Sought in Prison Guard's Stabbing 

BYLINE:  By BENJAMIN WEISER 

 BODY:
A federal judge in Manhattan has appointed a special master to calculate how much money a terrorism suspect should be ordered to pay to a correction officer he stabbed in the eye with a sharpened comb while awaiting trial in late 2000.
 The judge, Deborah A. Batts of Federal District Court, said in a brief order that she would impose restitution when she sentences Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, who pleadedguilty last year in the assault at the Metropolitan Correctional Center. The officer, Louis Pepe, was nearly killed in the attack, which left him with severe brain damage. 
 Prosecutors say that Mr. Salim was a top aide to Osama bin Laden, and he still faces separate charges of participating in a terrorism conspiracy that included the 1998 bombings of two American embassies in East Africa, in which more than 200 people were killed.
Mr. Salim's lawyer in the assault case, Richard B. Lind, said of the judge's appointment, "Obviously she's trying to cover all the bases, and wants to make sure that her final decision accomplishes that."
The special master, Conrad Berenson, is a professor emeritus of Baruch College in Manhattan. He has served as an economic consultant in wrongful-death and personal-injury lawsuits.He declined to comment on his appointment.
Restitution has frequently been ordered in terrorism cases, in part to prevent defendants from capitalizing on their notoriety. When Ramzi Ahmed Yousef, who led the 1993 World Trade Center bombing, was sentenced in 1998 to life in prison plus 240 years, Judge Kevin Thomas Duffy ordered restitution of $250 million.
"I do not expect that you have this money at hand," the judge said at the time, "but some day I can see someone being perverse enough to buy your story. If you ever do get any money, I want to make sure that it goes to the families of those that you killed or otherwise harmed."
Bernard V. Kleinman, a lawyer handling Mr. Yousef's appeal, said yesterday, "My feeling is that numbers of that magnitude are purely symbolic." He added that "the idea that he would earn one dime, let alone $250 million, from his story is absurd."
Frederick H. Cohn represented a defendant in the 2001 embassy bombings trial who was sentenced to life imprisonment and ordered to pay millions of dollars in restitution. "The principle of restitution doesn't offend me," he said, but he added that his client was "never going to be able to pay a nickel."
Prosecutors have said that Mr. Salim was trying to take hostages and win the release of other terrorism suspects in the assault on Officer Pepe. If the judge agrees, Mr. Salim could face life in prison; if she disagrees, he could face 14 to 17 years.
Judge Batts, in seeking a recommendation on a restitution amount, cited the cost of medical care, physical and other rehabilitative therapies, lost wages and other costs. Prosecutors had no comment.
Mr. Pepe's sister, Eileen, said that her brother had lost an eye in the attack and had only partial vision in the other. He has trouble communicating, she said, cannot say his name and is paralyzed on one side. She said she was grateful that the judge was considering restitution for her brother, but asked, "How do you put a monetary award on a person's life?"
"The overall loss is indescribable," she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (91%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); PRISONS (90%); JUDGES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); CIVIL ASSAULT & BATTERY (76%); WRONGFUL DEATH & SURVIVAL (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (74%); HOSTAGE TAKING (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); PERSONAL INJURY (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); CONSULTING SERVICES (66%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (50%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; UNITED STATES FOREIGN SERVICE 

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%) WEISER, BENJAMIN; BATTS, DEBORAH A (JUDGE); BIN LADEN, OSAMA; SALIM, MAMDOUH MAHMUD; PEPE, LOUIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); DAR ES SALAAM, TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (77%); NAIROBI, KENYA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); TANZANIA, UNITED REPUBLIC OF (92%); KENYA (91%); EASTERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%) DAR ES SALAAM (TANZANIA); TANZANIA; KENYA; NAIROBI (KENYA)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



733 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 129 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Europe: Finland: Paper Profit Falls 

BYLINE:  AP 

 BODY:
 The world's largest magazine paper maker, UPM-Kymmene, reported a slide in first-quarter profit, blaming lower prices for the decline. The company gave a somber outlook for the rest of 2003, saying paper demand would remain weak because of sluggish economic growth in its main markets, Europe and the United States, and overcapacity in production. 
The company, which is based in Helsinki, said its profit fell by nearly 60 percent to 61 million euros ($67 million) for the three months ending March 31, compared with 148 million euros a year earlier. Revenue fell 4 percent to 2.5 billion euros ($2.7 billion) from 2.6 billion euros. The chief executive, Juha Niemela, said the company was unhappy with the results, and pledged to intensify a companywide cost-cutting plan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); EURO (90%); PAPER MILLS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (88%); PAPER & PACKAGING (88%); PAPER MFG (88%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (88%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); EXECUTIVES (51%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: UPM-KYMMENE CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: UPM-KYMMENE 

TICKER: UPM1V (HEL) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS322122 NEWSPRINT MILLS (91%); NAICS321211 HARDWOOD VENEER & PLYWOOD MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS113110 TIMBER TRACT OPERATIONS (91%); SIC2673 PLASTICS, FOIL & COATED PAPER BAGS (91%); SIC2621 PAPER MILLS (91%)

PERSON: NIEMELA, JUHA 

GEOGRAPHIC: HELSINKI, FINLAND (69%) EUROPE (93%); FINLAND (91%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



734 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 4; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1492 words

HEADLINE: Post Prada, A Design Star Slims Down 

BYLINE:  By FRED A. BERNSTEIN 

 BODY:
"MANHATTAN has consistently inspired in its beholders ecstasy about architecture," Rem Koolhaas, the Rotterdam-based architect, wrote in his 1978 book "Delirious New York." Mr. Koolhaas hoped to ratchet up the ecstasy with a dramatic addition to the Whitney Museum's Madison Avenue building and a downtown hotel for Ian Schrager. But both projects have fizzled and now the love affair between Mr. Koolhaas and the city appears to be on the rocks.
 Last week, after the Whitney Museum of American Art canceled plans for the addition, which experts said would have cost at least $200 million, Mr. Koolhaas grumbled in a telephone interview that the Whitney's benefactors were more interested in building the endowment than his architecture. 
 Economic problems combined with bad timing and perhaps a bit of hubris have brought the cancellation of several long-awaited projects by Mr. Koolhaas, who won the Pritzker Architecture Prize in 2000. 
Last December, the Los Angeles County Museum of Art announced that it was indefinitely postponing a new complex, designed by Mr. Koolhaas, because it could not raise enough of the estimated $300 million cost. Also on the ropes is a 12-story Prada store in San Francisco, which would have been the most ambitious of three "epicenters" commissioned by Miuccia Prada. (The SoHo store opened in 2001, and another in Beverly Hills is under construction.) 
While Daniel Libeskind, who won the World Trade Center commission, is busy opening an office in New York, Mr. Koolhaas, who says he opted not to participate in the final competition for the World Trade Center site, is reducing his New York office to a dozen employees. In a recent speech to architecture students at Columbia University, he said he "admitted defeat in New York." 
"Though the firm is in good shape globally, " a partner in his firm, Dan Wood, said, "its focus has moved away from the U.S." Mr. Wood added that he would be leaving the firm, amicably, because of the lack of American projects. 
Mr. Koolhaas is one of many architects who have seen large commissions evaporate or shrink with the economic downturn. "There are layoffs at nearly every firm, small, large, famous, not famous," said Reed Kroloff, the former editor of Architecture Magazine, and a consultant to architecture competitions.
Frank Gehry, who like Mr. Koolhaas is a Pritzker Prize winner and whose Guggenheim museum planned for Lower Manhattan was canceled, said that potential clients "have pulled in their horns a little bit."
"There aren't as many inquiries," Mr. Gehry said. "The mood is different."
Richard Meier, also a Pritzker winner, said, "The phone may not be ringing as often." 
In New York, post-9/11 budget cuts by the city have forced the cancellation of an addition to the Mid-Manhattan Branch of the New York Public Library at 40th Street designed by Gwathmey Siegel & Associates. And Mr. Libeskind's planned $55 million Jewish Museum San Francisco has been scaled back for budgetary reasons.
A tough economy may be forcing a more conservative turn in architecture, and Mr. Koolhaas is no traditionalist. His firm, he said in an interview, "is better at reinventing than reasserting." By that he means he is turning his attention to building a $650 million television broadcast center in Beijing, opening for the 2008 Olympics. The World Trade Center competition, he said in the speech at Columbia in February, was all about looking backward, while the Chinese government was looking forward.
Robert Ivy, editor in chief of Architectural Record, said: "In China, people are basically saying, you can wave your hand and make this happen. You can understand Rem's enthusiasm for that kind of client."
Mr. Ivy added, "It's not surprising he might have sour grapes, given how many projects have evaporated." 
But few architects are inclined, as Mr. Koolhaas is, to see a morality tale in the economic downturn. In his Columbia speech, Mr. Koolhaas recounted his attempts to satisfy Mr. Schrager, the developer of a planned hotel on Astor Place, which ended with him being "fired." Ultimately, Mr. Koolhaas said, "It became very clear that America in its current mood would resist a certain kind of challenge as systematically as Ian Schrager." Mr. Schrager, responding through a publicist, said he would let his buildings speak for themselves.
Mr. Koolhaas's office has three projects under construction in this country: the Prada store on Rodeo Drive, a student center at the Illinois Institute of Technology and the Seattle Public Library. As recently as December, Mr. Koolhaas was optimistic enough to predict that the Whitney project would move forward, and that the cancellation at the Los Angeles County Museum of Art "would galvanize" donors to come through with the funds needed for his plan.
Neither has happened. And that may be due in part to the ambition of Mr. Koolhaas's work. "People come to Rem for dramatic solutions to their problems," Mr. Kroloff said. "And those solutions tend to be terribly expensive." 
Mr. Koolhaas, 58, famously began his career not by building but by writing. His first book, "Delirious New York," described how New York came to represent the "culture of congestion." His 2000 manifesto, the Harvard Design School Guide to Shopping, featured his dazzling essay on the mall-style developments that he calls "junkspace." 
The Los Angeles County Museum of Art would have been his biggest American project. Rather than preserve the museum's existing buildings, Mr. Koolhaas and his Office for Metropolitan Architecture proposed creating a new gallery complex under a vast curving roof. Mr. Koolhaas said his plan was nothing less than "a moral imperative" for the museum. 
But morality and money are rarely drawn on the same account. The plan, according to the museum's president, Andrea Rich, meant that the museum had to build "all or nothing." Another kind of design, she said, might have been buildable in stages, allowing her to break ground before she had raised the entire cost.
Mr. Koolhaas won the competition without deciding what the giant canopy over the museum would be made of. As recently as last May, employees of his firm were still considering everything from glass to plastic to fabric. "Maybe he should cover it in chintz," Paige Rense, the editor of Architectural Digest, suggested.
Ms. Rich said, "That was a problem, and if we return to the project, it will have to be addressed." Mr. Koolhaas's initial plan for the Whitney, in which a giant, fist-shaped addition would have cantilevered over the museum's existing Marcel Breuer building, was bound to be controversial. 
The architect's unusual combinations of materials and sometimes-unsettling shapes are visible at his art museum in Rotterdam and the concert hall nearing completion in Porto, Portugal, built from the ground up. (His 70,000-square-foot Guggenheim Las Vegas closed in January after less than two years of operation.)
But in New York, his projects, the Prada store, the Lehmann Maupin Gallery in Chelsea and the Second Stage Theater in Midtown, have been interior renovations.
And time has not been kind to the Prada store, which opened in December 2001. "We've had some maintenance problems," Mr. Wood said, citing zebrawood floors that had to be refinished, aluminum polish that damaged marble and electronic systems that failed after tourists pushed the buttons "a few hundred times more than we expected."
The store, he noted, "gets an extraordinary amount of traffic."
Worst of all, a hatch had to be added to the glass elevator after several shoppers became trapped in it last fall.
At the same time, Mr. Koolhaas's 2001 deal to serve as an editorial consultant to Conde Nast magazines has produced more rumors than magazine pages. James Truman, the editorial director of Conde Nast, could cite no other Koolhaas projects besides the new Wired magazine, for which Mr. Koolhaas served as a guest editor of one section. An essay by Mr. Koolhaas, which he described as a postscript to "Delirious New York," is the centerpiece of a section of the magazine on "space." Conde Nast will give a party for Mr. Koolhaas on May 7 in SoHo.
Mr. Koolhaas, for his part, has said he will attend. "I remain committed to New York," he said. "It is an extremely critical part of my mental map."
Mr. Kroloff said that as bad as Mr. Koolhaas's situation in the United States is, "most architects would trade places with him in a second."
Perhaps Mr. Koolhaas can take comfort in the lessons of architectural history, in which many influential "buildings" have never existed except on paper. Even Mr. Koolhaas's hero, Mies van der Rohe, was subject to the vicissitudes of the economy and the whims of clients. Mr. Koolhaas likes to tell students the story of a residential commission that Mies lost after creating a full-size canvas model for the client. "The building's cancellation," Mr. Koolhaas wrote, "was more dramatic, more important almost, than its realization."

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A photograph and a design rendering last Thursday with the continuation of a front-page article about the slow economy's negative effects on projects by Rem Koolhaas and other architects carried erroneous credits, and credit for another rendering was omitted. The picture of Mr. Koolhaas's Seattle Public Library was by Lara Swimmer; the rendering of his design for the Astor Place Hotel was by the Office for Metropolitan Architecture/Herzog & de Meuron; and the rendering for Daniel Libeskind's Jewish Museum San Francisco was by Daniel Libeskind and Gordon H. Chong & Partners.

GRAPHIC: Photos: HARD TIMES -- Rem Koolhaas and his proposed complex for the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, on hold for lack of funds. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times); (Office for Metropolitan Architecture)(pg. F1); STOP AND START -- The Seattle Public Library by Rem Koolhaas, far left, is going up, but his Astor Place Hotel, left, will never be. Daniel Libeskind's Jewish Museum San Francisco, above, has had budget cuts. (Daniel Libeskind and Gordon H. Chong & Partners); (David Heald/Guggenheim Museum)(pg. F4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ENDOWMENTS (77%); BUDGETS (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); LAYOFFS (69%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (69%); BUDGET CUTS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) ARCHITECTURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: MIUCCIA PRADA (79%) KOOLHAAS, REM; BERNSTEIN, FRED A 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



735 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Chirac's Latest Ploy 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM SAFIRE; E-mail: safire@nytimes.com

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Jacques Chirac's scheme to win French companies fat contracts in reconstructing Iraq has run into realpolitik: anti-U.S. actions have consequences.
 After a decade of opposing any pressure on Saddam to obey U.N. resolutions, France reversed itself after its favorite dictator was brought down. Chirac and his new ally, Vladimir Putin, let it be known they would refuse to lift U.N. sanctions on the sale of Iraqi oil. 
 Last week's Chirac-Putin ultimatum: If we don't get French-Russian contracts to rebuild Iraq, we won't let Iraq sell its oil. You suffer the casualties; we get the contracts. 
France and Russia also want to keep under U.N. control the currently permitted sale of Iraqi oil, ostensibly to buy food and medicine for a majority of Iraqis. That's because the oil-for-food bureaucracy headed by Benon Sevan let Saddam steer billions in banking and commercial business to Paris, Moscow and Damascus.
The blatant hypocrisy of all this created an op-ed firestorm. In The Times, Claudia Rosett exposed the secrecy of the oil-for-food boondoggle, manipulated by Saddam to favor Security Council supporters. Charles Krauthammer in The Washington Post excoriated Chirac's brazen flip-flop of opposing sanctions on Saddam and then insisting they be imposed on post-Saddam Iraq. My own tirade appeared in The International Herald Tribune, read in Paris by Quai d'Orsay's would-be Talleyrands.
As France appeared to be taking the moral low ground, Security Council diplomats became uncomfortable. Then France appeared to have been struck by sweet reason. Instead of ending sanctions on a regime that no longer existed, France floated a proposal merely suspending sanctions until the Security Council decides that the new post-Saddam Iraq is not making weapons of mass destruction.
Some compromise. That neat trick is designed to force the U.S. into gaining the U.N. inspectors' approval before sanctions are ended. It would keep a heavy U.N. foot on Iraqi pipelines and keep France in the reconstruction contracts business. Suspension would put the emerging Iraq in a class with Libya, still suspended after its downing of Pan Am 103. 
Fortunately, Colin Powell is not about to be sandbagged again. State spent yesterday preparing a U.N. resolution to decisively end, not merely suspend, economic sanctions on Iraq. If carefully crafted, it should contain language similar to that of the oil-for-food resolution. That would guarantee that proceeds from future oil sales held in trust for the interim Iraqi authority would be immune from attachment by previous claimants.
In plain language, that means that sales of Iraqi oil sold starting now would be for rebuilding the nation, and could not be snatched by France and Russia to pay Saddam's old arms debts. Chirac and Putin won't like that a bit. Would either of them veto the will of a Security Council majority and stand before the Arab world as greedy obstructionists? Let's see.
Planners of the trust fund flowing from the end of sanctions should draw lessons from the Saddam-dominated, secretive U.N. oil-for-food mess. Barham Salih, a Kurdish leader, told The Wall Street Journal that "half of the money allocated to Iraqi Kurdistan never reached us, thanks to bureaucratic obstacles erected in Baghdad and supported by U.N. Plaza. . . . We could not pay a single teacher or doctor with this money, while oil-for-food largess went to Uday Hussein's National Olympic Committee."
U.N. Under Secretary Sevan admits that the French bank BNP Paribas was chosen to issue letters of credit to most of the favored suppliers, but brands as "inaccuracies" charges by Ms. Rosett and me of secrecy. He cites a hundred audits in five years. But details of which companies in what countries got how much -- that's not public. 
The U.S. has a seat on the "611 committee," which supposedly oversees this $12 billion bureaucratic bonanza. Its reports should be available to Congress; Henry Hyde, the House's International Affairs chairman, is looking into that. Senator Arlen Specter of Senate Appropriations wrote to Powell yesterday about "reports that these funds are a slush fund," saying, "I urge the State Department to demand an accounting."
France hasn't seriously harmed the United States; we'll be friendly again. But in their hubristic drive for dominance in Europe, combined with their grubby grab for contracts, Chirac and his poodle Putin have severely damaged the United Nations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); TERRORISM (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); ARMS TRADE (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (74%); NEW ISSUES (71%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (62%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; FOOD; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); ARMS SALES ABROAD; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%); WASHINGTON POST CO (55%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (55%) UNITED NATIONS 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%); WPO (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (55%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (91%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (89%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%) SAFIRE, WILLIAM; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (73%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (57%) IRAQ (99%); FRANCE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%) IRAQ; RUSSIA; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



736 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 571 words

HEADLINE: Crackdown Is Called a Major Setback for Cuban Dissidents 

BYLINE:  Reuters 

DATELINE: HAVANA, April 23 

 BODY:
Opponents of President Fidel Castro said today that the recent government crackdown had knocked them to their knees, but that they expected to capitalize on growing public discontent to keep their movement alive.
 Dissidents who were not imprisoned during the wave of repression acknowledged that their fragile organizations were left leaderless by the roundup of 75 dissidents, activists and independent journalists a month ago. 
 "The dissident movement is practically paralyzed," said Vladimiro Roca, who was freed last year after four years in jail for criticizing Mr. Castro's economic policies. 
"It was a really big blow, but there are enough dissidents out of jail," said Mr. Roca, the son of a founding father of Cuba's Communist Party. "We are regrouping." He said it would take months before dissident groups could get back on their feet.
Western diplomats in Havana have expressed doubt as to whether Cuba's opposition groups will soon be able to regain momentum after many of their leaders were given prison terms of up to 28 years.
The crackdown dealt a devastating blow to an opposition movement that had raised its profile in the last year, calling for democratic reforms to the one-party state while enjoying a rare period of official tolerance.
Particularly shocking to the dissidents was the number of undercover security agents who surfaced at the trials as witnesses. To their horror, dissidents realized that some of the agents had been posing as dissidents for many years.
"The damage to the dissidents is enormous," said a European ambassador. "I don't know how they will recover now. Who can they trust, after it turns out that even leading figures were agents for 10 years?" 
Havana maintained that the jailed dissidents had committed treason by conspiring with diplomats from the United States. American diplomats have recently stepped up support for Mr. Castro's opponents, giving them computers, digital cameras and short-wave radios.
Diplomats and dissidents said the crackdown was prompted by economic hardship and the first nationwide opposition movement, the Varela Project, a petition for democratic reforms. 
"The arrests and trials were meant to stop the dissidents capitalizing on the growing discontent," a European diplomat said. "There are many reasons Cubans are unhappy: transport, food, lack of horizons. The government's alarm bells went off."
More than half of the jailed dissidents were local organizers of the Varela Project. Its leader, Oswaldo Paya, won a human-rights prize from the European Union last year.
"This wave of terror is an attempt to kill the chances of peaceful change in Cuba, but we will continue seeking peaceful reforms," Mr. Paya said.
Veteran diplomatic observers said Mr. Castro could not tolerate criticism of his government. But they said that the 76-year-old leader was making it hard for his political successors to stay in control.
"These repressive steps are gradually undermining his government's legitimacy, making any succession difficult," a South American diplomat said.
Puffing on a cigar before his computer, which was sent from the United States, a veteran rights activist, Elizardo Sanchez, said the dissident movement was born locally and would not be easily stamped out.
"They cut the grass, but the grass will grow again because the economic crisis continues to feed popular discontent," he said. "I've never felt so much solidarity in the streets." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (90%); ANTI-CASTRO CUBANS (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS (77%); PRISONS (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (77%); CONSPIRACY (76%); ARRESTS (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); PETITIONS (74%); TREASON (70%); ECONOMIC POLICY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (62%); DIGITAL CAMERAS (62%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: FIDEL CASTRO (90%) CASTRO, FIDEL (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (73%) CUBA

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



737 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Wendy's First-Quarter Earnings Rose 1% 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: DUBLIN, Ohio, April 23 

 BODY:
Wendy's International said today that first-quarter earnings edged up just 1 percent as sales at many of its stores opened at least a year fell below expectations. 
 Wendy's said profit totaled $43.9 million, or 38 cents a share, for the quarter compared with $43.4 million, or 39 cents a share, a year earlier. 
Sales increased 13 percent, to $694 million from $612.4 million. 
 The results were in line with expectations of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call. 
Systemwide sales increased 7 percent, to $2.3 billion. Systemwide sales include sales of company-owned and franchised restaurants. 
Same-store sales, or sales at stores open at least a year, were lower than expected at Wendy's, its Baja Fresh Mexican Grill chain and its Tim Horton's coffee and doughnut storesin the United States, said Jack Schuessler, chief executive of Wendy's . 
Mr. Schuessler said that the company was going against strong sales from a year ago. He also said severe weather, the weak economy, low consumer confidence, the war with Iraq and a spike in gasoline prices presented challenges to the restaurant industry in the first quarter. 
Wendy's is based in Dublin, Ohio. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (90%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); FRANCHISING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); GASOLINE PRICES (72%); EXECUTIVES (52%); OIL & GAS PRICES (50%) COMPANY REPORTS; RESTAURANTS 

ORGANIZATION: WENDY'S INTERNATIONAL INC 

INDUSTRY:  SIC5812 EATING & DRINKING PLACES; 

PERSON: SCHUESSLER, JACK 

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAQ (70%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



738 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: CUSTOMS; 
Is It Art? Maybe Not, but It Is Contraband, Officials Say

BYLINE:  By CHRISTOPHER MARQUIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
As war booty goes, it wasn't much: oil portraits of Saddam Hussein's high-living son Uday; another painting of the deposed leader himself; a gold-plated AK-47 rifle; a stack of Iraqi war bonds that had lost all their value when American tanks rolled into Baghdad.
 But United States Customs officials, who have been on alert since last week for stolen art and antiquities from Iraq, unveiled those seized items with fanfare today as treasures destined for the black market. 
 The suspects included several journalists returning from the war, and a member of the American military, who apparently sought to send home the rifle, a pistol and some ornamental swords and knives.
Benjamin J. Johnson, a technician for Fox News, was charged on Tuesday with smuggling goods into the United States and making false statements. Mr. Johnson, 27, was fired from his job, Fox News said. The military member, who has not been identified, remains under an Army investigation. 
At a news conference today, a phalanx of customs officials stood beside the artifacts as the director of operations for the Bureau of Immigration and Customs Enforcement, Michael T. Dougherty, declared that the federal government was determined to help Iraq preserve its heritage.
"The full force of U.S. law enforcement agencies are being brought to bear to stop the theft of Iraqi antiquities," said Mr. Dougherty, whose bureau is part of the Homeland Security Department.
The Bush administration has been criticized by culture groups and others in recent weeks for its failure to protect the Iraqi National Museum from looters during the takeover of Baghdad. About 50,000 items -- many of them priceless -- are missing from the museum, including ancient art, writings and gold jewelry.
Experts say they do not expect to see highly valuable and identifiable pieces from Iraq surface right away. 
"There's a longer lag time for these things," said Roger Atwood, who is writing a book, "Stealing History," on looted antiquities. "The middlemen are waiting for the police pressure to die down, then they start exporting them." 
The items presented today drew skepticism from reporters, who questioned their value as art.
With one piece -- a bright and bloody painting of a lion hunt -- hanging behind him, Mr. Dougherty conceded that the confiscated works might fall into the category of kitsch but insisted that they would probably have found buyers seeking remnants of the Hussein government.
"The relative worth of these items is not really the point from our point of view," Mr. Dougherty said.
Officials are determined to prosecute traffickers in stolen objects "whether we agree if they have aesthetic value or not," he said.
Only two of the journalists who ran into trouble with customs officials have been identified.
One of them, Mr. Johnson, faces criminal charges in Virginia. According to the complaint against him, he returned from the Middle East with 12 paintings, the bonds and an identification badge from the United States Embassy in Kuwait.
Although Mr. Johnson initially said the items were gifts from people in the streets, he later admitted that he had taken paintings from palaces, including the residence of Uday Hussein, the complaint said.
Fox News said it fired Mr. Johnson immediately upon learning that customs officials had pressed charges against him. Mr. Johnson could not be reached for comment tonight.
The other journalist, Jules Crittenden of The Boston Herald, was found with an Iraqi painting, a wall ornament and other items, when he arrived at Logan International Airport in Boston. The items were seized, but no charges were filed.
A spokeswoman for The Herald said it saw no need to discipline Mr. Crittenden, who had been assigned to the Army's Third Infantry Division. In a statement Patrick J. Purcell, the newspaper's publisher, said that Mr. Crittenden had "declared a number of Iraqi war souvenirs in his luggage" on Saturday when he arrived at Logan from Kuwait and that Mr. Crittenden had cooperated fully with customs agents.
'I am very proud of the job Jules Crittenden has done covering the front lines of the war," Mr. Purcell said. "I hope this incident won't overshadow the great work he's done."
The Army's Criminal Investigations Division is looking into the case involving the service member, whose name has been withheld. British officials notified Washington on April 18 that they had intercepted a shipment of ornamental weapons at Heathrow International Airport in London that had been sent from the Middle East and were bound for an American military base. Army officials then monitored the delivery; they declined to provide more details until their investigation was complete.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Seized paintings of members of the Hussein family were displayed yesterday by United States customs officials. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (91%); FIREARMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LARCENY & THEFT (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (89%); WRITERS (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); ARMIES (78%); ART THEFT (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); JEWELRY (77%); IMMIGRATION (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (73%); ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); FINE JEWELRY (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (64%); TERRORISM (64%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (60%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; ART; LOOTING; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (91%)

ORGANIZATION: US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (90%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%) CUSTOMS SERVICE(US); FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC; BOSTON HERALD 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (91%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (91%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%) ;CRITTENDEN, JULES; JOHNSON, BENJAMIN; HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (97%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



739 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Agrees To Another Term Leading the Fed 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
A day after President Bush announced his willingness to nominate Alan Greenspan to a fifth term as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, Mr. Greenspan today accepted the invitation.
 "The president and I have not discussed this, but I greatly appreciate his confidence," Mr. Greenspan said in a brief written statement after the markets closed. "If President Bush nominates me, and the Senate confirms his choice, I would have every intention of serving." 
 The back-to-back announcements by Mr. Bush and Mr. Greenspan should come as a relief to financial markets, which have looked on the Fed chairman as a source of steadiness and strength during an otherwise tumultuous period of economic and political uncertainty.
Mr. Greenspan, who turned 77 last month, has been Fed chairman for nearly 16 years; his reappointment is all but assured of being approved by Congress. 
But today's announcement will not end the speculation and debate about successors to Mr. Greenspan. Under a quirk of timing and legal technicalities, Mr. Greenspan's term as a governor on the Fed board expires in January 2006, even though his next term as Fed chairman would extend until June 2008.
As a practical matter, this means that pressure for a decision about a successor could begin to resurface soon after the presidential elections in 2004.
"When Bush and Greenspan have a chance to talk this through, it would be in the best interest of everybody, including the financial markets, to have a succession strategy," said Carl Tannenbaum, chief economist at LaSalle Bank in Chicago. "We have what the private sector calls 'key person risk.' "
Mr. Greenspan underwent surgery on Tuesday for an enlarged prostate; the Federal Reserve said it had already been determined that the condition was not cancerous. Though he was still recuperating today, Mr. Greenspan is expecting to be back at work next week and is scheduled to testify Wednesday before the House Financial Services Committee.
Now past the age when most people have retired, Mr. Greenspan still seems to relish his job. Legendary for his love of crunching numbers, he recently praised a Brahms sonata by saying it brought him as much pleasure as solving an elegant differential equation.
"He loves his job," said Lyle E. Gramley, a former Fed governor who is now a senior consultant to the Schwab Washington Research Group. "His mental acuity is as sharp as ever and his physical health has not deteriorated."
Though Mr. Greenspan's reputation has been bruised by the collapse of the stock market bubble and the three-year bear market that followed, his nomination is almost certain to sail through Congress without serious opposition.
For months the main questions about his future were whether President Bush would try to replace him when his term expired in June 2004 and whether Mr. Greenspan truly wanted to stay in the job.
A master of political networking, with close ties to key administration officials like Vice President Dick Cheney, Mr. Greenspan nonetheless rattled White House officials earlier this year when he cast doubt on the wisdom and necessity of Mr. Bush's $726 billion tax-cut proposal.
Distancing himself notably from Mr. Bush's contentions, Mr. Greenspan urged that any tax cuts be offset by either spending cuts or tax increases and said he doubted the need for economic stimulus measures in the first place.
At the time, those comments fueled some low-level grumbling from hard-line defenders of the proposed tax cuts. But White House officials and the Treasury Department, worried that markets would plunge at the hint of a fight with Mr. Greenspan, quickly insisted they were delighted with his performance as chairman.
Despite some undeniable differences with President Bush, Mr. Greenspan also labored mightily to make himself indispensable. In the days leading up to the war with Iraq, he met repeatedly with top White House officials and gave his tacit blessing to the venture both in public and in private.
A widely acknowledged expert on the oil industry, Mr. Greenspan let it be known that he was not overly worried that the war would cause permanent disruptions to the oil market. Nor did he raise warnings about the financial cost of the war at a time when the federal budget had already run up big new deficits.
Mr. Greenspan's biggest tests may lie ahead. For months, he has been one of the country's most dogged optimists in contending that the current weak economy will begin to recover soon after the uncertainties of war subside.
But now that the war itself has been won as fast as almost anybody had dared hope, Mr. Greenspan and the Fed may still have to contend with an economy and a stock market hobbled by uncertainty. 
Mr. Greenspan, a Republican who served as chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers under President Gerald R. Ford, is arguably the most respected and influential chairman the Federal Reserve Board has ever had.
Within a few months of his becoming chairman in 1987, the stock market plunged more than 500 points in what became known as Black Monday. Mr. Greenspan, still an unknown quantity at the time, arranged for the Fed to pump billions of dollars into the financial system by making overnight lending to banks both cheap and easy.

GRAPHIC: Chart/Map: "Economy Remained Lackluster in March and Early April"A roundup of regional economic conditions in recent months for the Federal Reserves 12 districts, according to the beige book report issued by the Fed yesterday. New York -- The economy slowed, partly from war concerns and winter weather. Retail sales and labor markets weakened. Cleveland -- Subdued growth was reported. Activity in commercial construction and steel manufacturing remained weak. Richmond, Va. -- Modest growth was reported. Retailers reported weaker sales and fewer shoppers. Manufacturing contracted. Atlanta -- Businesses were reluctant to hire full-time workers. Auto sales declined, and manufacturing was weak. Chicago -- Auto dealers and retailers reported a slowdown in customer traffic at the start of the war. St. Louis -- Manufacturers closed more plants and dismissed more workers. Consumer spending was sluggish, but home sales were higher. Minneapolis -- The economy slowed, reflecting a drop in manufacturing, commercial real estate and consumer spending. Kansas City, Mo. -- Retail sales and manufacturing declined, and commercial real estate remained in a slump. Residential real estate was strong. San Francisco -- Sluggish growth was reported. Demand weakened for computers and related products. Travel and tourism was hurt by the SARS outbreak in Asia. Dallas -- Mixed conditions were reported, with retailers reporting slower sales and the energy industry rebounding. Philadelphia -- Manufacturers reported a drop in orders and shipments. Chain stores and auto sales were lower. Boston -- Retailers and manufacturers reported disappointing results. Residential real estate and insurance remained strong. (Source: Bloomberg News)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); PROSTATE DISEASE (66%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%) GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (79%); RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



740 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 999 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
AOL's First-Quarter Results Surpass Chief's Forecast

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK 

 BODY:
AOL Time Warner reported a larger-than-expected quarterly profit yesterday. It was the first earnings release since America Online acquired Time Warner more than two years ago that was not marred by unpleasant surprises. 
 Investors are watching closely for signs the company might get back on its feet after Time Warner's historic miscalculation of agreeing to sell itself for AOL shares in January 2001, at the peak of the Internet boom. 
 Yesterday, AOL Time Warner said its film studios, networks, cable systems and America Online Internet division performed better than what was predicted by the chief executive, Richard D. Parsons, in a downbeat forecast as the quarter began. 
The company also pleased investors by reporting less debt than some analysts had expected, thanks in part to adjustments in the timing of its receipts and expenses so that it could raise debt payments. The company is under pressure to cut its debt because its current debt level keeps it from making major new investments without imperiling its investment-grade credit rating.
In New York Stock Exchange trading, shares of AOL Time Warner rose 69 cents, to $14 a share.
But the company shed scant light on some of the big questions hanging over it, like the federal investigations into its accounting, shareholder lawsuits contending fraud, or the progress of its efforts to remake its sputtering AOL service. 
And despite the steps AOL Time Warner took to lower its debts, Standard & Poor's said it was still considering a downgrading of the company's debt rating. In a report yesterday, Heather Goodchild, an S.& P. analyst, noted that the company's relatively strong performance in the quarter was in comparison with the flat results a year ago, for the first full quarter after Sept. 11.
S.& P. "is more concerned than previously," she said, "about the level of controversy surrounding various advertising transactions." The transactions are the subject of investigations by the Securities and Exchange Commission and the Justice Department.
In a meeting with analysts and investors, Mr. Parsons said a planned initial public offering of a minority stake in AOL Time Warner's cable division -- a much-awaited milestone in its efforts to pay down debt -- would be put off from the second quarter to the second half of the year. Mr. Parsons said the main reasons for the delay were internal, like the formation of a new board for the unit.
But he acknowledged that the S.E.C. and Justice Department investigations might hold it up further, potentially colliding with the company's efforts to reduce its debts. 
"It is certainly possible that the S.E.C. will have a role to play and the two streams could cross up, but we haven't gotten to that bridge yet, let alone figured out how to cross it," Mr. Parsons said. But he added that the company had backup plans. "We, like everybody else, have to think about alternative ways to get home in case one road is blocked."
AOL Time Warner reported first-quarter net income of $396 million, or 9 cents a share, in contrast to a net loss of $54.2 billion, or $12.25 a share, in the period last year. The swing to a profit mainly reflected the absence of mammoth one-time charges that swamped results in previous quarters, including a $54 billion accounting charge in the quarter a year ago. 
The company's earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization -- Ebitda, the measure monitored most closely on Wall Street because it excludes certain noncash accounting charges -- rose 14 percent, to $2 billion. Excluding one-time restructuring charges, cash flow rose 9 percent, the company said. AOL Time Warner's revenue increased by 6 percent, to $10 billion.
Net income was more than double the expectations of about 4 cents a share from a consensus of analyst estimates compiled by Thomson First Call. The results also far surpassed the gloomy projections Mr. Parsons sketched out in January, when he predicted that Ebitda would be "flat to down low single digits" in the quarter and that revenue would be up "low to mid-single digits." 
In a meeting with analysts and investors, however, Mr. Parsons stuck to his equally modest projections for the year. He said most of the company's revenue comes later in the year, the results of its films are hard to predict, and the global economy remains uncertain.
The company said its total debt rose to $26.3 billion, from $25.8 billion at the beginning of the quarter -- about $2 billion lower than some analysts' expectations. It confirmed that it is seeking to sell its CD and DVD manufacturing business; the sale is expected to raise about $1 billion. 
At the AOL division -- still a loose puzzle piece in the company's future -- the number of domestic subscribers declined for a second quarter, falling by 289,000, to 26.2 million, because of defections to high-speed services. In Europe, where its services had been growing more rapidly, subscribers fell by 63,000, to 6.3 million. Advertising revenue fell 42 percent. Ebitda was $404 million in the quarter; excluding one-time charges, it fell 2 percent. 
But the division's results exceeded many analysts' expectations, mainly because of steep cost cuts. Merrill Lynch, for example, expected about $340 million in Ebitda. In the meeting with investors, Don Logan, chairman of the media and communications group, which includes AOL, attributed the decline in subscribers to a new "cancellation policy," as AOL focuses on shedding unprofitable subscribers. And he said that after a long decline in advertising revenue, America Online sold more new advertising in the quarter than it had in the quarter a year ago.
At the filmed entertainment division, which includes the Warner Brothers and New Line studios, Ebitda rose 39 percent, to $251 million, on an 11 percent increase in revenue from the previous year, propelled partly by nearly double the previous year's sales of DVD's. The division's recent films include the Harry Potter, Lord of the Rings and Matrix series.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Richard D. Parsons, chief executive of AOL Time Warner. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (87%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SHAREHOLDERS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); CORPORATE DEBT (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); CREDIT BUREAUS (76%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (73%); STOCK OFFERINGS (72%); SHAREHOLDER LAWSUITS (72%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (71%); ACCOUNTING (70%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (66%); LITIGATION (65%) COMPANY REPORTS 

COMPANY: AOL INC (96%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AOL TIME WARNER INC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%) SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: RICHARD D PARSONS (89%) PARSONS, RICHARD D; KIRKPATRICK, DAVID D 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



741 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 584 words

HEADLINE: Alan Greenspan Re-ups 

 BODY:
Not so long ago the idea of replacing Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board would have seemed like a heretical threat to the nation's prosperity. First appointed in 1987, near the end of the Reagan administration, the owlish and Delphic Mr. Greenspan has served four successive presidents with distinction. He is also widely regarded as one of the two main architects -- the other being Robert Rubin, President Bill Clinton's Treasury secretary -- of one of the great economic booms in American history.
 During the expansion, Mr. Greenspan's image loomed so large that many people regarded him as a miracle worker, propelling the economy ever higher with his own secret financial wizardry. But the salad days of the 1990's are now little more than a memory, and for that reason and others Mr. Greenspan looks more like a mortal than some sort of fiscal demigod. Mr. Greenspan cannot, of course, be blamed for the slump -- after all, his warning several years ago about the stock market's "irrational exuberance" seems prescient. Using one of the few meaningful weapons at his disposal, he has also lowered interest rates 11 times in an effort to counter the recent economic slowdown. 
 Nevertheless, he plainly misjudged the severity of the slump. In March 2001, a full year after the air started leaking out of the bubble, Mr. Greenspan was still predicting huge budget surpluses. And he turned out to be something less than all-powerful. He appeared to be bowing to pressure from the White House when he backed the Bush administration's first big round of tax cuts. Whatever his reasons, he did the nation a disservice by lending his considerable prestige to a fiscal policy that looks increasingly irresponsible.
Still, we are glad that Mr. Bush seems inclined to reappoint Mr. Greenspan when his term as chairman expires in 2004, and that Mr. Greenspan has indicated he will stay on. (In reality, this could amount to only a two-year extension for the chairman, who is 77, because his tenure as a Fed governor expires in 2006.) Over the years, Mr. Greenspan has been right far more often than he has been wrong, and he retains a great deal of credibility among investors, among Democrats and around the world. And while economists will long debate whether he might have done more to avoid the speculative financial bubble of the late 1990's, he deserves a good deal of credit for helping to vanquish inflation while recognizing that increased productivity could sustain a more rapid rate of growth and lower unemployment than other economists expected.
Finally, he has for the most part displayed an independent turn of mind, which all successful Fed chairmen must have. Nearly every president has tried to bend the Fed to his will, usually to serve short-term political interests. Mr. Bush's father, for instance, was not at all happy with Mr. Greenspan's refusal to cut interest rates leading up to the 1992 election. Mr. Bush himself cannot be pleased with Mr. Greenspan's recent, if belated, opposition to the administration's irresponsible fiscal policies, chiefly the latest round of tax cuts.
It would serve not only the country's interests but also the president's to keep Mr. Greenspan aboard. The last thing anybody needs now is a potentially divisive struggle over a new chairman heading into an election year. And as much as we mourn the end of the economic boom, it is just as well that the nation realizes that the Fed chairman is a mere mortal, albeit a very able one. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (75%); HISTORY (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); INTEREST RATES (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); PRODUCTIVITY (60%) APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (94%); BILL CLINTON (73%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



742 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1510 words

HEADLINE: ASBESTOS ACCORD IS SAID TO BE NEAR 

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
Companies, insurers, unions and Democratic and Republican senators are nearing an agreement in principle to end all asbestos lawsuits and instead pay people with asbestos-related diseases from a national privately financed trust, according to people from all sides who have participated in the talks.
 The trust, which would be subject to approval by Congress and President Bush, would pay more than $100 billion to hundreds of thousands of asbestos victims over the next 30 years. It would stop the flood of asbestos lawsuits, 200,000 in the last two years alone, that have strained businesses and the court system. 
 It would be the second-largest lawsuit settlement ever, exceeded only by tobacco companies' agreement in 1998 to pay states $246 billion for their Medicaid spending on victims of cigarette smoking.
Many details of the trust remain to be worked out, including the exact size of payments to victims and who will pay if the trust unexpectedly runs short of money, and the negotiations could still stall. 
Unlike the fund Congress created to compensate victims of the Sept. 11 attacks, an asbestos trust would not allow people to opt out and sue instead. All new and existing claims would be settled through the trust, which would largely or entirely be financed by businesses and insurers, people involved in the talks said. Victims would receive payments more quickly, while businesses would avoid the risk of huge verdicts. And both sides would pay much less to lawyers, who now receive more than half of all the money spent on asbestos litigation, studies say.
Efforts to reduce the rights of asbestos claimants to sue have repeatedly failed in the past. In addition, the law creating a trust would be complicated, and complexity is generally the enemy of legislation. So some experts on asbestos said a trust had little chance of becoming law.
But negotiators for all sides said they disagreed. Democrats and Republicans in Congress seem to agree that the number of asbestos lawsuits has become a crisis, and a trust is the only concept with significant bipartisan support.
In addition, Frederick M. Baron, an influential trial lawyer who has participated in the negotiations, said that the Association of Trial Lawyers of America would not oppose a trust if it offers payments similar to the net amounts, after lawyers' fees, that victims now receive in lawsuits.
Some lawyers will fiercely oppose a trust. But if their lobby stands aside, and unions, companies and insurers can reach a deal, the legislation could pass, Mr. Baron said.
While it might seem surprising that the trial lawyers' group is not fighting a trust, the group has been on the defensive since Republicans gained control of the Senate, and asbestos lawsuits have become particularly controversial. 
"A national trust is the best solution," said David Austern, president of an asbestos trust fund that resolves claims against the Johns-Manville Corporation, once the leading maker of asbestos.
Mr. Austern who has watched efforts to resolve asbestos lawsuits since 1988, when he became counsel for the Manville trust, said he thought the trust had a better-than-even chance of becoming law. (Mr. Austern has consulted with Senate staff members, as well as a group of large companies, about the proposed trust. He said he had not been paid for the consulting.)
Creating a trust is a priority for many big businesses, especially manufacturers. Companies worry that they will have to pay hundreds of billions of dollars in claims unless Congress limits lawsuits against them from people who were exposed to asbestos but are not sick. Their concerns have grown in the last two years, after a spate of very large verdicts against companies that did not make asbestos but used it in their factories or products.
Already, lawsuits have forced into bankruptcy almost 70 companies, some of which were only peripherally connected to asbestos. Most American companies stopped using asbestos decades ago, but the number of lawsuits continues to rise. About 700,000 claims have been filed, including 200,000 in the last two years.
At the same time, the trust would ensure that tens of thousands of people who will die over the next 30 years from exposure to asbestos, as well as many others sickened by exposure, will be compensated. 
Under the current system of lawsuits, some people who are sick or dying from asbestos exposure receive little money if their exposure happens to have come from companies that are already in bankruptcy. Others, including some who are not sick, get millions of dollars from sympathetic juries.
Most of the money in the trust would go to the sickest people, with the largest payments exceeding $1 million. People who have been exposed to asbestos but are not sick might get up to $1,000, although business groups would prefer much less. The level of payments to people who are not sick is crucial, because if it is set too high, millions of people may apply for payments, draining the trust of money it needs to compensate sick people, said Stephen Carroll, a senior economist at the Rand Institute for Civil Justice who has studied asbestos suits.
While more than half the money paid in the current system goes to plaintiff and defense lawyers, the trust under discussion would pay nearly all its money to victims if they are new claimants. But lawyers who represent people who have already filed claims would receive their standard fees of up to 40 percent of any settlement, meaning those claimants would cost the fund more.
People involved in the discussions say companies that made asbestos or used it in their products, as well as insurance companies, have together offered to pay $90 billion over the next 25 years to pay claims. Insurers and companies would each pay for half its cost. The government might also contribute a nominal amount, or help pay for medical monitoring of people who have been exposed to asbestos but are not sick.
Since the trust's principal would accumulate interest over time, the fund would pay out more than $100 billion in all. That figure is less than half as much as analysts forecast that companies and insurers would eventually spend to resolve asbestos claims under the current system. But because much of the money goes to lawyers under the current system, the companies say, victims would do as well. Trial lawyers say companies and insurers will have to contribute more than $100 billion so that victims do not lose out.
The efforts to build a trust have gained momentum since a meeting on April 1 that included senators and top representatives from the major interest groups. Staff members for Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah and chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee, and Senator Patrick J. Leahy of Vermont, the committee's ranking Democrat, are meeting regularly to hammer out details. Mr. Hatch has said that he would like to introduce legislation next month, people involved in the talks say.
Proponents of a trust have focused on the Senate because it has killed asbestos bills in the past andthey assume that if a bill passes the Senate with the endorsement of business, it will clear the House and be signed by the president. A White House spokeswoman said any legislation would be reviewed. 
"Right now everyone's at the table," said Ed Pagano, an aide to Senator Leahy.
Barry B. Direnfeld, a lawyer who represents the Asbestos Study Group, an association of about a dozen large companies, including General Electric and General Motors, that strongly favors a trust, said: "We are close to an agreement. Now we're wrestling with the tough decisions to make it a reality."
Still, efforts to end asbestos litigation have foundered in the past, and this plan faces many hurdles. Although they have reached broad agreement on financing, businesses and insurers have not yet decided exactly how much each company would pay or how such assessments would be determined.
Nor has business agreed with labor on how much money the trust would pay to different types of victims, a factor that will determine the overall size of the trust. 
The A.F.L.-C.I.O. believes that the $90 billion that companies and insurers have offered is inadequate, said Damon Silvers, the union's associate general counsel.
Another potential complication is that one of the biggest beneficiaries of any such settlement could be Halliburton, the oil services company, which faces asbestos suits that have depressed its stock price. Because Vice President Dick Cheney was chairman of the company, any settlement that benefits Halliburton may be criticized by Democrats. 
"The trust creates a number of problems, " said Lester Brickman, a professor at Yeshiva University and an expert on asbestos who is not involved in the talks. "The complexity of it, the decisions about who contributes and how much."
But Mr. Silvers said the disagreement over the size of payments can be resolved. "We can see far clearer than we could a few weeks ago that there's a meeting point on the financial numbers," he said. "We think there's a win-win number."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Escalating Problem"Since asbestos became a liability for companies in the early 80s, the cost of dealing with the problem has soared. NUMBER OF CLAIMS -- 700,000 (02)1982: 21,000 NUMBER OF DEFENDANTS -- 6,000 (00)1982: 300 TOTAL COSTS TO DATE -- $54 billion (00)1982: $1 billion ESTIMATED FUTURE COSTS -- $145-210 billion (00)1982: $38 billion BANKRUPTCIES CAUSED -- 67 (02)1982: 3 (Sources: Rand Institute for Civil Justice)(pg. C6) Chart: "The Cost to Business"These companies are among the largest that have sought Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection because of asbestos liability claims. Owens CorningFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Oct. 5, 2000CLAIMS SO FAR*: 460,000COST OF CLAIMS: $5.0 billion Harbison-Walker RefractoriesFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Feb. 14, 2002CLAIMS SO FAR*: 200,000COST OF CLAIMS: 4.1 Federal-MogulFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Oct. 1, 2001CLAIMS SO FAR*: 365,000COST OF CLAIMS: 2.1 ABBFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Feb. 17, 2003CLAIMS SO FAR*: 204,326COST OF CLAIMS: 2.1 W. R. Grace & CompanyFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: April 2, 2001CLAIMS SO FAR*: 325,000COST OF CLAIMS: 1.9 Babcock & WilcoxFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Feb. 22, 2000CLAIMS SO FAR*: 385,000COST OF CLAIMS: 1.6 GAFFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Jan. 18, 2001CLAIMS SO FAR*: 500,000COST OF CLAIMS: 1.5 Pittsburgh CorningFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: April 17, 2000CLAIMS SO FAR*: 435,000COST OF CLAIMS: 1.2 USGFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: June 25, 2001CLAIMS SO FAR*: 250,000COST OF CLAIMS: 1.1 Armstrong World IndustriesFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Dec. 6, 2000CLAIMS SO FAR*: 455,000COST OF CLAIMS: N.A. Kaiser AluminumFILED FOR CHAPTER 11: Feb. 12, 2002CLAIMS SO FAR*: 112,400COST OF CLAIMS: 0.6 *Settled and pending+A subsidiary of HalliburtonAmount set aside by company to cover claims, which could go higher in some cases (Source: The companies)(pg. C6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ASBESTOS (91%); LITIGATION (91%); INSURANCE (90%); SMOKING (90%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); TOXIC TORTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LOBBYING (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); MEDICAID (78%); ASBESTOS PRODUCT MFG (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (74%); TOBACCO MFG (74%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TERRORISM (71%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (61%) ASBESTOS; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ORGANIZED LABOR; INSURANCE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TRUST FUNDS; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: JOHNS MANVILLE CORP (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS327993 MINERAL WOOL MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3296 MINERAL WOOL (60%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%) BERENSON, ALEX; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



743 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1381 words

HEADLINE: Arafat and Premier Break Deadlock Over Cabinet 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank, Thursday, April 24 

 BODY:
Under intense international pressure, Yasir Arafat and the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, agreed Wednesday on a compromise cabinet for the governing Palestinian Authority, breaking a 10-day stalemate that has delayed the introduction of a new Middle East peace plan. 
 Mr. Arafat forced Mr. Abbas to promote a few of his longtime allies. But he allowed the inclusion of Muhammad Dahlan, a security official favored by the United States and Israel as willing to crack down on Hamas and other militant Palestinian groups. 
 Whether Mr. Dahlan and this new government will prove willing or able to act on security or civic reform was left uncertain by Wednesday's agreement, a tottering balance of the powers of Mr. Arafat and Mr. Abbas that portend more Palestinian instability. 
In a sign of the obstacles facing any new effort, a suicide bomber set off a device early this morning outside a commuter train station in the Israeli town of Kfar Saba. The bomber and at least one other person were killed and several more were wounded, according to initial reports from rescue workers.
The new peace plan, which has been repeatedly postponed by the Bush administration, was drafted in December by the so-called quartet of the United States, United Nations, European Union and Russia. It calls for simultaneous concessions by both sides that would progress to a resolution of all disputes and an independent Palestinian state in three years. 
In the first phase, for example, the Palestinians are required immediately to "undertake visible efforts on the ground" to stop violence, while the Israelis are required to dismantle settlement outposts built in the last two years. Israel is seeking changes in the plan.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell is expected to travel to the region in the first week of May to push the plan. He is also expected to travel to Jordan, Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Syria to discuss how Arab nations can support the plan.
But to meet President Bush's condition for proceeding with the peace plan, the cabinet must now be confirmed by the Palestinian parliament, which is expected to consider it next week. Palestinian officials and legislators, as well as foreign diplomats, said that confirmation was not assured, because Mr. Abbas and Mr. Arafat have agreed on some ministers whom legislators consider incompetent or corrupt. 
Ari Fleischer, the White House spokesman, said the Bush administration hoped for prompt confirmation of the new cabinet. He said the United States would then put its "shoulder to the wheel" to help make the peace plan work. 
Over the long term, Wednesday's development pointed toward the erosion of Mr. Arafat's pre-eminence, since it appeared to help institutionalize the post of prime minister. For 30 years, Mr. Arafat maintained authority by finely rationing power beneath him, preventing the ascendance of a clear No. 2. 
"This is the essence of power sharing, of partnership," said Nabil Shaath, who was designated as foreign minister, in announcing the agreement Wednesday.
But it seemed a lopsided partnership, one that favored Mr. Arafat, at least for now. 
Mr. Arafat scored more on style than substance. The compromise list of 24 ministers differed by only a few members from the one Mr. Abbas compiled 10 days ago, and it included some reformers he had previously left out, along with allies of Mr. Arafat he had tried to demote. Some associates of Mr. Abbas argued that he wound up looking tough, for having held on to Mr. Dahlan.
But by ostentatiously yielding to foreign demands, Mr. Arafat sharpened Mr. Abbas's image among Palestinians as the candidate of outside interests. Some reform-minded Palestinian officials said that Mr. Abbas had emerged from the fight looking so weak that they might have preferred no resolution, and Mr. Arafat naming a new prime minister instead. 
"He was outmaneuvered easily," one of these officials said of Mr. Abbas, who is known as Abu Mazen. 
By forcing Mr. Abbas to rework his cabinet list and stretching the fight out almost until the legal deadline of midnight tonight, Mr. Arafat also reminded the world, at whatever cost to Palestinian governance and hopes for peace, that he had not yet become irrelevant, as Israel declared him to be in December 2001.
"All that's proved in the last two or three weeks is that Yasir Arafat is simply there, and his presence is very much felt," said Maher Masri, the reform-minded minister of trade, economy and industry.
Nabil Aburdeineh, a close aide to Mr. Arafat, referred to American and Israeli officials in saying, "You have seen in the last five weeks, all of us are taking orders from Arafat, whether they like it or not."
Raising a hand toward the bullet-pocked face of Mr. Arafat's compound, newly outfitted with steel shutters, Mr. Aburdeineh said that it did not matter if Mr. Abbas or other officials and not Mr. Arafat were invited to negotiate abroad. "Let them go to Washington and Amman," he said. "Nothing will be solved without coming to this ruined room."
More than a week's worth of diplomatic cajoling and threatening of Mr. Arafat culminated in the arrival here Wednesday of Omar Suleiman, the Egyptian intelligence chief, who was dispatched by President Hosni Mubarak in consultation with United Nations diplomats and others. 
Mr. Suleiman shuttled between the offices of the two men before finally coaxing Mr. Abbas to Mr. Arafat's side late Wednesday afternoon. They were last together on Saturday evening, when Mr. Abbas stormed out of Mr. Arafat's office, threatening to abandon his efforts.
Shortly after Mr. Abbas and Mr. Suleiman went inside, reporters were admitted to see Mr. Arafat seated between the two men, clasping each by the hand and beaming as he declared an agreement. 
Mr. Abbas, a reserved man who has evinced little of Mr. Arafat's political skill, common touch or ruthlessness, was not smiling.
Mr. Abbas composed his initial list in secrecy and remained secluded through the talks. He refused to speak to reporters as he left Wednesday, with Mr. Arafat maintaining his firm grip on his hand. 
"You lost your chance for me to talk," was all Mr. Abbas said, as he gestured at a scrum of wildly shoving journalists and climbed into a black Mercedes sedan. 
Later, Mr. Abbas released a statement in English, suggesting that the ministerial choices were his alone. "I am very pleased that my cabinet has received the support of President Arafat," he said. "The agreement on the cabinet marks a victory for the Palestinian people as it demonstrates our commitment to democracy, even as we live under Israeli occupation."
Mr. Abbas founded the mainstream Fatah movement with Mr. Arafat but for 40 years has remained in the shadow of his friend and rival. He has almost no popular following. Palestinian analysts said he would quickly generate some enthusiasm if he achieves tangible benefits for Palestinians, like an easing of Israeli checkpoints and other restrictions.
Leaders of Hamas pounced on the role of foreigners to question the legitimacy of the new government. "The appointment of the prime minister was based on foreign interference," said Mahmoud Zahar of Hamas. "The forming of this new government is also based on foreign interference." That was why, he said, "the Palestinian street is shocked."
Rising leaders of Fatah -- who brought down a previous Arafat government in September and pushed through legislation last month to create a strong prime minister -- were also disappointed.
"What happened was a stumble and not an achievement," said Qadoura Fares, a legislator from Fatah, ascribing the failure to Mr. Abbas and Mr. Arafat. "We built hopes on Abu Mazen of creating serious change. The change was not substantial, not what we were looking for."
Several crucial details about the new government were left vague today: first among them, who would arbitrate future disputes between the president and prime minister. "God Almighty," replied Mr. Shaath, grinning and rolling his eyes skyward, when asked who would decide.
Further, the appointment of Mr. Dahlan did not clarify the question of who is ultimately in charge of security. Mr. Abbas has kept for himself the Interior portfolio, which oversees most security matters. Mr. Dahlan is to hold the title of state minister for security affairs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mahmoud Abbas, left, the new Palestinian prime minister, and Muhammad Dahlan, right, who was named security minister as part of a compromise on forming a cabinet, in Ramallah with Yasir Arafat. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); POLITICS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (68%); TRAINS (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%) BOMBS AND EXPLOSIVES; TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PALESTINIANS; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%) PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY; HAMAS (TERRORIST GROUP) 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (91%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%) BENNET, JAMES; ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR; DAHLAN, MUHAMMAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); SYRIA (79%); EGYPT (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (55%) ISRAEL; KFAR SABA (ISRAEL)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



744 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Sports of The Times; 
New Address For Nets: The Garden?

BYLINE:  By HARVEY ARATON 

 BODY:
A NEW arena in Newark, that's still the ticket, proclaimed David Stern. "We're standing in the oldest unremodeled arena in the N.B.A.," the always informative commissioner said Tuesday night at Continental Arena, which opened in ancient times, 1981, bearing the name of Brendan Byrne.
 Amid the worst state and municipal budget crises anyone can remember, Stern wants New Jersey to go ahead with a plan that was formulated when government was awash in a surplus, when head-spinning promises could be passed around like nifty assists from Jason Kidd. 
 Seems like yesterday that one of the Nets' owners, Lewis Katz, stood alongside President Clinton at Malcolm X Shabazz High School in Newark and said the Nets were coming, they would pay a healthy share of the arena's costs and the ailing city could bank on 40 percent of future profits. 
That was before the financial realities of professional sports ownership in tepid suburbia dawned on George Steinbrenner. Before he became the muscle behind the basketball and hockey franchises, not his YankeeNets partners, the self-styled philanthropists from New Jersey.
Yesterday, three and a half years after Katz stumped with Clinton for urban renewal, The Star-Ledger of Newark reported YankeeNets' latest arena proposal: Newark puts up $355 million through diverse financing. YankeeNets pays back a third of that amount over the next three decades. 
"There are deals to be put together even in difficult economic times," Stern said. This latest YankeeNets offer goes beyond difficult and insulting, all the way to insane. It is, quite possibly, an indication that Steinbrenner wants a way out because he doesn't believe the suburbs -- any of them -- will ever make sufficient dollars and sense. 
While Stern did not sound enthusiastic about a Meadowlands renovation, somebody needs to at least discuss an alternative, at least before this summer, when Kidd will decide whether to solidify the Nets' competitive future or leave them as pointless as their past.
Tony Parker's playoff misadventures in San Antonio aren't helping. Kidd has already expressed intrigue over playing with the Spurs' Tim Duncan. There is a shadow coming upon the Nets that is far more ominous than Gary Payton as their deadlocked first-round playoff series with the Bucks shifts to Milwaukee tonight for Game 3.
"This franchise is fine," Stern argued before the Nets' lost their home-court advantage. "Their gate is actually pretty strong."
Red ink aside, the Nets are certainly not the unloved and unwatched Atlanta Hawks or Cleveland Cavaliers. Conversely, in a season in which they were the defending Eastern Conference champions, fielding an attractive team to the critical eye, the Nets were outdrawn by one of the tenants of the Staples Center in Los Angeles, not the Lakers.
Look it up. The woeful Clippers were 14th in home attendance, averaging 17,231. The Nets, while on the upswing from last season and increasing their earnings with higher ticket prices, were still only 23rd in attendance, averaging 15,184.
Such is the advantage of playing in the middle of the metropolis, even one governed by freeways, and it begs the question of why Steinbrenner, now that he and the Dolans have again become best cable buddies, hasn't followed the Clippers' lead.
A move by the Nets to the Dolan-owned Madison Square Garden would thrill Kidd and wouldn't hurt the budding television career of his wife, Joumana. It would give the Nets a big-city buzz. All these years, Nets officials have wished to be up when the Knicks were down, but what they have learned about widespread appeal is that when the Knicks are down, pro basketball in the metropolitan area is pretty much out.
What would be in it for the Dolans? A negotiated lease, more revenue for their own sagging financial fortunes, improved odds that their building, come playoff season, wouldn't be as dark and lifeless as a looted palace of Saddam Hussein.
The Newark arena was a good idea, a worthy cause, under the old conditions. The notion of taxpayers of a state that is broke being shaken down is fiscally appalling and morally wrong. New Jersey can't afford to flatter George Steinbrenner and his YankeeNets friends with a luxury-box palace any more than New York can build him a new ballpark in the Bronx.
"This arena is fine for now," Stern said Tuesday night, "but it is not a long-term solution." Fine. Let him sit down between Steinbrenner and the Dolans and come up with a plan. As old as the renovated Garden is and as mediocre as its main act may be, it is still the fanciest address in the N.B.A. and the best place for more basketball games.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jason Kidd (Barton Silverman) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (88%); TOURNAMENTS (85%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); CITY LIFE (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); SUBURBS (76%); BUDGETS (76%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (74%); CITIES (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%) BASKETBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; MADISON SQUARE GARDEN; SPORTS OF THE TIMES (TIMES COLUMN); RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (59%) NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW YORK KNICKERBOCKERS 

PERSON: ARATON, HARVEY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEWARK (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



745 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 24, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Republicans Have Tax-Cutting Ax to Grind With One Another 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 23 

 BODY:
Bitter about the success of Republican moderates in whittling down President Bush's tax cuts, Republican conservatives are planning to exact a political price for what they consider to be economic heresy.
 One prominent Republican senator who opposed the administration's first tax cut, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, is already facing an aggressive primary challenge from Representative Patrick J. Toomey, a vocal supporter of larger tax cuts. Senator John McCain of Arizona, who voted against this year's proposed cut, may also face a primary challenger. 
 Conservatives are also recruiting candidates to run against several moderate House members whom they consider to be liberal spenders. 
Already, the intensity of feeling among party members on both sides of the tax cut debate has deepened an unusually public and acrimonious rift between two prominent Republican institutions: the Republican Main Street Partnership, which represents about 65 centrist members of Congress and governors, and the Club for Growth, a conservative political action committee supporting the administration that has taken on moderates with increasing ferocity.
Last week, the Club for Growth began running television commercials attacking two Republican senators, George V. Voinovich of Ohio and Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, who have joined Democrats to hold Mr. Bush's tax cut to $350 billion, less than half of the president's original proposal. 
The advertisements compared the senators to the French leaders who opposed the invasion of Iraq, and accused them of "standing in the way" of the president's plans to fix the economy.
This week, the moderates began to fight back. Over the weekend, the Main Street Partnership began running its own newspaper and television advertisements in Maine defending Ms. Snowe, a member of its board, and criticizing conservatives who support bigger deficits. The advertisements said Ms. Snowe was trying to preserve federal dollars for the president's spending priorities, as opposed to "the wealthy Wall Street denizens Club for Growth represents."
The partnership also plans an unusual joint effort with the Service Employees International Union, a liberal labor organization, running a television commercial in Maine thanking Ms. Snowe for devising a budget compromise "that kept more money for education, health care and prescription drugs, while keeping the federal deficit from growing even larger."
The Club for Growth, which many moderates say operates with the tacit endorsement of the White House, says it has two goals: to get the votes the president needs for passage of a large tax cut in a few weeks and to replace as many centrist Republicans as possible. 
But the challenges from the right in the Republican primaries, on which the club plans to spend heavily, also have the effect of warning members of Congress what awaits them if they stray from the party line.
Stephen Moore, president of the club, said Mr. Toomey's challenge to Mr. Specter forced Mr. Specter to vote for the full tax cut earlier this month, even though he had opposed the 2001 cut. 
Other possible primaries, along with the advertisements, may produce a similar result in the coming vote on the final tax cut, Mr. Moore said.
"The White House does the cajoling," he said. "We use the hammer."
Democrats, naturally, are delighted at the prospect of intra-Republican feuding that may create an opening for them in some races. Democratic operatives are scurrying to find a candidate to run against the winner of the Senate primary in Pennsylvania next year and are issuing flurries of press releases documenting what they say is Mr. Specter's move to the right in anticipation of the primary.
Although Mr. McCain is considered less vulnerable than Mr. Specter, Representative Jeff Flake, a conservative, is contemplating a run against him.
Mr. Moore said the club was also considering backing Republican challengers to several moderate House members, including Representatives Sherwood L. Boehlert and Amo Houghton of New York and Wayne T. Gilchrest of Maryland.
Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey, chairman of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said: "To the extent that there is discord among Republicans on these economic issues, that's good for the Democrats. The primary will pull Senator Specter back toward supporting fiscal policies that have failed, and the increase in unemployment in Pennsylvania under this administration is a real meat-and-potatoes issue for Democrats to talk about."
Mr. Moore said his group carefully chose its targets to ensure that Democrats did not end up benefiting from primaries. And some conservatives say the fight is worthwhile even if a Democrat does win. Mr. Flake, who is close to the club, said there would be little difference in his mind between Mr. Specter and a Democrat.
That sentiment -- which Mr. Boehlert calls the "purity test" -- appalls Republican moderates.
"How can he say that and be a good Republican?" said Sarah Chamberlain Resnick, executive director of the Main Street Partnership. "A loss to the Democrats in Pennsylvania could flip control of the Senate. I just don't understand that kind of thinking."
Republican conservatives, however, cannot contain their frustration at being unable to pass the president's full economic plan despite having won control of both houses of Congress last fall. In a sense, they have already changed the terms of an earlier debate 20 years ago, when Rockefeller Republicans argued with Reagan Republicans over whether there should be any tax cut. Now, a victory for moderates would be a $350 billion tax cut, but conservatives, having come within a few votes of their goal, want the full prize.
"The vast majority of Republicans now come down on the side of maximizing economic growth by reducing taxes," said Mr. Toomey, who has already raised more money than the combined total of Mr. Specter's previous primary challengers. "Now we're only two votes from bringing the Senate more in line with the House, and Senator Specter has clearly been out of step on the whole issue of taxes."
Mr. Specter denied that he had supported this year's tax cut because of the primary race. He opposed the last tax cut because it was too big and would have taken money away from education, he said, but voted for the full $726 billion this year because he believed that the faltering economy needed a bigger stimulus.
"As soon as you're up for re-election, it's a great American pastime to challenge your motivation," Mr. Specter said. "I usually try to be a team player and help the party. But I think these Club for Growth people underestimate the importance of independence in an elected representative. As Kennedy said, 'Sometimes the party asks too much.' "

GRAPHIC: Photo: George V. Voinovich of Ohio, shown here at a Cleveland food bank on Tuesday, is one of the Republicans under attack by conservatives within the party. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (87%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (87%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (68%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (65%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (50%) TAXATION; ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US); HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US); REPUBLICAN MAIN STREET PARTNERSHIP; CLUB FOR GROWTH (ORGN) 

PERSON: GEORGE VOINOVICH (88%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (79%); ARLEN SPECTER (78%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%); PAT TOOMEY (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (76%) ARIZONA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2003 



746 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 4612 words

HEADLINE: ART GUIDE 

 BODY:
 A selective listing by critics of The Times of new or noteworthy art, design and photography exhibitions at New York museums and art galleries this weekend. At many museums children under 12 and museum members are admitted free. Addresses, unless otherwise noted, are in Manhattan. Most galleries are closed on Sundays and Mondays, but hours vary and should be checked by telephone. Gallery admission is free. * denotes a highly recommended show.

Museums

* "MATTHEW BARNEY: THE CREMASTER CYCLE," Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum, 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500 (through June 11). The most anticipated show by any American artist to emerge in a decade or more. "Cremaster," Mr. Barney's nine-year, five-film project, here presented whole for the first time, is an inspired benchmark of ambition, scope and forthright provocation for art in the new century. I recall Elizabeth Murray's describing how Philip Guston's crazy late works gave her heart to do her own mature paintings. Mr. Barney has brought to the art world a new freedom to explore narrative. He has introduced a new repertory of materials, gooey, strange, malleable and synthetic, which nobody thought of as germane before. Never mind that the films and many (not all) of his related sculptures, installations and photographs are very beautiful. The show, an installation itself, brings them together. The earliest "Cremaster" sculptures are film props, cobbled into installations that don't jell. But the latest are better: twin steel towers framed in plastic, a suite of abstract sculptures derived from automobile chassis. Vaseline and plastic combine with cement and steel -- pink and gray, rough and smooth, hard and soft -- the materials sustaining a narrative of formal eloquence. Hours: Saturdays through Wednesdays, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $15; $10 for students and 65+ (Michael Kimmelman).

* "EGYPT REBORN: ART FOR ETERNITY," Brooklyn Museum of Art, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, (718) 638-5000 (permanent installation). The second and final phase in the museum's reinstallation of its world-renowned holdings of ancient Egyptian art, this dazzling display rounds up more than 600 objects -- from king-and-queen-size monuments to tiny rings and amulets -- from the predynastic period to the 18th Dynasty. Together with the first phase, which opened in 1993 and covers later Egyptian art, visitors will now be able to trace the entire course of this brilliant and complex civilization from its beginnings to its absorption by the Roman Empire in 30 B.C. The heart of the new installation is an introductory gallery that provides a wonderful summation, with a survey of sculptural styles and displays of weapons, pottery, cosmetics, jewelry, furniture and funerary arts. The adjacent galleries are devoted to an extensive chronological survey. Hours: Wednesdays through Fridays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. (until 11 p.m. the first Saturday of each month). Admission: $6;$3 for students and 62+ (Grace Glueck).

* "MANET/VELAZQUEZ: THE FRENCH TASTE FOR SPANISH PAINTING," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through June 8). The Met has clearly called in every chip to make this show spectacular. The first rooms are a virtual survey of great Spanish painting of the 17th and 18th centuries; after that comes a virtual Manet retrospective, with some Degas and Courbet thrown in for good measure; then a virtual 19th-century American overview of the most gifted portraitists influenced by Spanish painting via Manet, Degas and Courbet: Eakins, Chase, Sargent and Whistler. The thesis of Spanish influence on French art is hardly new, but it is explored in such precise and fresh detail, discreetly, without pushing comparisons (in that respect it's not like "Matisse Picasso" at the Modern, notwithstanding the coincidental titled pairings) that you would have to be churlish not to leave edified and amazed. Hours: Sundays and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5:30 p.m.; Fridays and Saturdays until 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $7 for students and 65+ (Kimmelman).

* "MATISSE PICASSO," Museum of Modern Art, Queens, 4520 33rd Street, at Queens Boulevard, Long Island City, (212) 708-9400 (through May 19). If you're thinking of skipping it because of the crowds, that's not a good enough excuse. This is one for the ages: an eye-educating, often revelatory parlor game, with the fate of modern art as the stakes. The premise is a little dubious -- the two of them competing as if in stately isolation from everything else going on in art -- but the results look great. Choosing a winner is the sport of the event and the inevitable outcome of pitting titans mano a mano. Matisse comes out looking consistently good. To grasp 20th-century art, Picasso once said, "you ought to see side by side everything Matisse and I were doing." He was right about that. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m; to 9 p.m. on Fridays and Saturdays. Admission: $20; $15.50, students and 65+; under 16 with an adult, free. Reserved tickets: Ticketmaster, (212) 307-5577; or toll free, (866) 879-6662, with Ticketmaster surcharges (Kimmelman).

"ELIE NADELMAN: SCULPTOR OF MODERN LIFE," Whitney Museum of American Art, 945 Madison Avenue, at 75th Street, (212) 570-3600 (through July 20). Despite the clarion title, this exhibition is too monotonous, stiffly installed and short on drawings to do full justice to the erudite, polymorphous achievement of the Polish-born American sculptor Nadelman (1882-1946). Still, don't miss this opportunity to see his work in quantity, especially the streamlined wood figures from the 1920's and the small truculent plaster figurines, which were found in his studio after his death. Their suave economy, ineffable stillness, delicate gestures and seamless blend of historical and popular sources make them among the most complex, fully visual sculptures in Western art. Hours: Tuesdays through Thursdays, Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 1 to 9 p.m. Admission: $12; $9.50, students and 62+ (Roberta Smith).

* "ST. ADOLF-GIANT-CREATION: THE ART OF ADOLF WOLFLI," American Folk Art Museum, 45 West 53rd Street, (212) 265-1040 (through May 18). The distinction between insider and outsider art is all but nullified by this stunning show of the densely patterned drawings that Wolfli (1864-1930) made in the last 35 years of his life at Waldau, a mental asylum in Bern, Switzerland. Brought to order by vast architectonic structures that allow several forms of communication to speak at once yet remain distinct, these works are embedded with saints, devils, written texts, mathematical calculations, musical scores and geometric symbols. They treat the eye to a ride through a multicultural terrain bounded by Piranesi, biblical myth, illuminated manuscripts, tantric mandalas and Swiss cuckoo clocks. And they attest to a vision as ancient as it is modern that verifies both Wolfli's careful observation of his surroundings and Jung's theory of the collective unconscious. Not to be missed. Hours: Tuesdays through Sundays, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Fridays, 10 a.m. to 8 p.m. Admission: $9; $5, students and 62+ (Smith).

* "CHRISTIAN SCHAD AND THE NEUE SACHLICHKEIT," Neue Galerie, 1048 Fifth Avenue, at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200 (through June 9). Schad's career effectively lasted only 15 years, from around 1915 to 1930, and for just two or three of those years was he doing what deserves to be remembered now. Not much time. But just enough. Schad at his mordant best precisely captured an anxious culture affected by war and the threat of it: his bloodless portraits in Vienna and Berlin suggest deep unease and foreboding beneath porcelain surfaces. They are explicitly unemotional, even when they are frankly erotic, as they frequently are. His drawing, akin to some done by Dix and Grosz, shy away from the issues of class conflict that inflamed both of those other artists. To the end, Schad remained aloof. Hours: Fridays, 11 a.m. to 9 p.m.; Saturdays, Sundays and Mondays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m. Admission: $10; $7 for students and 65+
(Kimmelman).

* "THOMAS STRUTH, 1977-2002," Metropolitan Museum of Art, Fifth Avenue and 82nd Street, (212) 535-7710 (through May 18). This midcareer retrospective is the right event for right now: serious, traditionbound, circumspect about the world. Mr. Struth operates from a chilly peak, where the air is thin. But what results are obsessively meticulous photographs, some of them enormous, like mural paintings. They are hypnotic, silent, slightly claustrophobic, brainy and gorgeous, qualities that can seem in lively tension with one another. Art is a means of "locating yourself in your time," Mr. Struth has said. He has done series of streets, jungles, museums, portraits and church facades. Standing before his crowded museums and churches, we can become absorbed in the chaos of culture, sacred places made profane. In the jungle we acquiesce to the spiritual pleasure of solitude. We may find ourselves in our time. Hours and admission: See above (Kimmelman).

* "TRANSMITTING THE FORMS OF DIVINITY: EARLY BUDDHIST ART FROM KOREA AND JAPAN," Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 832-1155 (through June 22). The role of Korea in the development of Buddhist art and thought in Japan, and therefore in the formation of Japanese culture itself, emerges from decades of habitual marginalization in this beautiful exhibition. Dominated by meditating Buddhas and handsomely attired bodhisattvas dating from the sixth to the ninth centuries, the show, which has been organized with the Korea Society of New York, dispenses lessons in several kinds of grace, religious as well as formal. It highlights the forceful stylization and subtle abstraction of the human figure, which while common in Asian and African art, is rarely equaled in Western sculpture between the medieval and modern periods. Hours: Tuesdays through Fridays, 11 a.m. to 6 p.m.; Saturdays and Sundays, 11 a.m. to 5 p.m. Admission: $5; $3, students and 65+ (Smith).

"VIETNAM: JOURNEYS OF BODY, MIND AND SPIRIT," American Museum of Natural History, Central Park West at 79th Street, (212) 769-5100 (through Jan. 4). For many Americans who came of age before or during the 1960's, Vietnam was the name of a place you didn't want to go. Even today the prevailing impression of this part of Southeast Asia seems to be a composite of remembered news clips and scenes from "Apocalypse Now." More than a quarter-century after the war, the image is due for revision, and that is the basic idea behind this show, a lavishly illustrated anthropological field trip through Vietnam today. Using objects, videos and photographs it examines popular traditions associated with marriage, death and religion, often to vivid effect, in a lively, serpentine installation. And even with many important political and social questions left unasked and unanswered, there is a wealth of information here. Hours: Daily, 10 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. Admission: $12; $9, students and 60+ (Holland Cotter).

Galleries: Uptown

* "SEEING RED I: PIONEERS OF NONOBJECTIVE PAINTING," Hunter College Art Galleries, 68th Street and Lexington Avenue, (212) 772-4991 (through May 3). The optical and symbolic power of red is the basis of this one-color show, which presents a lineup of wonderful paintings, beginning with work by two significant emigre painter-teachers, Hans Hofmann and Josef Albers. The focus on one color affords a more intense observation of differences in surface and texture, subtle gradations in tone and the play of light. Besides the controlled geometrics of Albers's nested boxes and the dynamic Expressionist splash of Hofmann's fiery painted ball, there are works by Jack Youngerman, Tony Smith, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Richard Pousette-Dart, Kenneth Noland and Robert Motherwell, among others (Glueck).

* "KURT SCHWITTERS: COLLAGES, PAINTINGS, DRAWINGS, OBJECTS, EPHEMERA," Ubu Gallery, 416 East 59th Street, (212) 753-4444 (through May 23). The German artist Kurt Schwitters (1887-1948) made artful arrangements of found scraps -- torn photographs, ticket stubs, labels, newspaper clips and other discarded bits -- into abstract compositions that balanced colors, forms, textures and printed matter to dazzling effect. More than 60 of his works, Dada-oriented but also much influenced by Constructivism and Russian Suprematism, are brought together here in a museum-quality display that ranges in date from before 1920 to the late 1940's. One standout in this bountiful show is a gem from 1931, "Untitled (Red, Gray, Black)," a rigorously structured composition with all the elegant trappings of Suprematism-Constructivism brilliantly translated into "Merz," Schwitters's no-meaning name for his own visual language (Glueck).

* "WEAVING CHINA'S PAST: THE AMY S. CLAUGUE COLLECTION OF CHINESE TEXTILES," China Institute Gallery, 125 East 65th Street, (212) 744-8181 (through June 7). This gallery has a sterling record in presenting small, fine-tuned scholarly shows and this one, imported from the Phoenix Art Museum, exactly fits the description. With precious examples of silk brocades, tapestries and embroideries, including Buddhist ritual pieces, dating from the Jin to Qing dynasty, it gives a vivid sense of the material past in a powerful imperial culture (Cotter).

Galleries: 57th Street

JOHN CEDERQUIST, "Furniture That Builds Itself," Franklin Parrasch, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 246-5360 (through May 31). Mr. Cederquist's beautifully made woodworks are simultaneously functional pieces of furniture and zany cartoons in two and three dimensions. With painted Mickey Mouse arms wielding drills and planes as if in the act of building, these funky sculptures are deceptively whimsical meditations on the mind's construction of reality (Ken Johnson).

VIJA CELMINS, Susan Sheehan, 20 West 57th Street, (212) 489-3331 (through May 31). Unlike the many painters and sculptors for whom printmaking is a more or less casual diversion, Ms. Celmins invests as much painstaking concentration in it as she does in her paintings. This selection from three decades includes misty etchings of spider webs, rippling waters made in lithography and wood engraving, mezzotinted starry night skies and lithographs of desert fields (Johnson).

LYNN DAVIS, "China," Edwynn Houk, 745 Fifth Avenue, (212) 750-7070 (through May 3). A photographer known for her spectacular pictures of icebergs and Egyptian pyramids, takes on China. Towering pagodas, a giant Buddha in a cave, ancient stairs partly submerged in sand, a beautiful minaret with a surface of intricate brickwork: these and other subjects are rendered in large, smooth black-and-white prints. Her relentless monumentalism can make you wonder whether Ms. Davis has a more intimate side (Johnson).

EMILY EVELETH, Danese, 41 East 57th Street, (212) 223-2227 (through May 10). With a soft painterly touch, Ms. Evelth turns humble jelly doughnuts into a monumental, voluptuous objects of desire. Glowing and looming against dark backgrounds singly or in piled groups, they laze like corpulent odalisques. Each has its dark, raspberry-stained orifice turned to the viewer, to slightly alarming effect (Johnson).

Galleries: Chelsea

FERNANDO BERMEJO, "Lights," Generous Miracles, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 352-2858 (through May 13). The light box is popular with photographers but rarely used to illuminate handmade pictures. Black-and-white paintings on paper mounted on light boxes by this Spanish artist suggest possibilities worth exploring. Lighted from behind, his small, brushy pastoral landscapes have a remarkable naturalistic luminosity and his surrealistic visions of trees growing from small boats have a dusky, melancholy poetry (Johnson).

ALEXANDER CALDER, Van de Weghe, 521 West 23rd Street, (212) 929-6633 (through May 23). This sampler includes a huge mobile that is too big for the gallery's main room and a bright red nonmoving abstraction of a winged lion. Best are the smaller mobiles, some hung from the ceiling, some balanced on low structures on the floor. These harmoniously choreographed, Miroesque constellations of sweeping lines and biomorphic shapes might be Platonic models for an ecology of mind and soul (Johnson).

LINDA FLEMING, "Parallel Universe," Linda Durham, 210 11th Avenue, (212) 337-0025 (through May 8). Ms. Fleming, a California sculptor, develops complex patterns of layered and interwoven bands that are meant to have metaphysical implications. Whatever they mean, a large, intricate, fanlike structure of bolted-together rusted steel parts; a shadow of that sculpture made of puzzled-together black rubber pieces, lying flat on the floor; and a balsa-wood maquette under a glass bubble all have considerable terrestrial presence (Johnson).

JEAN-FRANCOIS MORICEAU AND PETRA MRZYK, "Only for Your Eyes," Marcus Ritter, 453 West 17th Street, (212) 463-7375 (through May 17). This young cartoon-making team generates sight gags with seemingly effortless abandon. Hairy prehistoric people shaving their private parts; anthropomorphic paintings on strike, carrying signs that say, "We want a new curator"; an owl with Mickey Mouse ears; a woman with square breasts; a giant eye with two pupils. More than 100 of these black-ink line drawings, individually framed and stacked up against the wall, will give your sense of humor an invigorating workout (Johnson).

"SUNDAY PAINTERS: DISCARDED PAINTINGS BY GIFTED AMATEURS," Ricco/Maresca, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 627-4819 (through May 3). Among this exhibition's assorted paintings by unknown amateurs are works of comical ineptitude, off-beat invention and nutty, perverse or ridiculously banal imagery. The show's best painting is "Maine Couple," an unsigned double portrait from the 1950's. It was copied, apparently, from a snapshot but its precise formality calls to mind the great early American folk artist Ammi Phillips (Johnson).

BETTY WOODMAN: "Souvenirs," Max Protech, 511 West 22nd Street, (212) 633-6999 (through May 3). Recent travels in Europe, India and East Asia have given the ceramist Betty Woodman, an inventive vessel maker, some engaging ideas that build on a long Woodman-esque tradition -- for example, lively miniature stage sets whose crisply delineated actors are vessels and shards in Matisse-style cutout shapes. They were derived from the archaeology of the Aeolian Islands off Sicily. A visit to Asia and the sight of sculptures of deities clad in fabric inspired her to make a group of vases dressed in brightly colored robes and echoing womanly shapes. There are many more delights in this animated show (Glueck).

Galleries: SoHo

"EXTRA," Swiss Institute, 495 Broadway, near Spring Street, (212) 925-2035 (through May 10). The curator Marc-Olivier Wahler asks, "How many extra layers can we graft onto reality before it collapses?" The 11 works here do little to answer the question, but they make an entertaining show. They include Bruno Peinado's giant brown Michelin man with an Afro; Wim Delvoye's tattooed pig; Peter Fischli and David Weiss's trompe-l'oeil studio props; Olivier Blanckart's Village People made of paper and tape; and adorable little robotic dogs programmed to fight by Stephane Sautour (Johnson).

HEIDE FASNACHT, Kent, 67 Prince Street, (212) 966-4500 (through May 3). A sculptor known for her interest in explosions offers a bursting Champagne bottle and splashy puddles, both in cast blue resin, and a sneeze represented by perforations in paper. A big colored pencil drawing of a window glass washed by rain, made with crisp gray and blue hatchmarks, reveals on close inspection an absorbing, crystalline topography; from a distance it resolves into a magically luminous illusion of watery translucency (Johnson).

GEORGE McNEIL, "FE = Form/Energy," Luise Ross, 568 Broadway, at Prince Street, (212) 343-2161 (through May 3). McNeil, who died in 1995 an underrecognized member of the Abstract Expressionist generation, merged painterly abstraction and primitivistic symbolism with sensuous buoyancy. This small selection of works from four decades includes colorful, transcendentally exuberant landscapes and pictures of scary masklike faces embedded in luxuriantly scabrous surfaces (Johnson).

"MADONNA AND STEVEN KLEIN: X-STATIC PRO=CESS." Deitch Projects, 18 Wooster Street, near Grand Street, (212) 343-7300 (through May 3). Mr. Klein's tacky mural-sized photographs of the rock diva Madonna in various histrionic ensembles and sets might as well be stills from unusually egregious music videos, except that they occasionally twitch. Their blatant derivativeness can make you momentarily giddy with something resembling delight (Smith).

* "THE STAGE OF DRAWING: GESTURE AND ACT," Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, (212) 219-2166 (through May 31). It's not easy to assemble a truly engaging show from a vast collection of drawings like that owned by England's Tate. But this one, selected by a British artist, Avis Newman, with Catherine de Zegher, director of the Drawing Center, really works. Not a tiresome institutional tour but a vividly personal one, it views drawing as "an open-ended and exploratory activity," with exhibits ranging from a 295-foot line on a roll of wrapped paper to precise renderings of 19th-century hairdos. The mix of artists runs from J. M. W. Turner to Andy Warhol; the juxtapositions reveal affinities across centuries and cultures (Glueck).

Other Galleries

* TARA DONOVAN, Ace Gallery, 276 Hudson Street, South Village, (212) 255-5599 (through May 15). Installation art proved long ago that lots of space combined with lots and lots of one material, arranged by stupefyingly simple labor-intensive methods, can work wonders. This solo debut provides supporting evidence that, if not too original, is amazingly succinct. The materials include transparent tape, Elmer's glue and pencils; the high point is something that looks, from afar, like a fairly large cloud or snow bank, but is not (Smith).

ANN SPERRY, "30 Pieces/30 Years," Hebrew Union College-Jewish Institute of Religion Museum, 1 West Fourth Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 824-2205 (through June 26); "My Piano," Kraushaar, 724 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 307-5730 (through April 12). Since the early 1970's, Ms. Sperry has been bending, shaping and welding metal into metaphorically suggestive abstractions. The best works in her Hebrew Union retrospective have an industrial surrealism similar to, though not as surprising as, that of Donald Lipski. Her new assemblages at Kraushaar include cutup parts of her old piano, a beloved but defunct family heirloom (Johnson).

Brooklyn

ROBERT GRUNDER, Sixtyseven, 67 Metropolitan Avenue, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 486-0387 (through May 18). Mr. Grunder's semi-abstract paintings of mall stores and parking lots are O.K., but his bird's-eye views of freeways, overpasses and cloverleaf intersections painted on white grounds have a cool dynamism that nicely evokes the speediness of modern life (Johnson).

SCOTT TEPLIN, "Moron," Jessica Murray Projects, 210 North Sixth Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 384-9606 (through May 11). Mr. Teplin's delightfully inventive drawing is like a conference call among Dr. Seuss, R. Crumb, Ed Ruscha and Rube Goldberg. Words like moron, flap jack and bonus hole are dug into the ground, constructed from industrial steel or whirling in space, while floating beds, gobs of mud, circulating tubes, spurting, gnarly nipples and disembodied mouths convey a spirit of gleeful surrender to the mind's own perversely polymorphous energies (Johnson).

Last Chance

* VALERIE JAUDON, Von Lintel, 555 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 242-0599 (through tomorrow). If there were such a thing as modern Sufi painting, it might look like Ms. Jaudon's work. Five gorgeous new pictures extend her two-decade involvement in Middle Eastern flavored patterning. With their luscious, confectionery colors and luminous glazes -- flaming hot in some, sherbet cool in others -- they are sensuously seductive and transcendentally inspiring (Johnson).

* BILL JENSEN, Mary Boone, 745 Fifth Avenue, at 57th Street, (212) 752-2929 (through tomorrow). Where once it was biomorphic-bristly, Mr. Jensen's compositions seem to have mellowed over the years into softer, less defined forms, his surfaces more grounds for colors than for shapes. The forms in these latest works are really markings, sprawly scrawls and calligraphic gestures that play splashily over contrasting close-valued grounds, sometimes to gorgeous effect. The star of the show is "Untitled (Ocher and Red)," in which a more definite form, that of a red partial cross, occupies the top half of a glowing field brushed thinly enough to show glints of red beneath it. Harking back to medieval and Byzantine sources, it is a mini-cathedral (Glueck).

* AGNES MARTIN, "Five Decades," Zwirner & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 517-8677 (through tomorrow). We're used to expecting nuances rather than revolutions in Ms. Martin's art. But this 10-painting capsule survey gives a sense of how varied she can be and has been. It also proves how right she is in referring to herself as an Abstract Expressionist when everyone else has been calling her a Minimalist all these years. She's an engaged, passionate gestural painter with a classicist's emotional tact, a reticent Abstract Expressionist, the way Philip Guston was (Cotter).

* ELIZABETH MURRAY, PaceWildenstein, 534 West 25th Street, Chelsea, (212) 929-7000 (through tomorrow). A life lived the way Ms. Murray paints would be nirvana. Her recent works are airy constructions in low relief:
ad hoc jigsaw puzzles of freewheeling shapes that lean, nuzzle and jostle one another to make unlikely harmonies of pungent color and abstract pattern. Compositional equilibrium, laboriously achieved but seemingly effortless, looks fleeting: there's always the sense that these improvisatory jumbles might break apart and out of their frames. Ms. Murray loves to paint. That's still the bottom line. It is useful to be reminded that there are still veterans like her, steeped in the medium, its difficulties and pleasures, who work so hard and make such beautiful art (Kimmelman).

HELEN TORR, "Works on Paper," JG Contemporary, 505 West 28th Street, Chelsea, (212) 564-7662 (through tomorrow). Torr, who was married to Arthur Dove, was a fine painter in her own right. The influence of Dove, Hartley, Burchfield and other American Modernists are evident in her work, but she had her own lively and intimate personality. It is stunning to learn that she never sold a painting in her lifetime, having subordinated her own career to her husband's. This engaging small show of drawings anticipates a retrospective of paintings scheduled for next month a JG Contemporary's uptown gallery (Johnson).

* "VIDEO ACTS: SINGLE CHANNEL WORKS FROM THE COLLECTIONS OF PAMELA AND RICHARD KRAMLICH AND NEW ART TRUST," P.S. 1 Contemporary Art Center, 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Street, Long Island City, Queens, (718) 784-2084 (through Monday). Wading through this sprawling survey of early single-channel video art is more edifying than enjoyable, but anyone interested in contemporary art should make the effort. Expertly installed with viewing efficiency in mind, it concentrates on works made mostly by lone artists experimenting behind closed studio doors in the 1970's. A handful of recent videotapes by Pipilotti Rist and others underscores the feeling that both the medium and its early pioneers have come a long way. Hours: Thursdays through Mondays, noon to 6 p.m. Admission: $5; $2 for students and 62+ (Smith).

GRAPHIC: Photos: Last Chance: Bill Jensen's "Untitled (Ocher and Red)" at Boone. (Mary Boone Gallery); "Dancer" is part of an Elie Nadelman retrospective at the Whitney. (Whitney Museum of American Art) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (98%); SCULPTURE (90%); PHOTOGRAPHY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); PAINTING (78%); COSMETICS (72%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); CLASSICS (66%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%) NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



747 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1793 words

HEADLINE: HAVENS; 
Is the Party Over For Summer Shares In the Hamptons?

BYLINE:  By WALECIA KONRAD

 BODY:
IT was a police operation worthy of prime-time TV. A half-dozen officers armed with search warrants stormed into a six-bedroom house on Laura Court in the Southampton, N.Y., hamlet of East Quogue at 6 a.m. on a Sunday last August. The 30 or so people inside, all in their 20's or 30's, were rousted from mattresses strewn throughout the house. According to people who were there, bleary-eyed young men stumbled out onto the front lawn and wincedin the daylight. 
 First the Conscience Point Inn, a favorite eastern Long Island reveling spot, is shuttered, and now this. The long tradition of dozens of young people crowding into a Hamptons house for a summer of wild abandon is under attack. A rush of activity last year in East Quogue -- neighborhood spying, morning police raids and, perhaps most effective, authorities' use of a television documentary by Barbara Kopple to identify offenders -- has led to a crackdown on Hamptons share houses this year. 
 The Town Board of Southampton, which shut down six houses last year in East Quogue, has tougher penalties ready for housing code violators this year, and other Hamptons towns and villages are greeting the new season with beefed-up inspection squads and stricter rules. 
The crackdown is hardly the death of summer shares. There are still plenty of classifieds in the back of The Village Voice and New York magazine hawking shares, and a recent Google search for "Hamptons group homes" yielded dozens of Web advertisements. But local laws typically cap the allowable number of unrelated adults living in a house at well under a dozen, and active enforcement could put a further crimp in a party scene already subdued by an uncertain economy.
"The market is definitely much slower this year," said Cass Almendral, a homeowner in Southampton village who has sold shares in his house in the past. At a recent party in Manhattan at which owners of six share houses were recruiting renters, he said, "only about 40 people showed up." In the past, he added, "you'd see 300 people at an event like that." Some potential renters are also turned off by the problems with group houses last year. "It's definitely something people are worried about," Mr. Almendral said. 
Controversy about share houses is not new, but it took on new life a year ago when Sandeep and Nina Dmietrieff Mehta bought a weekend house on Jeffrey Lane, a street perpendicular to Laura Court in an isolated wooded area just south of the Sunrise Highway. The neighborhood is deceptively peaceful in April, the month the Mehtas moved in. But it is filled with six- and seven-bedroom houses with pools, hot tubs and tennis and basketball courts. Many are owned by investors or out-of-state residents who hire young house managers to recruit potential renters and take care of things during the summer.
"Everyone knows that area is notorious for professional group homes," said Richard Casabianca, chairman of the Citizens Advisory Committee, a volunteer community group in nearby Hampton Bays. "But they were so isolated that no one was really bothered by it."
No one, it seems, except the Mehtas. By Memorial Day, a neighbor said, the Mehtas realized that their weekend retreat felt like a frat house thanks to the late-night parties, noise and frequently crass behavior at houses on either side.
The Mehtas complained to the Town Board, but the most officials could do at first was issue parking tickets or write citations for noise violations. The partying continued.
The Mehtas soon found allies. Lydia Staiano, an East Quogue resident and member of the Citizens Advisory Committee, and the committee chairwoman, Elizabeth Haderer, had long been concerned about share houses and worried that neighbors might be too intimidated to complain. Now, with the help of the Mehtas and Ms. Haderer, Ms. Staiano set out to collect enough evidence for the town to get a search warrant.
On Saturday nights, when the deck parties near the Mehtas' house were in full swing, Ms. Staiano would show up and take notes. "The music would just be blasting from the deck next door," she said. "Cars would be parked everywhere, blocking neighbors' driveways. Any given weekend night there would be dozens of people drinking out on the deck." What is more, she said, people from the group houses were in continual motion back and forth between parties. "These kids were constantly trampling over the couple's lawn, urinating, yelling, what have you," she said. 
Then, Sunday morning, while the revelers were sleeping, Ms. Staiano would arrive, Polaroid in hand, to document the party aftermath at the various group houses. "It was a nightmare," she said. "Whole garbage cans of beer bottles were dumped on the lawns, garbage was everywhere."
Inside houses like the ones in East Quogue, more chaos reigned. Daisy Sosa, a 26-year-old graduate student, bought a share in a group house in Hampton Bays last year with a group of 15 friends and friends of friends. "We had four bedrooms, each with four or five people, and two bathrooms," she said. "That was O.K., but it didn't take long for everyone to start bringing their friends out. At one point we had six guys sleeping in the basement. You never knew from one weekend to the next who was going to be there. I was in the kitchen one morning and this guy comes upstairs and says, 'Can you drive me to Turtle Bay?' I said, 'Excuse me, do I know you?' "
Meanwhile, at the town hall, officials were dealing with complaints from the Mehtas and some of their newly emboldened neighbors, as well as Ms. Staiano's Polaroids and her handwritten logs of infractions. Ms. Staiano also gave officials a videotape of the ABC program "The Hamptons" by Barbara Kopple that had been broadcast in June. One of the prominent characters in it was Josh Sagman, a part-owner of the group house next door to the Mehtas. In addition to showing a close-up of the giant pulsating outdoor speakers, the film had recorded Mr. Sagman presiding over crowded parties on the deck of the house and at hot spots like Conscience Point, the club where Elizabeth S. Grubman, a New York publicist, had backed an S.U.V. into a crowd in the summer of 2001. During one of the deck party scenes, a bunch of young men were shown lifting another man upside down while he chugged from the spout of a keg of beer. 
"I made every effort to be a good neighbor," Mr. Sagman said in an interview this week. "Remember, those scenes in the documentary were filmed the year before. As soon as Memorial Day, when I knew the new neighbors were concerned about our house, I made sure we kept quiet and I personally made sure all of the trash was picked up each morning. Most of the photographs the neighbors took weren't from my house. But because the documentary showed me as some kind of super partier instead of a person, I became the poster child for share houses in the Hamptons."
A strong part of the case against share houses developed last summer when someone in town noticed that a group house was advertising a Fourth of July party on the Internet for $15 a head, a violation of the Southampton town code that prohibits operating a business on residential premises. So many people showed up at the party -- more than 3,000, town officials estimated -- that the police barricaded Laura Court to stop any more from coming. "That party was the finishing straw," said Eileen Powers, acting town attorney. "Right after that we executed the search warrants."
In each of several houses on Jeffrey Lane and Laura Court, inspectors found as many as 20 housing code violations. In some houses it was wall-to-wall beds. "We even found beds near the furnace," Ms. Powers said, "and that's a fire hazard." The six houses that the town ordered vacated included the one run by Josh Sagman next door to the Mehtas.
It was apparently too late for the Mehtas, who sold their house last October. Attempts to contact them for comment were unsuccessful. (Mr. Sagman and his partners have also sold their house.) But year-round Southampton residents kept up the pressure, and the Town Board increased the penalties for having more than five unrelated adults living under one roof to $1,000 a day from $250 a day. "That's enough to be meaningful," Ms. Powers said. "Before, the owners just figured the fines were part of the cost of doing business."
Other Hamptons officials have taken up the cause. Thomas Lawrence, a code enforcement officer for the Village of East Hampton, said the village had added a third code enforcement officer in preparation for the coming season. And the Town of East Hampton, which governs part of Sag Harbor, Wainscott, Amagansett, the Springs and Montauk, has a new rule requiring 75 square feet of sleeping space for one person and 50 square feet each if two share a room.
The new rules and enforcement on Hamptons share houses also apply to rental properties overcrowded with waiters, landscapers and other laborers -- people whose services are needed in the Hamptons but whose housing needs are largely unmet.
Of course this problem isn't unique to the Hamptons. Ocean Bay Park and Kismet on Fire Island and Spring Lake on the Jersey Shore are among many other towns known for packed share houses despite local laws that restrict the number of occupants. Grace Corradino, owner of Fire Island Living, a real estate company, said, "Until the neighborhood changes or someone complains, group homes are a fact of life."
Some activists worry that the crackdown in the Hamptons will not go far enough. "There's been a tolerance of share houses on the part of town officials for years," said Mr. Casabianca of Hampton Bays. "The problem won't be solved until the people who come out to these houses get the message that renting a summer share in the Hamptons is not a license to be a jerk."
On the flip side, some homeowners say the crackdown is misguided and ill-timed. "It's unconstitutional to tell people they can't rent their homes, whether it's to a group or not," said Don MacPherson, the publisher of SoHo Journal and a former investor in share houses in the Hamptons. "And in this economy this could be the nail in the coffin for the summer rental market."
And Mr. Almendral said he and about 25 other homeowners were researching the possibility of a class-action suit against the Town of Southampton, charging that the laws discriminate against single people.
For their part, local officials contend that they walk a fine line between the private business of owners renting their properties and the public nuisances that some houses become. The Town of Southampton, Ms. Powers said, wants to make it clear that if group houses make problems for their neighbors, they can expect enforcement. But at the same time, she said, "We don't want to ruin anyone's summer."

GRAPHIC: Photos: PARTY HOUSE -- In a scene, above, from "The Hamptons," a documentary film, Josh Sagman, rear right, shared a hot tub in the summer of 2001 at his East Quogue, N.Y., house. Right, at the same house, a man drank beer from a keg while upside down. (pg. F8) Drawing (Nancy Carpenter)(pg. F1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEARCH WARRANTS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (77%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (73%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (72%); BASKETBALL (72%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



748 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: FILM REVIEW; 
Fathers, Sons, Grandsons, In the Script and Real Life

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN HOLDEN 

 BODY:
Fiction and reality are so seamlessly blended in "It Runs in the Family," a surprisingly complex and subtle portrait of the Grombergs, a high-powered clan of New York lawyers, that the temptation to assume its characters are modeled after the actors playing them is almost irresistible. Four of those actors -- Kirk, Michael, Cameron and Diana Douglas -- are related by birth or by marriage and play fictionalized versions of themselves in the film.
 Throughout the movie you can feel the actors' offscreen relationships resonating with their performances and enriching them immeasurably. One strand of a story that deftly skips among half a dozen major characters is the strained but loving relationship of the Grombergs' cantankerous patriarch, Mitchell (Kirk Douglas), and Alex (Michael Douglas), his son, who works in the New York law firm his father founded. The two stars have made no secret that their relationship has weathered its share of strife. In the case of the Grombergs, Alex continually grumbles that his hard-bitten father, a feisty, scowling World War II veteran recovering from a stroke (despite a speech impediment, he has "a few good years left," Mitchell's doctor assures him), has never demonstrated his approval or declared his love. 
 The movie, which opens nationwide today, is wonderful at showing how trivial incidents can unlock reserves of festering resentment in a high-strung household whose male members are infused with the same hyper-competitive success ethic that echoes what we know about the Kennedys. Michael's son Cameron makes a splashy acting debut as 21-year-old Asher, the older of Alex's two sons. An arrogant, girl-crazy part-time D.J. with a macho hip-hop attitude, Asher, who is failing in school, deals homegrown marijuana. And his 11-year-old brother, Eli (Rory Culkin), a brash martial-arts whiz, appears to be on the same reckless path.
The scenes of three generations of Bromberg males bumping elbows depict a lineage in which the testosterone runs rampant. Mitchell, who is somewhere in his 80's, is still a dogged fighter who takes (slow) daily jogs around the Central Park Reservoir. Alex, although happily married to Rebecca (Bernadette Peters), a psychotherapist, is helpless to resist when Suzie (Sarita Choudhury), a young assistant in the soup kitchen where he volunteers, furiously flings herself at him and refuses to take no for an answer. (This scene amusingly parodies the star's moments of sex-under-siege in "Fatal Attraction" and "Disclosure.")
Lastly, there is Diana Douglas (Michael's real-life mother and former wife of Kirk) as Evelyn, Alex's mother and Mitchell's devoted spouse, a super-competent matriarch and caretaker. Like her son, Evelyn has suffered from Mitchell's benign emotional neglect (although her husband is completely dependent on her).
Because "It Runs in the Family" is so steeped in Hollywood tradition, you keep expecting the usual feel-good formulas of serious domestic comedy to kick in and hijack the movie by turning it into an innocuous sugarcoated placebo. But, wonder of wonders, it doesn't happen. Before the film is over, two of the major characters have died and been mourned. And although the Grombergs' interlocking personal dramas ultimately bring them somewhat closer, the screenplay offers no pat resolutions to any of their problems. The movie gazes as steadily at the decrepitude of old age as it does at the chutzpah of youthful entitlement. Nor does it shy away from the Grombergs' Jewishness, which is central to their identity.
Alex's wandering eye gets him exiled from the bedroom, while his social conscience seriously collides with the financial interests of his law firm. Mitchell, browbeaten by his wife and son to be more expressive, rails against old age. Asher's drug dealing catches up with him just as he is about to embark on his first serious relationship. Eli develops a crush on a runaway girl with a pierced nose.
Although these and other subplots create a much more complex narrative framework than most filmmakers would dream of constructing, Jesse Wigutow's screenplay is one of those marvels of economy, idiomatic facility and well-chosen detail that knows exactly when to cut away from a scene without grinding it into your face. And Fred Schepisi's direction finds a comfortable balance between comedy and clear-eyed realism. Over and over, the movie flirts with sentimentality, then dances away from it. Its only serious lapses into mush are the scenes of Evelyn coaxing Mitchell into dancing to Bobby Darin's recording of "You'll Never Know," which turns into the movie's maudlin and redundant theme song.
Besides its laudable reluctance to tie up loose ends, the most courageous thing about "It Runs in the Family" is its refusal to try to make you love its aggressive, strong-willed characters. Alex may be a good guy (he volunteers at a soup kitchen and does pro bono work for worthy causes), but like his father, he is a bully. So is the obnoxious but charismatic Asher. Although the movie may not be aware of its message, it portrays the cost of certain kinds of professional success as an inability to let go, relax and smell the roses. It's that inability that keeps the Grombergs, despite their talents and their social conscience, from being particularly likable people.
"It Runs in the Family" is rated PG-13 (Parents strongly cautioned). It has strong language and sexual situations.

IT RUNS IN THE FAMILY

Directed by Fred Schepisi; written by Jesse Wigutow; director of photography, Ian Baker; edited by Kate Williams; music by Paul Grabowsky; production designer, Patrizia Von Brandenstein; produced by Michael Douglas; released by Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Pictures and Buena Vista International. Running time: 109 minutes. This film is rated PG-13.

WITH: Michael Douglas (Alex Gromberg), Kirk Douglas (Mitchell Gromberg), Rory Culkin (Eli Gromberg), Cameron Douglas (Asher Gromberg), Diana Douglas (Evelyn Gromberg), Michelle Monaghan (Peg Maloney), Sarita Choudhury (Suzie) and Bernadette Peters (Rebecca Gromberg).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Kirk, Michael and Cameron Douglas in "It Runs in the Family." (Andrew Schwartz/Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (90%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); MEN (78%); MARRIAGE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (76%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (73%); ETHICS (68%); WORLD WAR II (67%); PSYCHOLOGY (66%); HIP HOP CULTURE (62%); MARTIAL ARTS (61%); SPEECH & LANGUAGE DISORDERS (52%) MOTION PICTURES; REVIEWS 

PERSON: HOLDEN, STEPHEN; DOUGLAS, KIRK; SCHEPISI, FRED; DOUGLAS, MICHAEL; DOUGLAS, CAMERON; DOUGLAS, DIANA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: IT RUNS IN THE FAMILY (MOVIE) 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



749 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 3; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE ART 

BYLINE:  By Carol Vogel 

 BODY:
The Morgan Goes on Hiatus
 After next weekend, there will be one fewer museum to visit in Manhattan, though the loss will be only temporary. The Morgan Library will close its doors until early 2006 for a $100 million expansion and renovation. 
 As a kind of goodbye present to visitors, the museum will waive its requested fee on May 3 and 4, when admission will be pay-as-you-wish. 
"It's goodwill," said Charles E. Pierce Jr., director of the Morgan. "We wanted to leave visitors with a positive feeling and give everyone a chance to come for one last time."
Given the current economy and the drop in attendance that museums all over the country have been experiencing since 9/11, some institutions, including the Whitney Museum of American Art and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, have abandoned their expansion plans. But the Morgan is forging ahead with the Italian architect Renzo Piano's design for a new reading room; more gallery space; a larger, modernized auditorium; a more welcoming entrance; and better circulation inside. 
"I'm pleased that the board wishes to proceed with the project, because we couldn't do it without them," Mr. Pierce said. "So far we've raised about $68 million toward the $100 million of the building project. We now need to raise an additional $25 million for the endowment. So the overall project is really $125 million."
Finances aside, the Morgan has made sure that highlights from its collection will still be available to the public after it closes. It has organized two traveling exhibitions to raise money for its operating expenses and to let other parts of the country see some of its treasures. One show, "Illuminated Best Sellers: Books of Hours From the Morgan Library," will go first to the Kimbell Art Museum in Fort Worth from Oct. 12 through Jan. 18, 2004, and then to the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles from Oct. 18, 2005, through Jan. 8, 2006. The second, "Imagine: British Drawings and Watercolors, 1600-1900," which was at the Morgan in 1998, will go to the Taft Museum of Art in Cincinnati from May 14 through Aug. 15, 2004, and then to the Frick Art and Historical Center in Pittsburgh in late 2005. 
Closer to home, the museum has already lent some of its prized objects to the Metropolitan Museum. In November, several of the Morgan's medieval artworks went on view at the Met's Medieval Tapestry Hall, where they are to remain for at least two and a half years. In February, two sculptures from the Morgan went to the Met's Egyptian galleries.
When the Met opens "Art of the First Cities: The Third Millennium B.C. From the Mediterranean to the Indus" on May 8, the show will also include some loans from the Morgan. Among them will be a copper figure, placed in the foundation of a building, particularly a temple, to purify and sanctify the edifice. One such figure, depicting King Ur-Nammu, the first king of the Third Dynasty of Ur, shows him standing, holding his arms up. A basket containing mud to make bricks -- the image is of the king as builder -- is balanced on his head.
One department at the Met that has particularly benefited from the Morgan's recent loans is European paintings. In the first of the Met's Netherlandish galleries is a wall of seven portraits by Hans Memling. Three are from the Morgan.
"In putting these all together, it becomes a group that is unparalleled outside of Bruges," said Maryan Ainsworth, a curator in the Met's department of European painting and sculpture. The portraits span the artist's career, from his earliest works -- two panels from a triptych dated around 1470 -- to a portrait of an old man from around 1480 to 1490, Ms. Ainsworth said.
"Ordinarily the panels hung in a dark study of Mr. Morgan's -- few people saw them," she said. One of the Morgan's panels shows a benefactor with her patron, St. Anne. "In this context," she said, "the kneeling figures are seen as portraits."
Ms. Ainsworth added that the loans had inspired her to begin planning an exhibition focusing on Memling.

The First Seagram Sale
Tonight, Phillips, de Pury & Luxembourg, the struggling Chelsea-based auction house, will begin selling more than 700 photographs that once lined Seagram offices at the Seagram Building on Park Avenue and at 800 Third Avenue.
The entire collection, expected to fetch $1.4 million to $2.1 million, is being sold without a reserve (the secret minimum price mutually agreed upon by the seller and the auction house), which means that works will go to the highest bidders regardless of market values.
"We've found no-reserve sales tend to do extremely well," said Joshua Holdeman, head of Phillips's photography department. It was also the neatest way of dealing with the sale, Mr. Holdeman added, since Vivendi Universal, the now troubled French entertainment conglomerate that bought Seagram two years ago, needs to dispose of the collection and doesn't want to be left with unsold photographs.
The collection, put together in part by Phyllis Lambert, the daughter of Samuel Bronfman, the Seagram patriarch, spans the first 80 years of the 20th century and concentrates on American architecture and urban life.
The first sale will be devoted to 20th-century American photography. Highlights include Walker Evans's "Main Street, Saratoga Springs, N.Y." (1931), which is expected to sell for $40,000 to $60,000. Another, Louis Faurer's "Broadway Convertible, Times Square, New York" (1949), captures the spirit of postwar New York. It is expected to fetch $10,000 to $15,000.
Also at auction will be William Eggleston's "14 Pictures" (1971-74). This suite of photographs, estimated at $100,000 to $150,000, shows unsettling but seemingly ordinary scenes of Memphis suburbs without a single human subject.
Vivendi is selling more than just photographs. It chose Phillips to auction its photography collection but gave Christie's its more valuable modern art. Among the works for sale next month is Rothko's "Brown and Blacks in Reds" (1957), estimated at $6 million to $8 million.

At the New Museum
The New Museum of Contemporary Art in SoHo is growing, and not only in size. (In December it announced plans to build a 60,000-square-foot, $35 million building on an 8,000-square-foot parking lot at the Bowery and Prince Street.) It also keeps increasing its staff. 
This week it announced the appointment of Lisa Roumell as its deputy director. Until last year Ms. Roumell was a senior partner in DFW Management Company, a private equity investment fund. She will be responsible for the museum's daily operations and will also work with Lisa Phillips, director of the New Museum, in overseeing the new building project.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Memling's potrait of a donor with St. Anne, lent by the Morgan to the Met. (David A. Loggie/Pierpont Morgan Library) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); LIBRARIES (90%); HISTORY (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%) ART; SEAGRAM BUILDING (NYC); PHOTOGRAPHY; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN LIBRARY (NYC); PHILLIPS DE PURY & LUXEMBOURG; NEW MUSEUM OF CONTEMPORARY ART (NYC) 

PERSON: VOGEL, CAROL; PIERCE, CHARLES E JR; ROUMELL, LISA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (90%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (91%); MEDITERRANEAN (50%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



750 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 2; Column 1; Leisure/Weekend Desk; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1924 words

HEADLINE: DESIGN REVIEW; 
A Frontier Spirit In Anxious Times

BYLINE:  By HERBERT MUSCHAMP 

 BODY:
NO more Sheetrock. That's the big news from the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, where the second edition of the National Design Triennial is now on view. Instead of trying to obliterate the ornate wood interiors of the old Carnegie Mansion with big monochrome panels, the show's organizers have decided to let them be. Begone, white cube.
 Paul Warwick Thompson, the Cooper-Hewitt's director, says that this nonaggression pact with the past is now official museum policy. In the future, not even vaporous scrims will come between the museum's visitors and its vast expanses of polished oak. It works. For once, the objects on view are not overwhelmed by the aesthetic struggle taking place in the spaces around them. The museum has acquired the serenity to accept what cannot be changed. 
 Too bad I haven't attained that blissful state myself. Otherwise, I could avoid repeating some of the same objections I lodged last year against Cooper-Hewitt's previous event, "New Hotels for Global Nomads." To put it simply, this museum has boundary issues. Like "New Hotels," and like the museum's inaugural design triennial in 2000, the present show suffers from an unmanageable disposition to prove that Design is here, there and everywhere. Incorrigible stick-in-the-mud that I am, I cling to the prejudice that some things are more Design than others. Even or especially in our relativistic universe, principles of discrimination must be stated, if only as a way of describing the particular event at hand.
Organized by a team of four curators, this year's triennial, titled "Inside Design Now," presents the work of 80 designers in a show that occupies both floors of the museum. The theme is interiority, with an emphasis on the home. This is partly a pretext for exposing the mansion's original decorations. The theme has also resulted in an oddly homespun atmosphere, as if the Cooper-Hewitt had temporarily morphed into a museum of craft.
In contrast to the first triennial, which shone the spotlight on high-tech products, this one presents American design as a low-tech, do-it-yourself extravaganza, a resurgence of pioneer spirit in bewildering times. There are carpets made of belt leather; a skirt with chunky, lopsided flannel fringe; two easy chairs named for Eudora Welty; ottomans fashioned from hefty clumps of raw Malaysian rubber; biomorphic wooden salad bowls of a simplicity not seen in New York since the Good Design shows of the 1950's; and wallpaper depicting leaves of (presumably homegrown) marijuana. Even museum design gets the weekend carpenter treatment with a portable exhibition housed within rustic plywood modules. Do-si-do your cellphone, dude.
It doesn't pay to read too much social commentary into so sprawling an event. Still, at a time of mounting anxiety over personal and national security, it's natural to regard this frontier fiesta as a reflection of widespread introversion. Not since the heyday of atom bomb shelters have we seen the home so dramatically reconceived as a tactic for civil defense. There's even some stylish camouflage that could be useful for hiding from other family members beneath the same roof.
On three visits, I enjoyed myself immensely. That is partly because, as if in sync with the theme, many of the designers were present, installing their own work. Talking with them about their projects took me back to elementary school show and tells. Without the tell part, however, that educational element is missing from the show. Wall texts and the catalog are not adequate compensations.
Nonetheless, it might be best to see the triennial as the work of a school, an end-of-the-year pin-up by some of the most promising students in the shifting pedagogic frontier that is the contemporary American city. Taking 41 of the show's 80 slots, New York, that battered border town, is particularly well represented. It seems a pity not to award ribbons at such an affair. Let's hand out a few:
BEST MUSEUM INSTALLATION EVER SEEN AT THE COOPER-HEWITT: Sandra Wheeler and Alfred Zollinger of Matter Practice, New York. They designed this perfect exhibition.
BEST WORK IN SHOW: "Wave Garden" by Yusuke Obuchi, New York. No contest, really. This is the kind of work critics dream of finding. Even as pure sculpture, the project is stunning. But it is also a fine example of green design. Conceived as a power plant to replace a nuclear reactor in Southern California, this floating marine installation would harvest energy from Pacific waves. On weekends, it would surface above the waves to create a public beach and park roughly half the size of Central Park.
MOST SUBLIME USELESS OBJECT: "Cherry Blossoms" by Antenna Design, New York. This extraordinary installation, commissioned for the show, projects swirling pink flowers and falling snowflakes on a two-story semicylindrical screen. The Oriental images move in response to foot traffic up and down the museum's stairs.
BEST REASON TO BE RICH: Jim Zivic, New York. Mr. Zivic's cowhide carpeting is the best floor covering to come along since tigers became an endangered species. The deep brown leather panels are joined together by the metal fastenings used to make industrial conveyer belts. Stools, ottomans and other minimal furnishings by Mr. Zivic are combined in a design for living so good it could be Italian.
MOST ALL-AMERICAN: "Snack and Drink," an animated film by Bob Sabiston of Flat Black Films, Austin, Tex. This is the genuine frontier stuff: shelves bursting with candy and other snacks, soda fountains gushing cola and other bubbular enticements. This animated loop presents endless consumption as another kind of Homeland Security. Help the Economy. It's the Real Thing.
BRIGHT BULB AWARD FOR GENERAL BRILLIANCE: Lorraine Wild Studio, Los Angeles. Superior graphic designs for the illustrated books "Michal Rovner: The Space Between," "L.A. Now" and "Mies in America." Move over, Bruce Mau.
ZEITGEIST PRIZE: "Burning Bush" by Michele Oka Doner, New York. A bronze candelabrum, modeled after a branch in winter, set with candles. The most haunting work in the show, a somber counterpoint to the electric "Cherry Blossoms," this design effectively captures the American mood. Loss, hope, understatement: a totem for stoic times.
MOST CLASSICAL STATEMENT: "Hermaphrodite Dress" by Isabel Toledo, New York. An exceptional gown of gathered red silk, Ms. Toledo's design evokes the many-breasted goddesses of pagan times. 
CLOCKWORK ORANGE PRIZE FOR PROGRAMMED SOCIAL PRODUCTIVITY: Knoll A3 Furniture System, Asymptote, New York. A translucent organic mesh replaces standard office partitions in this cheery, adaptable module, designed by Hani Rashid and Lise Anne Couture. If the design fails, try Bach.
BEST INTERIOR DESIGN BY A FAMOUS MAGAZINE EDITOR: Joseph Holtzman, New York. The editor of the design review Nest has created a library fit for reading Tennessee Williams. There are fabrics embroidered with monstrous black flowers, a neurotic color combination of orange and blue, and the marijuana wallpaper already mentioned.
BEST GRAPHIC DESIGN BY AN EMINENT SCIENTIST: "Rule 30" by Stephen Wolfram, Boston. Represented by a diagram of a pyramid-shaped cellular automaton, Rule 30 was the genesis of the revolutionary project published in Mr. Wolfram's 2002 book, "A New Kind of Science." A picture must be worth more than 1,000 pages of brain-teasing prose.
BEST PUBLICATION DESIGN BY A BEST-SELLING AUTHOR: Timothy McSweeney's Quarterly Concern, published, edited, written and designed by Dave Eggers, San Francisco. A devoted book person, Mr. Eggers founded McSweeney's in 1998 as a showcase for his skills in printing and design as well as in literature.
But you see the problem we're running into here. The curators have cast their nets so wide that the catch ceases to resemble design per se. Rather, it has drawn forth too many visual byproducts of other enterprises. And the criteria for selection appear to be nearly as haphazard as some of the objects on view.
There is a kind of charm here. Let the Europeans and the Asians deal with sleek appliances, the curators seem to be saying. Just give us a hammer, some nails and that old American Can-Do. Whimsy and resourcefulness are certainly part of our relationship to design. Let's put on a design show! At a certain point, however, the triennial starts to feel like that country theme music video by Madonna from a few years back. It doesn't represent what the country's leading designers are actually up to.
It's true that the field long ago escaped its confinement in what the 20th century called "industrial design." That definition was a product of the Bauhaus and its reconception of domestic life for the age of the machine. Today, design is not synonymous with mass production. Standardization is just one part of the story. You can put your desktop in a custom-made mahogany cabinet without fear that you will be drummed out of the Modern Taste Club.
It is also true that developments in art and science have opened our eyes to the presence of designing minds in many specialized fields. Since Warhol, artists and critics have been at pains to define, or to deny, the difference between art and design. Mr. Wolfram's book "A New Kind of Science" would be even more inaccessible without graphic representations of his concepts. The concepts themselves could be considered design, in the sense that computer programs are. So could Newton. So could God, or whatever intelligence cooked up DNA.
We're a pattern-making species. We turn stars into constellations, clouds into mermaids. We nibble ice cream bars into parent figures and bite off their heads. So what? I don't need a design museum to tell me any of this. I want such a place to show me where to put the brackets.
By that, I don't mean that the Cooper-Hewitt should erect a rigid border between what is and isn't design. Rather, the curators should keep a simple principle in mind. Relativism does not diminish, but on the contrary increases, the need for rigor and clarity in the selection process. The more inclusive the triennial wants to be, the clearer it needs to be about the grounds on which other items are excluded.
You could forgive and even applaud the inaugural triennial for being all over the place. "Design is everywhere" is an apt statement to make when starting out. Make the same statement twice, however, and you risk turning the triennial into a game of blind man's bluff.
Eighty slots is not that many. Shouldn't they be held for those whose talent blazes primarily within design? Dave Eggers is a fine writer, Maira Kalman a great illustrator, Stephen Wolfram a brilliant scientist, I am told. Joseph Holtzman puts out one of the most stylish magazines around. Still, when I encounter their work in this context, I'm gnawed by the feeling that something is missing: some piece of street furniture, perhaps. A beautiful garden. A laptop. Or just the sense that the museum is tracking the development of great designers from one year tothe next. Apart from a lovely presentation of recent work by Gaetano Pesce, the field's most enduring lights are shortchanged.
Each curator was given 20 slots to fill, and you gain the impression that the choices were seldom challenged by the group as a whole. There is a very homespun term for this arrangement, which afflicts nine out of 10 American households: codependency.

"The National Design Triennial: Inside Design Now" is at the Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum, Smithsonian Institution, 2 East 91st Street, (212) 849-8400, through Jan. 25.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In the National Design Triennial: Michele Oka Doner's bronze "Burning Bush" candelabrum, Critz Campbell's Eudora chair with its fluorescent light and Asymptote's office cubicles for Knoll. (Photographs from Cooper-Hewitt Museum)(pg. E35); "Wave Garden" by Yusuke Obuchi, top; "Cherry Blossoms" by Antenna Design, above; and "Totalistic Cellular Automata" by Stephen Wolfram, above right. (Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum); (Yusuke Obuchi); (Cooper-Hewitt National Design Museum)(pg. E37) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (93%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%) DESIGN; REVIEWS; INTERIOR DESIGN 

ORGANIZATION: COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM (94%) COOPER-HEWITT NATIONAL DESIGN MUSEUM 

PERSON: MUSCHAMP, HERBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



751 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
SBC Swings to Profit, but Continues to Lose Local-Line Customers

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News

 BODY:
SBC Communications, the local telephone company, said yesterday that it returned to profitability in its first quarter, helped by gains from accounting changes and the sale of its stake in the French phone company Cegetel S.A.
 Net income was $5 billion, or $1.50 a share, in contrast to a net loss of $193 million, or 6 cents a share, a year earlier. Revenue fell 1.8 percent, to $10.3 billion, as sales from local calling dropped. 
 SBC and the two other large local phone companies, Verizon Communications and BellSouth, had sales declines in the quarter after losing local lines to competitors. The Baby Bells shed a combined 1.8 million lines and had a revenue drop of almost $1 billion as rivals took customers and other subscribers canceled lines. The three forecast more declines ahead.
"The competitive and economic environment for the large Bells is something that's going to dampen any results for 2003," said Craig Nedbalski, an analyst at Victory Capital Management, which holds SBC shares among $62 billion in assets. "What they're doing right is aggressively controlling their cost structure, which all the Bells need to do."
Shares of SBC, which is based in San Antonio, rose 72 cents, or 3.3 percent, to $22.52 on the New York Stock Exchange. They had fallen 30 percent in the last year.
New competitors like the AT&T Corporation added 21.6 million local lines through June 2002, aided by a 1996 government rule that requires the Bells to lease their networks to other carriers at discounts. AT&T said it more than doubled the number of local customers in the first quarter.
To help compensate, SBC's chief executive, Edward Whitacre, cut 2,000 jobs in the quarter, bringing total work-force reductions at the company to more than 19,000 in just over a year.
SBC, which dominates local calling in 13 states from California to Texas, said local lines declined 405,000, to 56.7 million in the quarter. Local calling revenue fell 9.2 percent, to $5.76 billion.
Excluding accounting changes and the gain from the sale of its stake in Cegetel, SBC had a profit of $1.4 billion, or 42 cents a share, in the first quarter.
The average estimate of analysts surveyed by Thomson First Call was for a profit of 36 cents a share.





LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPANY PROFITS (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (90%); DIVESTITURES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (90%); NEUF CEGETEL SA (58%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (55%)

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); VZC (LSE) (90%); VZ (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (58%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (55%) SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS EX. RADIO; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (54%) TEXAS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



752 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Amid Expected Auto Slump, Daimler Warns on Chrysler 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, April 24 

 BODY:
Amid new signs of a deterioration in the United States auto market, DaimlerChrysler said today that it would probably not achieve its earnings target for the Chrysler division this year.
 The warning, which came as the company reported better-than-expected overall earnings in the first quarter, was a significant disappointment because Chrysler had been shaping up as a respectable turnaround situation. 
 Daimler pared costs aggressively at Chrysler, its financially troubled division, closing six factories and cutting 26,000 jobs. Still, the company said that Chrysler would probably fall short of its goal of $2 billion in operating profit. 
"It has become clear in the last few weeks that the market in the United States has become even more challenging," said Manfred Gentz, Daimler's chief financial officer, in a conference call with investors.
Chrysler's retail sales dropped nearly 9 percent in the quarter, as the war in Iraq and broader economic uncertainty kept prospective American buyers away. Mr. Gentz said the market continued to be drained by a near-frantic reliance on costly sales incentives. "That doesn't lead us to anywhere," he said, urging his competitors to rethink their marketing strategies.
The rise in value of the euro against the dollar also depressed the company's sales and earnings. 
In the first quarter, DaimlerChrysler earned 588 million euros, or some $648.6 million at current exchange rates, down from 2.5 billion euros in the corresponding period last year, which included a gain from the sale of its stake in a telecommunications company. Revenue declined to 33.7 billion euros from 36.9 billion euros.
While net income slightly exceeded the projections of analysts, few were excited. "You just can't be satisfied with these margins," said Thomas Aney of Dresdner Kleinwort Wasserstein here. 
Mr. Aney played down the euro's effect. While a Mercedes exported to the United States becomes more expensive, Daimler produces and sells many of its cars in North America, making it less vulnerable to currency swings than rivals like Volkswagen, which are more deeply rooted in Europe. 
Volkswagen's chief executive, Bernd Pischetsrieder, said today that the euro, which has gained 19 percent in value against the dollar in the last year, was a primary culprit for its expected lower earnings in 2003. 
The grim news from Daimler and Volkswagen drove down their share prices, as well as those of the French carmakers Peugeot and Renault. Daimler's stock fell 5 percent in Frankfurt, while Volkswagen's slid 2.7 percent. Even shares of the normally resilient BMW fell 4.2 percent. 
And the glum tidings were not limited to the auto industry. Deutsche Bank surprised investors by warning that it would record a first-quarter loss of about $220 million, after writing down nearly $800 million in the value of its holdings in various companies. 
DaimlerChrysler's results may be the most worrisome because they suggest that the troubles in the American market are deeper and may well be more protracted, than even cautious experts had thought. 
"The whole industry has been fooling itself," said Graeme Maxton, an analyst at Autopolis, a consulting firm in London. "It's been talking up the market in the U.S. long after it was due for a downturn." 
Even now, Mr. Maxton said, many auto executives are projecting a sales decline of only 5 to 10 percent, when the history of previous industry downturns suggests that sales may drop 20 percent. "There's no doubt that Chrysler is in a better position because of its cost-cutting and because it has some new models coming out," he said. "But it is still about to weather a storm." 
Mr. Gentz said Chrysler would redouble its campaign to cut costs, though it was not clear how it plans to do that, because he also said the company did not intend to lay off any more workers.
Chrysler is promoting two new models, the Crossfire and the Pacifica. The Crossfire, a sports car, symbolizes the collaboration between Mercedes and Chrysler engineers that was promised in the 1998 merger. Several of its parts come from Mercedes. The Pacific -- a hybrid of a minivan, station wagon and sport utility vehicle -- represents an attempt to freshen all three categories. 
Mr. Gentz said the cars, which have won enthusiastic notices from critics, would help wean Chrysler off sales incentives. 
The Crossfire, though a hit at auto shows, will not sell at close to the quantities needed to turn around Chrysler sales. Even the Pacifica, while more of a mass-market vehicle, may not be enough. "It will be more of a flag-waver -- that this company still has what it takes to build a creative car," Mr. Aney said. 
Not all the news from DaimlerChrysler was negative. Mercedes-Benz is holding its own against BMW, with a 1 percent increase in sales of passenger cars in the first quarter. Mercedes has benefited from an updated version of its midsize E-class sedan, as well as a new station wagon. 
Sales of Daimler's heavy trucks in the United States rose by an unexpected 15 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); EURO (89%); CURRENCIES (87%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); MARKETING STRATEGY (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SALES FIGURES (77%); DIVESTITURES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); COMPANY STRATEGY (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (72%); PLANT CLOSINGS (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); RETAIL SALES (68%); SALES & SELLING (68%); IRAQ WAR (68%); EXCHANGE RATES (66%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); CONFERENCE CALLS (54%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); COMMERZBANK HOLDINGS (UK) LTD (81%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (56%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (56%); DBK (FRA) (56%); DBK (BIT) (56%); DBETN (JSE) (56%); DBA (ASX) (56%); DB (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (81%); NAICS522298 ALL OTHER NONDEPOSITORY CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (81%); SIC6159 MISC. BUSINESS CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (81%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (87%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); IRAQ (76%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



753 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Jump in Subprime Loans Spurs Fight Over Abuses

BYLINE:  By DENNIS HEVESI

 BODY:
Gov. James E. McGreevey of New Jersey has declared his intention to sign, within 10 days, one of the nation's toughest laws against predatory lending.
 Last October, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York signed what fair-lending advocates praised as a pioneering law against predatory practices. And since 2001, Connecticut has had legislation in place that virtually mirrors federal statutes against predatory practices by lenders and mortgage brokers. 
 And while the New York City Council overwhelmingly passed one of the nation's most far-reaching lending laws last fall, and later overrode Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg's veto, the mayor has since gone to court to overturn the override -- leaving the law in limbo.
Yet all the legislative activity in the metropolitan region -- along with legislation in other states -- is being challenged in Congress, where a bill that would pre-empt all state and local predatory-lending laws was recently introduced. Critics say the bill would even weaken existing federal predatory-lending laws.
The legislative flurry was spurred by a burst in lending to subprime borrowers, those whose credit histories disqualify them from conventional loans. According to Federal Reserve data, subprime loans rose to 13.4 percent of the national mortgage market in 2000 from 2 percent in 1993. For refinance loans alone, subprime lending jumped to 25.3 percent of the market. And in the last nine years, despite a decrease of 20 percent in foreclosures on prime-rate mortgages, the national foreclosure rate has risen by 68 percent -- to 677,000 last year from 401,000 in 1993.
Subprime loans, which carry higher costs to the borrower, are legal. But they become illegal if the lender engages in certain practices, including: flipping, in which a loan is refinanced without actual benefit to the borrower; balloon payments, with which a payment far larger than previous payments comes due early in the loan term; and failure to make certain that the borrower can afford the loan.
Most laws first specify what constitutes a "high-cost" loan by setting a threshold on the annual percentage rate, or on the level of fees added onto the principal. 
The New Jersey bill defines a subprime, or high-cost, mortgage as one with an annual rate higher than 8 percentage points above the prevailing rate for a comparable Treasury bond, or fees that exceed 5 percent of the principal. While proscribing certain predatory practices, it includes an "assignee liability" provision, under which a borrower can sue a predatory lender, or even any financial entity that purchased shares in so-called bundles of securitized loans.
The New Jersey bill's chief sponsor, Assemblyman Matt Ahearn, a Democrat from Fair Lawn, said that to meet Senate concerns on assignee liability "we provided an out for mortgage purchasers, the assignees, if they were really innocent in acquiring the loan; if they have verification procedures for what they are buying, but something slipped through."
In New York City, on Oct. 23, Mayor Bloomberg vetoed a bill, passed by the City Council 44 to 5, that in one significant way -- a stricter version of assignee liability -- went farther than any other legislation in the nation. It would have barred the city from doing business with any entity that originated predatory loans or bought them as part of a bundle of loans, which includes many Wall Street financial houses.
On Nov. 20, the Council overrode the mayor's veto. But in February, Mayor Bloomberg filed suit in State Supreme Court in Manhattan, calling the law invalid because it "curtails mayoral powers" and "regulates matters for which a comprehensive state law scheme occupies the field, thereby pre-empting further regulation by local law."
All of which may become moot if a federal bill, introduced in February by Representative Robert Ney, an Ohio Republican, becomes law. The bill says it will pre-empt state and local lending legislation, "irrespective of whether such law affords greater protection, substantive or otherwise, to consumers." Mr. Ney did not respond to several telephone requests for comment on his bill.
Gregory Jefferson, a Washington lobbyist for Acorn, the Association of Community Organizations for Reform Now, which opposes theNey proposal, said, "The industry found it just too burdensome to fight all these battles state by state and locally." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PREDATORY LENDING (93%); SUBPRIME LENDING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MAYORS (90%); FAIR LENDING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CREDIT REGULATION (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); STATISTICS (87%); VETO (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); PRIME RATES (78%); SECURITIZATION (78%); CITIES (76%); LITIGATION (74%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (71%); BONDS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (56%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



754 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: OPEC Production Cut Is Less Than Expected 

BYLINE:  By ERIC PFANNER, International Herald Tribune

DATELINE: VIENNA, April 24 

 BODY:
OPEC surprised the oil market today by announcing a smaller-than-expected reduction in output.
 Though the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries said after an emergency meeting here that it would cut back supply to bolster prices amid sluggish demand, it simultaneously raised its official production ceiling to legitimize much of the excess output that members provided during the war in Iraq. 
 "The quota was on holiday," acknowledged Abdullah al-Attiyah, the OPEC president. "Now we are taking physical oil from the market." 
Though oil prices fell after the announcement as traders concluded that supplies would not tighten as much as some had feared, the prices later rebounded. In New York, crude oil for June delivery fell 1 cent, to $26.64 a barrel. 
OPEC said that it would reduce production to a temporary limit of 25.4 million barrels a day starting June 1. While the group said that would remove 2 million barrels a day from the world market, its estimate of current output of 27.4 million barrels a day is higher than outside experts' calculations.
Many had expected OPEC to announce that it would simply abide by its previous quota of 24.5 million barrels a day, set in January. Thus the reduction may be less than advertised. 
"This is known as OPEC math," said Axel Busch at the Energy Intelligence Group in London. "OPEC has proved once again its ability to turn a straightforward policy decision into a confusing muddle." 
OPEC members had breached their official production limits during the war to keep markets supplied and to prevent a damaging spike in prices. But with the main fighting over, the global economy sluggish and the prospect of an eventual return of Iraqi oil to the market, the group was growing concerned about a possible glut.
Mr. Attiyah said the new production level, about one-third of the world's oil consumption, might be temporary and would be reviewed at the group's next meeting, on June 11. 
"Today we feel we may need another cut in June," Mr. Attiyah said. OPEC's goal is to keep the price of a basket of crude oils within a range of $22 to $28 a barrel. 
By June, OPEC members may have a clearer reading on when Iraqi exports, cut off from world markets by the war, will return. Before the United States-led invasion, Iraq had been pumping about 2.5 million barrels a day, selling most of it under the United Nations-administered oil-for-food program.
But United Nations sanctions against Iraq are still officially in place, damage to the country's oil industry has largely not been repaired and no new government has been installed. That means Iraq, officially one of OPEC's 11 members but out of its quota system since the 1991 Persian Gulf war, may not return to the export markets for some time, analysts say. 
In the meantime, the new OPEC production level essentially allows other members to make up for the cutoff of Iraqi production, analysts say, while the country's ultimate role in the group remains unclear. 
"They've precluded the return of any Iraqi oil to the market before June," said Raad Alkadiri, a director at PFC Energy, a consulting firm in Washington. "They're basically splitting up the Iraqi share among themselves." 
While most analysts had expected OPEC to announce a straightforward commitment to scale back production to previous quotas, analysts said pressure from some of the group's smaller members might have contributed to the decision to lift the official production ceiling. Several of those countries, including Algeria and Nigeria, have been moving to expand their output capacity and may have wanted to establish a greater share of the market later, when Iraqi oil returns to the export market. 
Mr. Attiyah said he hoped that Iraq would eventually return to its seat at future OPEC meetings. Officials said no Iraqi representatives attended the meeting today, though the country's heavily guarded embassy in Vienna is across the street from the Intercontinental Hotel, where OPEC ministers met. 
In the first few months of the year, OPEC said, Iraq produced only 1.9 million barrels a day of oil, on average, though its reserves are seen as the second largest in the world, after Saudi Arabia. 
Mr. Attiyah, the oil minister of Qatar, one of the 10 active OPEC members, said he had spoken with other big oil producers like Russia, which is not a member, and received support for the group's move. 
Russia has been increasing its own oil output in recent months, and some analysts say it and other independent producers could eventually rival OPEC's influence in the energy market, particularly if a new Iraqi government chooses to leave the group. The Russians, along with other non-OPEC producers like Mexico, have been pumping oil at near capacity, and Mr. Busch said they were unlikely to push for cuts in production as long as prices held close to current levels. That means it will fall to OPEC members to enforce discipline under the new quota system.
In recent years, the group has been unable to keep members from selling more oil than officially allowed, and by tacitly endorsing wartime overproduction, analysts said, that task could become even more difficult. The uncertain postwar course of the global economy makes it difficult for OPEC to gauge future demand.
Though oil consumption usually grows in summer, OPEC representatives said there were several variables, including the economic effects of the outbreak of severe acute respirator syndrome, or SARS, which could curb demand in Asia alone by 300,000 barrels a day in the second quarter.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The secretary general of OPEC, Alvaro Silva, talked with reporters yesterday in Vienna as the organization's president, Abdullah al-Attiyah, left a news conference. OPEC will cut output starting June 1 to bolster prices amid sluggish demand. (Reuters)(pg. C1); Ali Hussein steps around crude oil that has leaked from a pumping station in Kirkuk, Iraq. The station controls a pipeline to Turkey. (Associated Press)(pg. C7) Chart: After rising before the war, the price of oil has fallen to where it was five months ago. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph shows OIL PRICES (Near month contract) Dec. Feb. March April Jan. 03. MARCH 17: President Bush issues ultimatum to IraqMARCH 19: United States and allies begin bombing Iraq. (pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (79%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); DESERT STORM (76%); CONSUMPTION (73%); IRAQ WAR (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (96%); AUSTRIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GULF STATES (79%); TURKEY (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (59%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



755 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 728 words

PERSON: Martha Wright Griffiths 

HEADLINE: Martha Griffiths, 91, Dies; Fighter for Women's Rights 

BYLINE:  By WOLFGANG SAXON

 BODY:
Martha Wright Griffiths, a longtime United States representative who was a legend in Michigan Democratic politics and one of the most effective women's civil rights legislators of her day, died on Tuesday at her home in Armada, Mich. She was 91.
 Known for her sharp intellect and blunt language, she entered Congress in 1955, was re-elected nine times and served through 1974, when she chose not to run again. She successfully fought to bring women under the protection of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, her crowning achievement in Congress. 
 Her persistence became a decisive factor in House approval of the Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution in 1970. It was her second triumph as a lawmaker, even though it remained a symbolic victory. 
Mrs. Griffiths pursued passage of the amendment calmly, with the persuasive skills of the trial lawyer she once was. Her arguments went a long way toward persuading a male-dominated House to subscribe to a cause that had been on the table for 47 years, since women got the vote in 1923.
The Senate followed suit in 1972, and the proposed amendment then went to the states for approval. It gained a majority but fell three states short of the 38 needed for ratification.
Opponents of ratification raised the specter of economic ruin and combat duty for women, but Mrs. Griffiths continued the fight at the state level. She and Phyllis Schlafly, a principal opponent, sharply debated the issue at a national forum in 1976.
"If we had five minutes more," said Rosemary Mullaney, one of the forum's organizers, "they would have killed each other."
For much of her life, Mrs. Griffiths scored firsts, like becoming the first woman to serve on the House Ways and Means Committee. She also sat on the Joint Economic Committee of Congress and was chairwoman of the House Subcommittee on Fiscal Policy.
Such key assignments gave her leverage to lobby for giving women specific protection under the Civil Rights Act. As proposed, the bill would have barred discrimination on the basis of race, religion or national origin; she led the drive to add "sex" as a listed category.
Mrs. Griffiths noted that inequalities could run either way, telling her colleagues on the Ways and Means Committee at one point, "I am tired of paying into a pension fund to support your widow but not my widower."
She ascribed part of her success to her husband and sometime law partner, Hicks G. Griffiths, who was once state Democratic chairman of Michigan. He died in 1996.
She was born Martha Wright in Pierce City, Mo., the daughter of a rural mail carrier, and became a champion debater in high school. She met Mr. Griffiths, a fellow student, at the University of Missouri, where both were on the debating team.
They eloped the year before she graduated in 1934. They studied law, and in 1940 were the first couple to graduate together from the University of Michigan Law School. 
They went into practice in Detroit in 1946 as Griffiths & Griffiths. Another partner was G. Mennen Williams, whom they helped in his bid for governor in 1948. By then Mrs. Griffiths had lost her first race for the state Legislature.
She gained a seat in the state House, one of only two women in that chamber from 1949 to 1952, when she lost her first bid for Congress. Instead, Governor Williams appointed her to the bench of Recorder's Court in Detroit, and she was a judge until her election to the House in 1954, the first Democratic woman elected to Congress from Michigan.
After leaving Congress, she inhabited corporate boardrooms where few women had ever been members. She returned to politics in 1982, when James J. Blanchard, the Democratic candidate for governor, made her his running mate. She was elected lieutenant governor and re-elected with him in 1986.
Governor Blanchard's decision to replace her on his ticket in 1990 caused political furor in Michigan. Mr. Blanchard indicated that he had dropped her because of her age and increasing frailty, but Mrs. Griffiths, ever feisty, took issue and said women and the elderly had put Mr. Blanchard into office in the first place.
Mr. Blanchard narrowly lost the election to John M. Engler, a Republican.
"I don't know if I feel vindicated, but I think it clearly shows that I won it for him the first two times," Mrs. Griffiths said after Mr. Blanchard's defeat. "I feel bad for him, but he took some very bad advice."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Martha Wright Griffiths (Associated Press, 1982) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CIVIL RIGHTS (91%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); WOMEN (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); APPROVALS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); MEN (73%); LOBBYING (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (73%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (65%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); RELIGION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MISSOURI, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

CATEGORY: Social Activism 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



756 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 923 words

PERSON: Todd Rosenberg 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Self-Described Slacker Who Really Is No Slouch

BYLINE:  By ROBIN FINN

 BODY:
TODD ROSENBERG'S two hermit crabs -- dull pets of last resort, yes, but the landlord bans dogs and Mr. Rosenberg is allergic to cats -- reside in a tacky aquarium next to the broken blue vacuum cleaner and other deceased appliances stored in the hall outside his Warren Street walk-up in Cobble Hill, Brooklyn.
 Actually, he's down to one and a half pets: One crab became much less the hermit the other day after its shell disintegrated when Mr. Rosenberg picked it up to check for a pulse. Creepy. 
 But funny, too, in a sick way; and this, as it turns out, is right up Mr. Rosenberg's alley. When a previous crab, Doctor Z, expired, Mr. Rosenberg, 33 but resolutely "anti-maturity," gave it a public send-off: its funeral was broadcast on his cult-driven Web site right along with the daily birthday salute (folks like Shirley Temple and Lee Majors get noticed here) and the daily fact-learned-from-TV. 
Sample fact circa 4/22/03: "I found out today that caribou might be kind of smart. They like to spend a lot of time hanging out around the oil pipelines. Maybe because hunting around the oil pipelines is illegal." He goes on to say that this doubly stinks for hunters "because whatever caribou are eating around the pipelines apparently makes them taste a little weird." 
Each week, some 100,000 kindred spirits, though not all of them fellow slackers, visit his self-deprecating Web site, oddtodd.com, situated in Laid-Off Land, to keep tabs on the monotonous life of Odd Todd, a 30ish dot-com layoff cartoon character/couch potato who often is, and occasionally isn't, Mr. Rosenberg himself. 
The character is a hit even if its creator remains a nervous solo -- girls seem unimpressed by unemployed bald guys who write comic strips about unemployed bald guys -- a semi-mensch who wanders around his $1,400-a-month apartment barefoot and eats cereal late at night in front of the boob tube in a leopard-print beanbag chair. 
Don't the girls know Odd Todd is up for two Webby Awards this June? He's heard the award ceremony in San Francisco was canceled, so if he wins, he'll have to give his five-word acceptance speech (a Webby rule) over the Internet. Appropriate.
Mr. Rosenberg, whose resume mentions a 2.27 G.P.A. earned at the University of Hartford, started his site in 2001 after being laid off by atomFilms.com after being remaindered by Barnesandnoble.com after leaving Egreetings .com after absorbing the kidney punch of rejection from a variety of newspapers for four comic strips he had thought sure material for syndication. Get the picture? 
"The lines are blurry between who's who, but there is a separation between me and the character," says Mr. Rosenberg of the similarities between himself and the stubble-faced, junk food-obsessed, television-addicted comic-strip kook he dreamed up by night while spending his days interviewing for jobs. 
"The fact is, the guy in the cartoon doesn't have a Web site and hasn't written a book. The other fact is, I've always been a slacker, always been broke. I'm not a go-getter." 
He clams up like a hermit crab when asked where he's hiding the ubiquitous blue bathrobe Odd Todd wears on the Web and throughout "The Odd Todd Handbook: Hard Times, Soft Couch" (Warner Books; 2003), soon to be peddled in Brooklyn bookstores, maybe beyond. 
"I don't want to talk about it," he pouts. When pressed, he admits he does sometimes spend his days in his bathrobe, a souvenir, sort of, snatched from a hotel. Like his character, Mr. Rosenberg is follicle-challenged; he's hairy enough, but none sprouts from the crown of his head. Unlike his character, his junk-food gut is in recession. Instead of mainlining Pringles and cookies, today Mr. Rosenberg's afternoon snack consists of wasabi peas, carrot nuggets, Diet Coke and salt -- the better to wow the babes on that book tour with a smooth torso, if not a smooth pick-up line. 
VISITORS to his site are able to thank him for his insights into unemployment and inertia by contributing to a tip jar -- it yielded almost $20,000 last year -- or purchasing products officially endorsed by the site, such as oddtodd mugs and T-shirts and even thong underwear. Otherwise, his site is what he calls family friendly: no politics, no porn. (Besides, his parents help run it). 
And too, Mr. Rosenberg is conscience-laden; he said he couldn't even bring himself to steal his beloved Aeron office chair when he took leave of Barnesandnoble.com. "It would have been bad karma," he says. 
But he did fight back, with help from his lawyer brother, when the New York Department of Labor took him to court last year to recover $2,500 in unemployment benefits it claimed his Web site tip jar rendered him ineligible to keep. The judge ruled in favor of Odd Todd. He's a slacker, but he's no slouch.
He was born in Manhattan and grew up in New Rochelle in, he says, a wacky family. His father was a dentist, his mother a toy designer who patented a shar-pei with moveable wrinkles. His parents worried when he stopped looking for a job and opted for a life of creative unemployment, but his Web site, book, and, if all goes miraculously, development deal with Comedy Central for a television pilot based on Odd Todd, have mollified them. Totally. 
"Literally, two years ago I was unemployed and looking for jobs that I had no skills for and knew I didn't want, and now that there's even a remote possibility this thing will become a TV show, well, it's mind blowing," he says. "But I'm a master derailer, so that's probably what's really on the horizon." Wink, wink.

GRAPHIC: Photo: TODD ROSENBERG (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET & WWW (88%); LAYOFFS (86%); CATS (78%); ALLERGIES (73%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (70%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); HAIR LOSS (61%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: BARNESANDNOBLE.COM LLC (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (50%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (50%); NAICS443142 ELECTRONICS STORES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%)

CATEGORY: Art 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



757 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: With Fire in Their Eyes; 
Buffs Find Passion in Chasing Sirens and Red Trucks

BYLINE:  By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
By day, Ira Rubin takes care of his ailing mother and works as a production manager at a matzo factory in Jersey City.
 At night, he flicks on the police scanner and enters a lurid world of fires and disasters. 
 If he hears the dispatchers call in a serious fire, he will often jump into his Mercury Marquis and race to the scene to watch. If not, he may simply monitor the nightly mayhem by two-way radio from the renovated 19th-century firehouse where he helps run a canteen service for firefighters. On weekends, he often puts on a gray kilt and Glengarry hat to play the bagpipes at fire and police department events. 
In short, Mr. Rubin belongs to that quietly eccentric band of people known as fire buffs. Their ranks include lawyers, salesmen, doctors, locksmiths, even an heiress or two. All of them seem to share a single experience: at an early age, they heard a siren and saw a bright red fire engine bolt past. They have been chasing fires ever since.
It is impossible to say how many fire buffs there are in the New York area. There are about 100 subscribers who pay $100 a year to help support Citywide Radio, a channel that buffs use to communicate about fires and other disasters (461.225 megaherz on the dial). But many prefer to keep their habit private, tuning in to police scanners or pagers and devouring Fire Department bulletins and industry magazines. Some belong to groups like New York's Fire Bell Club, or canteen services like the one Mr. Rubin helps run, the Gong Club of Jersey City.
When asked about their hobby, some buffs get a little defensive.
"It's not about pyromania," said Doug Kahn, 39, a night assignment editor at Channel 11 who got his first scanner at age 15. "It's about watching what the firefighters are doing. I hate to make it sound like a spectator sport, but it's kind of like watching guys fight a battle and rooting for them."
Some buffs take pictures at fires and then donate them, negatives and all, to the department, which then uses them in training.
"Buffs are very good for us," said Vincent Dunn, a retired fire chief who spent 42 years on the job in Manhattan and the Bronx and has written three books about firefighting. "Some of them know more about the fire service than we do, and they help get our point across."
Most buffs are also quick to point out that their passion has a distinguished history. Gov. Alfred E. Smith chased fires in Lower Manhattan as a boy in the 1880's, and Mayor Fiorello H. La Guardia would often speed to the scene of a major fire. Buffs claim the well-known photographer Weegee, who often slept in his car with a police radio on during the 1940's and 50's, as one of their own. And during the 1970's, when the almost nightly fires of the South Bronx could be seen from miles away, large crowds would often drive up from Manhattan to watch.
"The scene of a fire in those days had the strange quality of a social event," recalled John Miller, now the chief of the counterterrorism bureau at the Los Angeles Police Department, who grew up in Manhattan running uptown to photograph fires in the Bronx. "They'd all stand around talking, swapping notes about the big one they saw the other guy missed, how fast they got there, and which engine came first." 
But many buffs now say their hobby is dying. There are far fewer fires to see than there were 20 years ago, largely because of improvements in building codes and fire prevention, along with the surging economy and dropping crime of the 1990's, which helped to reduce arson.
"Thank God there isn't the kind of urban blight there was in the 60's and 70's," said David Bookstaver, who grew up in Manhattan with a scanner taped to the handlebars of his bicycle. "But there's not enough now for a young kid to get interested in."
On a recent Saturday evening, Mr. Rubin, 49, sat for several hours under the Gong Club's dusty tin ceiling, lamenting the passage of the great age of fires. Every now and then the radios on either side of him would emit a sudden burst of voices, and he would tilt his head back slightly, listening to the dispatchers. None of the fires was big enough to be worth chasing.
Mr. Rubin serves as the archivist of the Jersey City Fire Department. He talks about fires of the past with a kind of melancholy nostalgia, like a Harold Bloom of the fire buffs' world. 
Mr. Rubin was still talking about the lost romance of fire buffing when a group of visitors from Boston arrived at the Gong Club door. They were members of the Sparks Club, Boston's largest buff group. They had just come from a two-alarm fire on Wooster Street in SoHo, and they soon got into a vigorous discussion of comparative firefighting methods with their Jersey City counterparts.
The terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, had a powerful effect on fire buffs. Many say the attacks taught everyone else what they already knew about the heroism of firefighters. But there is a new uneasiness, too. In the past, buffs would often say goodbye with a traditional phrase: "I'll see you at the big one." Not anymore.
"It was enough to make the whole thing seem morbid," said Mr. Bookstaver, who is now the spokesman for the State Office of Court Administration. 
While some buffs may have grown away from the habit, others have developed it into a career in journalism (Mr. Kahn) or public service (Mr. Bookstaver). 
And starting in the early 1970's, a few began using their expertise more directly as a way to make money. It was then that John Delventhal was coming home one morning when he happened to see a Cadillac spin out and strike a building on Houston Street. He caught the whole thing on videotape, sold it to a network, and a business model was born. He and a friend formed a company called Action Movie News, which was soon followed by another, the Broadcast News Network.
Their successor today is the Breaking News Network, a 24-hour pager service that condenses breaking news for journalists and other clients. It is run by Robert and Steven Gessmann, identical twin brothers and lifelong buffs, out of a small suite in an office park in Fort Lee, N.J.
The Gessmanns spend their days listening to fire and police radios; they take calls from a network of freelance buffs from Maryland to Connecticut. They type up each item as it comes in and send it out on the pager, a constant diet of fires, suspicious packages, car chases and false alarms for their 2,000 paying subscribers, who pay amounts ranging from $8 a month for individuals to $300 a month for commercial accounts.
But some buffs look down on the Gessmann brothers for mass-marketing their pastime. "To me it's not a business," Mr. Rubin said. 
Some buffs, in fact, speak of their hobby as though it were a kind of cult, complete with its own relics and sacred texts. On a recent afternoon, Barry Gintel and Marty Schwartzberg gave a tour of the Bell Club's office on East 23rd Street. (The room, as it happens, is a bit of a fire hazard: no windows and no sprinklers, with the exit sign not lighted.) The club owns a chunk of the B-25 bomber that crashed into the Empire State Building in 1945, and a piece of the Hindenburg. There are countless plaques and photographs, century-old leather fire buckets, helmets and a massive, old-fashioned alarm bell.
With all this hero worship, why do buffs not take the final step? Why are they not firefighters? For some, the answer is simple: they failed to pass the rigorous physical exam. Others say they prefer the role of the spectator. Still others chose a career that was seen as more lucrative, but have been haunted ever since by a parallel life, one they will never live.
"Would I have been able to walk into a burning building?" Mr. Schwartzberg said. "Do I have that intestinal fortitude? I'll never know."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Buffs are very good for us," a retired chief said of the small group of people who track and watch fires, like this Bronx blaze. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times, 1973); Ira Rubin at the Gong Club of Jersey City, a canteen service for fire departments and a meeting place for buffs. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Barry Gintel of the Bell Club, on East 23rd Street, with an early-1900's trumpet that was used by firefighters. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); POLICE FORCES (78%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (78%); FIRES (77%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



758 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 547 words

PERSON: Abram Bergson 

HEADLINE: Abram Bergson, 89, Theorist Who Studied Soviet Economy 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN

 BODY:
Abram Bergson, an economist who brought sophisticated analytical tools and a theorist's rigor to the study of the Soviet economy, died on Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He was 89.
 For many years economists regarded Professor Bergson, who taught at Harvard, as the dean of Soviet economic studies, and he lived to see the field shift its focus to the transition between economic systems. Yet he began his academic career as a theorist, publishing an extremely influential paper at the age of 23 on the measurement of well-being across society. 
 His best-known work later became linked with that of Paul A. Samuelson, a onetime classmate at Harvard who won the Nobel in economic science. The Bergson-Samuelson social welfare function, which combines individual gauges of well-being, has been a fixture in economic analysis for decades.
He pursued the theory of social welfare throughout his career, but the bulk of his attention -- and his sharp economic intellect -- were often firmly directed at the Soviet Union. "Abe Bergson gave a touch of class to the whole analysis of comparing a Soviet-style planned economy with a market economy," said Padma Desai, director of the Center for Transitional Economies at Columbia. "He really established the theoretical foundations for that, and in doing so, he raised the level of the field -- made it very respectable."
For his contributions to theory and the study of collectivist economies, "Bergson would be on anyone's short list for a Nobel Prize -- even two," wrote Professor Samuelson, now an emeritus professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, in remarks released on Wednesday.
Professor Bergson was born Abram Burk in Baltimore on April 21, 1914. He graduated from Johns Hopkins University at 19 and immediately enrolled in graduate studies at Harvard. His mentor there was Wassily Leontief, who later won the Nobel in economic science.
During his graduate studies, Professor Bergson and his brother, a physicist, decided to change their last names. The name Burk, they agreed, did not sufficiently convey their Jewish heritage.
Upon obtaining his doctorate in 1940, Professor Bergson joined the faculty of the University of Texas at Austin. Two years later, after the United States entered World War II, he accepted a position at the Office of Strategic Services, the predecessor of the Central Intelligence Agency.
By the end of the war, Professor Bergson had become chief of the Russian economic subdivision at the O.S.S., but he then left to teach at Columbia. After 10 years, he returned to Harvard, where he remained for the rest of his career.
At Harvard, he served as director of the Russian Research Center, now called the Davis Center for Russian and Eurasian Studies, and was a vocal commentator on the capacity of the Soviet economy to grow. He correctly deduced that economic expansion in the Soviet Union was slowing during the cold war, Professor Desai said, but some of his estimated comparisons of the Soviet economy and Western economies later proved slightly inaccurate.
Professor Bergson is survived by his wife of 63 years, Rita Macht-Bergson; three daughters, Judith, of Somerville, Mass.; Emily Bergson White, of Wellesley, Mass.; and Lucy Bergson LaFarge, of Manhattan; and three grandchildren. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); NOBEL PRIZES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (88%); AWARDS & PRIZES (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (68%); WORLD WAR II (65%); JEWS & JUDAISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (71%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (55%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%)

CATEGORY: Business and Finance 

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



759 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 310 words

HEADLINE: Orders for Durable Goods Rise, But So Do New Jobless Claims 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
Orders for durable goods unexpectedly jumped last month, and first-time claims for unemployment benefits rose last week to their highest level in a year, two government reports released today showed.
 Orders for items made to last at least three years increased 2 percent, to $173.6 billion, after dropping 1.5 percent in February, the Commerce Department said. 
 The Labor Department reported that states received 455,000 applications for jobless benefits, up from 447,000 the previous week.
The rise in orders showed that consumers and purchasing executives "are looking past all the bad news," said Joseph LaVorgna, a senior economist at Deutsche Bank Securities in New York. "That tells me that at some point you are going to get job growth." 
The report on durable goods offered some evidence that companies are responding to higher earnings. Excluding transportation equipment, bookings rose 1.8 percent, the biggest rise since July. Orders for nonmilitary capital goods excluding aircraft, a proxy for future investment, jumped 3.2 percent last month after a 2.5 percent decline. Shipments, which the government uses to compute quarterly gross domestic product, gained 1.5 percent after falling 3.5 percent.
Economists had expected durable-goods orders to fall 0.5 percent.
Orders for transportation equipment rose, spurred by a 132.7 percent surge in military aircraft. Civilian aircraft orders dropped 12.6 percent, and bookings for motor vehicles fell 1.1 percent.
Auto sales slumped last quarter, averaging 15.9 million vehicles at an annual rate, the weakest since the third quarter of 1998. Inventories hit an estimated 4.01 million vehicles in March, a record for any month, according to industry statistics.
In the jobless-claims report, the four-week moving average, which smooths out volatility in the weekly numbers, rose to 439,250 from 426,000.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Jobless Claims"Weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time. Graph shows the 4-week moving average since November 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Chart: "Durable Goods Orders"Manufacturers total new orders for durable goods, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted. Monthly Change March: +2.0%Feb.: -1.5Jan.: +2.1 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (95%); DURABLE GOODS (94%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); FACTORY ORDERS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (86%); AIRCRAFT ORDERS (79%); AIRCRAFT MFG (79%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); STATISTICS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK SECURITIES INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



760 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 623 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Slump as Some Companies Issue Weak Forecasts

BYLINE:  By Reuters

 BODY:
Stocks slipped yesterday as lackluster forecasts from companies like the health insurer Aflac damped the mood on Wall Street after optimism about earnings inspired a hefty two-day rally.
 Sentiment has improved in recent sessions as many companies matched or surpassed earnings expectations for the first quarter. But after three years of sharp market declines, investors remain wary about prospects for the economy and corporate profits. 
 Aflac slumped nearly 12 percent after the company, which provides supplementary health insurance, signaled a weaker outlook for sales in the United States. 
Sara Lee fell 10 percent after it forecast surprisingly low earnings.
"Some of the earnings numbers were not as exciting as some of the others we've seen," said Rick Meckler, president of LibertyView Capital Management. "It reminded people that the market's probably ahead of earnings right now."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 75.62 points, or 0.89 percent, to 8,440.04. The broad Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 7.59 points, or 0.83 percent, to 911.43. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 8.93 points, or 0.61 percent, to 1,457.23.
Trading was heavy, with about 1.6 billion shares changing hands on the New York Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq. Declining stocks outpaced advancers by a ratio of 19 to 13 on the Big Board and 18 to 13 on the Nasdaq.
Lingering questions about the economic outlook kept Wall Street on guard yesterday after a big jump in weekly jobless claims.
Aflac fell $4.02, to $30.93. The company reported higher quarterly profits and raised its forecast for full-year earnings. But Merrill Lynch cut its rating to sell from neutral, citing a slowdown in sales growth.
Sara Lee, the maker of Jimmy Dean sausage and Hanes underwear, fell $1.94, to $17.80, after issuing an earnings warning.
The Internet advertising provider Overture Services Inc. fell $4.99, or 30 percent, to $11.49 on the Nasdaq. The company posted lower quarterly earnings late Wednesday and warned that full-year results would miss Wall Street forecasts.
The American International Group, the large insurer, dropped $2.90, or 5 percent, to $55.37. The company said first-quarter net profit fell slightly as it sold off investments at a loss. A.I.G. also warned that severe acute respiratory syndrome might cut its sales in Asia.
American Express, the financial services company, reported that its quarterly earnings rose 12 percent, as cost-cutting and growth in credit card spending offset weakness in its financial advisory business. Its shares fell 47 cents, to $37.05.
But the market had its bright spots. Nortel Networks of Canada was the Big Board's most actively traded stock after it reported a surprise return to profitability on stronger-than-expected revenue. It rose 2 cents, to $2.58.
AMR, parent of American Airlines, rose 24 cents, or 6.3 percent, to $4.04. AMR's board met to discuss its fate and that of its chief executive, Donald J. Carty, who announced his resignation last night.
A couple of economic reports showed the outlook for the economy remained murky. A report on weekly jobless claims pointed to a deteriorating labor market as the number of Americans lining up for state unemployment benefits last week climbed to a seasonally adjusted 455,000.
Another report, however, showed orders for big-ticket manufactured items in March were surprisingly strong -- up 2 percent -- after falling 1.5 percent in February.
Bonds gained as stocks declined. The price of the 10-year note rose 14/32 , to 99 19/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, dropped to 3.93 percent from 3.98 percent on Wednesday. The 30-year bond climbed 23/32 , to 108 6/32 . Its yield fell to 4.84 percent from 4.88 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly since January 2003. (Source: The Bond Buyer) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since January 2003. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); INSURANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SUPPLEMENTAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (78%); PROFIT WARNINGS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); BOND MARKETS (76%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (67%); ONLINE ADVERTISING (62%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%); SARS (50%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AFLAC INC (95%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); YAHOO SEARCH MARKETING INC (64%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (63%); NORTEL NETWORKS CORP (60%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (57%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

TICKER: AFL (NYSE) (95%); 8686 (TSE) (95%); AIG (NYSE) (63%); 8685 (TSE) (63%); AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (95%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (95%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (64%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (63%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



761 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: California Regulators Modify Auto Emissions Mandate 

BYLINE:  By DANNY HAKIM

DATELINE: DETROIT, April 24 

 BODY:
California regulators, responding to legal pressure from automakers and the Bush administration, amended a plan today to force the industry to produce clean cars but kept it ambitious enough to please environmental groups.
 By an 8-to-3 vote, the California Air Resources Board altered the influential Zero Emission Vehicle mandate so it will require fewer vehicles to be sold in California with no tailpipe emissions and more with modest emissions, like hybrids that supplement gasoline with electric power. 
 "Our greatest benefit here is to try and identify technologies that can be commercial successes," said Alan C. Lloyd, the chairman of the California Air Resources Board, adding, "This regulation ensures we are getting this technology on the road."
The mandate has been one of the most effective regulations that never was. It has been blocked by challenges and revisions since it was first set in motion in 1990, but because car production cycles take years, its mere threat has led to the production of thousands of battery-powered vehicles. California is the nation's largest auto market, and other states, like New York, have adopted its stringent air standards. The mandate has also been an impetus in the development of hybrids as well as fuel-cell vehicles, which use hydrogen to generate electricity and are a favorite of the administration. 
The new version of the mandate takes effect in the 2005 model year, barring legal challenges, and offers automakers the choice of two compliance options. Each option requires 8 percent of sales to come from vehicles classified in one of two low polluting categories -- highly efficient versions of the Ford Focus and Honda Accord qualify -- though various credits can alter the numbers significantly.
For vehicles with no tailpipe emissions at all, automakers in aggregate must produce 250 fuel-cell vehicles from the 2005 to 2008 model years; 2,500 from 2009 to 2011; and 25,000 from 2012 to 2014. Alternatively, they can choose to sell more battery electric cars. Under the old mandate, a full 2 percent of autos sold in California had to have no emissions.
With the state's latest revision, attention shifts to whether General Motors and DaimlerChrysler will proceed with their lawsuit contending that California's zero emission regulation is superseded by federal fuel economy standards. It has been supported by a legal filing from the Justice Department and, last July, a federal judge in California blocked the mandate from taking effect in the 2003 and 2004 model years.
"The question remains, will automakers bring their lawyers or their engineers to the table in California?" said Jason Mark, a spokesman for the Union of Concerned Scientists, an environmental group. 
California regulators said they had addressed the legal arguments against the mandate by removing some of the language linking credits automakers can receive to efficiency. 
Asked whether the changes were sufficient, David Barthmus, a spokesman for G.M., said the automaker was still studying them. "It's too early to make a statement," he said.
But he added that tensions between California regulators and G.M. had eased.
Kathy Graham, a spokeswoman for DaimlerChrysler, agreed that more time was needed before commenting on the lawsuit, but said, "It looks like we have a set of regulations that better reflect the state of technology and what consumers will buy."
She found a proposal by the board to review the mandate annually to be troublesome.
"Right now, we're working on the '05, '06 model years and vehicles," she said, adding that frequent reviews "can really cause some havoc with your product planning." 
Environmentalists were generally pleased with this latest version of the mandate because it kept in place ambitious targets for efficient vehicles. 
"The board rejected the automakers' broken-record refrain that they can't build better cars," said Roland Hwang, a senior policy analyst at the Natural Resources Defense Council.
One ardent group that has not been happy about changes to the mandate is made up of drivers of battery electric cars, who have strongly criticized the proposals as taking away a product they grew to love because the mandate brought them to the market. The new plan has no guarantees that production of battery electric vehicles will continue.
"The people who have them want to hold onto them and rave about them," said Patricia Lakinsmith, a research scientist in Los Gatos, Calif., who drives an electric version of Toyota's Rav-4 sport utility. She said she believes the air board is overemphasizing fuel cells, a futuristic and complex technology, and largely giving up on battery electric cars. 
"We might be making two mistakes at once," Ms. Lakinsmith said, "dropping something that works while investing in something that still would be risky." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE EMISSIONS (92%); EMISSIONS (92%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (91%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (91%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); FUEL CELL TECHNOLOGY (89%); FUEL CELL VEHICLES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); MOTOR VEHICLES (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); LAWYERS (75%); HYDROGEN ENERGY (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); JUDGES (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CALIFORNIA AIR RESOURCES BOARD (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (52%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



762 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Nassau Official to Step Down After 5 Terms 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times

DATELINE: MANHASSET, N.Y., April 24 

 BODY:
Saying she has accomplished "a good part of what I wanted to do," the first woman to become a town supervisor in Nassau County said today she would step down in December after 10 years on the job.
 May W. Newburger, 78, who has been supervisor for the Town of North Hempstead since 1993, said she had debated for months whether to seek a sixth term. It was not until March, while she was at home recuperating from hip surgery, that Ms. Newburger reached a decision. Her performance record, not her injured hip, influenced her decision, Ms. Newburger said during an interview in her office, a paneled room decorated with cream floral curtains and autographed pictures of Bernie Williams, the Yankee baseball player. 
 "I feel satisfied," Ms. Newburger said, as she reviewed her accomplishments in public service.
From 1979 to 1986, she was a state assemblywoman. Ms. Newburger sponsored women's rights laws, including one that ended the practice of requiring rape victims to have corroborating witnesses in order to prosecute.
She served as councilwoman in the Town of North Hempstead in 1991 and 1992, and then she was elected town supervisor.
Upon taking the higher office, she discovered that the town had a $5 million deficit and the lowest bond rating in its history. This year, the town has an $11 million surplus, she said, and a A1 bond rating -- its highest ever -- with Moody's credit agency.
During her administration, the town also established the Environmental Legacy Fund, which is used to buy land to preserve open space. The town also financed and built the Harbor Links golf course, which sits on top of sand mines in Port Washington.
Her administration also began a program to honor notable women from the town. The town's elected officials, who are all Democrats, are in the process of adopting an economic revitalization plan for New Cassel, an unincorporated village that has had problems attracting businesses and jobs. Ms. Newburger said she regretted that she would not be in office long enough for the plan, which calls for redesigning the streetscape and building more middle-income housing, to be realized.
Ms. Newburger said she was uncertain how she would fill her days after Dec. 31, her last day in office, but she noted that it would not involve holding another elected position. "If I was going to run for an office, I'd run for this one," Ms. Newburger said.
State Senator Michael A. L. Balboni, who ran against Ms. Newburger for supervisor in 1992 and lost, said he has seen her face critics with gusto over the years.
"I consider May to be a friend, a good partner in government," Mr. Balboni said. "She has always been gracious and feisty and tireless."

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the decision of the town supervisor in North Hempstead, N.Y., to step down after five terms misstated the town's credit rating with Moody's, which improved during her tenure. It is Aa3, not A1.

GRAPHIC: Photo: May W. Newburger has been a town supervisor since 1993. (Ed Betz/for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERIOR DECORATING (76%); ATHLETES (75%); INTERVIEWS (75%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); BASEBALL (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



763 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: Governor Pataki's Lower Manhattan 

 BODY:
What with his polls tanking and New Yorkers increasingly miffed about his handling of the state's financial crisis, Gov. George Pataki desperately needs a win. He got one yesterday when he spoke to business leaders in Lower Manhattan. 
 For downtown workers and residents disheartened by the slow rebuilding after Sept. 11, the governor promised "a renewed sense of urgency." He outlined an energetic timetable for rebuilding Lower Manhattan -- handing out a timeline that will undoubtedly go up on bulletin boards in the entire downtown area. In effect, he took promising ideas from a variety of sources and wrote his name on them. And since the governor of New York is really the only one with the power to get the big things done downtown, this is much-needed good news for the entire New York City area. 
 Not everything in the governor's package was new, and not all of it was monumental. He promised to push for major changes like a downtown transit center on the scale of Grand Central Terminal, an untangling of subway lines at Fulton Street and West Street's conversion into something he said would top even the Champs-Elysees. The governor also pledged that his office would be the first tenant in the 1,776-foot tower, the centerpiece of the architect Daniel Libeskind's plans for ground zero. Since it will not be built until about 2008, there is some question whether Mr. Pataki will still be governor. Still, it was an important symbolic gesture.
Some of his most encouraging promises were shorter term, including a pledge to spend $50 million immediately to improve access to downtown and the quality of life there. Converting the shroud of black netting that covers the empty Deutsche Bank building into a mural, for instance, is a small fix that would send a larger message of revival.
Some of the ideas he endorsed, in particular a new transit link to Long Island and regional airports, will take a lot of study and a lot more money. In those cases, Mr. Pataki's recommendations are not much more than the guarantee of another discussion in the future. But for right now, the governor gets the credit for recognizing that Lower Manhattan's welfare is his business and preparing to do something about it now. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (72%); AIRPORTS (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%)

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



764 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1802 words

HEADLINE: I.R.S. Tightening Rules for Low-Income Tax Credit 

BYLINE:  By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
The Internal Revenue Service is planning to ask more than four million of the working poor who now claim a special tax credit to provide the most exhaustive proof of eligibility ever demanded of any class of taxpayers.
 The I.R.S., trying to prevent errors and cheating, says it needs greater proof of eligibility months before people claim the credit on their tax returns because its efforts to find errors through audits after the fact have not worked. Treasury officials estimate that $6.5 billion to $10 billion is lost to improper payments each year. 
 But some tax experts criticize the higher burden of proof as unfair and a wasteful allocation of scarce I.R.S. enforcement dollars. They say that corporations, business owners, investors and partnerships deprive the government of many times what the working poor ever could -- through both illegal means and legal shelters -- yet these taxpayers face no demands to prove the validity of their claims in advance with certified records and sworn affidavits. 
Others warn that the proposed I.R.S. rules will set a standard of proof so high that it will be difficult, and in some cases impossible, for honest taxpayers to meet it. As a result, some people entitled to the tax credit will no longer receive it. And those who do manage to file successful claims will almost certainly have to pay commercial tax preparers more for helping them with the extra paperwork.
"There is this double standard," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a research group in Washington financed mainly by large foundations. "The losses are larger in other areas of the tax code, but somehow a different standard gets applied to this."
Nina E. Olson, the I.R.S. taxpayer advocate, said in her report to Congress this year that two-thirds of audited claims for the tax credit were eventually approved. 
The new rules apply to the earned-income tax credit, a provision enacted in 1975 and expanded several times. The credit has long had bipartisan support because it has lifted large numbers of people out of poverty without offering the sort of assistance often derided as handouts. 
Instead of conventional welfare benefits, the earned-income tax credit provides an offset for the Social Security taxes low-income workers have already paid, along with a credit based on their earnings that is intended to give them an incentive to work. The credits vary according to income and family size, but no household with earned income above $34,692 is eligible. 
The average tax credit, paid by the government by check, was $1,976 for households with children in 2001. That is less than the average food stamp benefit for households with children that year, $2,904. But the I.R.S.'s proposed rules would make it much harder to qualify for the tax credit than for food stamps.
Republicans and Democrats have both supported expanding the tax credit, but as the cost of the program has risen, many Republicans have been vehement in saying that the program is riddled with errors and fraud.
President Bush has praised the tax credit. But his administration has also complained about fraud, and the president has asked Congress for $100 million and 650 new employees to identify potentially erroneous claims before any money is paid out. 
There is a similar effort with federally subsidized school lunches. Eric Bost, the under secretary of agriculture for food and nutrition, has increased efforts to weed out students who officials say are ineligible for free or subsidized school meals. 
Asked about the I.R.S. proposal, the Treasury issued a statement saying it was committed to reducing "the unacceptably high error rate" and "to get the benefit to those who are entitled but only to those that truly qualify."
A Treasury official who insisted on not being identified said it was unfair to judge the size of the overpayment problem on the basis of just one year's tax credit, because the overpayments can continue year after year until each minor child listed on a false claim turns 18.
"It's a permanent thing," she said. "The I.R.S. tends to take things that are permanent very seriously, and put a lot of resources into them."
She added that screening out false claimants in advance could be characterized as a benefit to the poor, because such taxpayers would no longer have to have their claims audited, or scrounge for a way to pay back the money with interest if their claims are denied.
"These people didn't invest the money they got in the earned-income tax credit," she said. "They went out and bought their kids sneakers."
The new measures, which are expected to be published for public comment shortly, are scheduled to begin in July, when the first 45,000 taxpayers who fit into a "high-error category" will be asked to submit proof of their eligibility within six months. The program will accelerate to two million taxpayers in 2004. Eventually some four million "high error" claimants -- a fifth of the 19 million who now claim the tax credit -- will be required to submit advance proof of their eligibility.
The high-error category encompasses all claimants except married taxpayers filing joint returns and single mothers; it includes fathers with sole custody of children, grandparents, aunts, uncles, foster parents and others. They will have to provide papers proving that the relationship with the children claimed is as claimed, and that the children lived with them for at least six months of the year. 
Only a few types of evidence will be acceptable to the I.R.S., and some are documents that will be difficult or impossible for people to get within the six-month deadline. To prove their relationships to children, for example, they are expected to produce marriage certificates, in some cases for other people's marriages; for marriages that took place abroad; and in a few cases for marriages of great-grandparents and great-great-grandparents.
Even American weddings may be hard to document adequately in less than six months. The State of California, for example, warns on its Web site that it may take "up to two to three years" to issue copies of marriage certificates, "due to budgetary constraints." The State of Ohio does not even issue copies of marriage certificates, only "marriage abstracts," which are not certified documents and take six months to obtain in any case. 
New York State will not issue certificates to people who were married in New York City. New York City will not issue the certificates to anyone but the husband and wife, "or someone with written authorization from them." The I.R.S. plan does not offer any guidelines for the children of couples in common-law marriages.
To prove where a child lived, the I.R.S. will require claimants to produce school records, medical records, leases or similar documents that show both the filer's and the child's names and address, and state specifically the range of dates when they lived there together. 
Filers who have no such documents will be allowed to produce instead a sworn affidavit from a school official, employer, member of the clergy or other person in a quasi-official capacity, specifically stating under penalty of perjury that he or she has "personal knowledge" that the taxpayer and child lived together during the dates cited. An affidavit from a landlord, who may live far away, would be accepted, but not one from a building superintendent who lives on the premises. 
This requirement contrasts with the proof needed to get food stamps. Food stamp offices rely heavily on third-party statements, but accept them from neighbors, building managers and others likely to know the living arrangements of recipients. And the food stamp offices do not require these third parties to swear under penalty of perjury that they have "personal knowledge."
The food stamp error rate is estimated at 7 percent.
An I.R.S. briefing paper on the new rules states that in 1999 the Treasury lost $8.5 billion to $9.9 billion by paying earned-income tax credits to filers who should not have received them. A separate analysis, by two Treasury Department specialists, says subsequent measures may have reduced these erroneous payments by $2 billion.
By comparison, corporations managed to sidestep as much as $54 billion in 1998, by hiding about $155 billion in profits in tax shelters, according to a study by a Harvard economist, Mihir A. Desai. 
The I.R.S.'s most recent attempt to measure tax cheating -- based on 1988 data and published in 1992 -- showed that the biggest tax dodgers by far were people running their own businesses. They cost the Treasury about $38 billion in lost 1992 taxes by failing to report all their income.
The same I.R.S. study found that people who wrongly took tax credits of all types -- including earned-income tax credits -- cost the Treasury less than $6 billion in 1992. 
That 1992 study drew complaints of I.R.S. heavy-handedness from the agency's critics, and Congress stopped appropriating money for comprehensive efforts to measure tax cheating. But money to measure overpayments on the earned-income tax credit survived. From 1993 to 1999, the I.R.S. undertook four studies of how much was improperly paid to the working poor.
These studies showed that there was, in fact, a high rate of erroneous claims for the earned-income tax credit. Some involved cheating. Many more involved disputes over which parent was entitled to the credit for the same child, one aspect of the complexity of this part of the tax code. The errors persist even though 70 percent of all claimants pay tax preparers to file their returns.
"Most of these people are marginal people," said Sheldon S. Cohen, who served as I.R.S. commissioner under President Lyndon B. Johnson. "They don't go to a first-class C.P.A. or tax lawyer. They go to a guy in the neighborhood."
Prompted by the overpayment data, the I.R.S. stepped up its audits of people claiming the earned-income tax credit in 1995. The most recent I.R.S. databook shows that 300,000 people who claimed the credit were audited in 2002, or about one in every 64. By contrast, one of every 120 taxpayers with annual incomes over $100,000 was audited, as were about one in 400 partnerships, which are primarily owned by the wealthy. 
Last year, the Office of Management and Budget pronounced the audits of people who claimed the earned-income tax credit "ineffective," and the Treasury created a task force to find a new way of weeding outthe erroneous claims. 
Mr. Cohen, now a senior counsel at the Washington office of Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, said the government seemed to value more the dollars it paid out than those it was due but failed to collect. 
"If they give you money, they want an exact accounting for it," he said. "If they don't collect the money, then they really don't care."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plans to require more documentation to qualify for the earned-income tax credit have led to fears that the added complexity will force many of the working poor to hire commercial tax preparers. (Associated Press)(pg. C4) Chart: "Where the Money Is"In an effort to reduce overpayments of the earned-income tax credit, the Internal Revenue Service plans to require four million to five million low-income people to provide exhaustive advance documentation of their eligibility; the average credit paid is less than $2,000 per family. I.R.S. estimates suggest that tax evasion and avoidance by other taxpayers cost it far more. ESTIMATES OF TAXES THE I.R.S. SAYS ARE AVOIDED, EVADED OR NOT PAID Individuals*: $132 billionOffshore accounts+: $70 billionCorporations*: $46 billionPartnership investors: $30 billion UNDESERVED EARNED-INCOME TAX CREDITS PAID $6.5 billion to $10 billion$S *1992 I.R.S. figures adjusted for 40 percent economic growth through 2002.+2001 I.R.S. estimates.$SCurrent I.R.S. estimates. (Source: Figures based on I.R.S. reports)(pg. C4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TAX CONSULTING (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CHILDREN (84%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); TAX AUTHORITIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (77%); FAMILY (66%); FOOD STAMPS (65%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



765 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Fifth Chief Financial Officer at HealthSouth to Admit Fraud 

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News

DATELINE: BIRMINGHAM, Ala., April 24 

 BODY:
A fifth former chief financial officer at HealthSouth agreed today to plead guilty to a fraud charge, federal prosecutors said.
 The former financial officer, Aaron Beam, will plead guilty to one count of bank fraud for lying to lenders from April 1996 to October 1997, prosecutors said. 
 All five finance officers of the company, the nation's largest operator of rehabilitation hospitals, have been charged and are aiding prosecutors in their investigation of accounting fraud at the company, including what prosecutors say was the inflation of earnings by $2.5 billion.
"We now have every chief financial officer in the history of the company, and we now have a very clear picture of how accounting was handled from 1984 until March 2003, when investigation began," the United States attorney for the Northern District of Alabama, Alice Martin, said in an interview. 
The Securities and Exchange Commission has accused Richard M. Scrushy, who was fired as chief executive, and the company of accounting fraud, asserting that they inflated earnings by $1.4 billion and assets by $800 million since 1999. Prosecutors have said officials exaggerated earnings by another $1.1 billion in 1997 and 1998.
According to court papers, Mr. Beam, 59, conspired with Mr. Scrushy and other senior officers to inflate HealthSouth's total and per-share earnings to meet Wall Street expectations. Mr. Beam prepared financial statements for the S.E.C. that misstated net income, revenue, assets and liabilities, the papers said.
Mr. Beam and Mr. Scrushy, who together started HealthSouth in 1984, gave those false statements to a syndicate of 32 lenders that amended a $1.25 billion line of credit to the company in April 1996, the papers said. One of those lenders, AmSouth Bancorporation in Alabama, lent $55 million, the papers said.
Mr. Beam's lawyer, Donald Briskman, could not be reached for comment. Mr. Beam is scheduled to enter his guilty plea on May 5, Ms. Martin said. Eleven former employees have signed plea agreements and are helping prosecutors, and eight have already entered guilty pleas in federal court.
Among those who have pleaded guilty are the former chief financial officers William T. Owens and Weston L. Smith, who have admitted to fraud and conspiracy. Two other former chief financial officers, Michael D. Martin and Malcolm E. McVay, have agreed to plead guilty at a future date in Birmingham.
Mr. Beam faces as much as 30 years in prison, although he very likely will be offered a lighter sentence for cooperating. Mr. Beam, who left the company in 1997, faced only a bank fraud charge because the statute of limitations on that crime is 10 years, Ms. Martin said. The conspiracy charge that the other chief financial officers pleaded guilty to has a five-year statute of limitations.
Mr. Scrushy, who is not charged with a crime, has denied wrongdoing and has blamed subordinates for the fraud.
The federal investigation is expanding into other areas outside the HealthSouth finance department, Ms. Martin said. She would not comment on whether auditors at Ernst & Young, the company's former outside accountants, were under investigation. "Ernst & Young is cooperating in our request for work papers and other documents," she said.
A federal judge in Birmingham held a 10th day of hearings today on the bid by Mr. Scrushy to gain access to $40 million in assets that were frozen after the S.E.C. filed an accounting fraud suit against him on March 19. The commission later added insider-trading accusations, asserting that Mr. Scrushy illegally sold $175 million in company stock.
At the hearing, Maron Webster, a former internal auditor at HealthSouth, testified that Mr. Scrushy fired him in 1989 after he questioned accounting at a company operation in Miami.
Mr. Webster said when he raised concerns about what he thought were improperly booked receivables, Mr. Scrushy said, "we're under certain pressures to make certain numbers," according to Mr. Webster's testimony. "We have an obligation to stockholders and shareholders."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); GUILTY PLEAS (91%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ACCOUNTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (90%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); REHABILITATION HOSPITALS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); PLEA AGREEMENTS (89%); STATUTE OF LIMITATIONS (88%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); SENTENCING (78%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (78%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); EARNINGS PER SHARE (70%); DISMISSALS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: HEALTHSOUTH CORP (90%); REGIONS FINANCIAL CORP (65%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (74%)

TICKER: HLS (NYSE) (90%); RF (NYSE) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (90%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (90%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (90%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (65%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (87%) ALABAMA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



766 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Fiance Shoots Actress, And Then Commits Suicide 

BYLINE:  By SHAILA K. DEWAN

 BODY:
A Yale graduate with a promising acting career was shot in the face early yesterday morning by her former fiance, who then killed himself, the police said. The shootings took place outside the woman's apartment in Chinatown in front of her visiting mother. 
 Friends said yesterday that the woman, Lyric Benson, 22, was being kept alive at Bellevue Hospital Center so that her organs could be donated. 
 Ms. Benson, who worked as ahostess at the SoHo bistro Balthazar, performed voice-overs and small roles in soap operas and on "Law and Order: Criminal Intent." Her tall, apron-clad form and fresh face are visible throughout the city on an American Express advertisement for the coming TriBeCa Film Festival. 
On Wednesday night, she and her mother, a first-grade teacher who was visiting from North Carolina, shared a dessert at Balthazar. After her shift, the police said, she called her apartment and asked her mother to come downstairs and let her into the building, at 211 East Broadway.
Just as her mother appeared in a bathrobe and opened the door, a neighbor said, Ms. Benson was shot by Robert J. Ambrosino, 32, who the police said used an unlicensed .45-caliber Starfire pistol in the shooting.
Tee Goldberg, 28, who lives in the apartment next door to Ms. Benson, said she heard the shots coming from the vestibule. "It was very quiet before it happened," she said. "There was no argument. Only the shots rang. And then I heard the mother screaming, 'Someone shot my baby in the eye.' "
Mr. Ambrosino was in the United States merchant marine and had been unemployed for about a year, the police said. In 1999, he had passed the test to become a New York City firefighter, and was working his way up the list of candidates.
Ms. Benson had been dating Mr. Ambrosino since before she graduated from Yale last May, but broke off their engagement about two months ago and moved out of their apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, according to the police and those who knew the couple.
"She was extremely beautiful; she had these beautiful blue eyes," said Ron Hansen, 40, who lives in the Greenpoint apartment building, at 81 Monitor Street. "He was short, good-looking. They were such a good-looking couple."
Mr. Hansen said that he had not noticed any acrimony between the two, even when Ms. Benson was moving her things out of the apartment. But Ms. Benson's friends said that after the breakup, Mr. Ambrosino -- they said he referred to himself as Fast Robert -- called her constantly and showed up often at the restaurant.
"He wouldn't leave her alone," said Paloma Nunziata, another hostess. "After a while she didn't pick up the phone. She erased the messages." 
It seemed, to hear those yesterday who know Ms. Benson, that there was little that would have held her back from her chosen career. She had a sultry voice, a heart-shaped face, and what friends described as a boundless vibrancy and enthusiasm.
In addition to acting, Ms. Benson was hired at bar mitzvah parties on Saturday nights to break the ice and get the wallflowers to dance, Ms. Nunziata said.
Both of Ms. Benson's parents are teachers, the police said; her father lives in Kansas. Ms. Benson, who spent time with her mother in Morocco, spoke French and Arabic, her friends said.
As a hostess, said Kate Edwards, a maitre d'hotel at Balthazar, Ms. Benson could charm the crankiest V.I.P. "She was impeccable," Ms. Edwards said. "She could turn anyone around."
But most important, her friends said, was her dedication to acting. Even before she graduated from Yale as a theater major last May, she had come to New York to find agents and get a local cellphone number, they said.
"We expected great things from her," said David Krasner, the director of theater studies at Yale.
For her senior project, he said, she had chosen to play a ruthless, dictatorial character -- a stretch for her gentle, sensitive personality. "She came ready to work," he said.
"She was a delightful, happy, wonderful young lady," said Jerry Hogan, one of her agents. "I am stunned. It is horrible, just horrible."
Asked about her professional prospects, Mr. Hogan said, "Out of 100, they're 20 percent successful coming out of college, I'd say, and her success rate would be quite extraordinary."
She met Mr. Ambrosino when she called a radio station to make an apologetic request for a "cheesy" song, Ms. Nunziata said. He answered the phone.
Soon, she said, Mr. Ambrosino became the charming older man in a white suit and ponytail.
Ms. Benson's friends would not say why the couple had broken up. But afterward, they said, Ms. Benson grew nervous, and had even sought to speak to a former girlfriend of his.
The police said that there was no record of any restraining order or domestic violence complaint against Mr. Ambrosino.
In his apartment, he left notes for various friends and family members before going to Chinatown, a police investigator said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lyric Benson; The 22-year-old actress in an American Express ad for the TriBeCa Film Festival was near death yesterday after being shot in the face. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (90%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (89%); SUICIDE (78%); FIREARMS (77%); RESTAURANTS (76%); ORGAN DONATION (71%); FESTIVALS (70%); FILM (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



767 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 173 words

HEADLINE: Subways of New York: The Money Trail 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Secrets Behind the Subways" (editorial, April 24):
 It is not just the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's internal finances that are opaque. 
The agency has chosen not to assess the broader consequences of its planned fare increase. Higher fares will result in serious economic and environmental harm to the city and the state. 
 Given the less dire nature of the M.T.A.'s finances revealed by the city and state comptrollers, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and Gov. George E. Pataki should demand that the M.T.A. postpone its fare increase until a full accounting of all costs -- societal as well as financial -- is made. 
The lead planning agency responsible for allocating federal transport funds in this region, the New York Metropolitan Transportation Council, is in an excellent position to make this assessment.

GEORGE HAIKALIS
New York, April 24, 2003

The writer was director of research at the Tristate Regional Planning Commission and director of revenue budget and fare structure analysis at New York City Transit.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGETS (88%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (87%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); LAND USE PLANNING (67%); SUBURBS (59%) TRANSIT SYSTEMS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); FINANCES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION COUNCIL (56%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY 

INDUSTRY:  SIC4111 LOCAL & SUBURBAN TRANSIT; 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (54%) HAIKALIS, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



768 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: Bush Makes Tax Cut Pitch to Ohioans 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: LIMA, Ohio, April 24 

 BODY:
President Bush raced across Ohio today to try to pressure the state's stubborn, deficit-hating senator, George V. Voinovich, to support what Mr. Bush called the administration's "robust" tax cut plan rather than the "little bitty" package favored by Mr. Voinovich.
 The senator's allies said the daylong display of presidential prowess, from Canton to Dayton to an Army tank plant in Lima, would not sway a famously frugal man who has lived in the same house for 40 years and who is one of two mutinous Republican senators most responsible for a vote that could force Mr. Bush to nearly halve his tax cut, to $350 billion from $726 billion. 
 But the trip made for some compelling political theater as Mr. Voinovich agreed to shake the president's hand, but only in the last moment, at the foot of the steps of Air Force One.
Then Mr. Voinovich headed off to what Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, described as "previous plans" that precluded the senator from appearing in his home state with the president. He had a meeting with a newspaper editorial board in Dayton, it turned out.
Mr. Bush did not mention Mr. Voinovich's name in public during the day, but his reason for the trip became obvious after he got halfway through his first speech, in North Canton, at a research facility of the Timken Company, the nation's largest maker of ball bearings.
"Some in Congress say the plan is too big," Mr. Bush told local government officials and Timken employees, with the state's other Republican senator, Mike DeWine, seated in the front row next to the Republican governor, Bob Taft. "Well, it seems like to me they might have some explaining to do. If they agree that tax relief creates jobs, then why are they for a little bitty tax relief package?"
The crowd did not applaud.
"If they believe tax relief is important for job creation," Mr. Bush continued, "they ought to join us and join this administration and join many in Congress and have a robust package that creates enough work for the American people."
At that point, the crowd applauded.
Mr. Bush and Mr. Voinovich had their handshake at Wright-Patterson Air Force Base in Dayton, where they also smiled and patted each other on the arm in an encounter that lasted about 10 seconds. Afterward, Mr. Voinovich told reporters that Mr. Bush had asked him "How are you doing, Jorge?" using the Spanish for the senator's first name. Mr. Voinovich said that the president had said he was glad to be in town and that Mr. Bush had not tried to lobby him on his tax cut.
"I think he knows where I'm at," Mr. Voinovich said. "We're very, very good friends."
He added that there had been "too much focus" on his disagreements with Mr. Bush, and he repeated his position that he would be willing to back a tax cut largerthan $350 billion if the administration closed some tax loopholes or offset the cost of the tax package by cutting other parts of the budget.
Mr. Bush's trip here today, to the only producer of the Abrams M1-A1 and M1-A2 tanks, the main battle tanks that American forces used in Iraq, was one of the first in a series to capitalize on his wartime popularity to try to sell an enormous tax cut directly to Americans, over the heads of skeptical lawmakers worried about deficits and war costs. Democrats and some Republicans have also attacked the plan as skewed to the rich.
Given the political realities, the House earlier this month forced Mr. Bush to scale back his original 10-year, $726 billion plan to $550 billion. But White House officials concede that the final deal could be closer to a $350 billion limit set by the Senate.
"Cutting taxes at a time of war is a hard thing to understand, particularly in the context of tax cuts that benefit a narrowly focused group," said Senator Jon Corzine of New Jersey, a former co-chairman of the Goldman Sachs investment banking firm who was part of a Democratic assault today on Mr. Bush's plan. "This is full-force political pressure by the president. I'm hopeful that that those who have been concerned about the rising deficit's impact on the ability to fund transportation, education and other issues will hold the line, keep their backbone and stand up for fiscal sanity."
Democrats pointed to Bureau of Labor Statistics data that showed that Ohio has lost 167,800 jobs, or more than 3 percent of its total work force, since Mr. Bush took office. They also directed reporters to government data released today that reported another rise in new claims for unemployment insurance.
Mr. Bush's argument, disputed by some members of his own party, is that the tax cut will stimulate the economy and provide more jobs. Today he said his plan to eliminate the tax that individual investors pay on dividends, which administration officials are now considering scaling back, would help retirees who depend on the income, and not just the rich "investor class" that Democrats say the president favors.
"So when you hear politicians say the tax cut is only for the rich, they're talking about you," Mr. Bush told the Timken employees.
Whatever the economic arguments for or against the tax cut, Republican strategists say it would be political suicide for the president to ignore the shaky economy after weeks in which his attentions have been focused on Baghdad.
Propelling him forward are two powerful forces: Karl Rove, his political adviser, and the specter of the first President Bush, who lost the White House after his victory in the 1991 Persian Gulf war in large part because voters viewed him as weak on the economy.
Today Mr. Bush pivoted in one paragraph from the war against Saddam Hussein to the American economy, by way of the Abrams tank.
"The tanks built right here in Lima, Ohio, charged through elements of the dictator's Republican Guards, led the forces of a liberation into the heart of Iraq, and rolled all the way into downtown Baghdad," Mr. Bush said as plant workers applauded. "Throughout the campaign, our enemy learned that when Abrams tanks are on the battlefield, America means business."
Mr. Bush said that during the battles, word came back from Iraq to Lima that tank commanders needed better ways to protect the Abrams exhaust systems from enemy fire. Within a week, he said, plant workers, drawing from "the American spirit of enterprise," had a new part designed, built and shipped to Iraq.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and a fellow Republican, Senator George V. Voinovich, met only briefly yesterday when the president visited Ohio. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BALL & ROLLER BEARING MFG (89%); TAX LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); JOB CREATION (86%); LOBBYING (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLE MFG (71%); AIR FORCES (53%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: TIMKEN CO (85%)

TICKER: TKR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS332991 BALL & ROLLER BEARING MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3562 BALL & ROLLER BEARINGS (85%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (85%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); GEORGE VOINOVICH (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAYTON, OH, USA (91%) OHIO, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



769 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Washington Talk; 
Shaping Perceptions, if Not Economy

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
When President Bush offered Alan Greenspan another term as chairman of the Federal Reserve Board on Tuesday, investors were pleased, but perhaps not as much as Republican campaign operatives.
 That is because the 77-year-old Mr. Greenspan, an economist who has held the job since Ronald Reagan was president, is a symbol of stability and experience in the area where the Bush administration has had the least success. 
 Just as Bush the candidate sought to put at ease voters who worried about his depth of experience by choosing Dick Cheney as a running mate, and just as he later provided foreign policy reassurance with Colin L. Powell and Donald H. Rumsfeld in his cabinet, he asked the most comforting economic figure in public life to remain in charge of interest rates through the next election. 
The administration is counting on national security -- an issue that "Republicans own," as John J. Pitney, a Claremont College political scientist, puts it -- to be central to Mr. Bush's re-election.
Even so, the White House must continue to worry about the sluggish economy. If some in the administration were not already fixed on the issue because of the defeat of the president's father in 1992, the latest New York Times/CBS News Poll should have concentrated their attention.
That April 11-13 survey of 898 adults found the public evenly split on which party would ensure a strong economy. Forty-two percent said the Republicans would; 42 percent said the Democrats. Partisans were sure; 82 percent of Democrats and 81 percent of Republicans said this was what their own party did best. But independents divided equally, with 35 percent favoring each party. The telephone survey, with a margin of sampling error of plus or minus three percentage points, is not a cause for Republican panic. But neither did it offer much comfort.
Of course, what would help the administration most would be a strong, growing economy. Appearing today in Canton, Ohio, Mr. Bush said the way to energize the economy was a $550 billion tax cut over 10 years, not the "little-bitty tax relief package" of $350 billion over that period that Senate leaders have said is all he can get now that senators have discovered the budget deficit.
Mr. Bush may be right. But hardly any well-known economists disagree with the Congressional Budget Office's judgment that even the $550 billion would make little real difference.
But if the administration, and Congress cannot control the economy -- and they cannot -- the administration can try to control some of the perceptions about it. Mr. Greenspan is the key to what Scott Reed, a Republican consultant, called the perception of stability. "At the end of the day," Mr. Reed said, "stability is what makes markets grow." 
Mr. Greenspan has served since 1988, providing steady leadership for the Fed, worrying about deficits when Presidents George Bush and Bill Clinton worked to reduce them, and generally backing tax cuts when the current president wanted them.
He did infuriate many Republicans in February when he said he was not convinced that the economy needed tax cuts for stimulus, though the next day he came back toward the reservation and emphasized the importance of spending cuts. But except for that occasion, he has not made waves for the administration.
Which is more than can be said for Mr. Bush's own appointees.
Last fall, Paul H. O'Neill, his first Treasury secretary, played down the value of more tax cuts as an economic stimulus even as a $726 billion plan was being drafted with stimulus as its justification. Lawrence B. Lindsey, Mr. Bush's first White House economic adviser, said war with Iraq could cost $100 billion or even $200 billion at a time when the administration wanted no such troubling thoughts spread. Both were fired.
Then this week, Mr. O'Neill's successor, John W. Snow, told The Wall Street Journal that the administration would be willing to accept some delays in rate cuts it had sought. White House officials promptly contradicted him.
Stability is certainly a desirable quantity in the economic policy of the Bush administration, and Mr. Greenspan offers that. Besides, it is not as though Republicans had a lot of bench strength in this area; highly respected economic figures who agree with the president that tax cuts and bigger deficits are the elixir the economy needs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan Greenspan has been Fed chairman since the Reagan years. (Doug Mills/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); TAX LAW (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX RELIEF (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (92%); ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); DICK CHENEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



770 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1438 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: PARIS; 
France Works to Limit Damage From U.S. Anger

BYLINE:  By ELAINE SCIOLINO

DATELINE: PARIS, April 24 

 BODY:
France has embarked on a two-track strategy to adjust to the harsh reality that it will have to pay a steep price for opposing the war against Iraq, French officials and analysts say.
 The severity of the long-term damage to relations with the United States is only beginning to be grasped. Senior French officials visiting Washington on non-Iraq issues in recent weeks said they were stunned when their American counterparts informed them of official "resentment and anger" against France, one official said. A French official was told bluntly by a White House official, "I have instructions to tell you that our relations have been degraded." 
 Secretary of State Colin L. Powell made it crystal clear in a television interview on Tuesday night that France would suffer the consequences of its opposition to the American-led war. That followed a senior White House meeting on Monday devoted to finding ways to punish France diplomatically, including the possibility of sidelining it in NATO and downgrading its status at international conferences. 
The French response is taking shape in fits and starts and in contradictory directions. It reflects both an acknowledgment of the need to be conciliatory in the face of threats of punishment from Washington and a fierce determination to maintain an active foreign policy that asserts France's independence but is certain to rankle Washington even more.
"Pragmatic" is the word used most often by officials at Elysee Palace to describe President Jacques Chirac's new policy. Officials said he used the word himself when he telephoned President Bush nine days ago after eight weeks of non-communication to tell him of France's willingness to "act in a pragmatic way" on Iraq's reconstruction.
It was this pragmatism that led France to agree unexpectedly to a temporary suspension of United Nations-imposed economic penalties against Iraq on Tuesday, apparently without consulting Russia. It was also pragmatism that prompted senior French officials this week to begin speaking about France's "openness" to a possible peacekeeping and reconstruction role for NATO in Iraq, an idea that they said was floated by Mr. Chirac when he spoke to Mr. Bush.
Foreign Minister Dominique de Villepin reflected that attitude during a visit to Iran today. "We can clearly see that the page on Iraq has been turned and now we must look towards the future," he said.
Mr. Chirac has been roundly criticized by editorialists, political analysts and even members of his own inner circle and party for not understanding the consequences of France's firm opposition to the American-led war in Iraq.
In a meeting with journalists in Paris earlier this week, Robert A. Bradtke, deputy assistant secretary of state for European affairs, told reporters that cooperation on longstanding issues involving military and law-enforcement cooperation and intelligence sharing could suffer.
"Can that cooperation be sustained if we have these other disputes?" he asked.
Mr. Chirac enjoys a 65 percent approval rating in the polls, down 10 points from last month but still a comfortable margin. So his pragmatism extends only so far. There is no contrition for the strong French antiwar position.
"We haven't changed our analysis that the war wasn't necessary," said a senior French official. "We don't feel guilty. But now is a different time."
Another senior official put it more starkly. "It is a very serious, long-term crisis," he said. "The message from Washington is, 'You go to Canossa or you are banished to the darkness outside,' " a reference to the site of the Italian castle where the Holy Roman emperor Henry IV did penance to persuade Pope Gregory VII to lift the excommunication against him. France, however, is not in the mood for penance.
Mr. Chirac must move to assuage the fears of French executives of potential American retaliation against France's economy, which was already mired in a recession.
A cartoon in the latest issue of the satirical weekly, Le Canard Enchaine, showed Mr. Chirac facing a group of angry businessmen holding a placard that read, "Our markets!" Mr. Chirac tells them: "I promise you. The next war, we'll do it!"
His government, meanwhile, is struggling in the face of opposition by both unions and some employers to changes in the country's pension system that would cut the benefits of public sector employees. Mr. Chirac is now spending much more time, but still only about 50 percent, on domestic issues, his aides say.
On April 15, Ernest-Antoine Seilliere, the head of the French employers' federation known as Medef, took the unusual step of moving into the realm of foreign policy, appealing to American businessmen to refrain from boycotting French companies.
"We must say to those who are unhappy with the French diplomatic position that they are perfectly free to criticize," he told reporters. "But they must keep the goods and services of our businesses out of this quarrel." He warned, "Any sort of boycott makes no sense when we are agreed on the way the world and the markets are moving."
Mr. Chirac has repeatedly played down the potential economic damage to French interests as a result of his antiwar stance, maintaining that formal trade retaliation would violate World Trade Organization regulations. He also has insisted that anti-French sentiment in the United States is a passing phenomenon.
But Mr. Chirac will continue to adhere to positions that seem to guarantee confrontation with Washington. His aides say that France will not agree to the permanent lifting of the penalties against Iraq, just to a temporary "suspension" of perhaps two or three months until Iraq can be declared free of its weapons of mass destruction. The Bush administration demands the total lifting of the penalties. 
France will also press for the return of some sort of international weapons inspection arrangement under the authority of the United Nations, an idea that Washington has already rejected.
Meanwhile, in other parts of the world, France remains determined to carve out a foreign policy independent of the United States. Since the war began, Mr. de Villepin has traveled extensively, including a three-day sprint through Egypt, Syria, Lebanon and Saudi Arabia during which he argued that the "road map" for Middle East peace agreed on by the European Union, the United Nations, the United States and Russia should be published quickly, and followed up by an international conference in Paris.
After visits to Turkey and Jordan earlier this week, he made a hastily scheduled visit to Iran today. Tehran has been branded by Washington as part of an "axis of evil" because of what the United States calls Iran's support of terrorism and its nuclear arms program, But Mr. de Villepin was there to engage, not attack.
He told journalists that he "welcomed" what he called "marked progress" on human rights and called on Iran to "continue confidence-building measures" on its nuclear program including the acceptance of stricter international inspections of its installations.
Iran's foreign minister, Kamal Kharazi, said Iraq, the Israeli-Palestinian war and Afghanistan were also discussed, adding, "Such discussion, in the currently sensitive climate, are very important and highlight a new track in the relations between Iran and France."
The French Foreign Ministry kept the trip to Iran secret until Mr. de Villepin had already left Paris. Foreign Ministry officials insisted that the trip was unrelated to the war in Iraq, and that he was following the lead of other European foreign ministers who have visited Tehran. 
But the trip is certain to be interpreted in Washington as French interference in the region at a time when Washington is trying to keep Iran isolated and has criticized Tehran for what the Bush administration sees as meddling in Iraq.
Mr. de Villepin, who says that the conflict between the Israelis and Palestinians is the gravest threat to regional security today, plans a five-day visit to Israel and the Israeli-occupied territories on May 10. That trip too will inevitably be seen by Washington as meddling.
Next Tuesday, Mr. Chirac will travel to Brussels to participate in talks with Germany, Belgium and Luxembourg to discuss ways to build up European defense cooperation.
The Bush administration views the meeting as a misplaced attempt to create a European defense identity separate from NATO and to challenge American military dominance. In his meeting with journalists, Mr. Bradtke called the meeting "a diversion from the very good work that has been done to build up relations between NATO and the European Union." He added, "It's not helpful." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (88%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (86%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PEACEKEEPING (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); JOURNALISM (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); POLITICS (73%); WRITERS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (55%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (79%); DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



771 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 599 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: DIPLOMACY; 
Iran Strongly Disputes American Accusations of Interfering in Iraq's Affairs

BYLINE:  By NAZILA FATHI

DATELINE: TEHRAN, April 24 

 BODY:
Iran's foreign minister brushed off American accusations of interference in Iraq today at a joint news conference with the French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin.
 "It is very interesting that the Americans have occupied Iraq but they accuse Iraq's neighbor of interfering in its affairs," said Kamal Kharrazi, Iran's foreign minister. "Instead of raising accusations, the United States should adopt cooperation with Iran. The United States should welcome Iran's positive role." 
 The UnitedStates blames Iran for the ferocious anti-American sentiment being voiced by Shiite Muslims and some Sunnis in Iraq.
It has said that Iranian agents have crossed into Iraq to promote friendly Shiite clerics in Basra, Karbala and Najaf and advance Iran's interests. The agents are said to be members of the Iraqi Badr Brigade and Iran's hard-line Revolutionary Guards.
The Badr Brigade is the armed force of the Iraqi opposition group the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a Shiite group, which has enjoyed the support of the Iranian government and is trained by the Revolutionary Guards.
Mr. Kharrazi denied that Iran has meddled with Iraq or that Iranians are in the Iraqi Badr Brigade. He said that the Badr Brigade was an Iraqi movement and that it was natural for its members to be inside Iraq and play a role in the future of their country.
Mr. Kharrazi also voiced concern over reports that American forces reached a cease-fire agreement on Wednesday with an Iranian opposition group, the Mujahedeen Khalq, in Iraq.
The group is the main armed opposition against Iran and is listed by the United States and Europe as a terrorist organization. As recently as last week, American forces were bombing Mujahedeen Khalq camps in northern Iraq.
"If this news that they can stay in Iraq and keep their arms is correct," he said, "it will expose the Americans' plans for the region and it would be contrary to international law. The United States should be responsible for this." 
Mr. Kharrazi also announced that five Iranian Jews who had been sent to prison in 2000 on charges of spying for Israel had been freed. The 5 are the remainder of a group of 10 Jews imprisoned in the case. Mr. Kharrazi did not say when they were released.
Mr. de Villepin, who arrived here on Wednesday, expressed hope that France could contribute to the political, economic and social reconstruction of Iraq. He also stressed the pivotal role of the United Nations. 
Mr. de Villepin's visit came amid French efforts to mend relations with the United States. Earlier this week, France called for the temporary suspension of United Nations-imposed economic sanctions against Iraq. 
The United States has also called for lifting the sanctions entirely, but Russia and some other Security Council members want to wait until the United Nations inspectors declare Iraq free of weapons. 
Mr. de Villepin also stressed the need for the speedy formation of an Iraqi government, saying that "the Iraqis must be able to decide their future as soon as possible." 
He met today with President Mohammad Khatami and Aliakbar Hasehmi Refsanjani, the head of the powerful Expediency Council.
Mr. de Villepin said he had urged Iran to sign the additional protocol of the United Nations Nonproliferation Treaty, which would allow unexpected and rigorous inspections of its nuclear sites. 
Iran has signed the Nonproliferation Treaty, but it has come under pressure to sign the additional protocol since January, when it announced its ambitious program to develop nuclear technology. Iran says that the program is for peaceful purposes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: France's foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, and his Iranian counterpart, Kamal Kharrazi, in Tehran. (Mehdi Taher for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (88%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (88%); PEACE PROCESS (75%); RELIGION (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); ESPIONAGE (73%); BOMBINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (63%); TERRORISM (63%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (60%); JAIL SENTENCING (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: DOMINIQUE DE VILLEPIN (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); IRAQ (97%); FRANCE (94%); IRAN (90%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



772 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 712 words

HEADLINE: Roads Not Taken 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
Congressman Richard Gephardt's new proposal -- to scrap the 2001 tax cut and use the reclaimed revenue to provide health benefits to the uninsured -- has been widely dismissed as unrealistic. And in political terms that's probably true. After all, these days it's considered "moderate" to support an irresponsible tax cut that is merely large, as opposed to gigantic. 
 But today I'd like to take a holiday from political realism, and ask a naive question: Why shouldn't the American people favor a proposal like Mr. Gephardt's? Never mind the details; why shouldn't the typical citizen, faced with a choice between Bush-style tax cuts and a plan to provide health insurance to most of the uninsured, choose the latter? 
 Of course, originally tax cuts weren't supposed to require sacrificing something else. In the 2000 campaign, and up through the passage of the 2001 tax cut, George Bush insisted that there was plenty of money for everything. But there wasn't -- and now, having returned to an era of deficits, we are told that social programs must be shrunk even as taxes are cut further. Why not choose a different road?
Most Americans were never going to get much of a tax cut, anyway. If all the Bush tax cuts -- those actually passed in 2001, and those the administration is now pushing -- were fully in effect, they would reduce annual taxes collected per family by about $2,500. But averages can be deeply misleading. When Bill Gates enters a bar, the average net worth of the patrons soars, but that doesn't make everyone in the bar a billionaire. 
So it is with the tax cuts, which bestow most of their benefits on the very, very affluent. Most families, as best I can estimate, will see their taxes fall by less than $800 -- in many cases, much less. Meanwhile, a handful of people will benefit hugely: the top 1 percent of families, with incomes averaging more than $1 million, will get tax breaks to the tune of $80,000 each.
On the other hand, ordinary families would benefit greatly from a plan that provided health insurance to those now uninsured.
It's true that at any given moment most middle-income families have insurance. But people lose their jobs, companies go bankrupt, and benefits get suddenly slashed. Over any given two-year period, roughly a third of Americans spend some time without health insurance; over longer periods, the risk of losing health insurance is very significant for most families.
Would ending that risk be worth several hundred dollars a year to the typical family? (It doesn't have to be worth $ 800: Mr. Gephardt's plan, which would provide increased tax credits to employers, would also lead to higher wages, offsetting some of the tax-cut reversal.) Yes, without question. 
When a family without health insurance suffers illness, the results are often catastrophic -- either serious conditions go untreated or the family faces financial ruin. Our inadequate insurance system is one important reason why America, the richest country in the world, has lower life expectancy and higher child mortality than most other advanced nations.
So why should tax cuts take priority over health care? I know the party line: tax cuts for high earners are the key to economic growth, and a rising tide lifts all boats. But there's not a shred of evidence supporting that claim. More than two decades after the supply-siders launched their tax-cut crusade, ordinary workers have yet to see a rising tide. The median real wage is only 7 percent higher now than it was in 1979, with all of that increase achieved after Bill Clinton raised taxes for the top bracket.
If American families knew what was good for them, then most of them -- all but a small, affluent minority -- would cheerfully give up their tax cuts in return for a guarantee that health care would be there when needed. And even the affluent might prefer to live in a society where no sick child was left behind.
O.K., back to political reality. Nothing like Mr. Gephardt's plan is going to become law anytime soon. On the contrary, the right is likely to ram through even more tax cuts, while using deficits as an excuse for not helping the uninsured. But we have the right to ask why. And claiming that those who don't support tax cuts are somehow unpatriotic is not an answer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); FAMILY (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (61%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (73%); BILL GATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



773 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: NORTH KOREA SAYS IT NOW POSSESSES NUCLEAR ARSENAL 

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 24 

 BODY:
North Korean officials told American diplomats at a meeting in Beijing today that they already possessed nuclear weapons and had begun making bomb-grade plutonium, officials of the Bush administration and several informed Asian nations said.
 This evening, President Bush told NBC News that North Korea was "back to the old blackmail game," and he insisted that he would not be intimidated. 
 "This will give us an opportunity to say to the North Koreans and the world we're not going to be threatened," Mr. Bush said. But he gave no indication of what his next step might be. 
The Beijing talks ended a day early today, and Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said it was unclear "when and if" the Beijing talks might resume.
But Reuters reported that both American and North Korean negotiators returned Friday morning, Beijing time, to the compound and met briefly.
It was also not clear whether the North Koreans, in their remarks during the closed negotiating sessions, were referring to two nuclear bombs that American intelligence agencies believe that they have possessed for a decade, or whether they were overstating their nuclear capabilities in a deliberate effort to deter any attack Mr. Bush might be contemplating on their nuclear facilities.
Mr. Powell, answering questions after a speech here, said that while Mr. Bush still believed that a peaceful solution to the nuclear crisis was possible, all options were on the table. 
That appeared to be a reference to the possibility that the United States could take military action or might resort to what more hawkish members of the administration call Mr. Bush's "Plan B," enacting strict economic penalties intended to topple the North Korean government.
The White House said Mr. Bush would make no decisions until he fully consulted with allies, including South Korea and Japan. 
The South Korean president, Roh Moo Hyun, is expected to visit Washington in mid-May. Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan is also expected to come here in May for consultations on the crisis. Tonight, however, administration officials were still trying to determine what parts of North Korea's assertions were true, what parts were bluff, and what parts were negotiating positions.
The Central Intelligence Agency has long believed that North Korea probably reprocessed enough nuclear material before its 1994 "freeze" agreement with the United States to develop two nuclear weapons during the first Bush administration. But the evidence has always been murky, based partly on an assessment of North Korea's technical capabilities and what one former senior intelligence official recently called "a good deal of supposition."
"The only surprise here was that they admitted it," one senior administration official said today. "That fact itself is hardly new." North Korea has never tested a nuclear device, and it is unclear whether it could make one small enough to deliver on one of its ballistic missiles.
The reprocessing claim, which if true would enable North Korea to produce enough bomb-grade plutonium for up to half a dozen new weapons, is more vexing for the administration. If it is true, it leaves Mr. Bush only months to find a way to stop North Korea's program before it obtains a sizable enough arsenal to store some weapons and threaten to sell others.
Intelligence officials said that they had no independent evidence that reprocessing had begun. But it could take time to detect the radioactive signatures of that process, which involves breaking down 8,000 spent fuel rods into bomb-grade plutonium.
According to one account of the exchange between North Korea and the United States, the North Korean negotiator, Li Gun, suggested to American officials that whether North Korea tested or marketed its nuclear materials would depend on American actions.
But two officials -- one American, one Asian -- cautioned tonight that Mr. Li's words were vague. "No one talked about testing directly, or selling," said one official. "There was language about 'taking physical actions.' "
American officials had expected that this first round of talks with North Korea could go badly. For more than six months, after James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state for East Asian and Pacific affairs, first presented North Korea with evidence that it was cheating on its 1994 nuclear freeze agreement with the United States, the two countries have been engaged in increasing threats.
The United States cut off oil shipments to North Korea this winter, and North Korea responded by throwing out international nuclear inspectors, re-starting a nuclear reactor and preparing its nuclear reprocessing center to go online again. It also moved its collection of 8,000 nuclear fuel rods, and their whereabouts are still unknown.
Mr. Bush's use of the term "blackmail" today to describe North Korea's statements was revealing. His top aides, including Mr. Powell, have tried to avoid that term.
The president's tone seemed to suggest that he would not consider offering North Korea any of the things it has demanded -- resumed oil shipments, nonaggression pacts, an end to the ban on investment in the country -- unless it first dismantled all of its nuclear program.
The decision Mr. Bush must make now is whether to let the negotiations proceed to another round -- assuming that the North Koreans continue to want to talk. He can afford the time for negotiation, his aides say, as long as there is no evidence that North Korea is actually reprocessing, and producing plutonium that could be sold to terrorists.
"The minute we see that," one senior official said last week, "it changes the whole equation."
It is unclear whether the North Korean delegation, either in the formal session or in a less formal reception, indicated any willingness to trade away the nuclear program.
"The issue isn't whether they have nuclear weapons, it's what they are prepared to do with it," said Robert J. Einhorn, a senior nonproliferation official in the State Department during the Clinton administration, and now at the Center for Strategic and International Studies here. "The question is what kind of answer our negotiators got to the question, 'Are you willing to walk this back?' "
Officials in Washington may not have a full sense of that until they debrief Mr. Kelly. But already today, the debate within the administration over what to do next was raging. Secretary of Defense Donald H. Rumsfeld distributed a memorandum last week calling for the United States to try to team up with China for "regime change" in North Korea. 
"You can hear those guys already saying, 'We told you so,' " one senior administration official said tonight.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said yesterday that it was unclear "when and if" talks with North Korea on nuclear arms would resume. (Mark Wilson/Getty Images)(pg. A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (72%); FINES & PENALTIES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (63%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (72%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (72%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (90%) UNITED STATES (99%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); JAPAN (92%); CHINA (92%); ASIA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



774 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 25, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Europe Puts Tariffs on Seoul Chip Maker 

BYLINE:  By DON KIRK

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 24 

 BODY:
The European Commission today imposed a 33 percent tariff on memory chips produced by Hynix Semiconductor, the world's third-largest memory chip maker. The commission charged the near-bankrupt company had received "enormous subsidies" from "government-owned or -controlled South Korean banks."
 The subsidies, the commission said, acting on a complaint by Infineon Technologies of Germany, had a "highly negative impact" on the European semiconductor industry, forcing European manufacturers to suffer an average loss of 96 percent on memory chips. 
 The decision by the European Commission came as a severe blow to Hynix, already battered by a preliminary decision by the United States Commerce Department on April 1 to impose a 57 percent tariff in response to a complaint by Micron Technology, the industry's second-largest memory chip manufacturer. 
The European and American decisions call into question the policy of Hynix's creditors, led by the Korea Exchange Bank, to guarantee the company's survival. Over the last two years, the banks had taken over Hynix in hopes that the company would eventually recover from the worldwide oversupply of chips.
The commission dismissed the contention of South Korean government officials and bankers that the banks had acted independently of the government to approve a series of debt restructurings that have kept Hynix alive since the South Korean economic crisis of 1997 and 1998. 
Instead, it found that the subsidies given Hynix "were the most blatant demonstration you could ever get" of collaboration with the government, said Dorian Prince, head of the European Commission delegation in Seoul. "You have six banks, and five are government-owned," he said. During the South Korean economic crisis, the government acquired equity stakes in several leading banks that were threatened by Hynix's worsening financial condition. 
Mr. Prince said investigators had found evidence of what he said was "government instruction" to the banks to exchange debt for equity in Hynix, resulting in a 77 percent drop in prices of memory chips on European markets in two years.
Jean-Francois Belis, the lawyer in Brussels who presented Hynix before the commission, argued that the commission "found no evidence that the banks acted at the instruction of the Korean government" and that the banks had rolled over loans as strictly a business decision to salvage what they could from a bad situation.
"The choice was to lose everything by allowing Hynix to go bust or to recover something," Mr. Belis, contacted by telephone in Brussels, said. The market, he said, "turned out to be more difficult than anyone could anticipate."
Mr. Belis said that 2001, when the banks agreed on a loan package that was the focus of the Infineon complaint, "was the worst year for everybody" and that Hynix lost market share in Europe as a result. Infineon charged that Hynix earned $307 million from chips that it exported to Europe in that period.
Mr. Belis said that Hynix would appeal the case to the full 15-member European Council, which has four months to approve the commission's decision by a majority vote.
Hynix had the full support of the South Korean government in its battles with both the European Commission and the United States Commerce Department. South Korea's Ministry of Commerce, Industry and Energy said it might appeal to the World Trade Organization if the European Council upholds the commission's decision.
The commission did not impose penalties on South Korea-based Samsung Electronics, the industry leader, which was cited in the same complaint. The commission found that Samsung had undersold the market by less than 1 percent, an amount too small to justify a penalty. Similarly, the Commerce Department ruled that Samsung's prices had been slightly below the market level and also did not impose penalties. 
Also today, Hynix announced that it had formed an agreement with STMicroelectronics, a semiconductor manufacturer based in Geneva, to develop flash memory devices. Products developed by Hynix and STMicroelectronics would go into production later this year with both companies expecting the collaboration to "strengthen their competitive offerings."

GRAPHIC: Photo: European officials say Hynix Semiconductor could not sell its memory chips so cheaply without "enormous subsidies" from South Korea. (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEMORY CHIPS (94%); COMPUTER CHIPS (94%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (93%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (91%); ELECTRONICS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); SEMICONDUCTORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); TRADE REGULATORY ACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (76%); APPROVALS (73%); MARKET SHARE (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: SK HYNIX INC (92%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (90%); INFINEON TECHNOLOGIES AG (57%); KOREA EXCHANGE BANK (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN COMMISSION (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

TICKER: HY9H (FRA) (92%); 000660 (KSE) (92%); MU (NASDAQ) (90%); IFX (FRA) (57%); 004940 (KSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (92%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%) SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); BELGIUM (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2003 



775 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: Does a Dollar a Day Keep Poverty Away? 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
In Vietnam a dollar buys half a pound of rice, half a pound of potatoes and a third of a pound of ground beef. In Mexico a dollar buys a pound of rice, a pound of beans and half a loaf of bread.
 And in the sleek offices of the World Bank in Washington or the United Nations in New York, a dollar a day in either of those places is an important dividing line between living in poverty and not. 
 "It's kind of a minimum living standard for survival," said Shaohua Chen, a senior information officer at the World Bank, which established the dollar-a-day standard for data from low-income countries in the 1980's. By the bank's calculation, 23 percent of the world's population, or 1.2 billion people, live in poverty.
Despite the widespread use of the World Bank's standard, there are deep divisions over how to measure poverty. 
What are the ingredients of a minimum living standard? Should you count only how much money people earn? How about what they decide to spend their money on? Or what kinds of goods and services they have access to? What about how they compare with their neighbors?
Some of the disputes are methodological. The dollar-a-day threshold is based on what a single dollar buys at 1990 prices, and it is adjusted for differences in prices among less-developed countries. Just how that is done, though, is a subject of contention. (Until recently, the World Bank was basing its calculations on things like airplane tickets and computers, which poor people could never afford to buy).
But many of the most significant disagreements are philosophical. "If you want to have an absolute income poverty line, you have to start out with some sort of idea about what the important needs or requirements or capabilities of human beings are," said Thomas W. Pogge, a philosophy professor at Columbia University, who was one of the experts who criticized the World Bank's standard at a conference organized by the Initiative for Policy Dialogue at Columbia.
To some economists, using daily income to measure the ability to fulfill important needs makes sense. It is, after all, easy to add up and can, in many economic models, be a stand-in for well-being.
Still, income by itself can fall short when it comes to deciding who is poor and who is not, many critics argue. How money is spent matters, said Gerald A. Cohen, a professor of social and political theory at Oxford University. "You may have the same per capita income or income stream, because of some forms of investment that are available to people," he said, "but one form of investment could liberate the children and the other not." The difference, say, between spending some of that dollar on a lottery ticket and on sending a child to school.
And depending on how someone spends money, two people with the same income in the same circumstances might not both consider themselves poor, said Lord Meghnad Desai, director of the Center for the Study of Global Governance at the London School of Economics. Focusing on a minimum standard of living -- as the World Bank does -- is "a really crude way of doing it," he said.
Even Jan Vandemoortele, the principal adviser for the Social Development Group of the United Nations Development Program, admits the dollar-a-day measure lacks an easy interpretation. "There is the conceptual problem -- why that and why not basing it on a basket of goods and services one needs to survive? It's important to realize that that's not possible with $1 a day."
Lord Desai recommended focusing on different criteria of the sort first proposed by Amartya Sen, who won the Nobel in economic science in 1998. "Don't think about just food, but think about what you want people to be able to do in life," Lord Desai said. "And if they can't do that, you call them poor."
Professor Sen's idea, Lord Desai said, found itself somewhere in between utilitarianism and Aristotelian philosophy. For those who may have forgotten their first-year philosophy, utilitarians were interested in maximizing the total well-being across society as a whole. "The greatest happiness of the greatest number," said the 18th-century philosopher Jeremy Bentham, a founder of utilitarianism. Although money is by no means the only way to measure well-being, it is one of the easiest, and therefore has often been favored by utilitarians.
Aristotle, by contrast, conjectured that an individual had to realize his potential to attain the highest levels of happiness. Professor Sen did not ask that poverty be measured soley by income or solely by the fulfillment of potential but rather the capability to participate normally in life.
But what does leading a normal life mean? "In some communities, if you don't have television you may be isolated or excluded, because you can't have a conversation with your neighbors," said Lord Desai. "You may not need a television in India, but you might need one in America. Can you have a full life as a member of the community? You really have to define what is essential."
Professor Cohen carried Professor Sen's notion one step further. A person's well-being, he said, depends not only on one's own endowment of resources or abilities but also on one's environment. For example, it is better to live in an area free of malaria, "but that isn't a matter of capability; it's given to you by nature or by policy."
He continued, "We really have to think about what a person can do and what the community around them allows them to do."
Alongside its dollar-a-day measure of poverty, the World Bank does publish some gauges of living standards like local public health and education. And the United Nations, in analyzing global poverty, looks at all those other gauges together, said Mr. Vandemoortele. But he added, "The mistake often is that we separate that $1 a day, and we don't look at the education and health statistics."
Absolute standards of poverty can fall short in other ways. How people compare themselves with those around them is critical to their sense of contentment. "There's been a lot of research on relative poverty and its impact on people's health and well-being, and it's really enormous," Professor Pogge said. Individuals generally feel better if they know that their position in life does not compare too badly with others in society, he said.
Even if everyone could agree on just how to measure poverty, some experts argue that the entire idea of using a threshold is misplaced. It would be ridiculous to say, "Let's get the head count down and not worry about anything else,' " Professor Pogge said. "Strictly speaking, you should measure not only the head count, but also the depth: how far people fall below that line. They do publish the depth figures," he said of the World Bank, "but they're not highlighted ordinarily in the press coverage."
Professor Pogge said he preferred what could be called the prioritarian argument, that any measure ought to place the greatest weight on the plight of the very poorest people. "You should be more concerned with greater poverty than with lesser poverty."
Even Mr. Vandemoortele said he hoped the measure would eventually be discarded: "Whether we are going to drop $1 a day and replace it with something else, when you look into the distant future, probably yes." But he conceded that would not be any time soon. "In the meantime, it will take a long time before we can get consensus. The $1 a day is pretty entrenched, and it will take a lot of effort to get out of it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Money isn't the only measure of poverty. Experts say a sense of well-being and a comparison with neighbors also affect people's perceptions. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. B7); A member of one of the 20 families of squatters living without money in an abandoned Kabul building. (Getty Images)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (71%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (69%); PHILOSOPHY (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (66%); TRENDS (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (61%); TRAVEL TICKETS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INCOME 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%) WORLD BANK 

INDUSTRY:  SIC9611 ADMINISTRATION OF GENERAL ECONOMIC PROGRAMS; 

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); VIET NAM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



776 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 4; Arts & Ideas/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: BOOKS OF THE TIMES; 
The Lonely Pleasure, From Sinful to Symbolic

BYLINE:  By EMILY EAKIN 

 BODY:
SOLITARY SEX
A Cultural History of Masturbation
By Thomas W. Laqueur
Illustrated. 501 pages. Zone Books. $34.
 Thomas W. Laqueur is a scholarly gumshoe with a specialty in sex. His last book, "Making Sex: Body and Gender From the Greeks to Freud" (1990), was a highly original investigation of a tantalizing mystery he had stumbled on in the archives: Why did female orgasm, long considered essential to conception, all but disappear from the historical record during the Enlightenment? 
 Now, in "Solitary Sex: A Cultural History of Masturbation," Mr. Laqueur, a professor of history at the University of California at Berkeley, tackles another enigma from the annals of sexual history: Why did masturbation, an activity regarded with benign indifference for millennia, provoke sweeping moral and medical panic around 1700? 
Mr. Laqueur's preoccupations are hardly the kind destined to endear him to the cultural right. In particular, his latest tome -- which features a floating, naked woman wearing an expression of glazed-eyed ecstasy on its cover and a couple dozen graphic illustrations inside -- seems designed to inflame critics convinced that the academy is populated by tenured radicals bent on selling students a morally suspect and intellectually trivial bill of goods. 
But try reading his books. Mr. Laqueur's scholarship is dense, high-minded stuff. Ultimately, it isn't even about sex. "Making Sex" described a seismic shift in the way biological differences between men and women were understood before and after the Enlightenment: from a "one-sex model" in which women were regarded as smaller, imperfect versions of men (and thus no less orgasmic), to a "two-sex model" in which women and men were seen as incommensurable opposites. But the book's larger aim was to show how something as seemingly incontrovertible as a body -- a set of biological facts -- can be subject to changing, even contradictory, interpretations depending on the social and political agenda.
Similarly, "Solitary Sex" is about much more than a simple act of genital manipulation. It's a long, thoughtful, occasionally tedious meditation on privacy, solitude, the imagination and what Mr. Laqueur calls "the morally autonomous, modern" self. These, he argues, were among modernity's signal achievements, cultural inventions for which masturbation became a particularly fraught and prominent symbol.
It's a grand claim. But Mr. Laqueur makes an intriguing case. To the ancient Greek and Romans, he persuasively demonstrates, masturbation was seen as little more than a practical solution to the problem of excess sperm. Galen, the second-century physician, approvingly cites Diogenes the Cynic, who after being kept waiting by a prostitute with whom he had made an appointment, decided to perform her job himself.
Medieval Christian theologians devoted pages to sexual sins, but they lacked both a word for masturbation and a pressing interest in the subject. "Burchard of Worms, a major late-10th-, early-11th-century figure, was far clearer than most in specifying what we understand as masturbation," Mr. Laqueur writes, "but he thought little of it: 10 days of mild penance if a boy did it alone; three times that if in company." 
The first appearance in English of the word occurred only in 1621, in Robert Burton's "Anatomy of Melancholy." In a passage detailing the afflictions of celibate women, Burton listed "mastuprations" (from the Latin "masturbor," which combined manus, meaning hand, and stuprare, to defile). But Burton's target was actually the Catholic Church, which "encouraged sexual depravity through its immoral and unbiblical insistence on celibacy." 
In short, for centuries there was little evidence of mounting moral outrage until about 1712, when an anonymous diatribe appeared in England bearing the ponderous but alarming title: "Onania; or, the Heinous Sin of Self-Pollution, and All Its Frightful Consequences, in Both SEXES, Considered, With Spiritual and Physical Advice to Those Who Have Already Injur'd Themselves by This Abominable Practice." 
Taking its name from the Genesis storyof Onan, who was struck down by God for choosing to "spill his seed on the ground" rather than sleep with the wife of his dead brother, "Onania" bore terrifying news. "Willful self-abuse" was epidemic, its author announced, and without the aid of commercially available medical remedies, the prognosis for victims was dire. The tract, which Mr. Laqueur speculates was the work of an English quack surgeon named John Marten, amounted to crude medical hucksterism, but it inspired legions of sophisticated disciples. 
By the time of the Enlightenment, masturbation's dangers had become an obsession. Voltaire denounced it as "perverted self-love." Rousseau condemned it as the equivalent of self-enslavement. By the mid-19th-century, Mr. Laqueur relates, the tools for combating the allegedly ubiquitous vice included "erection alarms, penis cases, sleeping mitts, bed cradles to keep the sheets off the genitals, hobbles to keep girls from spreading their legs." Long after modern medicine had proved the Enlightenment authorities wrong, masturbation continued to be seen, as one early-20th-century headmaster put it, as "the most inevitable and fatal peril of all." 
Mr. Laqueur's explanation for this prolonged bout of cultural hysteria is complex. Eighteenth-century society, he points out, was in the throes of drastic change. There was a new commercial economy dedicated to the satisfaction of individual desire. And for the expanding middle class, there was a new emphasis on private life, including novel reading which took place in solitude and allowed free rein to the imagination. 
In this context, he contends, the panic over masturbation makes sense. It represented the "dark side" of social transformation, an activity associated with "imagination, solitude and excess" precisely when those concepts were "newly important and newly worrisome." It was the mark of the individual, an alarming new creature whose existence unfolded largely beyond the reach of the state. Masturbation was "the sexuality of the modern self."
Today, masturbation may serve as a running joke on "Seinfeld," but few are willing to publicly defend it as "a morally innocent and socially benign sexual practice." And that, Mr. Laqueur suggests, may not change. Too much solitary pleasure is unlikely ever to be looked upon as an unmitigated social good.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The dangers of self-abuse: An illustration from "The Sexual System and Its Derangements," a popular medical book published in Buffalo in 1875. (From "Solitary Sex: A Cultural History of Masturbation"/Zone Books)(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (92%); BOOK REVIEWS (92%); MASTURBATION (91%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (78%); CLASSICS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (57%)

PERSON: EAKIN, EMILY; LAQUEUR, THOMAS W 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (77%)

TITLE: SOLITARY SEX (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



777 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: A Deal That Worked 

BYLINE:  By Rose Gottemoeller; Rose Gottemoeller is a senior associate at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. In 1994, she was a director on the National Security Council staff.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The clash between American and North Korean negotiators this week reminded me of another push to get rid of nuclear weapons: not the 1994 talks with North Korea, which did not succeed in the end, but those with Ukraine, which did. After months at the table with Russia and the United States, the Ukrainians let their 1,900 warheads go to Russia for destruction.
 Although no one expected this week's talks to go smoothly, I sometimes hear that the Ukrainian accord is irrelevant to North Korea because it was a cakewalk. But as an architect of the Ukraine accord, I don't remember it that way. At the time, the Ukrainian Parliament was full of deputies who were determined to hold on to the country's leftover Soviet weapons, to protect themselves from Russia. Former Soviet Rocket Forces officers were swearing allegiance to their new country and claiming they could run an independent nuclear arsenal. 
 If Ukraine had kept the warheads, it would have become a source of profound instability in its region. Instead, Ukraine decided to embrace Europe and its neighbors. There have been disappointments in the ensuing years, but Ukraine's economy is growing fast and it is on track to being part of the European system. 
Three factors were the most important in American success in the Ukrainian case. First, an unequivocal goal, to get the nuclear weapons out of Ukraine, but in a way that ensured Ukraine's security and future in Europe. Second, remorseless attention from the president and vice president -- whenever they were needed to muscle or cajole the negotiating partners, they were willing to do so. Third, hard, clear demands on all parties, with deadlines and penalties.
 The other nuclear accord reached that year, the Agreed Framework, in which North Korea agreed to freeze its nuclear weapons program in exchange for fuel oil and Western-financed nuclear reactors, broke down because many of those elements were absent -- and because the North Koreans have been much less trustworthy than the Ukrainians. Adopting those elements is probably the only chance we have that talks with North Korea will succeed. In future negotiations, the United States should also consider the Ukraine deal as a template for North Korea in these areas: 
 Security assurances. These were critical in persuading Ukraine to sign on to the accord. Once it became a nonnuclear-weapon state under the Nonproliferation Treaty, Ukraine received security assurances from the three repository states, the United States, Russia and Britain, joined by France. The assurances were accompanied by an "agreement to consult" should Ukraine be threatened. North Korea, if it recommitted to being a nonnuclear-weapon state, could receive the same assurances from the repository states, joined by China. 
 Assistance for weapons elimination. Ukraine got financing under the Nunn-Lugar Cooperative Threat Reduction Program to dismantle its missiles once their warheads had been removed. Ukraine signed Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty I, whose provisions were followed in organizing and monitoring the dismantlement. 
 North Korea could receive help in ending its nuclear program, including sending any plutonium, fuel rods and enriched uranium out of the country. In this case, financing could come from the G-8 industrialized countries, which has a new program aimed at halting the spread of weapons. Elimination and monitoring provisions would still need to be developed. 
 Energy assistance. Ukraine got fuel rods for its nuclear power plants in exchange for the enriched uranium in its warheads. This was a straight exchange, since the uranium had a commercial value that could be translated into fuel rods. 
 North Korea, by contrast, won't be so simple, because its plutonium does not have commercial value. An energy deal with North Korea would be more complicated, but it could involve the resumption of fuel oil shipments; Russia's taking North Korea's nuclear materials in exchange for international financing of light water reactors; and the development of a single grid to transmit energy from the new power plants across borders. 
 Clearly, a program similar to Ukraine's could work in the North Korean case, although it would be tough to negotiate and tough to organize. As in a business deal, there would be something in it for all players, as long as they delivered.

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (94%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (89%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: GOTTEMOELLER, ROSE 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); UKRAINE (96%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); EUROPE (92%); FRANCE (79%) NORTH KOREA; RUSSIA; UKRAINE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



778 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Young Actress Shot by Former Fiance Dies 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
A 22-year-old aspiring actress whose former fiance harassed her for two months before shooting her in the face and killing himself outside her Lower East Side apartment building early Thursday morning, died at Bellevue Hospital Center yesterday, the authorities said.
 The woman, Lyric Benson, who graduated from Yale last year and worked as a hostess at the SoHo brasserie Balthazar while performing voice-overs and appearing in soap operas and advertisements, was shot outside her building at 211 East Broadway by Robert J. Ambrosino, 32, the police said. 
 After shooting Ms. Benson once with an unlicensed .45-caliber handgun, Mr. Ambrosino -- who had served in the merchant marines, had been unemployed for about a year and was a candidate to become a New York City firefighter -- immediately shot himself dead. The shootings were witnessed by Ms. Benson's mother, who was visiting from North Carolina. 
Friends said that Ms. Benson had begun dating Mr. Ambrosino as an undergraduate and had moved into his apartment in Greenpoint, Brooklyn, after graduation last May. Over the past year, she had had a series of small roles in soap operas and on "Law and Order: Criminal Intent." She has also been seen throughout the city on an American Express advertisement for the TriBeCa Film Festival, which starts early next month.
But as her career gained promise, Ms. Benson underwent what one acquaintance called a religious reawakening, and about two months ago she moved out of the Greenpoint apartment and took one of her own in Manhattan. Since then, friends said, Mr. Ambrosino had refused to accept the breakup and had pursued her relentlessly, appearing at her workplaces and leaving countless messages on her telephone.
After her shift at Balthazar ended late Wednesday, she called her apartment and asked her mother to come downstairs to let her in. As her mother opened the door, Mr. Ambrosino fired the fatal shots, the police said. Friends said Ms. Benson was kept alive for more than a day so that her organs could be donated. James Saunders, a hospital spokesman, said she died at 11:30 a.m. yesterday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lyric Benson was shot in the face early Thursday by her former fiance, who then fatally shot himself. (Henderson/Hogan Agency) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SHOOTINGS (92%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); FILM (73%); HOSPITALS (72%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D; BENSON, LYRIC; AMBROSINO, ROBERT J II 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



779 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 700 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Second Day of Profit Taking Pushes Shares Down Sharply

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors cashed in some of their profits for a second day yesterday, pushing stocks sharply lower on worries that stocks have risen too far, too quickly. The Dow Jones industrial average dropped more than 130 points.
 Despite the declines, analysts say the mood on Wall Street has been lifting as a majority of companies have reported better-than-expected first-quarter profits. But forthat good feeling to last, analysts say, there has to be a longer-term trend of encouraging earnings and economic news. 
 Wall Street sentiment is improved, said Susan L. Malley, chief investment officer for Malley Associates Capital Management in New York. "But that doesn't make me feel it is going to be easy for the Dow to break out of this trading range, where 8,500 has been the top that it has failed to break through." 
"I am hopeful that this is the beginning of the cycle when earnings come in better than expected. If it can continue through the next quarter, then I think we have a good chance of breaking through that range."
The Dow Jones industrial average fell 133.69 points, or 1.6 percent, to close at 8,306.35. The Nasdaq composite index dropped 22.69 points, or 1.6 percent, to 1,434.54. It had closed Wednesday at its highest level since Dec. 2. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index declined 12.62 points, or 1.4 percent, to 898.81.
The major gauges ended the week mixed. The Dow was down 0.4 percent, but the Nasdaq and the S.& P. each rose 0.6 percent.
The declines came amid light trading volume, whereas the gains earlier in the week were made during heavy trading, which some analysts say is a sign of newfound resilience.
"Yesterday and today the pullback is on lighter volume," said Tony Cecin, director of institutional trading at U.S. Bancorp Piper Jaffray in Minneapolis. "It always makes me happy to see that. I still think we are in an uptrend, but I don't think it will be seamless." There were three economic reports issued yesterday.
The Commerce Department reported that despite war anxieties, the economy managed to grow at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the first quarter. The growth rate of the gross domestic product -- the broadest measure of economic health -- was better than the 1.4 percent rate of the fourth quarter, but was still considered rather soft. Analysts had expected the figure to be about 2.3 percent.
In a second report, the Commerce Department said that sales of new homes rose 7.3 percent in March, far above what analysts had expected, because of continued low mortgage rates and better weather.
Also, the University of Michigan's index on consumer sentiment for April rose to 86 as war fears declined, according to a report by Dow Jones Newswires. The reading increased from 77.6 for March and was better than the 84 economists had predicted.
Still, stocks retreated as investors continued to take profits from the rallies on Tuesday and Wednesday.
R. J. Reynolds Tobacco dropped $6.02, to $28.18, after slashing its 2003 earnings outlook, although first-quarter results beat analysts' expectations by 6 cents a share.
Sara Lee fell 84 cents, to $16.96, adding to the loss of $1.94 on Thursday, when it missed earnings expectations by a penny a share. Additionally, Banc of America Securities downgraded Sara Lee to neutral from buy.
Downgradings by brokerage houses hurt other stocks as well.
General Motors fell $1.04, to $35.62, after UBS Warburg cut its rating to neutral from buy, while Ford dropped 54 cents, to $9.96, after the firm downgraded it to reduce from neutral.
The consumer products maker 3M fell $2.82, to $122.90, after Banc of America Securities cut its rating to neutral from buy.
Declining issues outnumbered advancers 9 to 5 on the New York Stock Exchange. Volume was light at 1.33 billion shares on the New York Stock Exchange, below Thursday's 1.65 billion shares.
The price of Treasury securities rose yesterday. The 10-year Treasury note climbed 9/32, to a price of 99 28/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.89 percent from 3.93 percent on Thursday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond jumped 11/32, to 108 17/32. The bond's yield slipped to 4.81 percent from 4.84 percent on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); TRENDS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEW HOME SALES (70%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); MORTGAGE RATES (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: PIPER JAFFRAY COS (64%)

TICKER: PJC (NYSE) (64%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (64%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (64%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (64%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



780 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: The Governor's Bad Medicine 

 BODY:
By calling for drastic cuts in assistance to hospitals, nursing homes and home care, Gov. George Pataki is in effect taking back what he gave last year. Back then, in a display of election-year largess, he used state funds to give health care workers pay raises totaling $1.8 billion and in return won union endorsements. Everyone dealt in was happy, for the moment. 
 Few would argue that the workers did not deserve a raise. But in giving it, the governor ignored the state's looming budget gap -- $11.5 billion. We know now -- as the governor should have known then -- that New York could not afford the huge expenditures. Mr. Pataki -- still insisting he will not raise "job-killing" taxes -- proposes to cut Medicaid and other health care benefits. The total impact of his cuts would mean a hit of $2 billion to the health care industry, one of the state's biggest employers. The main health care workers' union, Local 1199/S.E.I.U., says the cuts will cause 22,000 layoffs. 
 New York hospitals are already in the worst financial condition of any in the nation. So far this year, ahead of any Pataki cuts, four hospitals -- two in the city and two upstate -- have been shut, and more closings are in the works. Hundreds of workers have been laid off. Programs at the teaching hospitals that are clustered in Manhattan, which educate about 13 percent of the country's doctors, are imperiled, and health care facilities in the outer boroughs are fighting to stay alive. 
There is no way around some of the pain in the future for New York hospitals. But some of the governor's cuts have to be reinstated for the sake of the state's economic -- not to mention physical -- health. His approach to saving on Medicaid, for instance, would hurt New York City, which is staggering under its own budget crisis and the governor's refusal to provide any help. Right now, the state and localities each pay 25 percent of Medicaid costs, with the federal government paying the balance. Mr. Pataki would shift 37 percent of the biggest expense, hospital and clinic care, to localities. The state would pay 12 percent and pick up drug costs. That is a great deal for New York, especially if drug costs become a federal responsibility, as proposed in Washington. But the swap would cost New York City $255 million in fiscal 2004 alone. That is not acceptable.
Mr. Pataki's wild spending helped to get the state into its fiscal mess. His job now is to help fix it in a way that does more good than harm. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE (91%); GOVERNORS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); HOME HEALTH CARE (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (73%); MEDICAL EDUCATION (67%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LABOR; HOSPITALS; NURSING HOMES; HOME HEALTH CARE; WAGES AND SALARIES; ENDORSEMENTS; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION (59%) ;SERVICE EMPLOYEES INTERNATIONAL UNION 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



781 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: CHINA; 
North Korea May Be Angering Its Only Ally

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH KAHN 

DATELINE: BEIJING, April 25 

 BODY:
China sought today to put a positive face on the abrupt end to talks it had arranged between the United States and North Korea, but diplomats and analysts argued that North Korea had alienated China, its only significant ally, by declaring that it had already become a nuclear power.
 The United States and China had engaged in the talks to persuade North Korea not to develop nuclear weapons. 
 The talks formally ended this morning, hours earlier than expected, after Li Zhaoxing, China's foreign minister, huddled with James A. Kelly, assistant secretary of state, and Li Gun, a North Korean deputy foreign minister, and extracted a promise that they would keep diplomatic channels open.
Even Li Zhaoxing, however, did not seek to disguise the fact that the talks had broken down after Li Gun asserted, apparently during a lunch break on Thursday, that North Korea already had nuclear weapons and that the only issue at stake was whether it would begin testing or exporting them. 
"While discussing such an important issue, it is not strange for differences to emerge," the Chinese foreign minister said about the three-day discussions, held at a state guest house in Beijing. "While paying attention to the words and statements of the other side, we must emphasize even more their deeds."
In Washington, the defense secretary, Donald H. Rumsfeld, sought to calm fears that the apparent breakdown might lead to more hard-line tactics. "The president is on a diplomatic path," he said, adding that "the hope is it can be resolved through diplomatic means."
Separately, the White House spokesman, Ari Fleischer, said that during the meetings the United States had "made clear the need for a denuclearized Korean peninsula." He said American negotiators emphasized to the North Koreans that "their future relations with the outside world hinges on this."
Chinese analysts and Asian diplomats said they were bewildered by the negotiating strategy in Pyongyang, North Korea's capital, which seemed equal parts bluster and belligerence. They said it succeeded only in alarming its neighbors and potentially forcing China, which had been trying to play a role of mediation between North Korea and the United States, to take a more decisive role in pressuring its onetime Communist ally.
"This is a major slap in the face to China, which had really stuck its neck out to make these talks happen," said Shi Yinhong, a leading expert on international relations at People's University in Beijing. "China will certainly consider whether it needs to take a new approach to the North Korean problem, including the possibility of stepping up the pressure."
China is North Korea's largest trading partner and its largest source of food and economic aid. Beijing's cooperation is seen as essential if the United States and its allies around the region seek to increase North Korea's isolation by reducing its energy supplies or restricting its exports.
Mr. Shi said he did not expect China to cut off aid immediately. But he said the Beijing leadership was not likely to acquiesce to the introduction of nuclear weapons on the Korean peninsula.
"China will absolutely not accept this," Mr. Shi said. "It's a nightmare for our national security."
It was under Chinese pressure that both the United States and North Korea reopened a dialogue frozen since October, when North Korea admitted that it had begun enriching uranium for use in making nuclear bombs. The talks were a compromise between Washington's insistence on a broad, international effort to address North Korea's weapons program and the North's demand for a one-on-one dialogue with the United States, which it accuses of plotting an attack on the reclusive and economically backward nation.
Both China and the United States had set low expectations for the talks. The envoys involved were relatively low level. Li Gun's rank is considered lower than Mr. Kelly's. As assistant secretary for East Asia and Pacific affairs, Mr. Kelly has been the Bush administration's point man on North Korea policy.
China and the United States said in advance that the meetings were just a dialogue -- more accurately, a recitation of official positions -- and that they could lead to more substantive negotiations down the road.
Even by those low standards, however, the talks appeared to founder, underscoring the erratic nature of the North Korean government. An Asian diplomat in Beijing cautioned that the North had boasted about its nuclear program in the past, and that its statements at the Beijing talks needed to be carefully analyzed. One possibility, he said, was that the government of Kim Jong Il was exaggerating the extent of its nuclear program to forestall what it may have viewed as the threat of attack by the United States.
Even so, this diplomat said, the disclosure was serious because it would appear to buttress the skepticism about negotiating with the North that was expressed by hard-liners in both Washington and Seoul. In their view, this latest incident further harms North Korea's credibility, already badly damaged by its violation of a 1994 pact with the United States in which it promised to end the development of nuclear weapons.
"If North Korea already has nuclear weapons, or if it is determined to get them at all cost, then the crisis will really reach a new level," the diplomat said.
He added that the new statement probably helped close the gap between China's assessment of the North Korean problem and that of the United States, Japan and South Korea. "I think you'll probably see more of a unified approach to the issue now," the Asian diplomat predicted.
Both Mr. Shi and the diplomat said, however, that China was highly unlikely to back a military attack on North Korea.
The most benign interpretation of the Beijing talks seemed to be that North Korea was using its last remaining leverage -- "playing its last cards," as Ko Yoo Hwan, a North Korea expert at Dongguk University in Seoul put it -- as an extreme opening position in negotiations that might last for months or years.
North Korea suggested today that it did not consider negotiations finished. But it accused the United States of coming to the table with an inflexible position. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (78%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS 

PERSON: KAHN, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) NORTH KOREA; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



782 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: Economy Grew At Rate of 1.6% In First Quarter 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Dragged down by the uncertainty of war and high energy prices, the economy expanded 1.6 percent at an annual rate in the first quarter, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
 Even forecasters expecting a weak reading were a little disappointed, as they have been by other recent economic data. But some saw encouraging signs. 
 "We started out better than we finished," Robert V. DiClemente, chief United States economist at Salomon Smith Barney, said of the quarter. "You have to put a lot of the onus there on everything from severe weather to war jitters and higher energy costs. And, certainly, we carried that into April, too." 
Some leading indicators of economic activity, like the rising stock market and improving availability of corporate credit, Mr. DiClemente said, are offering hope for the future. But he does not expect a substantial upturn in the economy -- the kind that could create new jobs -- until the second half of the year.
For the moment, tepid demand in the economy has left conditions in the labor market dismal. On Thursday, the Labor Department said that 455,000 people made first-time claims for unemployment benefits last week. That number was the biggest, in seasonally adjusted terms, since March 2002. About 3.6 million Americans are receiving unemployment benefits.
"The labor market is still weakening," said David A. Wyss, chief economist of Standard & Poor's. "I do expect the unemployment rate to be creeping up, to peak out sometime this summer."
Mr. Wyss said that many companies had to hold jobs for reservists returning from the Middle East. "With the war short, companies know that they'll have a lot of their reservists coming back," he said. "So you don't want to hire."
Investment by the private sector was among the feeblest parts of the economy in the first three months of the year, falling for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2001. Manufacturers and wholesalers drew down their inventories, and companies spent less on transportation equipment like trucks (down $10.5 billion) and aircraft (down $2.5 billion) than they had since the second quarter of 1996.
A sharp curtailing of military spending by the federal government, despite the mobilization for war, combined with cuts by state and local governments facing budget shortfalls, also hindered growth. Military spending had increased for nine quarters in a row, and Mr. Wyss said he expected the bulk of the war-related costs to show up in second-quarter data.
Mr. DiClemente also said that military spending would help prop up the economy, but that the White House's push for new tax cuts was something of a wild card. The amount the stock market rises or falls after Congress votes on tax cuts for dividends, he explained, will depend on whether investors are taken by surprise. "It gets in that very murky area," he said. "How much were people counting on this?"
Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the finance committee, has said that any new economic package will probably not be big enough to include tax cuts for dividends. Yesterday, he suggested rebates for taxes paid in 2002 as a way to spur the economy. Experts have disagreed about whether people would actually spend the money.
Of the economy's traditional backstops, only investment in housing offered a solid contribution to first-quarter growth, rising 12 percent in inflation-adjusted terms, to $407 billion. But that growth may be tailing off; sales of existing homes dropped in March to 5.53 million from 5.86 million in February, according to revised figures released yesterday by the National Association of Realtors. Sales of new homes offset some of the loss, the Commerce Department reported yesterday, climbing to 1.01 million from 943,000.
The economy, at least on paper, also benefited from a 7.9 percent decline in imports, which fell for the first time since the fourth quarter of 2001. Because of the government's accounting methods, a drop in imports contributes to the size of gross domestic product. But exports also shrank, by 3.2 percent, countering some of the effect.
The change in imports could be related to the falling value of the dollar, but it could also have idiosyncratic origins. Labor disputes at ports on the West Coast depressed imports in the third quarter last year, and a surge of volume followed in the fourth quarter. Compared with that period, the first quarter of this year may simply represent normal levels, Mr. Wyss said.
He predicted that imports would continue to slacken, however, as severe acute respiratory syndrome slowed some production and shipping in East Asia. He said the epidemic could actually help some American companies in the short term by acting as a sort of indirect protection from imports.
A more hopeful sign for growth came Thursday morning, when the Commerce Department announced that orders for long-lasting goods like cameras and cars had jumped 2 percent in March. Many analysts had expected a decline in orders, which give some idea of future purchases by consumers. Consumer confidence has also been strengthening; the University of Michigan's index of consumer sentiment rose to 86 this month from 77.6 in March, wire services reported yesterday.
Conditions in financial markets also gave Mr. DiClemente reason for optimism. "Credit conditions are improving, monetary policy is having its impact in terms of lowering rates and improving liquidity, and credit quality is perceived to be improving," he said. "We're just encouraged that the traditional things that lead are pointing upward."
The stock market did not find the latest figures too encouraging. The Dow Jones industrial average lost 133.69 points yesterday. 
But Mr. DiClemente said the anemic figures from the first quarter would ensure continued skepticism. He said a robust recovery could arrive in the third quarter, as long as consumers and corporate executives remained free of distractions.
"The second quarter is to me a staging ground," he said. "We're digging our way out. We've got to stay clear of new shocks, which includes the whole menu of things from scandal to terror to energy."
Mr. Wyss agreed. "As far as I'm concerned, no news is good news," he said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Real Economic Growth"Annual rate of change in the value of the gross domestic product, based on quarterly figures adjusted for seasonality and inflation. Graph tracks change in value for gross domestic product since 1999. (Source: Commerce Department)(pg. C15) Chart: "Housing's Mixed Results"Sales of new homes climbed in March, but those of existing homes fell for the second consecutive month. Graph tracks new-home sales and existing-home sales since January 2002. (Source: Commerce Department; National Association of Realtors)(pg. C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC INDICATORS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); STATISTICS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); ARMED FORCES (86%); DEFENSE SPENDING (84%); TAX LAW (83%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); BONDS (78%); INDEX OF LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); WEATHER (72%); WHOLESALERS (69%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (68%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (64%); AIRLINES (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (60%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INVENTORIES (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AUTOMOBILES; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; TAXATION; STOCKS AND BONDS; REBATES; SALES; HOUSING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR; CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (ECONOMIC INDICATOR); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (84%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; NATIONAL ASSN OF REALTORS; UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (50%) GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN); ALTMAN, DANIEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



783 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1190 words

HEADLINE: As Companies Reduce Costs, Pay Is Falling Top to Bottom 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

 BODY:
For the first time since the 1980's, the average pay of workers at all income levels is falling.
 The pay of the nation's top earners has become the most recent to fall behind inflation. The weekly salary of workers at the 90th percentile of earners -- who earn more than nine-tenths of all workers -- fell 1.4 percent over the last year, to $1,439, according to an analysis of government data by the Economic Policy Institute, a research group in Washington. 
 The inflation-adjusted weekly pay of the median worker -- half made more, half made less -- fell 1.5 percent from early last year to early this year, according to the Labor Department. It was the biggest drop since the mid-1990's. 
After more than two years of canceling investments in new equipment and laying off workers, many companies are turning to the pay of remaining employees as they try to stay profitable during an economic slowdown. The weak labor market, which has lost more than two million jobs in the last two years, is allowing them to restrain pay without fear of losing workers, executives say.
The pay stagnation has ended the strongest period of salary growth in 30 years.
AT&T and Starwood Hotels, which owns the Sheraton chain, have recently frozen salaries for many workers. So have Leo Burnett, the advertising agency, and Boise Cascade, the paper maker.
Eastman Chemical made a 3 percent cut in the pay of most of its 15,000 employees. At American Airlines, Boeing and Weirton Steel, unionized workers have recently voted to reduce their own wages in an effort to save their jobs.
"Some of the salaries had gone sky-high," said Vinod Gupta, the chief executive of infoUSA, a company based in Omaha that sells consumer databases to marketers and recently cut all annual pay above $30,000 by one-tenth. "We had people in $40,000 jobs, and we had no choice but to pay them $80,000 because there was a shortage of people."
Now, Mr. Gupta said, "we're not having any trouble finding new people."
The stagnation of wages has helped many companies report surprisingly good profits in recent weeks, even as demand for their products remains weak and health care costs have soared. An increase in profits is the first step toward a rebound in business spending on factories, equipment and technology, which would then create jobs, economists say.
But the wage slowdown is also leaving many American households with less money to spend, helping to make the current economic recovery the weakest in decades. During the first three months of the year, consumer spending increased at an annual rate of 1.4 percent, which matched the slowest pace in 10 years, the Commerce Department reported yesterday.
"You can find jobs that run from minimum wage into $8 or $9 an hour. Most of them don't have benefits of any type, and a lot of it is just part-time work," said Bob McCullough, a 49-year-old carpenter, explaining why he and his colleagues at Weirton Steel in West Virginia voted this year to cancel a $1-an-hour raise and replace it with a 5 percent pay cut.
"As far as the kinds of jobs that pay the wages we earn, they're just not here anymore," said Mr. McCullough, who makes a little over $50,000. "A lot of people have bought homes and put kids through college and led good lives here. That's what we're trying to preserve."
By contrast, from 1997 to 2002, the weekly pay of the median worker rose almost 9 percent, to $656, after adjusting for inflation. The gains effectively erased almost two decades of declining pay. 
High earners did even better, with those at the 90th percentile receiving a 14.2 percent raise from 1997 to 2002. Over the last year, however, many affluent workers have had to accept an effective pay cut as their employers have realized that the weak job market has left them with few other options.
In August, Microsoft reduced the pay of its employees in and around San Francisco because it was no longer worried about losing them to other companies. The cut undid a pay increase that Microsoft had given the workers in late 2000, the second such raise that year.
Many companies in service industries, without large investment budgets to cut but with large numbers of well-paid employees, have come to see salaries as an expense they need to lower during a period of slow growth. 
"Fifty percent of our revenue is taken up by compensation costs," said Robert C. Brennan, president of Leo Burnett Worldwide, part of the Publicis Groupe. "It tends to be the area you need to be focused on when the economy is in the state it is in."
Leo Burnett has delayed until November the raises it normally would have given its 1,500 employees in the United States next month, Mr. Brennan said. It has not decided what to do about pay next year.
AT&T also plans to end its pay freeze later this year. 
The recent decline in energy prices has reduced inflation, offering some relief for household budgets. But the number of people filing first-time claims for unemployment benefits rose in each of the last two weeks, suggesting that wages are not on the verge of accelerating. 
Many of the people who have lost their jobs, like Miriam Mitchel of Eudora, Kan., have struggled to find work with comparable pay. Ms. Mitchel was making about $40,000 before she lost her job at Nextel Communications. She is now making $8 an hour -- compared with $20 an hour at Nextel -- at a part-time job as a telemarketer.
"Rather than one full-time job, I'm looking for three part-time jobs and hopefully one of those jobs will have benefits," said Ms. Mitchel, 38. "If it's a job that has benefits, I have to look at it."
Economists say the rise in the cost of benefits is one reason companies are trying to hold wages steady. After swelling during the bull market of the 1990's, pension funds have lost value in recent years, requiring many companies to increase contributions. Health insurance premiums have also jumped.
Boise Cascade expects to put $80 million to $120 million into its pension fund this year, after contributing $48 million last year, said Ralph Poore, a company spokesman. When it announced a salary freeze for the 19,000 of its 24,000 workers who do not belong to a union, the company blamed pension and energy costs, bad weather and the weak economy.
Some companies are also telling workers to pay for a greater share of health care expenses. Last year, infoUSA spent about $6,000 on health care for each employee, up from $4,200 in 2001, Mr. Gupta said. So in addition to the pay cut, the company has changed its policy to encourage workers to visit doctors less often by charging them more money when they do.
For all the reasons that companies cite for cutting pay, however, the biggest one is simply that they are able to.
Because the economy was so strong at the end of the last boom, with the jobless rate reaching a three-decade low, employers have only recently won enough leverage to increase pay less quickly than inflation is rising.
"It took a long time for the pressure of the full-employment economy to dissipate," said Jared Bernstein, an economist at the Economic Policy Institute, a group backed by foundations and labor unions. "But it's gone."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Unemployed workers like Miriam Mitchel have struggled to find good-paying jobs. "Rather than one full-time job, I'm looking for three part-time jobs and hopefully one of those jobs will have benefits," she said. (Susan McSpadden for The New York Times)(pg. C15) Chart: "Wage Bite"Cost-cutting by corporations is being felt by workers, whose wages are now losing ground to inflation. Inflation-adjusted change in earnings from quarter a year earlier Graph tracks wages in 10th percentile*, median and 90th percentile since 1997. *Workers earning more than 10 percent, but less than 90 percent, of all workers (Source: Economic Policy Institute)(pg. C15)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); STATISTICS (78%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (75%); HOTEL CHAINS (75%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (72%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (72%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (72%); PAPER & PACKAGING (69%); PAPER MFG (69%); CHEMICALS (68%); EXECUTIVES (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (64%); PAPER MILLS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (51%) LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); BOEING CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (91%) ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (54%); BAB (BRU) (54%); BA (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (54%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



784 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Married Households Rise Again Among Blacks, Census Finds 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
More black families are headed by married couples and more are living in homes they own, the Census Bureau reported today.
 The bureau's most detailed report on the nation's 8.8 million black families since the 2000 census showed blacks continuing to make gains in several socioeconomic and educational areas but trailing whites by a wide margin in many categories. 
 The report showed a steady increase in the number of black families headed by married couples, to 47.9 percent in 2002 from 47.8 percent in 2000 and 46.1 percent in 1996, the earliest year for which data are available. The six-year increase equals about 520,000 families. 
The portion of black families headed by single women continued to decline. It was 43 percent last year, one percentage point lower than 2000 and four points lower than in 1996.
The changes have followed the welfare overhaul of 1996, which allowed states to impose stricter rules for recipients and helped reduce the public assistance rolls. The welfare plan is up for renewal in Congress this year, and President Bush has proposed spending hundreds of millions of dollars to promote marriage and sexual abstinence.
Avis Jones-DeWeever of the Institute for Women's Policy Research said the surging economy of the late 1990's probably had more to do with the gains for black families than did welfare reform.
"We all know during this time period that we had a huge economic boom, and people do better and have a better quality of life and are more likely to move to these life-changing life issues like marriage," Ms. Jones-DeWeever said.
Supporters of marriage initiatives in welfare reform say research shows that children who grow up with married parents are less likely to live in poverty.
About 48 percent of blacks owned homes in 2002, up from 47 percent in 2000 and 42 percent in 1990.
The increase came despite a recent drop in blacks' income. The bureau reported last year that the median income among blacks was more than $29,000 in 2001, the latest year for which data are available, down from nearly $31,000 the previous year.
"It is reflecting the consolidation of a stable kind of black middle class, which has grown because of the economy of the 1990's," said Roderick Harrison, a demographer with the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, which studies issues of concern to minorities.
"It's not like there are no poor married couples who are struggling," Mr. Harrison said, "but it's pretty much that the chance of avoiding poverty and owning a home on the other end are considerably improved if you are married."
Nationally, 76 percent of all families were headed by a married couple last year, down from 77 percent six years earlier, while the percentage of families led by women stayed unchanged at 18 percent.
About two-thirds of all families owned homes in 2002.
Previous Census Bureau reports found that the percentage of blacks 25 and older with a bachelor's degree was at a record high of 17 percent in 2002, up from less than 14 percent in 1996. Black women are slightly more likely than black men to have graduated from college, 18 percent to 16 percent.
Nearly 10 percent of blacks worked in executive or managerial jobs in 2002, down from 10.5 percent the previous year, but still nearly twice as many as did so in the early 1980's. Among all United States residents, 15.2 percent are in management, up from 15.1 percent.
Bill Spriggs, director of research and public policy for the National Urban League in Washington, said the struggling economy could erase some of the gains by blacks. If incomes fall, he said, black families may not be able to afford to send children to college or buy a home. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENSUS (93%); MARRIAGE (92%); FAMILY (91%); WOMEN (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); PARENTS (75%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (66%) BLACKS; FAMILIES AND FAMILY LIFE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; MARRIAGES 

ORGANIZATION: US CENSUS BUREAU (91%); INSTITUTE FOR WOMEN'S POLICY RESEARCH (55%) CENSUS BUREAU 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



785 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 455 words

HEADLINE: Boston Archdiocese Lowers Goal for Fund-Raising Campaign 

BYLINE:  By The New York Times 

DATELINE: BOSTON, April 25 

 BODY:
The Archdiocese of Boston today announced its first fund-raising campaign under Bishop Richard G. Lennon, seeking to raise $9 million in a diocese where donations have plummeted and budgets have been slashed since the sexual abuse scandal exploded here 15 months ago.
 This year's target is well below last year's projected goal of $17.4 million. The diocese collected $8.6 million through the campaign last year and $16.2 million in 2001. The appeal provides operating money for programs including schools, inner-city parishes and spiritual formation classes. 
 Damien J. DeVasto, director of the appeal, said the sexual abuse scandal and the sluggish economy were the main reasons for lowering the goal. The archdiocese also did not want to detract donors from its capital campaign, a two-year, $300 million fund-raising drive begun in 2001 that is projected to fall nearly $100 million short.
"It's been a painful year, a challenging year," Mr. DeVasto said.
The fund-raising drive announced today comes with a new name: the Annual Catholic Appeal. Formerly called the Cardinal's Appeal, the name was changed in response to anger with the way Cardinal Bernard F. Law handled the sexual abuse scandal. Cardinal Law resigned in December and Bishop Lennon assumed the post in an interim role.
The diocese is in a difficult financial position. As a result of its decrease in donations, its budget for the next fiscal year must be trimmed by $4 million. The archdiocese plans to close a number of schools, to leave some administrative positions vacant and to pare down programs.
Bishop Lennon said today that none of the money collected through the annual appeal, the capital campaign or church offerings would be used to settle continuing litigation in the sexual abuse cases. Officials assured church members of this in a pamphlet describing details about the campaign. It says the archdiocese will use a combination of insurance money and the liquidation of assets to settle the suits. It has already begun to look into the possible sale of property.
Bishop Lennon said today that the archdiocese wanted to settle all lawsuits.
"There are active conversations going on at this time regarding coverage by insurance companies," he said.
But Jeffrey Newman, a lawyer for plaintiffs in the abuse suits, said he was surprised by Bishop Lennon's comments. Settlement talks have not been productive, Mr. Newman said, and he has advised his clients to prepare for litigation.
The two sides are in a 90-day litigation moratorium, during which they are to focus on settlement. The period ends on May 20. The archdiocese has not placed any settlement proposals on the table, Mr. Newman said, and there has been little communication between the sides. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (97%); FUNDRAISING (94%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); SEX SCANDALS (90%); SCANDALS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (88%); CLOSINGS (75%); LIQUIDATIONS (75%); CHILD ABUSE (72%); LAWYERS (72%); RELIGIOUS EDUCATION (70%); INSURANCE (61%) SEX CRIMES; PRIESTS; CHILD ABUSE AND NEGLECT; FINANCES 

ORGANIZATION: ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH 

PERSON: LENNON, RICHARD G (BISHOP) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (94%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) BOSTON (MASS); MASSACHUSETTS

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



786 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: RECONSTRUCTION; 
Iraqis Struggling to Reclaim A Land Literally Awash in Oil

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: SOUTH RUMAILA OIL FIELD, Iraq, April 25 

 BODY:
A black, inky spill stretched as far as the eye could see along a desert road here among southern Iraq's oil riches. Ahmed Maki al-Selman, chief operator at a nearby pumping station, stood surveying the damage.
 Mr. Selman, a slight, bespectacled man in a helmet and blue work suit, noted that millions of his countrymen were struggling to obtain water. "We in Iraq are thirsty," he said with a wry smile. "Our rivers in the sand are oil." 
 Just three days ago, this dusty plain had been the site of a great success. One of the country's major pumping stations, damaged in the war, had been repaired. Oil was to be pumped to two electrical generating plants not far away in Basra, Iraq's second-largest city.
But the pressure of the oil when the pump was turned on was too much for the pipeline. It burst, creating the spill that occupied Mr. Selman's attention.
While it was a relatively minor setback -- Mr. Selman said the pipeline should be fixed in a few days -- the spill shows how the reconstruction of Iraq's sprawling oil industry could take longer than Iraqis and American and British forces here had hoped.
Oil is at the heart of this country's tattered economy, and will be the motor that powers Iraqi's reconstruction and determines the future well-being of its people. American officials have said the country could be pumping 3 million barrels a day by year end. 
From the paper-strewn offices, empty of furniture from weeks of looting at Mr. Selman's pumping station, that projection seems ambitious. A deep lake of oil surrounded one holding tank, a spill caused by vandals when they tried to open a valve. Repair shops, supply rooms, a kitchen and even bathrooms were stripped bare.
Still, things have gotten better since earlier this month, when Basra fell to British forces. Brig. Gen. Robert Crear of the United States Army Corps of Engineers, which is overseeing the reconstruction of the oil fields, said in an interview on Thursday that the southern wells would soon be producing 175,000 barrels of oil a day, still a modest flow but up from nothing just a week ago. The oil is meant strictly for local use to power the generating plants in Basra, and eventually Baghdad. The ability to export, he said, is still about nine weeks away.
The biggest problem for Iraq's oil industry now is lack of electricity. Along the flat highway near the pumping station, the towers of high-tension power lines are bent in awkward poses from allied bombing.
A lack of power was the problem at Pumping Station No. 1 at the North Rumaila fields, about 40 miles from Mr. Selman's installation. About 15 people are working there now, a quarter of the usual crew.
Looting was a problem there too. The doors had been torn off, and the telephones were stolen. But the station manager, Abbas Jabar Hawaz, said he and his workers managed to stave off large-scale damage. 
An American oil services worker from Kellogg, Brown and Root, the Halliburton subsidiary that has a contract to repair the oil fields, had issued badges for the staff, said Mr. Hawaz, but otherwise there has been little contact between the workers and Americans.
Jubilation at new-found freedom was tempered with lingering distrust of American and British intentions. Mr. Hawaz and his staff criticized troops for not helping to prevent looting.
And with food and water still scarce or quickly becoming too expensive to afford, workers are growing apprehensive. 
Mr. Hawaz summed it up aptly: "If I told you I was happy, I'd be lying. If I told you I was unhappy, I'd be lying also."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ahmed Maki al-Selman, left, talked to a worker at his pumping station in the Rumaila oil field. (Sabrina Tavernise for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (89%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (88%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); OIL EXTRACTION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (75%); POWER PLANTS (74%); BOMBINGS (73%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (73%); VANDALISM (72%); ARMIES (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); ENGINEERING (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); TRENDS (60%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (78%) IRAQ (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



787 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Talks Progress for Arena In Newark, Despite Troubles 

BYLINE:  By RONALD SMOTHERS 

DATELINE: NEWARK, April 25 

 BODY:
This time last year, as the Nets were heading into the N.B.A. playoffs, the proposed Newark arena long envisioned as the future home of the Nets and the New Jersey Devils faced some stiff competition of its own.
 Mayor Sharpe James was in a tense re-election campaign in which the 18,500-seat, $355-million arena was the final bejeweled promise in the renaissance crown that he had promoted as his legacy for the state's largest city. 
 Days before the election last May, Gov. James E. McGreevey announced a tentative deal that he said could have the teams moving out of the Continental Airlines Arena in the Meadowlands and opening their 2005 seasons in Newark. 
The mayor won an unprecedented fifth term, but the Nets got swept by the Lakers in the 2002 finals. And the proposed arena became sidelined by a combination of political and economic problems.
Now, as the Nets once again chase that championship season, the arena proposal is also trying to make a comeback. And although there are nearly weekly reports that the deal is in trouble, officials from both the city and the YankeeNets, owners of the Nets and the Devils, insist that they "have advanced the ball downcourt significantly," in the words of one party to the talks.
Richard Monteilh, the business administrator for Newark, who is negotiating with the teams along with Anthony Coscia, the chairman of the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey, said that the "basic parameters" of the arena plan were set. 
"We are down to the nitty-gritty and fine details," Mr. Monteilh said. "We are no longer chasing public money, and the issues now are mechanical issues."
For their part, the YankeeNets are awaiting the response of the two negotiators to "a very detailed package of suggestions," said Marc Ganis, president of Sportscorp Ltd., the consulting firm that is representing the team owners in the talks. "We are scheduled to meet with them next week for them to tell us what they can do and can't do."
After last year's mayoral election, the proposed arena deal ran into stiff opposition in the State Legislature. 
Then, through some deft maneuvering late last summer, Mr. McGreevey and Mr. James managed to parlay a renegotiation of the lease with the Port Authority for Newark Liberty International Airport into a lump-sum payment. That payment, totaling $210 million, would go to the arena, and relieved the city of having to seek legislative approval for the public money needed to build it.
In February, a new three-person committee of the YankeeNets' board of directors took over the arena talks. It hired Mr. Ganis, who took what he termed a "more-business-oriented approach" to the negotiations.
Before that, Mr. Ganis said, it was Raymond Chambers, a board member and philanthropist with a drive to rebuild Newark, who had dominated the talks.
Mr. Ganis said that while the teams were not asking Newark to provide any more money than the $210 million promised earlier, they were now asking that a public entity serve as a conduit to issue low-interest, tax-exempt revenue bonds for the YankeeNets' one-third share of the project. The teams would repay the loan over time. But this plan could mean having to return to the Legislature.
In addition, the teams want the city to acquire the land for the arena through condemnation, with the understanding that the city would not have to increase its contribution.
Mr. Ganis also said that the teams were adamant that the city and the state be active in lining up corporate support for the arena in the form of commitments from New Jersey companies to buy suites and boxes.
Underlying this is the privately expressed view that the projected cost of the arena has increased. None of the negotiators are willing to say by how much, but one person close to the talks put the new cost at $390 million.
Mr. Ganis said that the teams were willing to absorb the increased costs, while also expanding the concept of the arena. For one thing, they now plan on making it a year-round complex, complete with a Nets practice facility.
The talks are continuing amid rumors that the New Jersey Devils are for sale. The hockey franchise was acquired three years ago by Mr. Chambers and his partners in the Nets. At the time, they were trying to address the position of Christie Whitman, then governor, that a one-team arena in Newark was economically doomed and therefore not eligible for state financial support.
It is not clear what a sale of the hockey franchise would do to the arena negotiations. Mr. Ganis, pointing out that the YankeeNets are just partners in the Devils' ownership group, said he did not speak for the group and did not think it appropriate to comment.
At stake in all of this is the fate of a host of other development projects envisioned for a revitalized Newark. 
In a recent meeting with some of the developers and real estate executives planning these office and residential projects, city and YankeeNets officials asked them if a collapse of the arena deal would drive them away.
Jerome Gottesman, president and chief executive of Edison Properties, a large landowner here, said that while he would be dismayed by such a collapse, he was likely to proceed with his projects. 
He said he was betting that the current office glut, with space in New York City, Jersey City and Newark all renting at comparable prices, would pass quickly. Newark, with its "superb transportation network," will re-emerge as a prime location, he said.
Arthur Stern, whose Cogswell Realty Group owns several large properties in Newark, agreed. 
"The arena would make it easier to proceed, because it would be a huge psychological and capital boost immediately," he said. "But we would proceed without the arena because we think the long-term trends for Newark are upward."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The buildings in the foreground are within the proposed site for a sports arena in Newark that could be home to the New Jersey Nets and Devils. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); SPORTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); AIRLINES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); MAYORS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); PORT AUTHORITIES (87%); WINTER SPORTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (75%); RELOCATIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); AIRPORTS (69%) ATHLETICS AND SPORTS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; CONTINENTAL AIRLINES ARENA (EAST RUTHERFORD, NJ); BASKETBALL; STADIUMS AND ARENAS; HOCKEY, ICE 

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (66%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY DEVILS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%) YANKEENETS; NEW JERSEY NETS; NEW JERSEY DEVILS 

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (66%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (66%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: SMOTHERS, RONALD 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (93%) NEW JERSEY, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEWARK (NJ); MEADOWLANDS (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



788 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Iraqi Exiles Given Interim Government Posts
The Pentagon has begun sending Iraqi exiles to Baghdad to take up temporary positions at 23 Iraqi ministries, where they will work closely with American and British officials under Jay Garner, who is serving as Iraq's day-to-day ruler. A1

The United States has warned Iran not to meddle in Iraqi affairs, but a religious edict issued in the holy city of Qum suggests that Shiite clerics in Iraq are receiving significant direction from Iran as they attempt to assert the power of Iraq's long oppressed religious majority. A1

Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld said 12 of the 55 Iraqis on the administration's most-wanted list, including former deputy prime minister, Tariq Aziz, were among the 7,500 Iraqi prisoners now in custody. A11

Continued Afghan Fighting
War has not ended in Afghanistan. Nearly every day there are killings, explosions, shootings and attacks on foreign aid workers, Afghan officials, and American forces, as well as continuing feuding between warlords. A1

North Korea Alienates China
Analysts argued that North Korea had alienated its ally by declaring that it had already become a nuclear power, though China sought to put a positive face on the abrupt end to talks it had arranged between the United States and North Korea. A13

Menem in Close Election
Argentinian opinion polls suggest that five presidential candidates are bunched closely together, and that former President Carlos Saul Menem is likely to make it through if a runoff is required. A3

Accusation Against Legislator
A British newspaper has accused George Galloway, a British legislator, of taking money from Iraq's intelligence agencies while he was ostensibly campaigning for a charity. He denied it. A4

Winnie Mandela Sentenced
Winnie Madikizela-Mandela, former wife of Nelson Mandela and a powerful leader in the fight against apartheid, was sentenced to four years in prison on dozens of counts of theft and fraud. A5

NATIONAL A15-17, 20

Army Secretary Resigns; Clashed With Rumsfeld
Thomas E. White, whose service as Army secretary was marred by questions over his ties to the Enron Corporation and his advocacy for an artillery system canceled by Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, resigned abruptly. A17

One G.I. Is Still Missing
The only soldier who remains unaccounted for in the war in Iraq is Sgt. Edward Anguiano, 24, of Los Fresnos, Tex., who was traveling with the Army's 507th Maintenance Company when it came under attack on March 23 on the outskirts of Nasiriya. A1

Immigrants Face Detention
Attorney General John Ashcroft has ruled that illegal immigrants who have no links to terrorist groups can be detained indefinitely. A14

Census Cites Black Advances
The Census Bureau reported that more black families are headed by married couples and more are living in homes they own in the bureau's most detailed report on the nation's 8.8 million black families since the 2000 census. A15

Heston Vacates N.R.A. Post
Charlton Heston ended his tenure as president of the National Rifle Association as 60,000 members of the group gather for their annual convention. A17

Texas Drug Officer Indicted
The Justice Department announced that a decorated undercover Dallas narcotics officer has been indicted on charges of civil rights violations and making false statements in a drug scheme that landed dozens of innocent people in jail. A17

States' Budget Gaps Persist
A report by the National Conference of State Legislatures has found that more than half the states are still struggling to balance their budgets for the current fiscal year and the next, despite widespread spending cuts to narrow their budget gaps. A20

Amtrak's 5-Year Upgrade Plan
Amtrak announced that it would renovate Civil War-era tunnels and replace overhead electrical wires installed when Franklin D. Roosevelt was president under a new plan. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Federal Jury Is Chosen In New Crown Heights Trial
Jury selection for the new federal trial over a killing during the 1991 racial disturbances in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, wrapped up after deliberation over the jury's ethnic makeup. B1

Changes in Brooklyn Court
Court administrators have begun a review of procedures in the matrimonial division of State Supreme Court in Brooklyn. The changes come in response to what prosecutors described as a bribery scheme. B1

Rapper Shot in Chelsea
A rising hip-hop performer, Ezekiel Jiles, 27, who performs under the name Freaky Zeeky, was shot and a member of his entourage was killed after a traffic accident in Chelsea escalated into gunfire. B2

Pataki Resumes Negotiations
Governor Pataki claimed to have won a budget agreement from the state's two top legislative leaders. B5

Religion Journal B6

SPORTS D1-7

The Magic and the Spurs Win Orlando beat the Detroit Pistons,
89-80, in Game 3 of their N.B.A. first-round playoff series. Orlando leads the series, 2-1. San Antonio beat the Phoenix Suns, 99-86, in their series. D4

ARTS & IDEAS B7-16

EDUCATION

Students Lack Writing Skills
The National Commission on Writing in America's Schools and Colleges reported that 75 percent of high school seniors never get a writing assignment from their history or social studies teachers. A15

Law Dean Blocks Award
The City University of New York law school's dean has said she will not allow an award to be given to Lynn Stewart, the only American lawyer ever charged with providing material support to a terrorist organization, whom students want to honor. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

Worker Pay Falling
The average pay of workers at all income levels is falling for the first time since the 1980's. Companies are trying to stay profitable after canceling investments in equipment and laying off workers. C1

Slow Expansion for Economy
The economy, dragged down by the uncertainty of war and high energy prices, expanded at an annual rate of 1.6 percent in the first quarter. C1

Airline Sidesteps Bankruptcy
American Airlines avoided bankruptcy after the flight attendants' union agreed to wage and benefit cuts. The agreement came after the former chairman and chief executive resigned. C1

The experience of travelers lately is influenced less by airline bankruptcies and much more by other factors, from the weak economy and fears of terrorism to the SARS virus and the recent war with Iraq. C1

Judge Rules for File Sharing
A federal judge in Los Angeles ruled in favor of two online services that allow people to freely share music, movies and other digital files. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES C18

EDITORIAL A18-19

Editorials: Assessing the weapons search; the Governor's bad medicine; observer.

Bridge B15
TV Listings B16
Crossword B14
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); SENTENCING (89%); IMMIGRATION (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); RELIGION (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (74%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRISONS (73%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); JAIL SENTENCING (73%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (70%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (67%); TERRORISM (67%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (67%); MARRIAGE (67%); LITIGATION (67%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (64%); LARCENY & THEFT (62%); CENSUS (61%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (63%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%); QOM, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (93%); CHINA (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



789 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 539 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
A Chicago Economist Wins Prize for Studies on Crime
Steven D. Levitt, a professor at the University of Chicago, was awarded the John Bates Clark medal by the American Economic Association. The prize, given every two years, recognizes him as the leading economist under age 40.
 Professor Levitt has studied the economics of crime and urban areas for most of his career. His methods for isolating cause-and-effect relationships have also won wide admiration in his field. Page C5. 

Big Board to Nominate Albright
Madeleine K. Albright, the secretary of state in the Clinton administration, is expected to be nominated to the board of the New York Stock Exchange. The selection comes after the exchange nominated Sanford I. Weill, the chairman of Citigroup, who withdrew. Also, William J. McDonough, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, withdrew to be chairman of the new Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. C2.

Lawyers Mum on Asbestos Trust
Companies and insurers have offered to put about $90 billion into a national trust to end all asbestos lawsuits. Trial lawyers, who would seem to have more to lose than anyone if a trust is created, have not vigorously opposed the proposal. C2.

S.E.C. Expected to Announce Deal
The Securities and Exchange Commission is expected to announce a settlement on Monday of the long-running investigation of conflicts of interest involving research analysts at the largest Wall Street firms. C2.

Samsung Plans Chip Plant in Texas
Samsung Electronics, which has raised its profile as a global company, said it would spend $500 million to upgrade its sole overseas chip plant, in Austin, Tex. C4.

Request to Freeze Scrushy's Assets
Federal securities regulators asked a judge to keep the assets of Richard M. Scrushy, HealthSouth's former chief executive, frozen. C2.

Stocks Decline on Profit Taking
Investors cashed in profits, pushing stocks lower on worries that shares have risen too quickly. The S.& P.'s 500-stock index declined 12.62 points, or 1.4 percent, to 898.81. It was up 0.6 percent for the week. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 133.69 points, or 1.6 percent, to 8,306.35, and the Nasdaq composite index dropped 22.69 points, to 1,434.54. C5.

A Profit Reported at Credit Suisse
Credit Suisse returned to profitability after three years of market slides, rising loan losses and legal costs related to its analyst research and some of its practices involving initial public offerings. C4.

Cost-Cutting Helps Bayer Earnings
Bayer said it expected operating profit to jump more than 10 percent this year after cutting costs. C2.

Wal-Mart Names a Vice Chairman
Wal-Mart Stores named Tom Coughlin to the post of vice chairman and put him in charge of retail operations in the United States. Mr. Coughlin has been with Wal-Mart for 25 years, and is among the current executives who worked with the founder, Sam Walton. C5.

Turbine Maker to Cut 3,000 Jobs
The French engineering company Alstom said it planned to eliminate 3,000 jobs in its power-turbo systems unit. C4.

Avon to Fall Short of Expectations
New products and strong growth in international sales will bolster profits at Avon Products, but the company said earnings would fall short of analysts' estimates. C2.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,306.35 down 133.69Nasdaq composite -- 1,434.54 down 22.6910-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.89% down 0.04The euro -- $1.1031 up 0.0001The dollar -- 120.35 yen down 0.40 Graph tracks weekly closes of Standard & Poor's 500 since April 2002. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (92%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); LAWYERS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); ACCOUNTING STANDARDS (76%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (74%); STOCK OFFERINGS (74%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); ASBESTOS (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (70%); JUDGES (70%); INSURANCE (69%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (64%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (54%); HEALTHSOUTH CORP (53%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (51%); WAL-MART STORES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (73%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); SMSN (LSE) (54%); 005930 (KSE) (54%); HLS (NYSE) (53%); CSGN (SWX) (51%); CS (NYSE) (51%); WMT (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS622310 SPECIALTY (EXCEPT PSYCHIATRIC & SUBSTANCE ABUSE) HOSPITALS (53%); NAICS621498 ALL OTHER OUTPATIENT CARE CENTERS (53%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (53%); SIC8093 SPECIALTY OUTPATIENT FACILITIES, NEC (53%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (51%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (51%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (50%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (50%) SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES; 

PERSON: SANDY WEILL (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%) TEXAS, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



790 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: Provocative Economist at Chicago Awarded Prize 

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
Steven D. Levitt, a professor at the University of Chicago, was awarded the John Bates Clark medal by the American Economic Association yesterday. The prize, which is given every two years, recognizes him as the leading economist under age 40 in the United States.
 Professor Levitt has studied the economics of crime and urban areas for most of his career. His methods for isolating cause-and-effect relationships -- arguably the most difficult problem in applied economics -- have also won him wide admiration in his field. 
 "Steve is exceptional for his choice of questions," said Joshua D. Angrist, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. And, he added, "he's just one of the outstanding empiricists of his generation."
Provocative subject matter has given Professor Levitt a higher public profile than most academics. For example, a paper, "The Impact of Legalized Abortion on Crime," which he wrote with John J. Donohue III of Stanford University's law school, created a stir by implicitly suggesting that the elimination of unwanted pregnancies helps to reduce the population of would-be criminals.
The authors attributed some of the decrease in crime rates during the 1990's -- a development often credited to better policing methods -- to the Supreme Court decision legalizing abortion.
Another article, "An Economic Analysis of a Drug-Selling Gang's Finances" written with Sudhir Alladi Venkatesh of Columbia University, bridged the gap between sociology and economics. It analyzed the hierarchy of a street gang, and how members' earnings corresponded to their ranks and the gang's market power in selling drugs.
Professor Levitt, 35, graduated summa cum laude in economics from Harvard and completed his doctorate at M.I.T. He returned to Harvard as a junior fellow, a prestigious research position with no teaching responsibilities, in 1994. Three years later he joined the faculty at Chicago. He is currently visiting Stanford, where he could not be reached for comment.
Of the 27 winners of the Clark Medal to date, 11 have gone on to win the Nobel for economic science. Others include Lawrence H. Summers, the former Treasury secretary who is now president of Harvard University, and Martin S. Feldstein, a Harvard professor who is president-elect of the A.E.A. and was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Reagan administration. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (91%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CRIME RATES (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); AWARDS & PRIZES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); SOCIOLOGY (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); ABORTION (73%); LAWYERS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); WRITERS (72%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (68%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (66%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (66%); GANGS (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (64%); SUPREME COURTS (50%); APPEALS (50%) ECONOMICS; AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; CLARK, JOHN BATES, MEDAL; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (91%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (55%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (54%) UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO; AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSN 

INDUSTRY:  SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%) ALTMAN, DANIEL; LEVITT, STEVEN D (PROF) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (92%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



791 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1501 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: TRANSITION; 
PENTAGON SENDING A TEAM OF EXILES TO HELP RUN IRAQ

BYLINE:  By DOUGLAS JEHL with JANE PERLEZ 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
The Pentagon has begun sending a team of Iraqi exiles to Baghdad to be part of a temporary American-led government there, senior administration officials said today.
 The exiles, most of whom are said by officials to have a background in administration, are supposed to take up positions at each of 23 Iraqi ministries, where they will work closely with American and British officials under Jay Garner, the retired lieutenant general who is serving as Iraq's day-to-day administrator. 
 The group of technocrats was assembled two months ago and has been working from an office in suburban Virginia. 
From Baghdad, General Garner has just begun to convene meetings of Iraqi notables to meet what senior administration officials described today as their longer-term goal of forming an interim Iraqi authority by the end of May -- faster than at first planned.
But that process is proving fractious, with the largest group of Shiite Muslim exiles boycotting the talks so far and other exiles deeply suspicious of Ahmad Chalabi, the Iraqi National Congress official who is seen as a Pentagon favorite. 
As that effort unfolds, the task of the exiles, organized as an Iraqi Reconstruction and Development Council, will be to rebuild the structures of a government that would then be handed over to the new Iraqi authority, administration officials said.
General Garner said on Thursday that an interim Iraqi authority would be in place next week, but other senior American officials, including Defense Secretary Donald H. Rumsfeld, said the general's comments had been misinterpreted. A meeting of Iraqi notables is to be held in Baghdad on Monday, but American officials said the new goal agreed on at White House meetings this week for putting an interim Iraqi authority in place set the deadline as late May.
A consensus within the administration favors "moving faster rather than slower," a senior administration official said, in part "because we want to remove the appearance of this being an American operation."
The team of Iraqi technocrats was selected by Deputy Defense Secretary Paul D. Wolfowitz but is officially employed by a defense contractor, SAIC, the officials said. The team is headed by Emad Dhia, an engineer who left Iraq 21 years ago and who will become the top Iraqi adviser to General Garner. As head of the Office of Reconstruction and Humanitarian Assistance, General Garner is functioning as Iraq's civil administrator.
Victor Rostow, a Pentagon policy official who is serving as a liaison to the Iraqi team, said its task would be to help General Garner "turn over functioning ministries to the new Iraqi interim authority after a period of time."
Among the 150 Iraqi exiles on the team, at least 10, including Mr. Dhia, left for Kuwait today on their way to Baghdad. By the end of next week, at least 25 are expected to be in Baghdad, including officials designated by the Pentagon to be in charge of the ministries of oil, planning and industry.
Among those identified by Pentagon officials were Muhammad al-Hakim, who is to become the senior Iraqi at the Ministry of Planning and to supervise provincial affairs, and Muhammad Ali Zainy, an engineer and former senior official of Iraq's Ministry of Oil who is to become the senior Iraqi at that ministry.
Mr. Dhia was chosen by Mr. Wolfowitz because of his role as the leader of a group called the Forum for Democracy in Iraq, whose members span the full spectrum of Iraq's Sunni and Shiite Muslims and Kurdish and Christian minorities, administration officials said. They said that members of that group played a leading role last year in a State Department project on the future of Iraq.
Mr. Dhia, who is on a leave of absence from the Pfizer pharmaceutical company in Ann Arbor, Mich., worked with the Pentagon to select other members of the team, many of whom were drawn from his organization, the officials said.
They include engineers, civil administrators and other professionals, some of whom served in Iraqi ministries in the 1970's and 1980's before fleeing the country, the officials said.
In a telephone interview before he left for Kuwait today, Mr. Dhia described the team's mission as a huge task. "It's something we have always dreamed of," he said, "that we go back and we establish democracy in Iraq, and help our people recover from 34 years of brutal dictatorship."
The officials said they did not have details of Mr. Hakim's background. They described Mr. Zainy as an American citizen whose previous work has included posts with the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries and with a London-based energy publication.
Mr. Dhia and Mr. Rostow provided the names of just seven Iraqis among the team of exiles, some of whom are now citizens of the United States or European countries where they have made their homes in exile. Mr. Rostow said that only a handful had agreed to be identified by name. "Most of these people believe that if they are seen as agents of America, they will be killed," he said.
By setting up office outside of the Pentagon, with telephone numbers and e-mail addresses that gave no hint of their government ties, he said, "they have gone to some lengths not to be seen that way."
According to Mr. Rostow, other members of the Iraqi team who left for Baghdad today, with the offices to which they will be assigned, include: Sam Kareem, transportation and telecommunication; Sid Hakky, health; Muhyi al-Kateeb, foreign ministry; Ramsey Jiddou, industry; Khidhir Hamza, atomic energy; Adam Sheroza, youth ministry; and Ali Alzurufi, Najaf Province.
General Garner's team is still taking shape. In his first week in Iraq, he has spent part of his time trying to sideline Iraqis who appointed themselves to positions of power, including Muhammad al-Zubeidi, the self-declared governor of Baghdad.
But in the last few days, the administration has begun to make public the names of Americans who will fill senior roles on General Garner's staff, including Peter McPherson, a former banker who is now president of Michigan State University, and who the Treasury Department said today would function as the principal financial and economic policy adviser to the team. 
The end of May is now a target hand-over date, senior administration officials said, in part because the current United Nations arrangement allowing Iraq to export its oil and use proceeds to buy food is due to expire in early June. 
Among the permanent members of the United Nations Security Council, France, Russia and China have all made clear that want to see any future arrangement for oil exports in Iraqi hands, not American ones.
"The idea is that you want to have a legitimate Iraqi interim authority in place because it makes all the issues move forward more quickly, including the pumping of oil," a State Department official said.
A second State Department official involved in the process said today that it was possible, though not highly likely, that after Monday's gathering, a national conference would be called for May 2 and that that gathering would choose delegates for the interim Iraqi authority.
According to State Department and Pentagon officials, Mr. Chalabi, head of the Iraqi National Congress, has argued that he should head the interim authority. But several senior officials said that was unlikely.
At a Pentagon briefing today, Mr. Rumsfeld said that General Garner had clarified Thursday's statement during a secure video conference this morning with Mr. Bush.
"What he was talking about was the fact that there was a meeting next week, the second of the series of meetings that very likely will proceed as a buildup to the establishment of an Iraqi interim authority," Mr. Rumsfeld said.
The meeting that General Garner will head on Monday is to include about 100 Iraqis, about double the number at the last conference, held in Nasiriyah earlier this month. It will include representatives from the Kurdish groups, the Iraqi National Accord, and those who represent Mr. Chalabi. Two delegates will be sent by Adnan Pachachi, the foreign minister before Saddam Hussein took power in 1979. 
But representatives of the Supreme Council for Islamic Revolution in Iraq, a Shiite group based in Iran, have said they will boycott the meeting because Iraqis should be in charge of inviting participants. That group is to take part in a meeting in Spain this weekend that includes most Iraqi political groups.
In Baghdad today, General Garner was huddled inside the opulent Republican palace preparing for the conference. Some of his senior staff members -- former and current American ambassadors who are supposed to be reorganizing the ministries -- wandered the marbled halls of the palace looking for office space.
They had no e-mail function, no way for outsiders to reach them by telephone. Several laughed when asked if they had cars and drivers to get them around the city. They are yet to receive interpreters. Two weeks after the end of the fighting, they seemed as ill-equipped as the Iraqis they had come to help. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (73%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (73%); RELIGION (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (64%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SHIITE MUSLIMS 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ;SAIC (CO) 

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%)

PERSON: PERLEZ, JANE; JEHL, DOUGLAS; CHALABI, AHMAD; GARNER, JAY; WOLFOWITZ, PAUL D (DEPUTY SEC); DHIA, EMAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); KUWAIT (79%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



792 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Writing in Schools Is Found Both Dismal and Neglected 

BYLINE:  By TAMAR LEWIN 

 BODY:
Most fourth graders spend less than three hours a week writing, which is about 15 percent of the time they spend watching television. Seventy-five percent of high school seniors never get a writing assignment from their history or social studies teachers.
 And in most high schools, the extended research paper, once a senior-year rite of passage, has been abandoned because teachers do not have time to grade it anymore. 
 Those are among the findings of a report issued yesterday by the National Commission on Writing in America's Schools and Colleges, an 18-member panel of educators organized by the College Board. 
The commission's report asserts that writing is among the most important skills students can learn, that it is the mechanism through which they learn to connect the dots in their knowledge -- and that it is now woefully ignored in most American schools.
"Writing, always time-consuming for student and teacher, is today hard-pressed in the American classroom," the report said. "Of the three R's, writing is clearly the most neglected." 
The panel, led by C. Peter Magrath, president of the National Association of State Universities and Land-Grant Colleges, is recommending that the amount of time students spend on writing be doubled, that writing be taught in all subjects and at all grade levels and that every school district adopt a writing plan. 
"If students are to make knowledge their own, they must struggle with the details, wrestle with the facts and rework raw information and dimly understood concepts into language they can communicate to someone else," the report said. "In short, if students are to learn, they must write." 
In two decades of education reform, the teaching of reading and arithmetic has come under intense scrutiny, with increased state regulation and a host of new assessment tests. 
But until recently the teaching of writing has been largely overlooked. That seems to be changing now. With everyone from employers to college professors expressing alarm about the dismal writing skills of most American students, there is a new urgency, and new energy, to upgrade the teaching of writing. 
Both of the major college-entrance exams, the SAT and the ACT, are being revised to include writing tests, and last year the College Board, which administers the SAT, created the National Commission on Writing to study the issue. 
The panel found that only about half of the nation's 12th graders report being regularly assigned papers of three or more pages in English class; about 4 in 10 say they never, or hardly ever, get such assignments. Part of the problem is that many high school teachers have 120 to 200 students, and so reading and grading even a weekly one-page paper per student would be a substantial task. 
On the National Assessment of Educational Progress exam, only about one in four students in Grades 4, 8 or 12 scored at the proficient level in writing in 1998, the most recent such results available. And only one in a hundred was graded "advanced." 
Further, a 2002 study of California college students found that most freshmen could not analyze arguments, synthesize information or write papers that were reasonably free of language errors. 
There are some encouraging signs, though, among them the growth of the National Writing Project, a professional-development effort that began at the University of California at Berkeley almost 30 years ago and has expanded to 175 sites nationwide, where teacher networks are fostered at five-week summer sessions on writing. 
The commission's report is to be followed by a five-year campaign to fulfill its recommendations. That campaign, called "A Writing Challenge to the Nation," will be led by former Senator Bob Kerrey, president of the New School University.
"Our spiritual lives, our economic success and our social networks," Mr. Kerrey said, "are all directly affected by our willingness to do the work necessary to acquire the skill of writing."
Just how much national will exists to do that work remains the crucial question, educators and policy experts agree. 
"This report is a great beginning," said the executive director of the National Writing Project, Richard Sterling, chairman of the commission's advisory board. "If this is the trigger that allows us to step up to the kind of interest there has been around reading and math, it will make a big difference in children's education.
"But the commission could sink without a trace unless we go forth and say: How does it actually happen? How do we get the recommendations into policy? How do we get enough professional development for teachers? How do we recognize the excellent work that's going on?"

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SAMPLES: Writing Acumen"On a National Assessment of Educational Progress exam, 11th graders were given basic information about a haunted house, Appleby, and asked to write about it. The following are three representative, unedited responses: 48% of respondents were graded unsatisfactory. A sample follows. The house with no windows. This is a house with dead-end hallways, 36 rooms and stairs leading to the cieling. Doorways nowhere and all this to confuse ghosts.50% of respondents were graded adequate. A sample follows. Man builds strange house to scare ghosts. He says that he did it to confuse the ghosts. But why may we ask would he want to spend 10 years building a house. For instance there are stairs that go nowhere and hallways that go nowhere. This house has 36 rooms. If you ask me I think its kind of strange. 2% of respondents were graded proficient. A sample follows. Years of rumors and unsubstantiated reports have created, in a quiet urban neighborhood, a house of horrors. The dwelling is one Appleby House, a modest dwelling of 36 rooms built over an 8 year period. On interviewing neighbors, who dubbed the owner "strange," one finds that 10 carpenters have been employed to build such oddities as stairways to ceilings, windows on blank walls, and doorways going nowhere. According to reports, these bizarre customizings are intended to confuse ghosts. Maybe the owner will report one day that he has caught one in a dead end hallway! Until then, however, the mystery of the building of Appleby House remains just that a mystery. (Source: Office of Educational Research and Improvement, U.S. Department of Education)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STANDARDIZED ACADEMIC TESTING (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); EDUCATION REFORM (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (75%); EDUCATIONAL TESTING SERVICES (74%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); WRITERS (73%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; WRITING AND WRITERS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; READING AND WRITING SKILLS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF EDUCATION (59%); THE COLLEGE BOARD (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF STATE UNIVERSITIES & LAND-GRANT COLLEGES (55%)

PERSON: LEWIN, TAMAR 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



793 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: AN AIRLINE AVOIDS BANKRUPTCY: CONCESSIONS; 
Unions Are a Victim Of Their Own Success At the Nation's Airlines

BYLINE:  By STEVEN GREENHOUSE 

 BODY:
Strange as it may seem, the unions representing tens of thousands of workers at American, United, Northwest and other airlines have been taking such a pounding partly because they have been so successful.
 The pilots, the machinists and other airline unions have obtained some of the highest wages in organized labor in decades past, helping push their airlines' operating costs so high that the airlines became vulnerable to downturns and more recently the emergence of low-cost upstarts like JetBlue. 
 As a result, many airlines have pressed their unions for concessions to stay afloat, and that has raised questions about whether other industries, seeing the airlines' success in squeezing labor costs, will adopt similar "accept concessions or else" tactics.
Probably not, said Richard W. Hurd, a professor of industrial and labor relations at Cornell University. 
"The airline industry will only become a model for other industries that end up in economic trouble," he said. "If other industries face serious economic problems in the coming months, the demonstration effect of the airlines could have some impact."
But other labor experts said the tough stance taken by airlines could embolden companies in many industries to throw down the gauntlet to labor, especially when the economy is weak and a Republican president has shown little sympathy toward unions.
"A concessionary atmosphere in any industry always threatens to bleed over elsewhere," said Harley Shaiken, a specialist on labor issues at the University of California at Berkeley.
Airline unions, meanwhile, must wonder whether they will ever be able to recapture their strength of earlier years. That will hinge in large part on whether they can succeed in forming unions at new airlines like JetBlue and ATA. To have success, organizers will have to the make the case that unionization does not necessarily mean heavy financial losses or bankruptcy.
"Unions can say, 'Look at Southwest Airlines, they're fully organized, they have a productive relationship with the unions and they've been the most profitable airline,' " Professor Hurd said.
Southwest is Exhibit A for the unions' argument that high wages and benefits do not necessarily doom airlines. Indeed, they argue strenuously that labor costs are just one of many reasons for the financial woes at United, American, Northwest and US Airways. Those airlines have expensive hub-and-spoke structures, and air traffic has been hurt badly by the Sept. 11 terrorist attacks, the war in Iraq and the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome. But there is no denying that high labor costs can push otherwise inefficient airlines over the edge.
In many ways, the airline unions are following the path of steel and auto workers, who from the 1950's through the 1970's had the most powerful unions, securing wages that were the envy of most Americans. Companies like U.S. Steel, General Motors and Ford could easily afford to pay hefty wages because they dominated their markets. 
But the very success of those unions helped push the operating costs of those companies so high that it opened the door wide to lower-wage foreign competition, which for the last two decades has severely pressed steel and auto companies and their unions. Similarly, the success of airline unions raised airline operating costs, opening the door to lower-cost competitors like JetBlue.
"Wages are clearly a factor in the troubles that the steel and auto industries had, but wages were not necessarily the defining factor," Professor Shaiken said. "It's easy to make wages the culprit, but wages did not give you problems like the Ford Pinto. Wages did not give you the failure of the steel industry to modernize. But high wages may have worsened other problems."
The airline unions, like the steel and auto workers, are far weaker than in their heyday. But like the others, the airline unions hope to avoid the scrap heap by cooperating with employers, perhaps by granting concessions, to keep them competitive. At American and United, the pilots, machinists and flight attendants approved billions of dollars in labor savings because they were eager to rescue their companies and their jobs. 
"In times of trouble, American industry comes to unions to seek their help and almost always when the need is real, the unions give it," said Julius Getman, a labor law professor at the University of Texas. "This has happened in industry after industry. Of course, as industries get weaker, the unions in those industries get weaker, too."
Some industry experts say the airlines can learn from the steel and auto industries. Labor relations in those industries were often rancorous, but when competition from imports caused a wave of plant closings and layoffs in the 1980's, unions joined with steel and auto companies, as never before, to work together to increase productivity and quality. 
"Those industries went from having a very adversarial labor-management relationships to being much more cooperative," said Paul F. Clark, a professor of labor studies at Penn State University.
He said that increased labor-management cooperation would be vital for saving several airlines from oblivion. But he said the executive bonuses and special pensions that American Airlines promised its top executives had badly undercut labor's willingness to cooperate with management.
"It was a critical point in labor relations, and what American Airlines did was probably the worst thing they can do at the worst time," he said. "If the airlines can move to a more cooperative relationship with labor, that can play a big role in pulling them out of this tailspin." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (74%); IRAQ WAR (63%); TERRORISM (60%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); SARS (50%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; FINANCES; LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PILOTS; GIVEBACKS (COLLECTIVE BARGAINING) 

COMPANY: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (91%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (84%); SOUTHWEST AIRLINES CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (56%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (54%) AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP; UNITED AIRLINES; UAL CORP; NORTHWEST AIRLINES 

TICKER: JBLU (NASDAQ) (91%); LCC (NYSE) (84%); LUV (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (50%)

PERSON: GREENHOUSE, STEVEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (76%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



794 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1012 words

HEADLINE: Manhattan Loop Nears for Bikes; 
A Dream of Pedal Pushers, Ring Is Patchy but Ridable

BYLINE:  By JOSEPH BERGER 

 BODY:
In its modest way, it has been a quest as irrepressible as sailing a ship around the globe. New York's Magellans on bicycles have long yearned to complete a loop of Manhattan Island. The chief obstacle has always been that Manhattan's shores, unlike those, say, of Paris, were designed for commerce and commuting, and only in a few patches for pleasure.
 But slowly, the city has been hacking out a trail from the jungle of piers, railroad tracks, highway ramps, factories and scrap heaps that ring Manhattan. By this fall, the Department of Parks and Recreation hopes to carve out (or in parts mark out) a 32-mile circuit that will take bikers from the Battery up the West Side, past the George WashingtonBridge almost to the northern tip of Manhattan, then down the Harlem and East Rivers and back to the Battery. 
 The loop will not be seamless. There will remain significant detours onto city streets and a few staircases where riders will have to dismount and lug their bikes. But it will get the job done.
"Piecemeal it's always going to be," said Ruth W. Messinger, who describes herself as a "fierce bicyclist" and who as Manhattan borough president pushed for the circuit a decade ago. "But bikers are an intrepid lot, and, given these opportunities, they'll stick their neck out, do a little portage and get around the difficult spots."
A major spur for the loop has been the popularity of two West Side bike paths completed in the past few years, one that links the Battery and Riverside Park and the other, known as Cherry Walk, that parallels the West Side Highway from roughly 101st to 125th Street. The paths, used also by thousands of joggers, strollers and rollerbladers, allow bikers to savor the shimmering might of the Hudson and the daunting fortresses of Midtown for unbroken miles and have become one of the delights of a rejuvenated Manhattan. 
In the next few months, a restored two-mile trail, along what was once a blue-blooded trotting track known as the Harlem River Speedway, will create a freewheeling stretch from Dyckman Street down to 155th Street. Patching will also begin soon on a rutted fragment of the Riverside Drive sidewalk that runs from just north of the George Washington Bridge up to Dyckman Street's western edge. Another short segment of parkland has been completed along the Harlem River north of 135th Street and still one more trail is being readied alongside the heliport and ferry terminal on the East Side below 34th Street.
Because there are gaps -- most notoriously the gerrymander-like route between 125th Street and 145th Street on the West Side -- signs calling attention to the New York City Greenway are being screwed onto lampposts and biker silhouettes are being painted on pavements to guide cyclists along trafficked streets.
Advocates like Transportation Alternatives and city officials hope the creation of a loop, however imperfect, will open opportunities for more people to commute by bicycle and for the continued invigoration of waterside neighborhoods. They also speak of the democratic mingling of races, classes and neighborhoods that a loop might encourage, something evident any weekend where Upper East Siders bike or jog up to 120th Street and those from Harlem and East Harlem make their way down.
"New York City grew up around its maritime history," said Joshua Laird, chief of planning for the Parks Department. "That era is now over and New Yorkers are beginning to discover that this is a city surrounded by water and they want to be at that waterfront." 
There are plans to carve out more greenway so streets and their automobile traffic can be avoided altogether. Currently 54 percent of the island's waterfront is accessible by bicycle; that will increase to 65 percent by the fall, Mr. Laird said.
But bicycle advocates say the United Nations, concerned about security, has proven as difficult an obstacle to a full loop as it was to the Bush administration's Iraq war. The renovation of eight Harlem River bridges, which requires a construction staging area between 125th and 135th Streets, may block another connecting path for perhaps 10 years.
Noah Budnick, projects director for Transportation Alternatives, said that he was not pleased that the on-street sections would not be discrete blocked-offlanes but simply white markings on the ground that still expose bikers to traffic.
Cyclists have been pushing for a circuit of the island for decades. Ed Ravin, a 41-year-old member of the Five Boroughs Bicycle Club, has a bumper sticker from circa 1980 that calls for a "Bike Beltway Around Manhattan." 
"The actual loop is mostly symbolic," said Mr. Ravin, who commutes by bike from his home in Riverdale, the Bronx, to his Midtown job as a computer programmer. "However, it does give peace of mind to many bicylists. For 9 out of 14 miles I can look at the Hudson River."
In the early 1990's, the Department of Planning drew a blueprint for 350 miles of city greenway that specifically called for a 32-mile Manhattan circuit, and state officials outlined a greenway from Manhattan to Albany that included Manhattan's West Side. Ms. Messinger's office spearheaded the improvement of some waterfront stretches. 
"Every other American city that has a waterfront did a better job of discovering and profiting from its waterfront," she said recently.
Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, whose deputy for economic development, Daniel L. Doctoroff, is a bicycle enthusiast, breathed new life into the loop when he promised to complete it in his 2002 State of the City Address. He has allocated $4.5 million in the capital budget for completion of the greenway by the fall.
There are still negotiations between parks and transportation officials over where some on-street detours will be. Many residents frown on bike paths as hindrances to the inalienable right to double-park. But Tom Cocola, a spokesman for the Department of Transportation, says a bike loop will become a reality.
"There's been a lot of attention to it, given the ambition and the beauty of it," he said. "It's going to be a great ride."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Michelle Vasquez and Jeff Carpenetti reached the George Washington Bridge from Battery Park in two hours. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); (Joseph Berger and John Papasian/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Cyclists headed south beside the Hudson on a recent Sunday. This autumn, a 32-mile patchy but ridable loop will allow a circuit of Manhattan. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)(pg. B2) Chart/Map: "All Around the Town (Almost)"By the fall, bicyclists should be able to complete a 32-mile loop around Manhattan. The trickier spots are detailed below. North of the George Washington Bridge, a neglected promenade of Riverside Drive will be paved to welcome bikers and lovers trying to reach one of the city's most romantic spots, the faux Grecian temple overlooking the Hudson. Bikers heading north now must exit at West 125th Street and figure out how to get around both Fairway's uptown food emporium and the city's elephantine sewage plant to pick up the Riverside Park trail at 145th Street. That detour is now being more clearly demarcated with signs. (Within a few years, the city, which owns Fairway's parking lot, plans to develop it as a park; dont worry, shoppers, as Fairway is buying up other lots. Bikers will then be able to scoot past Fairway to an access road built for the sewage plant that parks officials promise, by next spring, will contain a manicured bike path.) The path will never loop around Inwood Hill Park, believed to be the place where Peter Minuit bought Manhattan from the Indians for $24 in trinkets. Parks officials are determined to let the heavily-forested park, new home for bald eagles, remain wild. Instead, the Dyckman Street detour immerses bikers into traffic for half-dozen blocks. (But soon it will lead into a straightaway that was once the walled esplanade of the Harlem River Speedway.) A ramp leading onto the Harlem River Drive long ago created a dead end at about 155th Street. So plans are to have riders exit there along an access path sliced from the ramp. That will get riders into St. Nicholas Avenue, where a bike lane marked out in 1997 takes them down to 120th Street and Bobby Wagner Walk on the East River. (Some day the city hopes to construct a platform over the Harlem River that will permit an unbroken path from 155th Street to 135th Street.) At the south end of the East River promenade at East 61st Street, bikers will still have to hazard the busy avenues. But the new path being marked below 34th Street will connect to the waterside trail that starts at 25th Street and can shoot riders down to South Street Seaport, where a few winding streets will lead them back to the Battery and the West Side greenway. Map of Manhattan highlighting Bike Path.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); FERRIES (73%); CYCLING (58%); ROLLERBLADING & ROLLERSKATING (50%) BICYCLES AND BICYCLING 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) 

PERSON: BERGER, JOSEPH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



795 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: AN AIRLINE AVOIDS BANKRUPTCY: REACTION; 
;#NEWLINE#Travelers Seem Calm As Airlines Squirm

BYLINE:  By DAVID BARBOZA 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, April 25 

 BODY:
There were few tears or traumatized passengers at O'Hare International Airport this afternoon.
 Travelers who have lived through the bankruptcy filing by United Airlines have come to believe that if American Airlines is eventually forced into bankruptcy protection -- something it avoided yet again today -- everything will work out. 
 "I don't think about it," said Ira Nadel, who just returned to Chicago from a business trip to Salt Lake City on United. "Somehow, things will work out. I can't imagine two of the biggest airlines going under." 
His wife, Audrey, however, had some of her own concerns. "What's this going to mean for our frequent-flier miles? We want our miles."
Her sister, Leslie Silverman, fresh from an American flight from Hartford, and busy pulling bags together at Carousel 10, cut in.
"Is that your biggest concern? This is our economy," she said to her sister. "We're not going to have an airline to fly."
But most travelers here at O'Hare -- one of the world's busiest airports and a major hub for American and United -- seemed calm, disinterested, even blase about the volatile situation at American. 
Gerry McLaughlin, 60, a human resources worker in Chicago who was searching for some large, black suitcases in the American terminal, considered the possibility of a bankruptcy filing. "They're not the first airline to go into bankruptcy and they won't be the last."
"They'll go into bankruptcy and eventually they'll come out," he added. "It's the way the system is supposed to work."
American, of course, did not file for bankruptcy protection today. But some of the airline's employees suggested that morale had plummeted. 
You could not sense that at O'Hare, where the check-in counters were being run by smiling clerks. But for many of American's workers around the country, there was a sense that time was running out for their flight careers.
"I'm going to fly as many hours as I can," said Karla Johnson, who has worked as an American flight attendant for 14 years. "This is my only income. Right now, I fly between 115, 120 hours in a 30-day time period. I'm allowed to fly up to 160 hours. I'll fly as much as possible."
Indeed, this was a day when many of American's flight attendants -- who had held out until the last moment on negotiating a contract -- were expressing outrage at management.
They did not have kind words for Donald J. Carty, who resigned Thursday night as chairman and chief executive at American and its parent, AMR.
"He should have resigned because how can we trust him," said Tania Wagner, an American flight attendant who is based in Miami. "He was running the company, and we didn't know what he was doing. We cut so many things to keep the company from going bankrupt when behind the curtain he was keeping the money."
Ms. Wagner said she expected that she might lose her job. And so might many of her colleagues.
"I think a bunch of us are going to be fired, but we don't know," she said.
For most American's employees, the contract talks had come down to something very elemental: jobs, careers and making a decent wage. 
Yet travelers -- still coping with the aftermath of Sept. 11, long security checks, a war in Iraq, a mysterious illness in foreign lands, constant flight delays and the everyday complications like finding children's suitcases -- it really does not feel as if the life of one of the world's biggest airlines is at stake.
Last year, more than 66 million passengers traveled through O'Hare. There were over 2,000 flights a day, about 80 percent of them on American Airlines or United, which is based here and is a unit of UAL. No one expects the big airlines to collapse or pull out.
"I'm not worried at all," said Sister Maria Catherine, a Roman Catholic nun who arrived in Chicago this afternoon with Sister Mary Beata to attend a conference. "We're worried for the people; we don't want them to lose their jobs. But we think everything will be fine."
Many passengers, though, said that what was happening to American Airlines was partly a result of a weak economy and partly a result of corporate greed. 
"What those guys were doing was an outrage," said Henry Ruiz, 42, who had traveled to Chicago from McAllen, Tex. "The executives have lost all credibility, especially Carty."
Steven J. Schulman, 51, a professor of economics at Colorado State University, looked up from a book he was reading while seated in the American terminal at O'Hare to express similar feelings.
"This is indicative of a moral collapse," he said. "The powerful people think everything is theirs for the taking. How come my son understands the difference between right and wrong and they don't?" He was not finished. "They take things because they can. It's wrong in the fourth grade and it's wrong now."
There are, of course, those who worry about whether American will stop flying here or there, or whether they'll lose out on certain comforts, like Christine Lance, 28, who said she liked the seat room American flights offered.
Then there was the competition, the men and women who worked at other airlines.
A 31-year-old US Airways pilot named Vincent, who declined to give his last name, said he was just happy to have a job. 
"I've got friends working at Home Depot because they've lost their jobs," he said. "They're pilots, but they aren't pilots because they're not working anymore."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The American Airlines terminal at O'Hare International Airport in Chicago yesterday as the airline, again, avoided a bankruptcy filing. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (95%); AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); HUMAN RESOURCES (70%); EXECUTIVES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; AIRPORTS; O'HARE INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT (CHICAGO) 

COMPANY: AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (91%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN AIRLINES; AMR CORP 

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%)

PERSON: BARBOZA, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (92%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (91%) UTAH, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



796 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: AN AIRLINE AVOIDS BANKRUPTCY: PASSENGERS; 
Travelers Have Enough Worries; Airline Woes Hardly Faze Them

BYLINE:  By DONNA ROSATO 

 BODY:
When Rick Kupcunas heard rumors a few weeks ago that American Airlines might file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection, the Dallas-based technology consultant cashed in 150,000 of his frequent-flier miles to get four tickets for a family vacation to the West Coast.
 "I'd rather spend them than lose them," said Mr. Kupcunas, a senior manager at Deloitte & Touche who flies 175,000 miles a year, mostly on American, which is owned by the AMR Corporation. 
 But Mr. Kupcunas has little to fear. American Airlines seems to have ducked the threat of an immediate trip to bankruptcy court, and even had American filed, his miles would have been safe. Indeed, the experience of travelers lately is little influenced by airline bankruptcies and much more by other factors, from the weak economy and fears of terrorism to severe acute respiratory syndrome and the recent war with Iraq. 
With the steep downturn in travel because of those factors, airlines have slashed schedules, leaving people who do want to fly with fewer options. Popular morning and afternoon flights are often packed. But demand has fallen even faster than the supply, so fares over all are dropping, and it is sometimes easier for frequent fliers to upgrade to better seats.
Moreover, with fewer planes in the sky, the whole air travel system is working better, according to government statistics: Airlines are posting better on-time performance and losing fewer bags. "The airlines have made capacity cuts because of SARS and the war with Iraq, but I don't think a bankruptcy filing by American would result in a substantial reduction in service," said Mo Garfinkle, chief executive of GCW Consulting, an international aviation consulting firm.
In fact, some carriers are restoring capacity that they cut just before the war with Iraq started in March. On Thursday, Delta Air Lines announced that in June, it would restore most of the domestic and international service it suspended in April and May.
That will be a relief to frustrated fliers on Delta's East Coast shuttle.
At LaGuardia Airport yesterday afternoon, dozens of travelers were unable to get on overbooked shuttle flights. John Kennedy, a Delta spokesman, said Delta hurried to add several flights to cope with the overflow.
After bankruptcy filings last year by United Airlines, which is owned by the UAL Corporation, and by US Airways, travelers seem barely to blink at the prospect these days, airline experts say. 
"The stigma of bankruptcy doesn't exist with the airline industry," said Hal Rosenbluth, the chief executive of Rosenbluth International, a corporate travel agency. 
Like United, which remains in bankruptcy court, and US Airways, which has completed its reorganization, American has been ratcheting back its operations for months. "American has already done a substantial downsizing in terms of grounding aircraft and cutting back schedules," said Dan Kasper, managing director at LECG, an economic and financial consulting firm that specializes in aviation.
One challenge for Gerard J. Arpey, the newly promoted chief executive of American, will be inspiring a work force facing pay cuts and tougher work rules -- and whose anger helped drive his predecessor, Donald J. Carty, out of the job on Thursday. 
Some heart, perhaps, can be taken from the performance of United. With workers under similar strains, customer satisfaction measures at United actually have been improving. 
In part, airlines are performing better because so many travelers have been grounded. Half-full flights also mean it is easier for fliers to move up to first-class and business-class seats. 
Steve Klein, a training consultant in Dallas who flies about 50,000 miles a year on American, said that he had been frustrated by having fewer flights to choose from. But he was happy when he was upgraded on a flight from Dallas to St. Louis earlier this week.
"There were a few empty seats in first class," he said. 
With the war over and the summer travel season looming, airlines are hoping that more travelers will take to the skies. While international travel remains weak because of SARS and lingering fears about terrorism, domestic travel is showing some signs of picking up, some travel companies said. 
At Rosenbluth, domestic travel bookings during the last four weeks were 15 percent higher than the month before. "Travel has picked up domestically," Mr. Rosenbluth said. "Corporations are starting to send people out again."

GRAPHIC: Charts: There are fewer flights than before Sept. 11 . . .Graph tracks available seat miles, measured in billions, since 2000. But on-time performance has improved . . .Graph tracks percentage of flights arriving on time each month since 2000. Flight cancellations have generally declined . . .Graph tracks percentage of flights canceled each month since 2000. And fares have fallen.Graph tracks average advance ticket prices for 215 routes since 2000. (Source: Back Aviation Solutions; Federal Aviation Administration; American Express)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (92%); AIRLINES (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (90%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (90%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FARES (78%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (78%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (73%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (70%); SARS (68%); STATISTICS (65%); TERRORISM (53%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LUGGAGE; INDUSTRY PROFILES 

COMPANY: DELTA AIR LINES INC (85%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (85%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (84%); AMR CORP (84%); DELOITTE TOUCHE TOHMATSU (72%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (58%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (52%)

TICKER: DAL (NYSE) (85%); UAL (NYSE) (84%); LCC (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (85%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (84%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (72%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (72%)

PERSON: ROSATO, DONNA 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%); WEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



797 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: Runoff Is Likely After Argentines Vote Tomorrow 

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, April 25 

 BODY:
With Argentines preparing to cast ballots for a new president on Sunday, candidates and voters alike are assuming that a runoff will be required, and that former President Carlos Saul Menem will be one of two survivors. As a result, the fierce battle for the second slot has suddenly intensified and become the focus of the campaign.
 According to a final series of opinion polls made public this week, five candidates are bunched so closely together that any two could move on to the runoff election, to be held on May 18 if no one receives a large enough percentage of the votes on Sunday. 
 But it now seems most likely that Nestor Kirchner, one of three Peronists in the race, or Ricardo Lopez Murphy, leader of the newly formed center-right Federal Recreate Movement, will face Mr. Menem in the second round. The last-minute surprise of the campaign is clearly Mr. Lopez Murphy, 51, a business consultant and economist trained at the University of Chicago. 
Barely a month ago he was languishing in fifth place, unfamiliar to most of the electorate and considered unlikely to perform strongly at the polls because of his unabashed enthusiasm for the policies that many Argentines blame for the collapse of the economy in December 2001. Those policies included budget cuts, relaxed regulation of businesses, the selling off of government assets and the opening of markets to foreign investment.
Roberto Bacman, a polltaker and political analyst, termed Mr. Lopez Murphy's rise "almost a miracle." Of the five main candidates, Mr. Bacman added, Mr. Lopez Murphy is the "only one who has exploited to the maximum his niche," that of the clear alternative to Peronism, and is showing growing strength in cities and among middle-class voters.
Under the Radical government elected in 1999, Mr. Lopez Murphy served for more than two years as defense minister and then for 17 days as economy minister, resigning in March 2001 when the government backed away from carrying out the budget-trimming measures he insisted were necessary. 
That act has enabled him to turn some of his deficiencies into strengths by arguing that he will always stand for principle over political expediency.
Known as the Bulldog because of his appearance and the aggressiveness with which he defends his positions and criticizes his rivals, Mr. Lopez Murphy has also benefited from what even his critics acknowledge is a clever media campaign. In one commercial the camera zooms in on Mr. Lopez Murphy's bushy mustache and toothy grin. "Would you entrust your child to a hospital where Kirchner was the doctor and Duhalde was the owner of the clinic?" he asks. The interim president, Eduardo Duhalde, is a Peronist, and Mr. Kirchner is his preferred candidate.
Many of Mr. Lopez Murphy's ideas about how to pull Argentina out of the worst economic crisis in its history are identical to those of Mr. Menem, who was president during most of the 1990's. But Mr. Lopez Murphy does not have the burden of being perceived as corrupt and unethical. Opinion polls indicate that this is Mr. Menem's biggest liability and that Mr. Lopez Murphy would defeat him handily if the two men met in a runoff.
Mr. Kirchner, in contrast, has staked out a position similar to that of President Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva in Brazil, positioning himself as the representative of the nationalist left to the point of referring to "my friend Lula" and implying, inaccurately, that he has Mr. da Silva's endorsement. A critic of Mr. Menem since the beginning of his career, he has also promised to modernize, cleanse and "renew" the Peronist movement from within.
Mr. Kirchner, 53, the governor of a thinly populated but oil-rich province in the Patagonia region, has emphasized the administrative skills that have given his province a budget surplus and virtually no unemployment.
"Of the three Peronists running, he is the only one who has not been president, and that is seen as a plus" said Felipe Noguera, a polltaker and political analyst. "He has reaped the benefit of his association with Duhalde but has managed to keep Duhalde at arm's length and is seen as his own man."
Hoping to blunt the recent surges by Mr. Menem and Mr. Lopez Murphy, Mr. Duhalde has taken a number of steps intended to help Mr. Kirchner. The government has announced a wage increase for civil servants, for example, and eased the terms on which middle-class bank depositors can gain access to long-frozen accounts.
Mr. Kirchner has announced that if victorious, he will retain Economy Minister Roberto Lavagna, who has become popular by halting inflation, the decline in the value of the peso and the contraction of the economy. Mr. Lavagna, in turn, has begun appearing in campaign advertisements in which he endorses Mr. Kirchner.
Mr. Kirchner has also redirected some of his criticisms away from Mr. Menem and toward Mr. Lopez Murphy, dismissing both as "Thatcherites" and puppets of the banks and multinational corporations that he holds responsible for the economic crisis. "The financial sector wants a manager, but Argentina wants a president," Mr. Kirchner said on Thursday.
He has also suggested that his new opponent has a fondness for authoritarian rule, noting that two of Mr. Lopez Murphy's closest advisers have links to the brutal military dictatorship that ruled this country from 1976 through 1983. Mr. Kirchner, on the other hand, belonged to a Peronist youth group that was forced to go underground, and he was briefly jailed during the dictatorship.
Voters can "opt for either of two models," Mr. Kirchner said this week. "They can opt for a model based on social exclusion, poverty, hunger and cutting benefits, or they can opt for social inclusion and institutional renewal."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nestor Kirchner, above, a Peronist, and Ricardo Lopez Murphy, below, the candidate of a center-right coalition, appear to be vying for enough votes to face former President Carlos Saul Menem in a runoff election. (Reuters); (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RUNOFF ELECTIONS (92%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (70%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (67%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (62%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (50%) ELECTIONS 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (56%)

PERSON: NESTOR KIRCHNER (89%) LOPEZ MURPHY, RICARDO; KIRCHNER, NESTOR; MENEM, CARLOS SAUL; ROHTER, LARRY 

GEOGRAPHIC: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ILLINOIS, USA (56%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (56%) ARGENTINA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



798 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 819 words

HEADLINE: THE SARS EPIDEMIC: TORONTO; 
Canada Increases Pressure on World Health Organization to Lift Travel Advisory

BYLINE:  By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

DATELINE: TORONTO, April 25 

 BODY:
Canada ratcheted up the pressure today to persuade the World Health Organization to reverse its advisory to travelers to avoid Toronto because of the outbreak of the highly contagious respiratory disease known as SARS.
 "We all believe that the World Health Organization came to the wrong conclusion," said Prime Minister Jean Chretien in a nationally televised news conference today after returning from a week's vacation in the Dominican Republic. 
 In a gesture intended to express confidence that Toronto was safe, Mr. Chretien said he was scheduling a cabinet meeting in Toronto on Tuesday, and would spend Monday night at a hotel here. "I will sleep very, very, very well," he said. 
Mr. Chretien made his remarks after calling the W.H.O. leader, Gro Harlem Brundtland, to protest the Wednesday decision, which is causing severe economic aftershocks here in Canada's financial center.
Canadian officials said the prime minister's conversation with Ms. Brundtland was private, but they noted that the two developed a good working relationship when Ms. Brundtland was prime minister of Norway in the early and mid-1990's.
There was no indication that Ms. Brundtland made any commitments one way or another.
"I don't think there will be a reversal," said Dick Thompson, spokesman for the communicable disease section of the W.H.O. But he added, "We re-evaluate travel information every day and in that sense we will be looking at it again regularly."
The Toronto death toll from SARS rose to 19 today, with 3 more deaths over the last day. There have been 257 probable and suspected cases in the area, a number that has actually gone down in recent days.
Canadian health officials, who are suddenly expressing optimism about controlling SARS, note that there has not been a new case reported outside the hospital system in more than a week. The disease, they say, has not broken out into the general community, and it is unlikely for a pedestrian to become sick with SARS.
But W.H.O. officials, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said they continued to believe that travel to Toronto posed a threat to world health, particularly for developing countries whose health care systems could not manage an outbreak of SARS introduced by someone who had traveled to an infected city. 
The officials said the health organization was coming under enormous political pressure from a country with traditionally warm ties to the United Nations. They suggested a possible reversal could be based on politics and not science.
The prime minister's call to Ms. Brundtland came after two days of telephone calls from cabinet officials and from the Ontario premier, Ernie Eves, who argued that the W.H.O. decision was based on faulty information that did not reflect an improving situation.
Mr. Eves said today that Canadian officials would present their case on Tuesday and "there will be a decision to make whether to lift the travel ban on Toronto or not."
The W.H.O. decision was based on determinations that several probable SARS cases in the Philippines, Australia and the United States were linked to people who had traveled to Canada. Canadian officials question whether many of the reported cases were actually SARS. Even if some were, they say, they do not reflect the current improvement. 
The United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention did not agree with the W.H.O.'s decision, and has not added Toronto to its list of SARS-affected areas travelers should avoid.
Canada's frustration with a United Nations organization and its gratefulness for United States support come only a few weeks after Ottawa angered the Bush administration by not supporting the war in Iraq because it was not sanctioned by the Security Council.
"The Canadian predisposition toward multilateral institutions and antipathy to U.S. unilateralism has been briefly put on its head," said Robert A. Pastor, vice president for international affairs at American University and a senior official in the Carter White House, who was attending a conference in Toronto today.
The travel advisory has galvanized Canadians as few international issues have in years.
"I don't think they realize what the impact will be here," said Natalie Jurcic, 20, one of the owners of a clothing shop under the Royal York Hotel, whose business is off 30 percent because of worries over SARS. "Basically, the summer will be a write-off."
Few people in Toronto wear masks to protect themselves from SARS, and there has been only a modest impact on daily life outside of hospitals and businesses linked to tourism, restaurants or Chinese malls.
Fans who came to the Toronto Blue Jays game tonight said they were puzzled by reports that Major League Baseball has advised players to use their own pens when signing autographs. "That's ridiculous," said Sandy Munro, 52, a financial planner. "They're making a mountain out of a molehill. People with SARS don't go to the ballgame."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Players from the Kansas City Royals declined to sign autographs yesterday as they left their hotel in Toronto. At right, Tony Clement, a Canadian health official, sanitized his hands during a visit to Mount Sinai Hospital. (Associated Press); (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (95%); SARS (93%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EPIDEMICS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); POLITICS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); BASEBALL (71%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (63%); HOSPITALS (62%); PRESS CONFERENCES (56%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME) 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (94%); KANSAS CITY ROYALS (59%) WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: JEAN CHRETIEN (90%); TONY CLEMENT (56%) KRAUSS, CLIFFORD; CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (96%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (67%) ONTARIO, CANADA (96%); MISSOURI, USA (67%) CANADA (96%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (92%); NORWAY (79%); UNITED STATES (67%) CANADA; TORONTO (ONTARIO)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



799 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1365 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS; 
As Profit Falls, Samsung Turns More Aggressive

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SEOUL, South Korea, April 25 

 BODY:
The Samsung Electronics Company announced today that it would spend $500 million to upgrade its sole overseas chip plant, in Austin, Tex. Within hours of that announcement, Samsung's stock dropped 2.4 percent -- North Korean officials said that they had the capability to make nuclear bombs.
 Such are the gritty challenges that confront Samsung, the largest company in South Korea, a pulsating, high-tech country that shares a peninsula with a militarized, impoverished nation where few people are allowed to have telephones. 
 In China, Samsung's largest Asian export market, consumer demand is withering as a respiratory virus scares people away from markets and department stores where cellphones, DVD players and flat-screen televisions are languishing on the shelves. Around Asia, prices of computer chips, a major Samsung product, are falling as new American and European tariff barriers against Hynix, a Korean-government-supported rival, are expected to cause excess Korean-made chips to flood the region. 
Samsung sales in South Korea dropped by 28 percent this last quarter over the quarter last year. The decline seems to be a result of soaring credit card debt over the last year. About 500,000 South Koreans in their 20's, or about one in 15, are facing bankruptcy.
Last week, Samsung announced a 41 percent drop in profit for the quarter ended March 31, to $1.1 billion in operating profit. In response, Samsung increased its already aggressive investment budget to $5.65 billion, nearly two-thirds higher than last year's.
Since 1996, Samsung has been run by Yun Jong Yong, a soft-spoken engineer who seems to believe that a good dose of crisis and chaos will keep Samsung, South Korea's No. 1 company, agile and resourceful, fighting as if it were No. 3 when in many areas it has in fact become No. 1. And in many ways, Samsung's success is emblematic of Korea's rapid entry into the club of developed nations.
From a mass producer of cheap electronics a decade ago, Samsung is now the world's largest producer of memory chips and flat screens. Its market capitalization is now bigger than its Japanese rival, Sony. Last year, Samsung was the world's third-most-profitable electronics company, after General Electric and Microsoft.
And Samsung, a sponsor of the Olympics, has raised its profile as a global company. Last year, Interbrand, the brand consultant, ranked Samsung as the world's fastest- growing brand, ahead of Starbucks.
"Some people think that Samsung is a Japanese company," Chang Il Hyung, Samsung's top spokesman, said, gliding over 1,000 years of Korean-Japanese rivalry. "We don't care about that. Nationality is not that important to us. We are focusing on making Samsung a global market player."
Sony's sales volume still dwarfs Samsung's, but Sony's profitability is far lower. During the first quarter of this year, Samsung Electronics earned $942 million in net profit on $8 billion in sales. By comparison, Sony earned a similar amount, $963 million for the full fiscal year ended March 31, but that was on $62.3 billion in sales. On Thursday, Sony announced a profit on sales of 1.5 percent for the fiscal year, compared with 17.5 percent for Samsung last year.
In a reversal from a decade ago, when Japan dominated the world chip market, the nearly $500 million in profit recorded in the first quarter of this year by Samsung's semiconductor division is about equal to the forecasted combined profits for Japan's five largest chip makers -- Toshiba, NEC, Hitachi, Mitsubishi Electric and Fujitsu.
And Samsung has said it plans to invest about $3.4 billion in new chip plants and equipment this year. By contrast, the investment plans of Japan's five largest chip makers add up to about $2 billion. Last week, Sony announced that it would enter the chip market with a $1.67 billion investment. 
Among memory chip makers, Samsung is the world's only profitable major manufacturer. This year, it expects to sell $7 billion worth of memory chips.
Niche products like graphics chips for game consoles and flash-memory chips for cellphones and hand-held computers have helped Samsung make money in an industry plagued by overcapacity and declining demand. And last year, Samsung moved into a newer, more expensive chip, the DDR, or double data-rate chip. But with overcapacity in the industry, prices for the standard DRAM chips are down by almost 50 percent compared with the period a year ago.
"We hope that in the latter half of this year, chip demand will increase," Mr. Chang said. "In 1999, because of the Y2K problem, many PC's were replaced. Now is the time to replace them again."
Although Samsung is dependent on the memory-chip market, chips accounted for only 23 percent of Samsung's sales in the last quarter.
"We are into every kind of electronic product, from chips to cellphones," said Mr. Chang, adding that Samsung also makes home appliances like refrigerators and air-conditioners. 
But in a highly competitive sector, three of Samsung's main products -- chips, cellphones and liquid crystal display screens -- had increased sales last year, but with prices going down. The consumer credit problems have been an added burden. 
"They have to inject money, from $110 million to $470 million, to bail out their credit card company," Jon Chong-Hwa, Daewoo Securities' director of equity research, said referring to Samsung Card, which is 56 percent owned by Samsung Electronics.
In the fast-moving flat screen field, LG.Philips LCD, a South Korean-Dutch joint venture, nosed ahead of Samsung late last year to become the world's largest producer for a quarter. In a sharp counterattack, Samsung announced a month ago that it would invest $1 billion in a new flat-screen production plant, adding 60 percent to its next generation production capacity.
Of the $650 million in new investments announced last week, almost all the money is to go to making thin-film-transistor liquid crystal displays, the main component in L.C.D. monitors, laptop computer screens and some flat-panel televisions.
In mobile phones, Samsung has come from virtually nowhere to become the fastest growing of the world's big three manufacturers -- the other two being Nokia of Finland and Motorola of the United States. In the last two years, Samsung has doubled its share of the world market, selling $10 billion worth of cellphones last year. This year, it plans to increase its market share to sell 12 percent of the 435 million cellphones expected to be sold around the world. 
Aiming for the top end of the market, Samsung models increasingly feature color screens, cameras and more computing power than found in many laptops a decade ago.
Recalling the old attitude of expansion at any cost that gripped South Korean companies before the 1997 financial crisis, Mr. Chang said: "Before, we looked at market share, not profit. Now, profit and market share are important."
Some analysts say there will be more money to be made in the future with "dumb" phones, or simple inexpensive phones for a mass market. 
"China and India will be the world's largest cellphone markets," said David Roddy, the editor of the Korean Stock Market Newsletter. "They need cheap, simple phones."
Next month, Nokia will start merging its four Chinese manufacturing joint ventures into one company to strengthen its brand presence.
Even in South Korea, where about 70 percent of adults use the Internet, third-generation cellphones that will allow subway commuters to watch video-on-demand, for example, will not be marketed until 2005.
The push for speed has helped Samsung rise from a second-rate electronics manufacturer a decade ago to a technology leader. In the late 1980's, as a student of development economics at Yale, Mr. Chang searched a New Haven department store one afternoon for Samsung products. "The guy took me back to a corner and showed me stuff covered with dust," he recalled this week. "The attitude was: the function is good, but it is cheap."
But perceptions have changed. Mr. Chang attended an alumni function recently, and found an American peering at the business card on his jacket lapel. Mr. Chang said the man asked him, "How did Samsung become so successful in just 10 years?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Samsung Electronics employee displayed the company's latest DVD system this week at the main office in Seoul, South Korea. The company also makes chips, cellphones and L.C.D. screens. (Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (90%); ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); PERSONAL DEBT (75%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (74%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (73%); MEMORY CHIPS (73%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (73%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); RETAILERS (70%); CD & DVD DRIVES (69%); RANKINGS (68%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (57%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (57%); MILITARY WEAPONS (57%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (56%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; COMPUTER CHIPS; ELECTRONICS; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; CAPITAL INVESTMENT 

COMPANY: SAMSUNG GROUP (96%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (95%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO 

TICKER: SMSN (LSE) (95%); 005930 (KSE) (95%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335221 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325510 PAINT & COATING MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325211 PLASTICS MATERIAL & RESIN MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS236220 COMMERCIAL & INSTITUTIONAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (96%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%) SIC3633 HOUSEHOLD LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT; SIC3631 HOUSEHOLD COOKING APPLIANCES; 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (91%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (88%) TEXAS, USA (92%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 



800 of 924 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: April 26, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: AFTEREFFECTS: WHITE HOUSE MEMO; 
Bush Shows Looser Side in an Interview

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, April 25 

 BODY:
Even when President Bush was in the middle of a meeting during the most critical moments of the war in Iraq, White House staff members would fetch him whenever the black-is-white Iraqi information minister, Muhammed Said al-Sahhaf, appeared on television. Mr. Bush, it turns out, was a big fan.
 "Somebody would say, 'He's getting ready to speak,' and I'd pop out of a meeting or turn and watch the TV," Mr. Bush said this week to Tom Brokaw of NBC News, describing himself less as the commander in chief and more as another American amused by the fantastical world of Mr. Sahhaf. Or as Mr. Bush put it, laughing, "He's my man." 
 The light moment was part of an unusual interview Mr. Bush gave this week that showed him as a looser and more reflective commander in chief than the one the public normally sees. While Mr. Bush presented himself to Mr. Brokaw as clearly in charge, unambivalent about power and well-versed in military developments, he was also relaxed enough to talk about his relationships with his father and God, and to admit to a modicum of uncertainty. 
The interview ranged from Iraq to President Jacques Chirac of France to the Dixie Chicks. It provided rare access to the president's thinking, and was at odds with the rigid portrait of the "resolute" president, the favorite adjective of Mr. Bush's advisers, put forth by the public relations types in the West Wing.
Mr. Bush acknowledged to Mr. Brokaw that his father, who led the nation into the 1991 Persian Gulf war, was nervous about the conflict that his son was commanding. But he said he talked to his father very little about the substance of the job and seemed to take pains to establish his independence from the 41st president.
"I really don't spend a lot of time hashing over policy with him," Mr. Bush said. "He knows that I am much better informed than he could possibly be."
The conversations, Mr. Bush said, "are more along the line of a dad and a son, a dad conveying to his son how much he loves him. Which is important. Even at the age of 56 years old it's important."
Mr. Bush described his mother, the former first lady who still orders him around at the family compound in Maine, as "feisty as ever," but said: "She doesn't follow everything in the news and the opinion like Dad does. He's an every-word man."
The president also spoke openly of his religious faith, and said it had not conflicted with his decision to wage a war in which Americans and Iraqis, including women and children, died. 
"Listen, any time you think about committing someone into combat is an emotional moment," Mr. Bush said. "You can't be detached from the human life involved with war."
Then he added: "I don't bring God into my life to be a political person; I ask God for strength and guidance."
The decision he made about war, he said, "is a decision I made based upon what I thought were the best interests of the American people. I was able to step back from religion, because I have a job to do. And I, on bended knee to the good Lord, asked him to help me to do my job in a way that's wise."
The interview was conducted on Air Force One in two parts on Thursday, between appearances that the president made in Ohio. Portions of the interview were broadcast on the NBC "Nightly News" on Thursday and today and a larger segment appeared in a one-hour NBC "Dateline" program tonight, "Commander in Chief: The White House at War." The White House made the entire transcript of the interview available late on Thursday.
Mr. Brokaw, the NBC anchor, said the president was enthusiastic throughout the interview.
"I was very struck by his eagerness to talk about this stuff, and how connected he was across the spectrum of it all," Mr. Brokaw said today. "Not just the military stuff, but the Middle East stuff and France and the global economy. And it just kind of spilled out of him."
On the Middle East, Mr. Bush said that "part of the frustrations that exist in the Middle East, and I recognize this, is the fact that there is no movement toward peace with the Palestinians."
He said that he had faith in the new prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, called Abu Mazen, and that he would have him to the White House, but not if he was accompanied by the Palestinian leader Yasir Arafat.
"First of all, I looked at the history of Mr. Arafat," Mr. Bush said. "Now I saw what he did to President Clinton. There was no need to spend capital, unless you had an interlocutor who could deliver the Palestinian people toward peace. And I believe Abu Mazen is a man dedicated to peace."
On Mr. Chirac, who actively worked against the United States to oppose the war in Iraq, Mr. Bush said the French president would not be invited to his Texas ranch "any time soon." He added that he hoped that the French "won't be using their position within Europe to create alliances against the United States or Britain or Spain or any of the new countries that are the new democracies of Europe."
Mr. Bush also addressed the antiwar remarks of the Dixie Chicks, whose lead singer, Natalie Maines, said during a concert in London last month that she was "ashamed" that the president was a fellow Texan. Since then, the country superstars may have lost fans, but they are fighting back, in their fashion, by appearing naked on the cover of Entertainment Weekly.
"I mean, the Dixie Chicks are free to speak their mind," Mr. Bush said. "They can say what they want to say. And just because -- they shouldn't have their feelings hurt just because some people don't want to buy their records when they speak out. You know, freedom is a two-way street."

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush at prayer with marines at Camp Lejeune, N.C., in early April. In his NBC interview, he said that in taking the nation to war, he had asked God "to help me to do my job in a way that's wise."; The president said his father had been nervous about the war. His mother? As "feisty as ever." (Photographs by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DESERT STORM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); POLITICS (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); RELIGION (66%) UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; PRESIDENTS AND PRESIDENCY (US); UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JACQUES CHIRAC (58%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BROKAW, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE (FORMER PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (78%); GULF STATES (58%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2003 

 
