

401 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 874 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 11-17;
Texas Is Back, Without the Gusher

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
THE Texas boom of the mid-1990's is taking shape in the streets of North Dallas, crowded with construction machinery and flowing with mud. Homes selling for less than $1 million are being torn down to make way for homes often selling for millions more.
 Inside one $4.5 million Georgian mansion going up to replace a $700,000 shack, scrollwork, friezes, acanthus leaves and rosettes march along endless moldings. The Christmas-gift-wrapping room and decoration storage closet await their annual visits. The movie theater and the surround-sound system throughout the house have the same designer who wired Steven Spielberg's place. The closets, with their own Beaux Arts trim and automated inventory systems, offer enough space maybe for a Neiman Marcus branch or two.
 
 No buyer for this house yet. But other houses nearby have sold for more, noted Roy W. Bailey, a prime investor. "What we've got here," he said, "is good value."
 Texas optimism has indeed returned as the state's economy has rebounded, and then some, in recent years. The recession of the early 1990's was hardly felt here, and despite low oil prices this year, the state's 3.2 percent annual growth rate through July is still slightly better than the nation's. The North American Free Trade Agreement, stealing the jobs of Midwestern factory workers but giving Texas a vast new market next door, is the state's most popular wealth transfer since the savings-and-loan bailout.
 But the buoyant future here often fights to a standoff with an obstinate past -- the oil price bust, S.& L. and bank failures and real estate collapse of the 1980's. The depression remains on display in Dallas, where the once-prosperous skyline made famous in the opening credits of "Dallas" lies just a 20-minute drive from the mansion. Today, downtown office buildings are more than a third vacant, with several taller than 30 stories abandoned and boarded over. Downtown property owners root for these buildings to be blown up, thereby improving the embarrassing vacancy statistics. In the meantime, Dallas has the nation's first skyscraper slum.
 If the future has a headquarters, it's less Dallas than Austin, the capital turned Silicon Prairie. Texas has swiped so many of California's technology jobs that California has resorted to ads warning of "hurricanes, tornadoes, floods and mosquitoes that require runways to land."
 In Houston, however, the past lingers. City boosters like to say that they no longer depend totally on oil. But as for alternatives, the Texas Medical Center, the nation's largest, has had to become less concerned with developing advanced heart operations than with doing them at Wal-Mart prices. And the Johnson Space Center is forced to target the planet Washington, not Mars, to keep what's left of its budget and its reputation.
 Even where Texans are becoming rich again, they are doing it with less of their distinctive bravado. Texas has long been becoming more like the rest of the country, but it's not quite that simple. Nicholas Lemann, a former editor of Texas Monthly who now writes for the Atlantic Monthly, speaks of the recolonization of Texas.
 Once just a source of raw materials for the rest of the nation -- cotton, cattle, oil -- Texas in its boom years developed its own proud institutions. Now buyouts, bankruptcies and failures have transferred many banks and department stores to owners in other states or abroad.
 Stanley Marcus, once the master of Neiman Marcus, grumbles that no longer can he get anything done -- raising a quick $500,000 for a civic project, say -- by calling a handful of local business chiefs. "Now," he says, "the decisions are made in Tokyo, or Hartford, or Kalamazoo."
 This year pressure from television networks broke apart what is perhaps the state's most sacrosanct institution, the Southwestern Conference. The four best football teams in the conference will be shotgun-married to a Big Eight that includes distant Iowa and Missouri.
 In the energy business, would-be wildcatters find that the only huge new strikes in the region are deep in the Gulf of Mexico, too costly for them to reach. Texas now sells less oil than natural gas, which qualifies as America's Most Boring Natural Resource except when a pipeline explosion blows away a New Jersey county or two.
 Dallas, where appearances usually count for more than reality, is dealing with the past by dressing it up as the future. Buildings that arose in the 1970's as glass boxes have been tarted up with pointy towers and hey-look-at-me lighting.
 The Dallas area's most noted renovation of late has been the Circle T Ranch. Nelson Bunker Hunt said during the 1970's that he wouldn't sell it for less than $200 million. Last year, Ross Perot Jr. -- a developer with a famous dad who has snapped up much of the land between Dallas and the Oklahoma border -- bought the ranch for $20 million from Mr. Hunt's bankruptcy estate. The ranch house was overhauled, with not a day to spare, before the Perots hosted the annual Cattle Baron's Ball last weekend.
 The Hunt family, of course, made money the old way, using roughnecks to find oil. The Perot family did it the new Dallas way, with starch-necked computer whizzes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Neiman-Marcus catalog for Christmas 1994 features cowboy boots "for driving golf balls, not cattle." (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARS (50%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; DALLAS (TEX); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MARS (50%); DALLAS, TX, USA (95%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING REAL ESTATE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (86%); OFFICE PROPERTY (86%); SAVINGS & LOANS (86%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BAILOUTS (77%); RECESSION (77%); TRENDS (77%); CHRISTMAS (76%); FILM (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BANK FAILURES (69%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); WEATHER (63%); FACTORY WORKERS (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



402 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 3; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: The Nation: New Cops Need Help;
The Perils of Police Hiring

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

 BODY:
ANTICIPATING 100,000 new cops on their streets, city officials from across the country praised Congress for passing the $30 billion anti-crime package. But even before President Clinton signed the bill on Tuesday, criminologists warned that while quick hiring of police officers could make a dent in crime, it could also lead to more police brutality and corruption.
 In one city after another -- New York, Washington, Miami, Philadelphia, Houston and Detroit -- quick expansions of the police forces have led to careless screening and hasty training. Criminal justice experts say that the rush to hire contributed to an increase in incidents like high-speed traffic accidents during chases, perjury by police officers and sloppy handling of evidence -- not to mention behavior that is outright criminal.
 
 "All known cases of hiring unusually large numbers of police very quickly have been total disasters," said Lawrence W. Sherman, a University of Maryland professor who is chief criminologist for the Indianapolis police. "You tend to lower standards of training and selection."
 The nation's capital offers an egregious case study of how the best of intentions can spawn unfortunate results, as reported in a recent Washington Post series. Five years ago, when open-air drug markets seemed as common in Washington as cherry blossoms, Congress voted to withhold $430 million in aid until the District government expanded its police force.
 The city government shortened background checks for recruits and hired 1,500 officers in 20 months. Then it cut back on police academy classroom time in such areas as driving skills and investigative techniques. Not long thereafter, one in 14 of the new officers was arrested for crimes that included forgery and murder. Dozens more were found to be so untrustworthy that prosecutors refused to have them testify. And traffic accidents involving rookies led to nine deaths.
 Roughly a decade before, the Reagan Administration encouraged Miami to expand its force to stem the tide of cocaine from the Caribbean. Miami obliged by hiring 600 new police officers in 1981 and 1982. The patchwork hiring may have slowed the drug trade, but the rookies accounted for most of the 60 officers suspended or dismissed in the mid-1980's for various drug-related offenses.
 "Patches don't work sometimes, and that's what I think happened," Fred Taylor, director of the Metro Dade Police Department, said in a 1988 interview with Law Enforcement News.
 One contributing factor, experts say, is the change in the pool of young men and women from which recruits are drawn. Gone are the days when most police officers were immigrants or sons of immigrants who had few career options and saw police work as a way of establishing themselves in American society. More recently, recruits entered police ranks after years of military training.
 But without the draft, more and more police officers come from a less disciplined pool of high school graduates. "We have to be concerned," said Bernard Cohen, a Queens College professor of sociology and criminology. "We're bringing in a large number of very young officers who have been exposed to a culture of drugs and violence, and who in many ways lack the discipline of their predecessors."
 The crime bill provides localities with $8.8 billion to add 100,000 officers -- a nationwide increase of nearly 20 percent -- over six years. Most of the recruiting will come in the first three years, with the Justice Department projecting that 20,000 new officers will be walking their beats within 16 months. And some cities are expected to extend their forces beyond increases allotted under the new Federal subsidies.
 Alexander Weiss, a professor of criminal justice at Indiana University, said he expected that police forces with good screening and training programs would be able to handle large increases, but that forces with "systemic problems," like Washington's and New York's, would continue to have trouble.
 New York plans to use its Federal money not to hire new officers but to buy computer equipment to free desk-bound people for street duty. Commissioner William J. Bratton has acknowledged that supervision of young officers is insufficient. He wants to increase the number of sergeants and strengthen training on standards of integrity that police officers are supposed to meet.
 Despite the comment of Professor Sherman of the University of Maryland, police forces in several Western cities with less complex social problems, including Salt Lake City, Phoenix, San Diego and Colorado Springs, did grow in recent years without suffering scandals.
 Few experts dispute that the country needs more and better-trained police officers. Through the 1980's, as the crime rate spiraled along with sales and use of crack cocaine, Federal aid to local law enforcement was eroded by inflation to lower and lower levels. As many cities found themselves strapped, the police were neglected.
 The 31,000-member New York City Police Department, for example, is only 25 percent larger than the force of 40 years ago, when the annual murder rate in the city was one-sixth what it is today. Expansions of the New York force came mostly in spurts in the late 1960's and early 1990's, when city leaders responded to political pressures and declared new "wars" on crime. The New York Police Academy class of 1968 was rushed through its instruction. For the next 15 years, its ranks were plagued with corruption and brutality scandals and dismissals due to alcoholism.
 The jury is still out on the most recent expansion of the New York City police (including transit and housing officers), the addition of 13,000 recruits since 1990. Rookie officers have been implicated in a cocaine-related corruption scandal that has plagued the 30th Precinct in Harlem, but so have more seasoned officers.
Senior New York personnel officials in the New York police department say that, if a young officer is going to go bad, it usually happens in two to four years. One internal police memo said sergeants viewed the rookies as "afraid to take action" and added that many rookies, in the sergeants' view, "are controlled by their social calendar rather than the demands of the job."
 Another recent internal report was even more disturbing: "Many patrol officers questioned the integrity and the character of the rookies, and are reluctant to work with them for this reason."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A fresh crop of rookie police officers on graduation day at the New York City Police Academy in 1967. (Patrick A. Burns/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MARYLAND (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; LAW AND LEGISLATION; FEDERAL AID (US) POLICE FORCES (91%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); TESTIMONY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); MURDER (78%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (78%); MISCONDUCT (77%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (75%); CORRUPTION (73%); ARRESTS (73%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); MILITARY TRAINING (70%); CASE STUDIES (70%); COCAINE (65%); NEWS BRIEFS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); COUNTERFEITING (50%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



403 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-25
 
FINAL EFFORT ON HAITI
An American delegation began talks with Haitian military leaders in a final diplomatic effort to avert an invasion, and there were signs that the United States was shifting its positions. 1
 
WHO IS THE REAL ARISTIDE?
The United States takes the position that the exiled President of Haiti has grown into a statesman in exile, but it remains uneasy and unsure about how he would govern. 1
 
Returning to diplomacy, but maintaining a strong stance. 12 

In Haiti's slums, many people want an American invasion. 14
 
A town that supports the military is dubious about the invasion. 12
 
ECONOMIC SHIFT FOR CUBA
Cuba took a major step away from its system of highly centralized socialism, saying it would allow farmers to sell part of their produce on the open market. 1
 
National 26-44
 
CRASH WAS NOT OF A U.F.O
A mysterious 1947 crash in the New Mexico desert that became legendary among flying-saucer fans turns out to have involved something nearly as strange as an alien spaceship: an airborne spy system. 1
 
TOURISM'S UNCERTAIN HARVEST
Tourism, in all forms, is the fastest-growing industry in the West. But many are not happy with the effects, environmental and otherwise, of what is being called "industrial tourism." 1
 
CAMERAS IN THE COURTROOM
As a three-year experiment that opened civil trials in eight Federal courts to television comes to a close, judges have to decide whether to make cameras a permanent fixture. 26
 
HEALTH'S FATE IN BALANCE
This week could bring the death of significant health care legislation in 1994, and Washington's attention to developments in Haiti might mean the end comes even before the week begins. 36
 
Metro 45-52
 
SANITATION WORKERS' PACT
New York City reached a tentative agreement that would increase saniation workers' salaries but require workers to pick up at least 20 percent more garbage each day or have their pay docked. 1
 
CUOMO WOOS THE VOTERS
Governor Cuomo has romanced discontented New Yorkers with the candy and flowers of tax cuts and crime bills. He is also working aggressively to shore up his traditional Democratic base. 45
 
REINING IN THE SEX INDUSTRY
In seeking sharp limits on the location of sex-related businesses, Mayor Giuliani has been confident that his plan will pass legal muster. But the power to corral adult businesses is not unlimited. 45
 
Obituaries 54
 
Sir Karl Popper, a philosopher.
 
Robert Austerlitz, an expert on linguistics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (86%); MAYORS (75%); CITY GOVERNMENT (75%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (65%); TAX LAW (64%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



404 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2151 words

HEADLINE: New Feud on the Range: Cowman vs. Tourist

SERIES: Who Owns the West? -- Second article of a periodic series.

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY EGAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOAB, Utah

 BODY:
Just outside the wind-polished walls of Arches National Park, D. L. Taylor is counting heads moving through the canyon at sunset. There's a pair from New York. A batch from the Midwest. A couple of strays from San Francisco.
It's feeding time in the Virtual West, and you can almost hear the ranch hands humming the latest version of the cowboy classic: "Whoopee ti yi yo, get along, little tourists." 
 For more than 120 years, the Taylor family has been grazing livestock amid the rust-colored skyscrapers of Southern Utah's canyon country. A few years ago, Mr. Taylor, who is 62 years old, was about ready to give up, burdened by low beef prices, poor grass, and a host of other problems.
But then, in an effort to save his ranch, he came up with the idea of letting city folks act out their cowboy fantasies on his property. They ride, they rope, they eat beans, they sleep on the ground. Mr. Taylor used to have to pay good money to find people to do that. Now, they pay him.
He does not feel completely at ease with what he is doing -- mixing a real cattle operation with a lucrative tourism side business -- even though he makes more money herding visitors than he ever did just corralling cattle. "I don't really like doing it," he said, "but it sure pays."
Tourism, in all forms, is the fastest-growing industry in the West and the largest private employer in seven of the 11 Western states. But for every faux cowboy who drops a thousand dollars on a ranch like Mr. Taylor's for a week or so, there is an incremental effect on the land and culture in a region where people have always been overwhelmed by place -- and not the other way around.
Tourism has brought visible prosperity to hundreds of hamlets, including many places where traditional industries like mining or logging left exhausted, near-ghost towns in their wakes. Tourists, in many cases, have returned as home buyers, part of a remarkable surge of urban dwellers into the Western back country. Throughout the West, pockets like Moab are growing at three times the national average.
But now a reckoning of sorts has arrived in the new boomtowns of the West. Even many new arrivals are not happy with some of the detritus of what is being called "industrial tourism."
They wonder if hordes of tourists are any better for fragile land than herds of cattle. They worry about what happens when mountain bikes cause just as much damage to the little stream bed as does a strip-and-run mining operation.
They fear that their hamlets are being "Aspenized," a reference to the Colorado ski town where the average home now sells for $1.4 million and workers are bused in from 50 miles away.
Once, the outdoors was the great equalizer, a class-free zone. But now there are canyons where the locals cannot float down the river without applying for a permit two years in advance, and trails are overrun with bicycles that sell for up to $4,000.
"Recreation is turning into our biggest problem," said Bill Stringer, the acting manager of the six million acres in southeastern Utah run by the Bureau of Land Management. "Jeeps, four-wheel drives, motorbikes, mountain bikes and movie companies are overrunning this desert ecology. If it continues like this, we won't recognize the place."
Horror stories abound. Earlier this year, a plastic surgeon from California. looking for a place to relieve himself, was fined $100 after he landed his helicopter atop the delicate sandstone palace of Canyonlands National Park. The incident became a battle cry for a group called Citizens for a Heli-free Moab.
Two years ago, several thousand four-wheel-drive enthusiasts, after a long night of draining beer kegs and using their eight-cylinder engines to yank trees out of the ground for a bonfire, confronted a handful of Federal officials keeping guard over the public domain. There was a standoff, followed by gunfire, and then a small riot. The Federal officials retreated, calling in law enforcement officers from around Utah. Dozens of people were jailed.
The Moab riot has become one of many cautionary tales in the story of this town. When people here talk about how Moab set out to become a New West tourism mecca, they evoke the parable about never wishing too hard for something, because it might come true.
"Our community leaders went fishing for a little tourism to revive and diversify our economy, and they hooked a great white shark," said Bill Hedden, vice chairman of the Grand County Council, which governs the Moab area. "This monster has swamped the boat and eaten the crew. At stake is not merely the community we used to be, but also some of the best and most fragile country anywhere."
 
The New Cowboys And Their Toys<HE
Once, the West was big enough to accommodate everybody. And all that open space managed by the Bureau of Land Management, the 270 million acres that neither the railroads nor the homesteaders wanted, was left to the cattlemen, the mining companies and their supporters in the local Federal offices.
But now that the West is once again the geography of hope for restless Americans, it is at war with itself. There are tensions at work in virtually every prosperous town -- the kind of strains that almost no one imagined 10 years ago.
Choose your toys, and a fight soon follows. Mountain bikes or off-road vehicles. Hang gliders or helicopters. Backpacks or gun racks. Rafts or jetboats. Fly rods or shotguns. And for every significant gathering of gear-users, there is a lobby.
With the new people and new jobs catering to visitors comes a fresh way of looking at the land. Whether it is in the red rock canyon country of southern Utah, the dry mesas of western Colorado, the Sonoran Desert draws of Arizona or the green river valleys of Montana, the pattern is the same.
Newcomers from bigger cities move to a small, scenic Western town after visiting it on a vacation. They open businesses or work at home with computers or wait tables at the latest mesquite grill. They send their children to local schools, and they write letters to the editor. On the weekends, they hike, fish, ride bikes, hunt or take pictures.
At some point, they start looking closely at the public land around them and find out that bighorn sheep have died from disease spread by all the livestock that have free rein of the place. Or they wonder why the forest has been so badly clear-cut that silt fills up their trout streams. Or they react with shock at the mine waste that contaminated the river.
Then they realize that their tax dollars are subsidizing grazing, logging and mining on public lands, and before you know it, they have joined the local environmental group.
What they advocate -- a Western economy built around living and playing amid great scenery -- naturally scares the proponents of the old extractive economy. And now some of the newcomers' baggage -- the excess, the high prices, the gilded subdivisions -- is starting to scare some environmentalists.
"I spend more time dealing with tourism damage than cattle damage," said Scott Groene, who moved to Utah six years ago from Kansas and now leads the major environmental group in the canyon country. "It's really scary what's happened."
The new Westerners are vilified by senators like Slade Gorton, Republican of Washington, who tells loggers that the tourists from Seattle are trying to get rid of them, or Malcolm Wallop, Republican of Wyoming, who rails against "cappuccino cowboys."
In Montana, a popular T-shirt carries the slogan "Montana sucks -- now go home and tell your friends." But judging by the urban sprawl in places like Bozeman and Kalispell, Mont., people are telling their friends something entirely different.
 
Uranium Miners And Film Crews
 Perhaps no place is more emblematic of the struggles between the old life and the new than Moab, a town of 4,000 people on the Colorado River, wedged between two national parks.
Mormon pioneers drove the Ute Indians out of this red rock canyon country in the late 1870's. It is dry, averaging about seven inches of rain a year. The Indians and the bison were replaced by white ranchers and their cow herds. Then the Government carved two national parks, Canyonlands and Arches, out of this country.
The Colorado was dammed downstream, burying one of the more breathtaking canyons in the West and creating Lake Powell, a recreational mecca. In the early 1950's, uranium miners overran Moab, looking for the raw materials of the cold war. That boom and the subsequent bust loom over old-timers here as the Dust Bowl does for survivors of the Depression.
In the 1980's, Moab's leaders decided to diversify their economy, vowing to free themselves from the extractive boom-and-bust cycle that has been such a scourge to many Western towns. They advertised the area as a desert paradise for the outdoor adventurer.
It worked beyond anyone's wildest dreams.
Off-road-vehicle enthusiasts came to roam, and soon they had carved their own dirt roads on public land, rutted paths nicknamed "metal smashers" or "steel benders." In the spring, as many as 5,000 of them converge at one time, posing a huge problem for a windswept terrain where few plants can take hold.
Soon Moab was billed as the mountain biking capital of the world. At the same time, the number of rafting companies quadrupled. Land prices soared, going from $5,000 an acre 10 years ago to more than $30,000 an acre now.
Then came the movie companies. Film makers like John Ford had always made effective use of the rust-colored bluffs and open vistas of the desert. Last year, the crews of "City Slickers II" and "Geronimo" came to town. All temporary housing was occupied for two months; a double-wide trailer could fetch $6,000 for a summer rental.
The movie crews nearly destroyed an Indian archaeological site, and they bulldozed a wilderness section on Federal land. They left a lot of dollars behind, but the housing shortage and a new attitude that was evident around town seemed to grate on a lot of people.
People say the canyon country had always been a hard place to get rich but a very good place to be poor. But suddenly, Moab became a town where you could buy a pair of $189 mountain bike shoes but not a pair of $40 work shoes. The nearest general shoe store is two hours away, in Grand Junction, Colo.
Mr. Stringer said mountain bikers "hammered" a once pristine area just outside of town. Vandals, he said, "chipped away at Anasazi ruins." The off-road-vehicle users and Jeepers "completely denuded" a large section of public land, he said. And the rafters have become such a problem that the biggest threat to the purity of the Colorado River is contamination from human feces.
"We're putting in toilets at an unprecedented rate," he said.
Earlier this year Mr. Hedden, the County Council vice chairman, spoke before Congressional leaders who were exploring the changing needs of the West during a series of hearings. "This is a tragedy," he said. "There is no other country like this on Earth, and we should be extremely cautious and protective of this land until we have a better understanding of how to control our own well-meaning desire to love it to death."
 
The Search For a Threshold
 The future may lie in a concept known as sustainable tourism, which means allowing only enough people to keep the charms, wonder and ecological balance of a place intact. But defining that threshold is difficult.
Some towns have found that by stretching their peak visitor seasons and directing people to areas other than the most overrun places, they can lighten the impact on the land. Those voluntary efforts have proved successful in some places, including Montana and Colorado.
What they run up against, though, is Westerners' traditional loathing of any sort of Government planning or imposed limits, as Mr. Hedden said in the Congressional hearing.
But some areas are imposing mandatory restrictions. And Federal land managers are considering doing what the National Park Service now does, which is to limit entry into certain fragile areas.
In Montana, environmental groups have been buying up large tracts of ranch land, which would otherwise be carved up and sold as ranchettes. They then keep it as open forage country for wild animals.
Andy Kerr, a firebrand environmentalist who has moved to a small town in Eastern Oregon from Portland, said, "I reject the choice of old land abusers or new yuppie scum." Instead, he said, something between the two extremes can emerge.
For all the anxiety over losing a way of life in the Western small towns, few people talk of going back to the way things were. Mr. Taylor, the rancher, said there is tension between the new people and what he calls "the rednecks." But he said, "On the whole, I'd rather have a boom town filled with bikers than a ghost town of old miners and ranchers."

GRAPHIC: Photos: As more people discover the beauty of places like Arches National Park in Utah, fragile lands are threatened. (pg. 1); A message on the road to the Slick Rock Trail in Moab, Utah, testifies to the new pressures that a tourism boom has brought to the West. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times) (pg. 32)
 
Graph: "KEEPING TRACK: Tourism's Impact in Southeast Utah" tracks number of visitors to national and state parks and estimated spending by travelers and tourist in the region, annually, from 1990 through 1993. Also tracked over the same period are figures related to recent employment in tourism and recreation-related businesses as a portion of total nonagricultural employment in Grand County, Utah, compared with 1980. (Source: Grand County Council) (pg. 32)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (96%); WEST USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; WESTERN STATES (US); MOAB (UTAH); UNITED STATES (96%); UTAH, USA (96%); WEST USA (92%); COLORADO, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: SURVEYS AND SERIES; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; LAND USE POLICIES; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS BEEF CATTLE FARMING (89%); NATIONAL PARKS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); REAL ESTATE (75%); BEEF (69%); FOOD PRICES (69%); CITY LIFE (68%); MINES & MINING (61%); RIOTS (60%); SKIING (60%); 

PERSON: EGAN, TIMOTHY

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



405 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2003 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN WITH HAITI: ARISTIDE;
Aristide Adopts a New Role: From Robespierre to Gandhi

BYLINE: By ELAINE SCIOLINO, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
The subject was the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, and the House Intelligence Committee wanted some answers.
In a closed-door briefing by Administration officials last month, several lawmakers cited transcripts of secretly taped telephone conversations in which Haiti's ousted President vowed not to let Washington push him around and joked that he found it amusing when American officials thought of him as stubborn. 
 "How could the United States advance the interests of a man who clearly holds us in such contempt?" one Congressman wanted to know, according to a participant in the meeting.
Anthony Lake, President Clinton's national security adviser, and William H. Gray 3d, Mr. Clinton's special Haiti representative, staunchly defended Father Aristide. "Would you expect the President of any nation in the world to tell one his confidants that he wants to be pushed around by the United States?" Mr. Lake asked.
But the fact the National Security Agency was listening in on Father Aristide's phone calls to Haiti in the first place, and picking up negative vibrations in the process, suggests how uneasy Washington is about the man American troops are poised to restore to power.
The White House insists that the 41-year-old Roman Catholic priest has grown into a statesman in his three years of exile. Aides to Mr. Clinton say he was greatly relieved that Father Aristide pledged in writing to uphold the Hatiian Constitution and agree to hand over power to an elected successor in February 1996.
But American officials acknowledge that ultimately they cannot be certain exactly how Father Aristide will govern, and his own plans remain sketchy.
Will he be the kind of leader who will make the Administration proud when he rides in on the backs of American soldiers? Or will he, upon returning, feel so pressured to assert his independence that he will turn on his liberators?
In recent weeks, the Administration has had to conduct intense negotiations with Father Aristide on issues ranging from the content of his American-financed radio broadcasts to Haiti to the composition of the police force that will patrol the streets of Port-au-Prince after his return to his promise to step down from office when his term expires.
So it is not surprising that at times the Administration treats the soft-spoken priest as a volatile chemical that needs to be handled with care.
"Who is Aristide?" Mr. Gray asked rhetorically in an interview. "He's a Haitian. A priest. An intellectual. An ideologue. Not your practical pol who's lived in an functioning democracy."
 
A Crusader Who Can't Fix the Lights
 Father Aristide's brief tenure as the popularly elected President of Haiti before his ouster in the fall of 1991 offers an impressionistic if inconclusive look at how he will govern when given a second chance. During that period, he made no secret of his distrust of the outside world.
As head of a team of election observers during the 1990 Presidential campaign, Jimmy Carter asked the young candidate if he would accept the results if he lost. Father Aristide was so incensed by the suggestion that he might lose that he accused the United States of plotting to prevent his victory.
When Mr. Carter declared him a winner a few days later -- he received two-thirds of the vote -- Father Aristide immediately called him a friend.
As President, he followed what Administration officials view as a relatively responsible economic policy, reduced the public payroll and abolished the jobs of the rural sheriffs who ruled the countryside with impunity.
But as a populist leader suspicious of authority, he could not resist terrifying the military with threats of mob vengeance. And charges that he condoned the practice of "necklacing" political opponents with burning tires continue to dog him. He later explained his threats against the armed forces by saying that the people were his only defense against the military elite that ultimately overthrew him and tortured and killed his supporters.
He also surrounded himself with ministers who were deeply suspicious of foreign meddling and often knew even less than he did about their portfolios.
"There was one time when Aristide called President Carlos Andres Perez of Venezuela because the lights had been out in the capital for three days and he didn't know how to requisition oil even though the two countries had an oil agreement," said one senior Administration official who has known Father Aristide since before his election. "He was practically weeping."
 
A Relationship Built on Mistrust
 The Administration's relationship with Father Aristide has improved considerably since the days in mid-1993 when Mr. Clinton angrily told aides he might abandon him if he did not sign a United Nations-brokered peace plan for Haiti.
Policymakers have had an easier time dealing with Father Aristide since Mr. Clinton announced a policy shift last May that included a halt to pressuring Father Aristide to make concessions to the ruling junta. Instead, the Administration has bent more and more to Father Aristide's will.
In the process, officials have sought to circumvent the phalanx of advisers who remain convinced that Father Aristide needs protection from the Americans.
Last summer, for example, Father Aristide had all but signed a one-page agreement to begin broadcasting messages back home by way of an American-financed radio station. But he changed his mind after a news report quoted Adminstration officials as saying he would have to urge Haitians to stay home and halt their efforts to flee the country by sea.
His aides responded with a long document listing new demands, and it took another week of cajoling and convincing by Mr. Gray before Father Aristide agreed to sign the original document. Under the agreement, both sides have the right to censor the remarks of the other.
And after Father Aristide refused to allow the Americans to broadcast messages for Haitians to stay home on the radio, the Americans had to seek permission from President Joaquin Balaguer to use radio frequencies from the Dominican Repubic.
Administration officials have often succeeded with Father Aristide in rather unconventional ways.
For months, for example, he had promised American officials that he would step down from office when his Presidency runs out in February 1996. Under Haiti's Constitution, he cannot run again for five years after that.
But it took a chance encounter at a reception at the White House last Sunday between Mr. Lake and the Pulitzer prize-winning author Taylor Branch, who is a confidant of Father Aristide, before the pledge was put into writing.
Mr. Branch told Mr. Lake that Father Aristide had repeatedly stated that the most important election in a democracy was the second election and looked forward to the day when his Presidency ran out and he could pass the mantle of power to his successor. Would President Aristide put that on paper, Mr. Lake wanted to know.
Two days later, Mr. Branch and Father Aristide drafted a statement and turned it over to the White House.
Part of the difficulty in dealing with Father Aristide, Administration officials say, is that as a man who sees himself as a missionary of God and views the world through the lens of liberation theology, he remains difficult to fathom.
Certainly his years in exile have helped him master the art of speaking to different audiences.
The Administration is heartened, for example, by his public statements that stress love rather than vengeance, capped by his carefully-scripted speech from the White House East Room on Friday that included all the right code words to all the important constituencies back home.
Do not be afraid of me, he told the Haitian military that ousted him, and fear the retribution of the masses. Let free enterprise and privatization reign, he told the business elites who have not forgotten that he once labeled capitalism a mortal sin.
By contrast, in his messages in Creole over "Radio Democracy," he speaks solely to the Haitian masses who elected him. Instead of comparing himself to Robespierre, as he did in his autobiography, he now compares himself to Gandhi. He has pledged to bring foreign tourists to the country along with electricity and roads and clean water. He talks of cement plants, salt-producing complexes and shrimp fishing projects.
He also speaks in proverbs and riddles, and his reversion to the rich imagery of Creole may have contributed to intelligence assessments of him as mentally unstable. "We have been struggling nonviolently in this way ever since back before the devil was even a corporal," he said in his first radio message back home, "ever since way back when the ginger root was still fighting the eggplant."
Even on the eve of a possible invasion to restore him to power, there are fierce arguments within the Administration on how to deal with Father Aristide.
The Central Intelligence Agency remains convinced that despite its factual flaws, the conclusions of a much-criticized report that Father Aristide is mentally unstable are true. Vice Adm. William O. Studeman, the deputy director of intelligence, continues to promote the line that Father Aristide will be an unpredictable leader at best, according to senior policymakers.
Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott and some other senior officials were so concerned early this week about accusations that a former Haitian police chief, Col. Pierre Cherubin, was guilty of human rights abuses, that they tried to prevent him from flying on a United States Government aircraft to Guantanamo Bay to recruit refugees for the new police force. But Mr. Gray countered that since Father Aristide was a democratically elected head of state, the United States had no right to tell him whom to choose as his advisers.
When American officials raised the matter with Father Aristide, he replied that the claims were unfounded. After considerable internal debate, Colonel Cherubin flew to Guantanamo.
 
A Crash Course In Economics
 To help prepare Father Aristide for his return, Administration officials have tried to force feed him large doses of economics and theories of public administration.
Using a 400-page World Bank-Agency for International Development study as a blueprint, two of his most trusted aides drafted an eight-page document that provides the basis for an $800 million package of social and economic reforms that Father Aristide expects to carry out after he is restored to power. The plan is a relief to international financial institutions: it calls for the abandonment of import quotas and most tariffs, the divestment of state-owned enterprises, a 50 percent reduction of the government bureaucracy and the professionalization of government and the strengthening of local authority.
As for Father Aristide himself, his vision for rebuilding the nation remains long on theology but short on specifics.
He has not disclosed whom he will name as his Prime Minister, who under Haiti's Constitution wields even more power than the President. His rupture with Robert Malval, whom he named as Prime Minister last September but who resigned in exasperation with Father Aristide three months later, is said by Administration officials to be irreparable.
There is speculation that his two top economic advisors, former World Bank economists Leslie Voltaire and Leslie Delatour, will emerge in important cabinet positions. Such a move would delight Administration officials, who are eager that this time, Father Aristide fill his cabinet with technocrats not theologians.
"When we first met him when he was running for president, he was a person with a real attitude about the United States and the West," said J. Brian Atwood, the Administrator for the Agency for International Development. "But I think he has really grown. He knows all the practical issues now."
"On the other hand," he added, "he is not a technician. He is clearly a spiritual leader."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, right, with President Clinton and representatives of 24 nations on Friday. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (95%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (95%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; CONSTITUTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TRANSCRIPTS (89%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICS (72%); MILITARY WEAPONS (71%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (65%); RELIGION (65%); 

PERSON: SCIOLINO, ELAINE; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



406 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1355 words

HEADLINE: Cuba to Allow All Farmers to Sell Some Food on the Open Market

BYLINE: By TIM GOLDEN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HAVANA, Sept. 17

 BODY:
In a step away from the highly centralized Communist system that has defined its economy for more than three decades, Cuba announced today that it would allow all farmers to sell part of their produce on the open market.
Government officials said they were acting to ease the crushing shortages of meat, chicken, most vegetables and other food, which have set the black-market price of a big fish at the equivalent of a mechanic's monthly wage. 
"Today, the political, military and ideological problem of this country is to look for food," Cuba's Defense Minister and second-ranking leader, Gen. Raul Castro, said in an interview published today in the Communist Party newspaper Granma.
Several foreign experts on the Cuban economy said the measure could be an important step toward a more productive economy driven by material incentives, depending on how liberally it was applied.
But they cautioned that the move was still a small one when set against the overwhelming problems that have plagued Cuba since the fall of its Soviet-bloc trading partners in 1989 and the tightening of the American embargo three years later.
In interviews, senior Cuban officials said the move would go far beyond the so-called free farmers' markets that Cuba created in 1980 and then abolished in 1986 as a bourgeois threat to Communism.
Unlike that experiment, in which only small farmers were permitted to sell their surplus produce on the open market, the new policy will encompass everything from state farming cooperatives to the Cubans who grow vegetables in their front yards.
Farmers will still have to sell the Government a fixed amount of their harvest, based on what they grow and where they grow it. They will be allowed to sell anything they produce above those quotas at whatever price supply and demand dictate. The producers will be licensed, officials said, and their profits will be taxed.
Cuban officials denied that the announcement was tied to pressure from the Clinton Administration, which has said that it will ease the 32-year-old American economic embargo against Cuba only if the Government of General Castro's brother, President Fidel Castro, moves toward free markets and democratic politics.
Indeed, Raul Castro said that while "much more" democracy was needed within the Cuban Communist Party, "any other party would belong to imperialism, and that we will never permit."
Yet in laying out the agricultural changes just a few days after they began trumpeting their successful halt to the flight of thousands of refugees under an immigration agreement with the United States, Cuban officials said they hoped the measure would contribute to an improvement in the long-hostile relationship between the countries.
"This is not being done to seek a reaction" from the United States, the President of Cuba's National Assembly, Ricardo Alarcon, said in an interview with foreign reporters on Friday night. "But I think it will have some repercussions."
Andrew Zimbalist, a professor of economics at Smith College who has studied the Cuban economy for years, said: "It would be taking things out of perspective to simply applaud this as a positive, which it is. It is welcomed. But at this moment the economy is a disaster. They need to take bolder measures."
Mr. Zimbalist and other economists said that although the announcement was being made at the start of the planting season for many vegetables, it would still take months to show any significant increase in food over what is already available on the black market. A drop in prices, they suggested, could take even longer.
But diplomats and other political analysts said the move could have an important psychological effect in the meantime.
"After all the rafters, people needed some sign that changes were going to be made," a European diplomat said. "This is a sign."
The scarcity of food and other basics like soap was the central factor in the flight of more than 30,000 Cubans after President Castro reacted to the hijackings of some state-owned vessels and a riot against the security forces in Havana on Aug. 5 by allowing people to leave the island freely in homemade rafts.
Much of the country's industrial plant has been paralyzed for lack of fuel and spare parts; agricultural yields have plummeted along with supplies of fertilizer, and oxen have replaced tractors on many farms.
Mr. Alarcon, Cuba's chief negotiator in eight days of talks with American officials in New York this month, denied that there had been any secret agreement to extend the discussions beyond the subject of immigration at a later point.
There has been considerable speculation in both countries about the possibilities of such a deal, in part because Cuba was widely seen to have agreed to stop the flood of refugees on terms favorable to the Clinton Administration.
Under the New York accord, the United States is to issue at least 20,000 visas to Cuban immigrants each year. The agreement also ratified Mr. Clinton's reversal of the longstanding American policy of taking in any Cuban who wanted to emigrate to the United States.
But American officials refused to lift new restrictions on travel and the sending of money from the United States to people in Cuba, or to even discuss the embargo that Cuban officials blame for most of their economic troubles.
Havana has nonetheless been unfailingly enthusiastic about the accord. In part, Cuban officials have seemed to want to reassure disgruntled citizens of some light at the end of their long sacrifice. They have also clearly hoped to show Americans that they can be counted on to respect what they sign.
"The fact that we have been able to negotiate this agreement calls into question the argument that Cuba is not serious," the head of the Communist Party's Americas Department, Jose Antonio Arbesu, said in an interview on Friday.
"We have made changes here that are important," he went on. "What is absurd is to think that this is a quid pro quo, that they can lift the blockade in exchange for this, that and the other. If they want to influence Cuba and changes in Cuba, the best way to do that is not with a policy that has shown for 30 years that it does not work."
The move toward free markets for agricultural products follows a series of changes over the last three years that have included a wide opening to foreign investment, the creation of some semi-autonomous and private companies and the establishment of a parallel economy in American dollars.
Economic planners led by Carlos Lage, who heads the Executive Committee of the Council of Ministers, have struggled lately to sop up some of the 11 billion excess of Cuban pesos that has driven inflation in the black market. The inflation has raised prices for items like cigarettes and rum and resulted in workers and schoolchildren being charged for the lunches that were previously free. The peso now trades on that market at about 100 to the dollar.
Alluding to the reduced peso surplus, first steps toward taxation and the creation last year of new state cooperatives in which farmers are allowed to use some Government land for themselves, Mr. Lage said in a brief conversation on Friday, "There are conditions now for an agricultural market."
Neither he nor other officials provided details about how or precisely when the markets would be established, or how the authorities would deal with the emergence of intermediaries between farmers and consumers. In abolishing the peasant markets in 1986, President Castro said they had become "a source of enrichment for neo-capitalists and the neo-bourgeois."
Several officials said the Government would probably try to control the transportation of products from larger farms, but they added that the food problem was so severe they had no choice but to tolerate the likely enrichment of some farmers, truck drivers and others.
"At essence, supply and demand should be at play, as well as regulations and taxes that we should apply," Raul Castro said. But he added, "We must be clear about one thing: If there is food for the people, the risks do not matter."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Farmers will be allowed to sell some food on the open market under a policy change ordered by the Cuban Government. On a plantation at Quivican, 20 miles south of Havana, a worker hacked at sugar cane. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: HAVANA, CUBA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); HAVANA, CUBA (58%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CUBA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; AGRICULTURE; SHORTAGES ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (75%); TRENDS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (73%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (72%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); IMMIGRATION LAW (62%); REFUGEES (60%); 

PERSON: GOLDEN, TIM RAUL CASTRO (89%); FIDEL CASTRO (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



407 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN WITH HAITI: THE PRESIDENT;
Behind the Scenes at the White House: Clinton Takes 'Last Best Chance' to Avoid Invasion

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Minutes after telling the nation on Thursday night that he had exhausted diplomacy in his standoff with Haiti, President Clinton went into his small study off the Oval Office and made a round of telephone calls to enlist emissaries for the high-level mission that Mr. Clinton today called the "last best chance" for peace.
That he did so surprised some top Administration officials, most of whom learned only Friday afternoon that Mr. Clinton had decided to send Jimmy Carter to Port-au-Prince. Some of them expressed concern today that the mission -- which also includes Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and retired Gen. Colin L. Powell, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff -- could turn into the kind of negotiating session for which Mr. Clinton had said the time was long past. 
 The White House previously rejected Mr. Carter's request that he serve as an intermediary. But aides to Mr. Clinton said today that even as he addressed the nation on Thursday night, he and his top advisers believed they had no political or moral option but to try one more time to bring an end to the crisis through talk, not war.
"None of us wants to send U.S. troops in harm's way if it can be avoided," William Gray 3d, the special adviser on Haiti, said today.
Even as his emissaries were landing in the Haitian capital, the President was taking pains to maintain an image of toughness. He traveled from the White House to the Pentagon, where he returned a salute from Gen. John M. D. Shalikashvili, Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, then headed into an underground chamber at the Pentagon called the National Military Command Center, for what the White House said was a briefing on the status of military preparations. He also conferred by video-conference with admirals and generals aboard Navy ships and at Army bases.
His aides also noted that in a meeting this morning Mr. Clinton proclaimed that he would be neither delayed or deterred. And in his weekly radio address to the nation, he declared: "We still hope to end this journey peacefully. But let me say one last time -- the cause is right, the mission is achievable and limited, and we will succeed. The dictators must leave."
What most worried Mr. Clinton and his top advisers, aides said today, was the prospect that a mission to Haiti by Mr. Carter would send the same mixed signals as the former President sent earlier this summer on a quasi-official trip to North Korea in which he made clear that he opposed the Administration's policy.
Since Thursday night, when Mr. Clinton told Senator Nunn and General Powell that he would like them to join Mr. Carter in a final mission, aides said that the President has taken extraordinary steps to keep the mission on a short rein.
Mr. Carter, who had been accompanied to North Korea only by his wife and a translator, was joined on the trip to Haiti by top officials from the State Department, the Pentagon and the White House. The team flew into Port-au-Prince today aboard a United States Air Force jet loaded with secure communications equipment to allow the emissaries to keep in touch with Washington.
Even on Friday night, aides said, Mr. Clinton placed telephone calls to Mr. Carter, Senator Nunn and General Powell one by one to review their instructions with them. The President told them their job was to tell the three Haitian leaders firmly that they must relinquish power, and to discuss the arrangements the United States might make for them to leave the country only if they were asked about it.
Some officials worried aloud today that such talks have a way of gaining a momentum of their own, noting that Mr. Carter, Senator Nunn and General Powell have all questioned the wisdom of the invasion that Mr. Clinton has said will soon be his only recourse.
But Mr. Gray, when asked about that prospect during an interview on Cable News Network, replied: "The Administration has said: 'Here is the boundaries of any discussions and negotiations. If anyone goes outside of those boundaries, don't expect us to be supportive of that.' I don't think President Carter's going to do that."
By coincidence, Mr. Clinton spoke tonight at a dinner in honor of the Congressional Black Caucus, whose members were outspoken in criticizing the Administration's policy toward Haiti earlier this year. More than any other factor, their complaints that the Administration was being inhumane in turning back Haitian refugees prompted the White House to change course last May by tightening sanctions, providing havens for the refugees and threatening to use force unless Haiti's leaders stepped down.
Now some members of the caucus, including Representative Maxine Waters, the California Democrat, have become his most ardent champions in the face of criticism that military action would be unwise.
Another supporter of an invasion has been Representative Kweisi Mfume, a Maryland Democrat who heads the caucus. Earlier this month he said: "It's no longer a question of whether or not it's inevitable. It's a larger question of whether or not we find ourselves with reasons as to why we should not invade."
But that feeling is by no means universal even among the group. Many of its members, including Representative Ronald Dellums, the California Democrat who is now chairman of the House Armed Services Committee, have long been wary of the use of force, and some have expressed reservations about the dangers that an American-led invasion might pose for Haitian civilians, who are overwhelmingly black.
In his address, Mr. Clinton called on the Black Caucus to "say a prayer for peace and for success of our effort" in Haiti.
 "Let us hope for its success," he said, "but whatever happens, let us resolve that we will stand against violations of human rights in our neighborhood, we will stand for democracy, we will keep our commitments and expect others to keep theirs."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "SUMMARY: U.N. Resolutions on Haiti"
 
UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION BY 917
Adoped May 6, 1994
Establishes economic sanctions against Haiti that will not be lifted completely until the top three members of the junta step down and the President and constitutional order are restored
 
UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL RESOLUTION 940
Adopted July 31, 1994
Authorizes a multinational force to use "all necessary means" to restore the President and a stable government and to carry out the tenets of the Governors Island accord.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); JOINT CHIEFS OF STAFF (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (58%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (74%); ARMIES (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); NAVIES (71%); NAVAL VESSELS (63%); 

PERSON: JEHL, DOUGLAS; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); JIMMY CARTER (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



408 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1334 words

HEADLINE: For Queens, a Place in the Sun;
Hollywood Is Suddenly Zooming In, With a Vengeance

BYLINE: By DAVID FIRESTONE 

 BODY:
"Queens is not New York!"
Thus bellows Martin Scorsese in a scene from the new movie "Quiz Show," explaining why the perspiring game-show winner Herbert Stempel is about to return to Forest Hills a loser. As far as the movie is concerned, his geography is absolutely right. 
 The New York of 1956 -- that is, Manhattan -- is depicted in "Quiz Show" as a bright, fast-moving world of unlimited promise and unlimited deceit, where betrayal comes at the end of a fancy restaurant meal. Queens, where Herbie Stempel steeps in anger, is seen as a brooding borough of dark brick where the ungroomed sit around in their underwear, mainlining rugelach.
Such is the lot of New York's second-most-populous borough (after Brooklyn), which seems fated for a lifetime of character-actor parts calling for a quarrelsome, overweight relative. But that character actor, in the last few years, has been getting the call for a lot of work.
Queens, barely acknowledged as a fellow borough by Manhattan, is suddenly very popular in Hollywood. Four of the top-rated prime-time television shows feature characters from Queens who regularly muse about the borough, and a new nationally televised talk show on Lifetime cable broadcasts daily from Long Island City and proudly entitles itself, simply, "Queens." In addition to "Quiz Show," more than half a dozen movies have been set completely or partly in Queens in the last three years, which is a lot more than can be said by any other "outer" borough.
"All of a sudden, everyone in Hollywood is coming out of the closet and admitting they come from Flushing," said Fran Drescher, the creator and star of the CBS hit "The Nanny," whose overflowing accent and hair have come to symbolize Queens for a curious nation. "It used to be that Brooklyn was the borough everyone made fun of, but all the Brooklyn jokes are done. Now everyone knows the most colorful characters come from Queens."
Ms. Drescher, who actually comes from Kew Gardens Hills, may be the most deliberately colorful of the lot, but she is hardly alone in celebrating the showbiz ascendancy of her native land. Producers and actors who come from Queens say it's about time the borough is recognized for generating its singular form of wit and wisdom.
"It was always the younger sister or son of the other boroughs," said John Turturro, who plays Mr. Stempel in "Quiz Show" and grew up around Hollis and Rosedale. (His mother still lives in Richmond Hill.) "But now that it's grown up and become more populated, it's starting to have its own history to look back on. That's why you're seeing it more featured these days."
If Brooklyn and the Bronx long ago lived through both their heyday and their nostalgia for that heyday, the far newer and more suburban borough of Queens remains somewhere vaguely between those two periods. Most of its growth came after World War II, to some degree at the expense of the older boroughs, and it is currently enjoying a renewed prosperity as the destination of choice for the city's middle-class immigrants. Many baby boomers who grew up in Queens and quickly left are now reaching their prime, and some of those who are in show business are now able to look back at Queens with the same affection that earlier generations had for Flatbush or the Grand Concourse.
"A lot of writers came from Queens, and their thoughts kind of return there like homing pigeons," said William Finkelstein, a Hollywood producer from Bayside who created the extremely Queens character of Denise Iannello (played by a native, Debi Mazar) on the former prime-time dramas "Civil Wars" and "L.A. Law." "Maybe it won't have the kind of mythic status that Brooklyn used to have, but anyone who's from there knows that it's rich in lore."
Of course, by the time that lore is filtered through Hollywood's distaste for complexity, it seems to separate into two distinct and oft-repeated strains. The first and most common is represented by George Costanza, the schlemiel of "Seinfeld," who spent most of the last season unemployed and living amid the lunacy of his parents in Queens, where his father's idea of entertainment was poring through his collection of old TV Guides. The stereotype of Queens characters as loud, obnoxious and lovable originated with the best-known show set in the borough, "All in the Family," and continued with the cuddly losers of "Dear John," the 1988 singles-group show set in Rego Park; the bickering eccentrics in the 1992 film "Used People," starring Shirley MacLaine; and the portrayals of Herbie Stempel and Ms. Drescher's Fran Fine.
While affectionate, such depictions are often more condescending than flattering, says Rochelle Slovin, executive director of the American Museum of the Moving Image, the film and broadcasting museum in Long Island City.
"In one sense, Queens has become a metaphor for a kind of distaste of the working class," she said. "It's no longer the romantic and attractive working-class neighborhood of Woody Allen."
Mr. Allen's 1987 comedy, "Radio Days," set in the Rockaways of the 1940's, is considered an exception to the caricature, one of the most fond and authentic portraits of life in Queens, along with last year's "Mac," Mr. Turturro's directorial debut and tribute to his father.
If they're not ethnic eccentrics, Queens characters on screen generally fall into one other broad category: those coping with an overwhelming urge to get out of the borough, usually into Manhattan. In "Queens Logic," the critically well-received 1991 movie set in Astoria, a group of thirtyish friends tries to juggle their love for the neighborhood with the pull of the more glittering outside world. On "NYPD Blue," the ABC police drama, Detective John Kelly's ex-wife moves from Sunnyside to Manhattan, telling her former husband, "I finally made it out of Queens."
It takes the bitter Alaskan winter to move Dr. Joel Fleischman, the main character of CBS's "Northern Exposure," to reflect nostalgically on his warmer life as a Jewish boy from Flushing, from which he was always eager to escape. A similar desire to flee is also voiced by Rosie Perez in this year's film "It Could Happen to You," and by Julie Kavner in Nora Ephron's 1992 movie "This Is My Life."
Those who stay in Queens, then, are a bit nutty, a bit gross, a bit pathetic, according to Hollywood, while anyone halfway normal wants nothing more than to get out. Such a shorthand, says Ms. Slovin, shouldn't be too surprising from an entertainment industry not known for its subtlety.
"In a 95-minute movie, you have to move things along quickly," she said. "You have to accept that they'll be filled with stereotypes." She noted that few Queens movies deal with the new reality of the borough, including the large black middle class communities of southeast Queens, or its large Asian population. (An exception is Tony Chan's 1993 movie "Combination Platter," about a waiter from Hong Kong dealing with immigration problems amid the comic, frenetic life in the kitchen of a Chinese restaurant in Flushing.)
The one show that does deal with the Queens of the moment, if glancingly, is the aptly named "Queens," a daily variety talk show broadcast live at noon from Lifetime's studios in the Kaufman-Astoria complex in Long Island City. The loose-limbed show, aimed at women across the country who are home at that hour, is not precisely about the borough, featuring soap opera stars and such authors as Jackie Collins. But the show's host, Sissy Biggers, regularly gets takeout from Queens restaurants on the air, and sometimes welcomes borough chefs of a variety of ethnicities.
When the program goes clothes shopping on location, it goes to Queens stores rather than Madison Avenue boutiques, said the executive producer, Lynda Lou Kane-Kraft.
"Queens seems to translate better around the country than the other boroughs of New York," she said, unknowingly echoing the sentiments expressed by Mr. Scorsese. "It's more like the rest of America."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Row houses line the block of 28th Street near 34th Avenue in Long Island City, Queens. (Chang Lee/The New York Times); The borough, the city's second largest, has suddenly become popular in Hollywood -- it is the place to live for a rising number of characters in movies like "Queens Logic," below left (New Visions Pictures), and on television shows like "Seinfeld," below. (NBC)
 
Chart: "OVERVIEW: Queens on Screen"
 New York's second-most-populous borough, barely acknowledged by Manhattan, is suddenly popular in Hollywood and on television, after first achieving fame in "All in the Family" in the 70's. "All of a sudden, everyone in Hollywood is coming out of the closet and admitting they come from Flushing," said Fran Drescher, the creatorand star of the CBS hit "The Nanny."
 
TV shows:
 The Nanny: A Queens hairdresser with an accent the size of Long Island becomes the nanny for a rich Manhattan household headed by a proper British playwright. Queens native Fran Drescher, who created and stars in the show, uses the borough as the seat of an earthy if slightly nutty wisdom that holds lessons for superficial Manhattanites. At one point, the family is trapped in her mother's Flushing home; her mom says, "If you'd called, I would have Windexed the couch."
 Seinfeld: For much of the last season, George Costanza -- the star's schlemiel friend, played by Jason Alexander -- lived in agony at his parents' home in Queens. The household is depicted as a constant series of lunatic arguments between George's father, who collects TV Guides and lives in old sportshirts, and his mother, a meddling Mrs. Portnoy who is proud of her baloney sandwiches. Jerry Seinfeld, a Queens College graduate, and his gang hate nothing more than taking the subway to the Costanza residence.
 NYPD Blue: Though set in Manhattan, the show has a number of characters who live in Queens, including the former wife and former girlfriend of the former lead character, Det. Kelly. Both of them seem to live near the 7 train, which also courses through the show's opening credits. The show refers to the borough mostly as a place to get out of; at one point, after Kelly's ex-wife moves to Manhattan, she tells him, "I finally made it out of Queens."
 Northern Exposure: The Alaskan winters force Dr. Joel Fleischman to become nostalgic for his native Flushing, an emotion he would not earlier have imagined. Figures from his neighborhood occasionally come back to haunt him, including his rabbi, who appears to make the trip from Queens in a whale's belly.
 704 Hauser St.: This followup to the granddaddy of all Queens sitcoms, "All in the Family," was cancelled after a few weeks last spring. It depicted the Cumberbatches, a black family living in the Bunker's old house, set approximately in Corona. Norman Lear spent more time refashioning the original's racially jarring humor than he did creating a sense of place to the neighborhood, but 23 years later, the novelty had worn off and few people watched.
 
Movies:
 Quiz Show (1994): Herbert Stempel, a contestant on the rigged NBC show "Twenty-One," lived in Forest Hills in the 1950's, and still does. The new Robert Redford movie contrasts the vulgar lower-class Queens -- where Stempel and his family sit around in their underwear eating rugelach -- with the leafy, WASPy suburbs of Charles Van Doren, the patrician quiz show winner who supplanted Stempel and was also on the take. Because Forest Hills itself is an attractive neighborhood, the Queens scenes were actually shot in the more proletarian Astoria.
 Queens Logic (1991): An ensemble film shot in the shadow of the Hell Gate bridge in Astoria about a group of young friends struggling with a series of life decisions. Written by Astoria native Tony Spiridakis, it contrasts the characters' deep loyalty to their neighborhood with the lure of Manhattan and the outside world. The film, considered one of the few authentic portraits of the borough, did poorly at the box office.
 It Could Happen to You (1994): The tale of a police officer who wins the lottery after agreeing to split his ticket with a waitress, as her tip. The officer and his wife (Nicholas Cage and Rosie Perez) live in Queens, and her life's dream, as she states repeatedly in the movie, is to get as far from the borough as she can.
 This is My Life (1992): Nora Ephron's directorial debut concerned a single mom Dottie Ingels (Julie Kavner) living with her two daughters and an aunt in Ozone Park. Dottie works the cosmetic counter at Macy's on Queens Boulevard and dreams of becoming a stand-up comedienne; when her dream begins to come true, she moves to the Upper West Side as fast as she can. The movie includes a scene of the family singing, "If you live in Queens, you don't know beans."
 Used People (1992): A Queens family of Jewish eccentrics (the daughter is constantly dressing up a movie-star vamps) comes to terms with a widow's courtship by an Italian. The noisy family is mostly seen bickering, even over the proper route to a cemetery. (pg. 52)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; QUEENS (NYC); UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); RESTAURANTS (70%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (66%); TELEVISION TALK SHOWS (66%); 

PERSON: FIRESTONE, DAVID JERRY SEINFELD (72%); NICOLAS CAGE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



409 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: A Renewed Sense of Mission Is Rousing the U.N.

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 16

 BODY:
A fresh sense of optimism is seeping through the bureaucracy here, a feeling that the end of the cold war is belatedly goading the United Nations into a unity of purpose. At the same time, however, American critics contend that change is still slow and that constant pressure is needed to keep the world body lumbering in the right direction.
Discussions with middle-level administrators over the last month found a consensus that the staff is renewing the idealism on which the United Nations was founded and that there has been a drop in the cynicism that gripped the headquarters building for years. 
This shift in attitude, however, is tempered by a sense that the United Nations does not have the money and muscle to meet the world's expectations of what it should be doing and by the slow pace of efforts to make the bureaucracy more efficient.
"The U.N. makes the U.S. Congress look as though it runs like a Swiss watch," said Timothy E. Wirth, the Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, who served in the House and Senate for 15 years.
Another critic, Dick Thornburgh, the former Attorney General, who has studied the United Nations in detail, said: "The United Nations slumbered for years during the cold war and now there is a greater interest in performance because of its peacekeeping operations. I want to see the place run more efficiently."
A year ago, Mr. Thornburgh concluded in a report commissioned by officials of the United Nations that ithad indeed "shifted its focus from passively refereeing ideological differences to actively addressing pressing challenges in peacekeeping, humanitarian endeavors, economic and social development and human rights."
But he also concluded that "new blood" should be recruited to replace "deadwood" among the staff and that extensive changes in management were needed to make the United Nations run more smoothly.
Yet some middle-level officials maintain that change for the better is really taking place, even in the face of such responsibilities as 15 peacekeeping operations in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Europe involving 35,000 troops under United Nations command.
"Many United Nations workers are seeing themselves today in a different light -- as doers, not just talkers," said Mohammed Oummih, the Moroccan who heads the staff union representing 20,000 workers.
Krzysztof Wilski, a Pole who has been helping to plan the General Assembly session that starts next week, said the United Nations had not been given enough credit.
"Thornburgh looked for fraud, waste and mismanagement and of course it is here because there is a constant demand for our services and we do cost a lot," Mr. Wilski said. "But what he did not look at too closely was what is expected of us."
Sensitivity to criticism was expressed by Zohreh Tabatabai, an Iranian who has worked here for 20 years, most recently as a public policy adviser. For a long while, she said, she felt like a pariah.
"For years my New York friends and neighbors thought of us as a bunch of layabouts who had seven-hour, martini-filled lunches," Ms. Tabatabai said. "There is little understanding, even in New York, that the United Nations is representative of a group of states."
"In 1945 the United Nations had a meaning for the man in the street -- stop wars -- and people understood this," she said, adding that today's mission had been expanded into social issues and economic development "and we have failed to explain this lately."
"We here know that the world has to come together for a common future and that the United Nations is a cheaper, more logical, more judicial organization to bring this about."
Kofi Annan of Ghana, the Under Secretary General for Peacekeeping Operations, said the renewed sense of idealism should also be expanded into widespread changes in United Nations policies toward its increasing role as a world police force, if indeed that is what the member states want.
Mr. Annan said that despite some successful peacekeeping operations, the member nations had not faced up to the need for the money, the troops and the political will that peacekeeping requires.
"No one doubts that many thousands of lives could have been saved in Rwanda" if there had been a rapid deployment of troops under United Nations command at the start of the violence there, Mr. Annan said.
"The United Nations needs a short-response-time contingent of troops," a unit that would have is own arms and transportation, he added.
He also wants a permanent fund to pay for the start of any peacekeeping action as well as authority to carry it out. This authority must be considered by the General Assembly and the request acted upon because, Mr. Annan said, "the United Nations is arriving at its crossroads."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mohamed Oummih, President of staff union at United Nations -- "Many United Nations workers are seeing themselves today in a different light -- as doers, not just talkers;" Zohreh Tabatabai, Public policy adviser -- "There is little understanding, even in New York, that the United Nations is representative of a group of states." (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (66%); LABOR UNIONS (62%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D TIMOTHY E WIRTH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



410 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Jury Finds San Francisco Police Violated Newspaper's Rights

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Former Chief Richard Hongisto and two police officers committed civil rights violations by seizing 2,000 copies of a free newspaper that lampooned Mr. Hongisto, a jury decided on Friday.
The Federal District Court jury awarded $5,600 to the paper, The Bay Times, for economic losses and $30,000 to its editor and publisher for emotional distress. The jury also said the City of San Francisco must pay all the damages as well as both sides' legal fees, which have been estimated by lawyers at $500,000. 
 The hearing will continue on Monday on possible punitive damages against Mr. Hongisto.
The Bay Times, a gay weekly, ran a cover story in May 1992 about Mr. Hongisto's ordering of the arrests of 2,000 demonstrators after the verdict in the first trial of four policemen accused of beating Rodney G. King in Los Angeles. A front-page cartoon showed the Chief holding a nightstick in a lewd manner.
Officers seized papers from news racks in the early morning but the newspaper got them back four days later. Mr. Hongisto, who was known for his liberal views and was appointed by Mayor Frank Jordan less than two months earlier, denied responsibility.
But the Police Commission dismissed Chief Hongisto a week after the incident, finding that officers acted in response to his orders or suggestions. Three officers served suspensions without pay; two, Gary Delagnes and Tom Yuen, were found liable in the civil suit with Mr. Hongisto.
During the trial, Mr. Hongisto testified that he had not ordered or expected large-scale seizures of the newspapers, but merely let Mr. Delagnes know that he wanted other officers to see the article. Mr. Hongisto said he considered the article fair because it quoted his defense of his actions during the arrests.
Lawyers for the officers argued that they did not violate the constitutional rights of The Bay Times or its readers by temporarily taking 2,000 of a press run of 40,000 papers. No one was deprived of a chance to read the article, said Mr. Hongisto's lawyer, Robert Moore.
But William Bennett Turner, lawyer for the newspaper and its editor, said the verdict showed that jurors believed the three men had interfered with the newspaper's circulation. It was not clear whether jurors held Mr. Hongisto responsible for ordering all the seizures, Mr. Turner said.
"We're supposed to have a free press," The Bay Times's editor, Kim Corsaro, said after the verdict. "Police can't go rounding up papers that aren't complimentary of them."
Mr. Moore said he would ask Judge D. Lowell Jensen to dismiss the claim for punitive damages.
Judge Jensen ruled early in the case that the city could not be sued for damages, because it had no policy of seizing newspapers based on their content. But the city was still held responsible the three men's damages and legal fees, because the judge found that they were carrying out their official duties during the incident.
The city plans to appeal that finding, Chief Assistant City Attorney Dennis Aftergut said. He said the jury's verdict was consistent with the city's view that "stealing newspapers is not within the duties of a police chief."
The jury rejected the city's claim that Mr. Hongisto acted with malice, or personal hatred, toward The Bay Times. A finding of malice would have required Mr. Hongisto to pay his own legal fees.
Mr. Turner said the jury could award punitive damages if it found that Mr. Hongisto had acted with reckless disregard of the constitutional rights of the newspaper and its editor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BAY TIMES (NEWSPAPER)

ORGANIZATION: BAY TIMES (NEWSPAPER)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; POLICE BRUTALITY AND MISCONDUCT; TRIALS JURY TRIALS (93%); VERDICTS (92%); DAMAGES (90%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); LAWYERS (89%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (89%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MISCONDUCT (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TESTIMONY (77%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (77%); PUBLISHING (73%); LIBERALISM (73%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); 

PERSON: HONGISTO, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



411 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 755 words

HEADLINE: Korea Talks: Hint of Thaw

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 17

 BODY:
On the surface, it was not a good week for the barely thawed relationship between the United States and North Korea. In response to America's offer of economic assistance if North Korea halts its suspected nuclear weapons program, Pyongyang set its price so high that the once promising talks appeared to have gone into reverse. The North asked for a modern, $4 billion nuclear reactor of Pyongyang's choosing, an energy supply until the new reactor is completed and a few billion dollars in cash.
"It is ludicrous on the face of it that the D.P.R.K. suggests that they will decide the architecture and the United States will pay," Robert L. Gallucci, America's top negotiator, said at a news conference in Seoul. "I don't take it seriously." He was referring to the Democratic People's Republic of Korea, North Korea's official name. 
 But like many things related to the closed country, behind the hostile appearances was a more complex and not entirely discouraging reality: the negotiations, though tough, have not gone off track.
Given the record of the last two years, when the two sides moved close to a potentially hostile confrontation, the fact that the discussions remain businesslike and are continuing counts as real progress, even if a breakthrough seems remote.
On a more subtle level, the nitty-gritty nature of some of the discussions, and the fact that they concern nonmilitary issues, has helped begin the process of breaking down the cold war stereotypes the two countries hold of each other. "The old caricature of a bumbling, almost oafish bunch of blind Communist ideologues is no longer there," one American official said.
Those are what might be described as the side effects of the talks, and they are meaningful. Each side knows that a lot of confidence building will be required to alter four decades of bitterness and to pave the way for broader agreements.
But there is still the substance of the negotiations, and that is where the problems remain formidable.
The United States has still not persuaded North Korea to take the first and most important step in any agreement -- to allow nearly 8,000 spent nuclear fuel rods sitting in a cooling pond to be removed from North Korea so bomb-grade plutonium cannot be extracted from them.
North Korea violated an international order by removing those radioactive fuel rods from an experimental reactor this spring. After much prodding, it has only agreed to place them in a safer form of storage within the country. That shows some flexibility, but only to a point.
The United States has demanded that the rods be removed from North Korea for fear that the Koreans could reprocess the uranium in them and produce enough plutonium to build four or five nuclear bombs.
North Korea has also refused to allow international inspectors access to two key nuclear waste sites, where it is believed there may be evidence of how much bomb-grade plutonium the North Koreans have.
This week, the North Koreans permitted the inspectors access to two sites at its nuclear complex at Yongbyon, about 60 miles north of Pyongyang, the capital. But they were two low-level sites the inspectors had been able to visit previously.
"No, this is not a breakthrough," said David Kyd, a spokesman for the International Atomic Energy Agency. "It is a sign of slight additional flexibility." Thus, there was the hint of a change rather than substantive progress.
"My anxiety is that we're reliving last summer," said Leonard S. Spector, a nuclear expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace in Washington. "If you go through the press clips from last year, you'd find the same pattern as now."
For instance, North Korea already agreed once, in 1991, to forgo reprocessing spent nuclear fuel to produce plutonium. Now, Mr. Spector said, the situation has progressed to where it had been, but North Korea's agreement is considered a sign of flexibility. "The history of this thing leads one to caution," he said.
Indeed, one senior American official rejected the idea there was any optimism in Washington, saying such an assessment was premature. "The road is not well lit," he said.
And yet there has been enough movement for each of the warily circling competitors not to give up, to continue a process of changing their positions little by little.
"United States policy has not changed in 15 months," the senior American official insisted. "It doesn't mean there haven't been adjustments. There have been some tactical modifications."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

CITY: PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%); 

COMPANY: ROBERT L SIGMON (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH KOREA; KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); PYONGYANG, KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (56%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; NORTH KOREA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US NUCLEAR ENERGY (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); COLD WAR (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); NUCLEAR FUEL MFG (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); NUCLEAR WASTE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



412 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1461 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Cuomo Courts the Voters, One Interest Bloc at a Time

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Sept. 17

 BODY:
Throughout the last year, with a tough re-election campaign ahead, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo has romanced discontented New Yorkers with the candy and flowers of tax cuts and crime bills, proposals calculated to seduce middle-of-the-road swing voters.
But as the election nears, Mr. Cuomo is also working aggressively to shore up his base among traditional Democratic constituencies, including trade unionists, women and black, Hispanic and Jewish voters. And so even as his television ads seek to persuade undecided voters, Mr. Cuomo's schedulers have him sprinting from union halls to black churches, from yeshivas to Caribbean parades. 
 Everywhere he goes, he practices the politics of empathy, seeking to connect by casually dropping a phrase in Hebrew or Spanish, by addressing union members as "brothers and sisters," by praising a Baptist choir as sounding sweet enough to make God smile. He tells Jews it was "a man by the name of Kessler" who first helped his father, an illiterate immigrant, establish a grocery store. He reminds Hispanic people that he and his wife, Matilda, honeymooned at the Condado Beach Hotel in Puerto Rico, "cuarenta y uno anos" ago.
While flattering these audiences with idiom and anecdote, Mr. Cuomo also is not above playing on his listeners' fears of Republicanism, which he equates with political Darwinism. In the process, he paints his campaign in epochal terms.
"The question, really, in this race and all across the country," he said last week in accepting the endorsement of the Council of Black Elected Democrats, "is whether we will be a confident nation that will find a way to do for everyone, or whether you will shrink back and say no, we cannot afford to do it, let the fit survive. If you announce in New York State that we're going to give up on our poor people, that will be a signal to the whole United States of America that they should do the same."
Mr. Cuomo's dual strategy of seeking to capture the center while invigorating the left -- and other longtime loyalists, like Orthodox Jews and trade unionists -- is not without risk. As his campaign against State Senator George E. Pataki becomes increasingly ideological, the Governor cannot afford to reinforce Mr. Pataki's new advertising slogan that he has been "too liberal for too long," strategists in both parties agree.
The state's swing voters, including many of the 1.1 million New Yorkers who sided with Ross Perot in 1992, may be exactly the kind of people who would respond to the Governor's calls for cuts in taxes, mandatory life sentences for repeat violent offenders and revamped election laws. But they also may be the kind who would be most alienated by his eager courtship of Democratic interest groups.
Furthermore, Mr. Cuomo must walk a precarious line between effective campaigning and perceived contradiction.
In selling himself to fiscal conservatives, for instance, he has worn his willingness to deny raises to state workers as a badge of courage and leadership. But Mr. Cuomo now finds himself begging for union help and describing himself, as he did this week to leaders of the Transport Workers Union, as a stronger backer of organized labor than ever before.
Recent polls have indicated that the race is tight, and that perhaps 15 to 20 percent of the electorate is undecided. The Cuomo campaign is pursuing those voters with ads that highlight Mr. Cuomo's record and depict Mr. Pataki as untrustworthy, inconsistent and too close to Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato.
And yet, top Democrats acknowledge that after 12 years of incumbency and a four-year economic decline, Mr. Cuomo is not popular enough to defeat Mr. Pataki without an enthusiastic turnout of the faithful on Nov. 8. Mr. Cuomo expects help from other members of the ticket, Karen S. Burstein, who is running for Attorney General, and State Comptroller H. Carl McCall, who is black, but realizes he cannot totally rely on them.
"I think he understands not only that keeping the base deep and highly motivated is the most important thing in this race," said Fernando Ferrer, the Bronx borough president.
Mr. Cuomo put it more bluntly last week when he accepted the endorsement of black Democratic officials. "I must have their community's votes," he said. "If I don't get them turning out in very large numbers, I lose."
Simple mathematics suggests that Mr. Cuomo is right. He starts the campaign with a significant advantage in Democratic enrollment. Forty-eight percent of the state's voters are registered as either Democrats or Liberals, the two ballot lines Mr. Cuomo will hold in November, compared with 32 percent who are Republicans or Conservatives, Mr. Pataki's two lines.
But Mr. Cuomo also is fighting several electoral trends. The proportion of the statewide vote cast in New York City, the Governor's geographic base, slipped from 31 percent in 1982 to 29 percent in 1986 to 27 percent in 1990. A continuation of that slide could be decisive in a close race because Mr. Cuomo has won 67 percent of the votes cast in New York City in his three elections, compared with 48 percent in the rest of the state.
Surveys of voters leaving polling places show that Mr. Cuomo's support among women, union members, minorities and Jews has generally exceeded his support statewide. It is those crucial elements of the Democratic coalition in New York that Mr. Cuomo is pursuing with a breakneck schedule and with the wily charms of a consummate New York politician who understands the power of ethnicity and shared struggle.
On Sunday, Mr. Cuomo is to tour the Lower East Side, sampling sour pickles and shopping for a black fedora, before racing to Harlem in time for the African-American Day Parade. In Brooklyn last Sunday, he darted from the First Baptist Church of Crown Heights to the Church of the Transfiguration, where the Roman Catholic Mass is said in Spanish, to the synagogue of the Bobover Hasidic sect. At each appearance, he expressed humility for past support, boasted of spoils he had delivered and ingratiated without shame.
At the Hispanic church, he reminisced about crying in frustration as a boy because his school taught English and he spoke only Italian. "I do feel especially close to people who are Latino and people who are like me," he said. "Why? It's human nature. I feel at home with Latinos. I can converse with them. Our instincts and our impulses and even our rhythms are very, very similar."
Mr. Cuomo told the Hasidim that as a child he was a "Shabbos goy," a Gentile who works in the synagogue on the Sabbath, when observant Jews are prohibited from performing even menial tasks like turning on lights. And he heaped blandishments on Shlomo Halberstam, the chief rabbi of the Bobovers.
"I speak to President Clinton from time to time," Mr. Cuomo said as dark-suited men crowded against each other. "I was invited by President Bush and by President Reagan. That happens to governors. I've been with Rabin and Peres. I've been with the emperor and the empress. I've been all over the world with great leaders. There is no leader in the world that I have been prouder to be welcomed as a guest by than Rabbi Shlomo Halberstam."
Rabbi Halberstam told Mr. Cuomo, "I wish you should be our Governor for the future." To which Mr. Cuomo responded, "If God wishes, I will be here for four more years, and I promise I will be useful to you every way I can be." The Governor later explained that Rabbi Halberstam did not make endorsements but was simply offering his "broche," or blessing.
The pattern is much the same when Mr. Cuomo speaks to trade unionists. In addressing a conference of the Laborers' International Union last week, he joked that he was "comfortable in the pockets of the unions."
When he accepted endorsements this week from the state's corrections officers and from New York City transit workers, he recited a high-minded history lesson on organized labor. Then he pointed out that he walked picket lines during strikes at The Daily News and Eastern Air Lines. "I'm very proud of that," he told leaders of the Transport Workers Union on Wednesday. "Is it a political plus? They tell me it's a political negative. I don't believe that anything that makes as much sense as my position on unions could be a political negative."
Jan D. Pierce, the vice president of the Communications Workers of America and a longtime Cuomo supporter, said the Governor's attentiveness is paying dividends. "He has been to a couple of our events, and it has shown results in the number of volunteers we've been putting into phone banks," he said. "He has a way of making people proud of their heritage and affiliations. And it is paying off because I see the enthusiasm being reignited in the rank and file."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, working to shore up his base among minority voters, appeared at the West Indian American Day Parade in Brooklyn earlier this month. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); PUERTO RICO (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); JEWS; BLACKS (IN US); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); WOMEN ELECTIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (89%); TAX LAW (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (88%); POLITICS (78%); ADVERTISING SLOGANS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); RELIGION (76%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); ELECTION LAW (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); SENTENCING (72%); VIOLENT CRIME (72%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



413 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1790 words

HEADLINE: After Half a Century, the U.N. Tries to Redefine Itself for a New World

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 16

 BODY:
The United Nations, which opens its 49th General Assembly session on Tuesday, is heading into a year of unusual scrutiny as diplomats, bureaucrats, scholars and a throng of increasingly powerful nongovernmental pressure groups are prodding the vast organization to reinvent itself for a world very different than the one it has known in its first half-century of life.
The task lurks behind the celebratory hoopla planned for the coming months, when symphony orchestras and rock groups will play, thinkers will think aloud at countless seminars, dancers will dance, and children all over the world will collectively write and illustrate a book about how the United Nations looks to them. A roster of special events that have already begun and will continue into 1996 is already nine pages long. 
 By contrast, the coming General Assembly session is expected to be subdued, with few explosive issues on the agenda.
Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali calls this "a time to rekindle the ideals of the Charter." The aim of the United Nations Charter -- to be commemorated in San Francisco in June, 50 years after the document's signing -- was to cement a lasting peace and international well-being after devastation of World War II.
Now, after the cold war has ended, and with it the superpower standoff that often paralyzed United Nations debate, there are more calls for the world body to turn its attention to safeguarding the planet's resources, starting with its environment and its poorest people, who are the majority and are the source of its migrant populations.
Others suggest that the organization could move more aggressively into controlling the spread of nuclear weapons or intervening in human rights disputes before they become new ethnic wars.
The Secretary General has said he would like to see the organization become more active in building democratic institutions, from parliaments to a free press -- as it tried to do in Cambodia -- though this would certainly lead to a dispute over national sovereignty and the limitations of the United Nations rights to interfere in domestic politics.
There are also renewed proposals for reform and reduction in the huge international civil service the United Nations has spawned in New York, Washington, Geneva, Rome, Vienna, Bangkok, Nairobi and other cities.
But these demands come at a time when regional conflicts preoccupy the United Nations -- causing even more appointments to be made and staffs created -- and when peacekeeping operations tax the organization's finances.
"The developing countries say that the agenda for peace is consuming too much time," said Stanley Kalpage, Sri Lanka's chief delegate. "They want an agenda for development."
Small nations also fear the precedent of military intervention by bigger powers acting under United Nations sanction.
There seems to be broad agreement that the support of the United States is critical if the United Nations is to become more than an international police agency carrying out punitive expeditions against rogue governments.
"Peacekeeping, which has all the financing -- and all the heartaches -- will take up all the attention," said Shirin Tahir-Kheli, a fellow with the Woodrow Wilson School of International Affairs at Princeton University. "But I do think that the nuclear issue, for example, should be taken up by the United Nations, and with a fraction of the cost."
Ms. Tahir-Kheli, who has been director of political-military affairs and head of Near East and South Asian affairs on the National Security Council, said only the United States has "the clout, the stakes and the relationships" to force this issue in places like India and Pakistan, where local conciliation has always failed and the fear of nuclear war is always present.
"From the 1950's, the United States has been vibrantly active in the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna, and at least in part the success of the I.A.E.A. is very much a testament to our staying the course," she said in an interview from Islamabad, Pakistan, during a visit to South Asia. "But that's a technical agency. We have been very reluctant to become involved politically."
 
New Attitude
High Marks For Clinton
 As the new General Assembly approaches, a variety of diplomats at the United Nations say they like what they have seen of the Clinton Administration.
"We are not always sure whether Clinton will move this way or that way, or whether he will move at all, but the feeling is that the Clinton Administration is much better than its predecessors at the U.N.," an Asian delegate said. He added that this change in the American attitude could not have come at a more propitious time.
President Clinton, who is to address the General Assembly on Sept. 26, can point to a series of policy changes. Congress has released about $1.2 billion to pay some of Washington's peacekeeping bills.
American officials, led by Timothy E. Wirth, Under Secretary of State for Global Affairs, have made a point of listening to the concerns of developing nations and working to build consensus on issues of importance to them and to the Islamic world. This was demonstrated at the recent conference on population in Cairo, where American delegates won praise from former critics on many issues.
Steven A. Dimoff, editor of Washington Weekly Report, which monitors Congressional action affecting international organizations, said there were indications that Mr. Clinton might formally announce that the United States would return to to Unesco, the United Nations cultural agency from which it withdrew under President Reagan.
The agency, which was widely accused of mismanagement, corruption and undermining the free flow of news and information, has since been reformed under a new Director General, Federico Mayor of Spain. But returning to Unesco, which is based in Paris, could cost Washington more than $50 million a year.
"Everybody in the Administration loves Unesco, but nobody can find the money to get us back in," said Mr. Dimoff, whose newsletter is published by the United Nations Association.
 
Old Mistrust
United Nations Still a Hard Sell
 Points of friction remain, among them concerns among American diplomats that Secretary General Boutros-Ghali has thrust himself to the forefront of too much United Nations activity, not always consulting the Security Council, which has assumed a major role in world affairs since the collapse of the Soviet Union.
Some American officials argue that it is harder to sell the idea of more American participation in the United Nations if a single figure is perceived to be towering over the President. Mr. Boutros-Ghali has announced that he will seek another five-year term in office after 1996.
Mr. Dimoff agrees that if the Clinton Administration is friendlier to the United Nations, the same can still not be said of many members of Congress and the American public.
"The legacy of the 1970's still haunts the policymakers' views," he said. "They define the U.N. by the experiences of the 70's, when contentious debates led to polarization."
He said teaching about the United Nations appears to have fallen off in American schools; he recently found only one reference to the organization in an 11th-grade history textbook. The United Nations Association is directing its special publicity efforts toward children in the anniversary year.
 
The Future
New Alliances Are Forming
 As the United Nations moves into its next half-century, old alliances are in flux and new ones are forming within the organization.
"I think the emergence of the European Union is very important to this process," said Jeane J. Kirkpatrick, United States delegate to the United Nations in the Reagan Administration and who now teaches French politics at Georgetown University. "It is more important than I think Americans have generally understood it to be, and I think it has big consequences for us in multilateral institutions like the U.N.
"The European Union has developed institutions for reaching agreed consensus positions on issues before they come to a discussion of those issues with the United States, or before they come to discussion in U.N. arenas," she said in a recent interview. In effect, she added, this will mean a solid bloc of votes not subject to division by American persuasion on issues where in the past a few European nations might have sided with Washington.
"It's going to be a shock to Americans to find that our best friends, the countries with whom we have been most closely associated in all these arenas, will be committed to positions almost written in stone," Dr. Kirkpatrick said.
Diplomats and nongovernmental organizations working with United Nations agencies echo those conclusions. At the population conference in Cairo, some groups bemoaned the loss of independent Scandinavian voices that could have been counted on to take more liberal positions than nations of southern Europe.
But if Europe is coalescing, the developing nations are in disarray, having lost the support of Moscow in confrontations with the richer industrialized countries.
"The unity of the Nonaligned Movement, the unity of the G-77 is not there," said Dr. Kalpage, Sri Lanka's chief delegate. "These countries are building their policies on bilateral ties with more powerful nations or with the international lending organizations -- the World Bank, the International Monetary Fund."
Sri Lanka was a founding member of both the Nonaligned Movement, which often sided with the Soviet bloc, and the Group of 77 (now with 134 members), which concentrated on economic and social problems in the third world, often demanding compensation from the West.
Third world organizations are not only weaker after the cold war, Dr. Kalpage said, but are also threatened by the economic demands of Eastern Europe and the new countries created by the breakup of the Soviet Union.
"The countries that call themselves economies in transition are vying for funds in every agency," he said. "On any issue they want to be mentioned. This is causing problems for developing countries."
The United Nations is going to try to address the problems of world poverty and the development of human resources at a conference that is to be attended by heads of state in March in Copenhagen.
Diplomats from developing nations say that the Russians have all but disappeared from view after decades of courting third world support with a variety of enticements.
"Now Moscow goes out of its way to support the United States," Dr. Kalpage said. "Or they speak for the economies in transition. They don't come around to us. They are not heard much. Their presence is diminished."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers preparing documents for the opening of the 49th session of the United Nations General Assembly on Tuesday. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SRI LANKA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SRI LANKA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (73%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (71%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (71%); DANCERS (70%); WORLD WAR II (66%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (51%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA BOUTROS BOUTROS-GHALI (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



414 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1412 words

HEADLINE: Hasidic and Hispanic Residents in Williamsburg Try to Forge a New Unity

BYLINE: By DENNIS HEVESI 

 BODY:
Division Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn, is just that: a demarcation line between Hasidic Jews, who live, for the most part, to the north, and Hispanic residents to the south. But there is no dividing the air over Williamsburg.
In that irrefutable fact lie the roots of a budding cooperation between two groups that have, for three decades, written a history of contention and sometimes violent confrontation. 
 "We all breathe the same air," said Luis Garden Acosta, president of El Puente (the Bridge), a nonprofit organization that provides services to Hispanic residents, particularly the young.
It was a common concern over the quality of that air, mainly among young people, that planted seeds of cooperation for a campaign against a host of environmental ills afflicting the neighborhood. Now, Hasidic and Hispanic leaders are increasingly working together to solve problems like unemployment, lack of housing and the appropriate balance of municipal services.
It is an unlikely turn of events in a crowded neighborhood where the demand for scarce housing and city services has led to violence between Hasidic and Hispanic residents. In the past, leaders of the two groups were as likely to encounter one another over police barricades and at sit-ins as at community meetings.
But today they are writing a 10-year plan for Williamsburg. Their hopes include providing shared services for fledgling businesses, rehabilitating an apartment building that will be shared by Hispanic and Hasidic residents and winning Federal designation as an Enterprise Community -- a prize that would bring $10 million in grants to the area.
Mr. Garden Acosta and others credit the neighborhood's young people, particularly a group called the Toxic Avengers, as the initiators behind the closer ties.
"It was nothing but confrontation before young people from the Toxic Avengers came to me and said, 'Isn't it time to ask the Hasidim to join forces with us in reclaiming our environment?' " he said.
The Toxic Avengers are members of El Puente's youth group, concerned principally with plans to construct a garbage incinerator with a 500-foot stack at the Brooklyn Navy Yard and the continuing operation of Radiac, a low-level radioactive waste storage operation on Kent Avenue by the East River, one block from both a public school and a Roman Catholic school. They are still fighting those battles.
They found an ally in Rabbi David Niederman, a leader of the Satmar Hasidim and director of the United Jewish Organizations of Williamsburg. As Mr. Garden Acosta recounts those events in May 1991, "it was a historic moment when a Hasidic rabbi, a leader of the Satmar, walked through the doors of El Puente. We were planning a march to a hearing on Radiac emergency procedures, and Rabbi Niederman volunteered to help lead that march through Latino streets. I can't describe what a change that meant. It was a clear act of courage on the part of David Niederman."
Rabbi Niederman did not see it as courageous, just necessary. "We were facing the incinerator, lead poisoning from the garbage transfer stations, chemicals from abandoned factories around here, sandblasting from the bridge and Radiac," he said. "We held rallies together, meetings with the former mayor."
A year later, 1,200 people squeezed into the auditorium at Public School 16 to voice anger over the proposed incinerator. Out of that meeting came the Community Alliance for the Environment, a group of 20 organizations representing the neighborhood's ethnic groups.
It was not always so in Williamsburg.
For three decades, Hispanic and Hasidic residents clashed, particularly over housing, in the tightly packed community of century-old walk-ups, abandoned factories and warehouses. Each group, in its own way, was clinging to its toehold in a new land. At the heart of the discord was population growth. Between 1980 and 1990, the Hasidic and Hispanic populations in the Community Board 1 area both increased by 14 percent. The Board 1 area has 156,000 residents, 44 percent Hispanic and 46 percent non-Hispanic white. A study by the United Talmudic Association last year reported that the average Hasidic family in Williamsburg has 7.8 children.
When urban renewal in the 1960's and 70's razed scores of old buildings in favor of high-rise housing projects, Hispanic residents grew suspicious that most of the new apartments were going to the Hasidim. One night in 1974, just before the federally subsidized Roberto Clemente Houses were to open, 500 Hispanic people cajoled a sympathetic superintendent to let them into the apartments. The subsequent occupation turned violent, and bottles were thrown from windows. A 1977 consent decree stipulated that 51 percent of the project's apartments must go to Hispanic families.
Throughout the years, Hispanic residents have also contended that the area's Jewish residents received a disproportionate share of city services and that the police both protected the Hasidim and were reluctant to arrest them.
In 1990, tension turned to violence when 300 Hasidim protesting the arrest of a sect member on sexual assault charges demonstrated outside the 90th Precinct station house. Forty-five police officers were injured. Then, in July 1992, the beating of a 13-year-old Hispanic boy by a Hasidic man who had accused him of shoplifting prompted a demonstration by 75 Hispanic residents.
"This was Crown Heights before Crown Heights," Mr. Garden Acosta said.
Today, partnerships between Hasidic and Hispanic groups are flowering to fight the neighborhood's myriad problems. Under an agreement between El Puente and the United Jewish Organizations, all children in Williamsburg will be offered a screening test for lead poisoning this year. Last year, nine groups representing all segments of Williamsburg's population formed the Neighborhood-Based Alliance to coordinate and channel state grants for developing community resources.
The enterprise community designation, sought under Federal legislation that also created the larger empowerment zones, is being pushed by a partnership made up of the United Jewish Organizations, the Brooklyn Navy Yard Development Corporation, the St. Nicholas Neighborhood Preservation Corporation and Los Sures, a Hispanic low-income housing group.
Elizabeth Colon, executive officer of the Navy Yard corporation, said that changing economic realities are behind the closer ties between Hasidic and Hispanic residents. "Unemployment and a deteriorating economic base have surpassed housing as an issue for Williamsburg," she said. That, along with environmental issues, has spurred the "two groups to work together toward the future."
But in a community long clenched by distrust, good intentions do not always translate into reality.
Los Sures has entered into a partnership with Rabbi Niederman's group to rehabilitate a six-story building at 907 Driggs Avenue, in the heart of the Hasidic area, for eventual occupancy by both Hispanic and Hasidic tenants. But last November, after 200 Hispanic people occupied a new housing project on Berry Street, voicing concerns reminiscent of the Clemente Houses battle, Rabbi Niederman pulled out of the Driggs Avenue project. Feeling betrayed by anti-Semitic remarks made by some protesters and pointing out that a worker for Los Sures participated in the occupation, the rabbi said then, "I don't know if they would alert me if they saw someone running at my back with a knife."
Soon after, however, Rabbi Niederman said, the head of Los Sures, David Pagan, called, saying the anti-Semitic remarks and occupation did not reflect the feelings of the group, which was committed to working with the rabbi. Since then, plans for the Driggs Avenue project have proceeded.
Rabbi Niederman sees improved relations with the Hispanic leadership as the beginning of "a new era for the community."
Mr. Garden Acosta was more cautious. Asked if the spirit of cooperation has filtered down to the street, he said: "Do I think this new era is so rooted that we may never see the clashes we've seen in the past? The answer is that I pray every day to find ways of bridging what is still a formidable gap.
"While many of us have embraced this new spirit of dialogue and coalition building," he said, "we have lived with the albatross of suspicion and even physical confrontation around our necks for so long that I cannot say we've entirely thrown it off yet."

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Pagan, left, with Rabbi David Niederman of the United Jewish Organizations outside 907 Driggs Avenue in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. Rabbi Niederman's group has joined with Los Sures, a Hispanic housing group, to turn the building into housing for Hasidic and Hispanic residents. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SATMAR HASIDIM (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: SATMAR HASIDIM (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WILLIAMSBURG (NYC); UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; JEWS; HASIDISM; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) RELIGION (94%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (75%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (75%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (71%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (68%); GRANTS & GIFTS (64%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (64%); NAVIES (62%); NUCLEAR WASTE (60%); TRENDS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (50%); 

PERSON: HEVESI, DENNIS DAVID NIEDERMAN (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



415 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 36; Column 4; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 224 words

HEADLINE: The Electric Car Debate Continues

 BODY:
To the Editor:
S. David Freeman gives the wrong conclusion about electric cars. They are not practical for most uses because they are too costly to produce. 
 Wider understanding that electric cars are not competitive in an unregulated market may improve government policies. Increasing use of electric cars is in the national interest, but we are about to embark on a bad way to make this happen: government mandates that each automobile company must sell a minimum number of electric vehicles.
Imposing minimum-sale requirements is an easy solution for politicians, but a bad one for the economy. Electric-car development will be paid by people buying new gasoline-powered cars, because costs of those cars will increase to cover electric-car losses. One result will be decreased new-car sales and more polluting old cars on the road.
A better way would be cash subsidies to electric-car buyers to get the targeted number sold. The money could come from general tax funds or a higher gasoline tax. Such a policywould eliminate the disincentive for new-car purchases and would not require that every automobile company produce electric cars immediately -- allowing for economies of scale that could mean huge savings.
 
JAMES L. HECHT
Wilmington, Del., Sept. 1
 
The writer is an affiliated professor at Temple University.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DELAWARE, USA (79%); 

CITY: WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY HOSPITAL (80%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); TEMPLE UNIVERSITY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); WILMINGTON, DE, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC VEHICLES ELECTRIC VEHICLES (93%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (93%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); GASOLINE (74%); FUEL TAX (74%); WRITERS (73%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: FREEMAN, S DAVID S DAVID FREEMAN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



416 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: Sept. 11-17: A Near Miss;
A Suicidal Pilot Sets Off Alarms At the White House

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON 

 BODY:
Call it the curse of Blair House.
 The Clintons became the first First Family in more than 40 years to move temporarily to Blair House, the official guest quarters across the street from the White House, so that the executive mansion could be renovated. The last Presidential occupant was Harry S. Truman, and while he was at the guest residence in 1950 a pair of Puerto Rican nationalists tried unsuccessfully to shoot their way in to assassinate him. In the shootout, a bodyguard and an assailant were killed.
 
 Early Monday morning, while the Clintons slept in Blair House, an unemployed truck driver stole a single-engine plane and crashed it onto the lawn right under the President's bedroom at the White House. No one tried to stop the plane, and by some accounts, White House guards spotted it only seconds before it crashed.
 The Secret Service said its early investigation indicated that the pilot, Frank Eugene Corder, was suicidal.
 His third marriage and his small trucking business in shambles, Mr. Corder had moved to a shabby motel room in Aberdeen, Md., and, on the day before his final flight, he had been smoking crack and drinking beer and cheap wine.
 Security officials were rattled. If a confused, unhappy and intoxicated man with limited flying skill could blunder into a near-hit on the President's bedroom with no resistance from the President's bodyguards, then what might a determined, skilled and knowledgeable assassin accomplish? STEPHEN LABATON

GRAPHIC: Photo: Plane wreckage ot the White House (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (52%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (93%); BLAIR HOUSE (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (93%); BLAIR HOUSE (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (52%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WHITE HOUSE (WASHINGTON, DC); AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); ASSASSINATION (76%); SHOOTINGS (76%); AIRLINES (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); TRUCKING (70%); COCAINE (52%); 

PERSON: CORDER, FRANK EUGENE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



417 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: Senator Dole vs. Free Trade

 BODY:
The Senate minority leader, Robert Dole, tried hard to sabotage health care reform this year. Now he threatens to sabotage open trade -- by blocking approval of the international trade accord the Administration signed last April in Marrakesh, Morocco. That is an odd stance for the leader of the party that has traditionally stood for free trade. But Mr. Dole appears more intent on humiliating President Clinton before the November elections than on serving the nation's 250 million other citizens. The danger is that U.S. delay encourages protectionists abroad who desperately search for any excuse to sidetrack ratification of free trade.
The Administration bears some blame for Mr. Dole's chokehold. It waited too long to make a key concession. There are only about 20 working days left before Congress breaks for elections; the time crunch puts Mr. Dole in charge. He can say that he wants a trade pact this year -- mollifying his big-business and farm constituencies that have the most to gain from the Marrakesh accord -- while dallying so that the legislation dies from neglect. 
 Last week the Administration acceded to political reality. It dropped a provision from its draft bill to implement the accord that would have granted the President the right to negotiate future trade agreements under a legislative rule known as fast track -- which requires Congress to vote on a proposed trade pact quickly and without amendment. Opponents of fast track feared the Administration would use the hurry-up procedure to ram through undesirable provisions on labor conditions and environmental protection. Even some advocates of fast track opposed its inclusion in the bill because they wanted Congress to have the opportunity to vote on it as a separate matter. The Administration conceded in order to break the logjam.
Having won on fast track, Mr. Dole now says he is dissatisfied with several other provisions, such as the Administration's plan to make up for the Federal revenues that would be lost when tariffs are lowered. True, the Administration's revenue-raising estimates look optimistic. But Mr. Dole surely has seen studies showing that the trade pact is likely to raise revenues by triggering economic growth and, thereby, raising tax collections. Also, Mr. Dole says fellow Kansans are worried about the World Trade Organization, which the Marrakesh accord establishes to adjudicate trade disputes. But rather than assuring his constituents that the W.T.O. was built to U.S. specification to protect its exporters, Mr. Dole panders to unwarranted fears.
The Marrakesh accord will open up foreign countries to U.S. exports of insurance and other services, protect U.S. sales of computer software and other intellectual property and guarantee U.S. investors fair treatment. That may raise living standards in the U.S. by as much as $1,700 a family. That would in effect honor Mr. Clinton's campaign pledge to help the middle class. For the sake of his political ambitions, Mr. Dole is asking Americans to sacrifice quite a lot.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); MOROCCO (92%); 

CITY: MARRAKESH, MOROCCO (72%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (72%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); MOROCCO (92%); MARRAKESH, MOROCCO (72%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; EDITORIALS; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (73%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (73%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (72%); TRADE DISPUTES (71%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (64%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (61%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (50%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%); 

PERSON: DOLE, BOB (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



418 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: How Cairo Conference Echoed Health Debate;
California's Better Deal

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Michael Goldeen (letter, Sept. 11) argues that you can buy a "truly affordable" medical insurance plan in California for $39 a month if you're younger than 30, provided you "take responsibility for the first $2,000 a year" and "some of the next $10,000." This, he implies, would be a much better deal than paying 7 percent to 14 percent under the proposed California Health Security Plan. This is simplistic at best.
 
 First, the 14 percent figure would only apply to those with taxable incomes above $250,000 ($500,000 for families). The maximum rate on all other Californians ranges from 8.9 percent to 12.4 percent. The imaginary 29-year-old who pays a premium of $468 a year would be liable for out-of-pocket medical costs of $4,000 a year assuming a co-payment of 20 percent out of the $10,000.
 Even if we assume this Californian were taxed at the maximum 12.4 percent rate, he or she would not pay the state as much as it would cost for medical care as under Mr. Goldeen's "truly affordable" insurance plan, unless that individual earned $36,000 or more a year.
 According to the 1990 Census, half of the full-time male workers in California earned less than that; 48.8 percent of all households earned less than $35,000 a year. That's a high percentage for whom the California Health Security Plan is a better deal.
 With everyone in one large insurance pool under the state's single-payer plan, the trade-off of an increase in customers for the end of price inflation will be satisfactory to the health care providers, as well as patients.
MICHAEL MEEROPOL
JAMES DEVINE
Springfield, Mass., Sept. 13, 1994
The writers are economics professors at, respectively, Western New England College and Loyola Marymount University in Los Angeles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (73%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (73%); SPRINGFIELD, MA, USA (65%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); FAMILY (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE (73%); INFLATION (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); WRITERS (73%); INSURANCE (73%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (73%); MEN (71%); INCOME TAX (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); CENSUS (53%); 

PERSON: MEEROPOL, MICHAEL (PROF); GOLDEEN, MICHAEL MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



419 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: How Cairo Conference Echoed Health Debate

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 The news from the United Nations population conference in Cairo was depressing in its avoidance of central issues, namely that any child conceived, let alone born, should have the nurture, education and work opportunity to realize his or her capabilities; and second, that the increasing load of humanity this earth must bear is making the first objective very difficult, if not impossible, to achieve for most people.
 
 Pope John Paul II's proscriptions appear to contradict these fundamentals: to advocate means of population control that can be successfully implemented only by the disciplined and educated is to advocate population of the world by the careless and ignorant.
 Surely the Pope realizes the consequences of his rules. Such policy is particularly perverse when the pattern of economic development favors the disciplined and educated, as shown by the East Asian countries that are rising in affluence.
 The Cairo debate recalls the health care debate in the United States. The Pope appears to agree with Hillary Rodham Clinton that Madison, Hamilton, Franklin and other framers of our Constitution in 1787 were wrong in believing that the way to bring about fundamental change is to bring representatives of all views together, to work out a few basic principles that can be expressed in a dozen pages or less and then to explain these publicly, so that a well-informed public opinion is brought to bear on legislators.
 While health care reform is more complicated, a better statement could have been made on the principles behind the details, like bringing the cost-consciousness of free enterprise to bear on rising medical costs.
WILLIAM M. KAULA
Prof. of Earth and Space Sciences
University of California
Los Angeles, Sept. 12, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: EGYPT (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO (EGYPT); EGYPT (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); EASTERN ASIA (79%); ASIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; HEALTH INSURANCE; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (76%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); HEALTH CARE LAW (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); LEGISLATION (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (73%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



420 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 3; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1609 words

HEADLINE: In the Land of the Orthopedic Implant

BYLINE: By BARNABY J. FEDER 

DATELINE: WARSAW, Ind.

 BODY:
HERE in the town that is to bone surgery what Detroit is to cars and Hollywood is to movies, the inability of Congress to agree on health care reform is widely seen as a blessing. Not only is the northeastern corner of the state politically conservative, but some of the measures that have been proposed could make life difficult for orthopedics manufacturers, a $6 billion-a-year industry born here nearly a century ago.
Manufacturers of artificial knees, hips and other orthopedic devices based here these days include Zimmer, a Bristol-Myers Squibb Company subsidiary that is the market leader; DePuy Inc., a Corange Ltd. subsidiary that was the industry pioneer, and Biomet Inc., a fast-growing, publicly traded upstart. These companies, along with smaller competitors and suppliers, helped Warsaw sail smoothly through the recessions that socked most of the Midwest during the 1980's. They account for more than 40 percent of the nation's output of orthopedic implants, a share that has been creeping up as they acquire smaller players. 
 "We are sympathetic to their complaints of overregulation," said Jeffrey Plank, Warsaw's mayor, smiling at the understatement.
Warsaw's special ties to the orthopedics industry are not immediately obvious to a visitor to the community, which has 11,500 residents. The town is home to other manufacturers, including a mammoth R. R. Donnelley & Sons printing plant that employs 1,550 people and is about to expand. And Warsaw is the commercial heart of Kosciusko County, one of the nation's most fertile farming regions and a popular resort area because of its many lakes. There are no statues of the orthopedics industry's founders, no parks or schools named after them, and the local school mascot is not a surgeon but a tiger.
Still, Warsaw is the only place in the world that not only has a rock band called Morris Taper and the Reamers but also thousands of residents who appreciate the joking reference to an artificial hip joint design -- the Morse taper -- and the devices used to prepare bones for an implant. And where else would a golf competition between teams from major employers be known as the Lesser Trochanter Open, a reference to a bony protrusion on the hip where leg muscles are attached?
"I'm always amused at how many people from this small town I run into in places like Seoul or San Francisco at international medical meetings," said Ron Davis, president of Zimmer.
In all, the orthopedics manufacturers employ more than 4,000 people in Warsaw and the surrounding region. Hundreds of them are employed by a host of specialty manufacturers that have grown up to serve the big orthopedics companies. Othy Inc., for instance, processes components for the manufacturers and many of their out-of-town rivals on its computer-controlled machine tools and makes specialty screw drivers, mallets, orthopedic forceps and tools that clean debris from joints before implants are placed in them.
Other suppliers cast metal into shapes approximating implants, which are then shipped to manufacturers for precision work, put the final polish on metal joints made by the larger companies or provide specialized heat treatments. One company, the manufacturing arm of Memphis-based Sofamor Danek Inc., started out as a supplier when half of it was locally owned and known as Warsaw Orthopedics but now is the market leader in the rapidly growing, $200 million market for spinal implants.
Danek's evolution is only the latest sign that today's employee, supplier or partner can be tomorrow's competitor in the orthopedics business. The modern industry was born in 1895 when Revra DePuy began making wire splints here as an alternative to the barrel staves doctors had traditionally used to set broken bones. Justin O. Zimmer, his first traveling salesman, went into business for himself in 1927 when Mr. DePuy's widow refused to give him part ownership of the company and to follow his advice to add aluminum splints to the product line. Mr. Zimmer foresaw that such splints, which do not interfere with X-ray imaging, would quickly become preferred by doctors.
Seven years later, another DePuy salesman founded Richards, a Memphis-based company that is now a subsidiary of Britain's Smith & Nephew P.L.C. and one of the industry's major players. More recently, Biomet was formed in 1977 by Dane Miller and Jerry Ferguson, two Zimmer executives who felt that company had become too bureaucratic as it grew in the years after its 1972 acquisition by Bristol-Myers.
THE Warsaw companies cooperate locally on a number of social and educational activities. They provided much of the machinery and cash the town needed to match a $250,000 state grant to build a machine tool complex for high school and vocational college students that is specially geared toward training students for jobs in the industry. More recently, they provided a large chunk of the money to turn more than 60 acres of land donated by Donnelley on the western outskirts of town into a complex of baseball and soccer fields. But there is intense rivalry too.
"There aren't enough restaurants in town so that you are bound to bump into the others," said Todd Smith, director of research at DePuy. "We have to converse very quietly to keep our secrets."
Mayor Plank is well aware of such minor drawbacks and a few larger ones, such as the lack of commercial air service to accommodate the thousands of surgeons, technical experts and sales people the companies bring to town each year for meetings. "This community isn't just where they make products," Mayor Plank said. "It's also their sales room."
Unless industry trends change, the companies may find it increasingly difficult to be as generous to Warsaw as they have been in the past. The orthopedics industry has run into slower growth than it has been accustomed to as health maintenance organizations and hospital administrators strive to drive down spending. The inability of the overburdened Food and Drug Administration to act quickly on petitions to approve new medical devices is also hurting.
Growth rates for both hip and knee replacements, the biggest chunk of the market, fell sharply in 1993. The increase in the number of operations did not keep up with the trend projected from the aging of the population, price increases were smaller than in the past and the mix shifted toward less expensive products, according to industry analysts.
Joel Zimmerman, who follows the industry for Lehman Brothers, estimated that domestic sales of hips and knees rose just 5.7 percent in 1993, to $1.62 billion, compared with a 15.4 percent increase in 1992. Nor does he see any reason for traditional double-digit growth rates to resume soon. In fact, although he expects the number of artificial knees and hips implanted this year to inch up from 344,000 to 355,000, he projects a drop back to the 344,000 level in 1995. In a truly strict cost control environment, he figures, the number of knee replacements could fall by 25 percent and hip replacements by 10 percent.
COMPANY executives here say the slowdown in unit sales is harder to explain than the cost pressures. Longer-lasting products, growing conservatism among surgeons and uncertainty about insurance coverage may all be factors.
"We are learning to speak the language of managed care," said William Tidmore, president of DePuy. "We were always aware of things like how long it took to put one of our products in a patient and how quickly they could be released from a hospital, but now we are more concerned about documenting the costs."
The one thing the executives agree on is that there is more danger than hope on the horizon in Washington. Congress has been considering proposals that could cap spending on orthopedic devices along with drugs and other medical treatments. The proposals also include various types of Government review and management agencies that the companies say would stifle innovation.
The company executives here say such inhibitions on research and development would come at a crucial time in the industry's history. While further improvements in materials are expected, several of the companies are betting that the next big breakthroughs will come from using biological agents to stimulate restoration of human bones, either alone or in connection with mechanical implants.
The direction of orthopedics research and product development could also be thrown into turmoil if pharmaceutical companies can successfully develop drugs to prevent osteoporosis or osteoarthritis, diseases that account for a large percentage of bone replacement surgery in older people.
To defend their point of view, the executives have been relying largely on the lobbying expertise of the Health Equipment Manufacturers Association in Washington or of their parent companies.
Among those most affected by the market-driven changes already under way are Zimmer and How medica, a Pfizer Inc. subsidiary based in New Jersey that is the industry's second-largest company. Analysts believe both are losing market share. Zimmer has cut its workforce here by 350, to 1,900, since 1992, partly by layoffs that were the first ever in Warsaw by one of the major orthopedics companies.
But even Biomet, which has been gaining on its competitors, has been hurt by failing to keep up with Wall Street's expectations -- its stock topped $23 in early 1992 but then fell in stages to a low of $8.875 in September 1993, before edging back up. It closed Friday at $11.875.
"A lot of my neighbors bought near $20 so you can bet I hear about it," said Mr. Miller, the company's chief executive.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 25, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article about orthopedic implant manufacturers based in Warsaw, Ind., misidentified the trade organization that represents the industry in Washington lobbying. It is the Health Industry Manufacturers Association.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lingga Tanamal, an engineer at Zimmer, the market leader, holds an artificial joint. (Steve Kagan for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BMY (NYSE) (71%); RRD (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (71%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (71%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (71%); SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (60%); NAICS323120 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR PRINTING (54%); NAICS323117 BOOKS PRINTING (54%); NAICS323111 COMMERCIAL PRINTING (EXCEPT SCREEN & BOOKS) (54%); SIC2752 COMMERCIAL LITHOGRAPHIC PRINTING (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (56%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: BIOMET INC (84%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (71%); OTHY INC (60%); R R DONNELLEY & SONS CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WARSAW (IND); ; UNITED STATES (79%); POLAND (56%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (78%); DETROIT, MI, USA (73%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: BONES; INDUSTRY PROFILES; IMPLANTS; PROSTHESIS ORTHOPEDICS (93%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (90%); PROSTHETICS & ORTHOTICS (90%); MEDICAL DEVICES (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); MAYORS (78%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (69%); GOLF TOURNAMENTS (60%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (56%); 

PERSON: FEDER, BARNABY J ANN LIVERMORE (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



421 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 3; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1640 words

HEADLINE: Crime Moves Into New Arenas And Justice Rushes to Catch Up

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
THEY lurk along the back alleys of cyberspace scouting out new territory and victims for their crimes. Their milieu: the bulletin boards and chat rooms of on-line interactive services. Their marks: computer-literate children on the Internet.
Take the case of 51-year-old Alan Paul Barlow. The County District Attorney's office said he traveled from his home in Seattle to a candy store in Mamaroneck early this summer to meet a 14-year-old girl with whom he had been corresponding by way of sexually explicit E-mail messages. 
 Prosecutors also said Mr. Barlow, a post office maintenance worker, had found other victims on the Internet with his modem, allegedly sending semen samples to one girl in Montana, along with photographs of his penis. He has since been extradited to Seattle where he was subsequently arrested on a felony charge of sexually exploiting a minor. He also faces statutory rape charges in another case there. Charges of endangering the welfare of a child are still pending in Westchester.
Jeanine Pirro, the Westchester District Attorney, said Mr. Barlow's case was typical of a new wave of high-technology lawlessness that her office was dealing with -- what she described as "old crimes being committed in new ways."
 
Search Warrants Issued
 "He is what we would have called in the past an old man in a trench coat without pants," the District Attorney said. "The difference is that kids now are being molested in their own homes with their parents in the kitchen."
In addition to on-line pedophiles, the District Attorney's office is seeing an increase in other crimes involving high-tech tools: cellular phone rackets, videotape piracies and crimes committed by computer against corporations. It is what many law-enforcement officials nationwide are calling a new age of crime and what Ms. Pirro described as "not just cops and robbers anymore."
In Alexandria, Va., at the National Center for the Prosecution of Child Abuse, Dyanne C. Greer, a senior lawyer, reported that law-enforcement officials were struggling to counter the "high-tech invasion of child abuse."
The center, part of the federally financed National District Attorneys Association, did not have numbers for the incidence of child-abuse cases involving on-line services like Prodigy, America Online and Compuserve. But Ms. Greer said that her organization was receiving many more calls about such cases and that search warrants for computers were increasingly being used to find child pornographic materials.
Generally, pedophiles and others who are sexually attracted to children scan the teen-age bulletin boards of computer on-line services to find their victims, with the relationships beginning as simple friendships, Ms. Greer said. Often, the victims do not know the real age, name or address of the perpetrator and think he is another teen-ager. An intimate and sexually explicit correspondence can follow, with children who lack outside interests being the most vulnerable to a pedophile's advances.
Graphic child pornography, which traditionally has been sent through the mail, is now often transferred by modems in computer files. Ms. Greer said that computer-generated "kiddy porn" was more detailed and technically of much better quality than photographs. It is also more difficult for law-enforcement officials to find and use pornography buried in a computer file as evidence.
 
'Anarchy on the Internet'
 The Westchester District Attorney's office, like others across the country, has also turned its attention in recent years to the computer underground and young hackers, also known as crackers, who commit crimes.
Gail Thackeray, deputy county attorney in Phoenix, said the new criminals, who often started at "an incredibly young age," were creating "anarchy on the Internet."
She described a class of young, highly computer-literate males who formed "electronic street gangs" and instead of engaging in drive-by shootings "released viruses and sniffer programs and collected accounts and passwords."
Hackers tend to be "boys who don't play football or kiss girls" and are not getting feedback in other aspects of their lives, she said.
 
A Night to Remember
 In Westchester in October 1992, the District Attorney's office investigated what came to be known as the Pumpcon case, named for a yearly underground computer convention held on Halloween. (Such conventions or cons, as they are also known, are often given names relating to the time of year during which they are held. For example, the annual underground computer convention in Austin, Tex., at Christmas is called the Ho Ho Con.)
Pumpcon in 1992 was convened over a weekend at the Courtyard by Marriott in Greenburgh, and law-enforcement officials were watching the proceedings because people who allegedly broke into the Westchester County telephone system and were using it at night were supposedly in attendance, said Kenneth C. Citarella, deputy bureau chief in economic crimes for the District Attorney's office.
Those attending, aged 16 to 25, "got rowdy like a bunch of college kids," vandalized vending machines and stole room keys at the hotel, Mr. Citarella said, and the Greenburgh police were called in. When three computers were found hooked up to telephone lines along with calling cards, the situation was considered suspicious by the police and the District Attorney's office was notified.
Four arrests were made, but only one man was indicted. He pleaded guilty to two misdemeanor counts of computer tampering in the second degree, was placed on probation and paid $1,000 to a clothing store chain because he had invaded and tampered with its computer system. The 22-year-old man said his actions had just been meant as a joke, but Mr. Citarella said that he had the potential to scramble sensitive corporate information, affect credit balances of customers and access the credit ratings of people who shopped at the clothing chain.
 
$1 Million Involved
 This spring, the District Attorney's office, battling another type of high-tech crime, smashed what it called the largest cellular telephone scheme in the New York City area. Four men were arrested on charges of stealing several hundred cell phone numbers and selling them on the street for $150 to stockbrokers and drug dealers.
The brokers and dealers would use the telephone numbers for only a single billing cycle, the time it usually takes for legitimate customers and the carriers to discover the theft, before dumping them and buying new numbers.
Ms. Pirro said that a big-business ring was connected to the scam and that more than $1 million in usage fees were involved. She said that during a series of "buy-and-bust operations," the District Attorney's office seized six computers capable of illegally cloning telephone numbers, along with computer chips, cellular phones and beepers, a handgun, ammunition and a machete.
Computers programmed to clone cell phones can be used to change the identification numbers stored inside a phone on the computer chip, and they can also be used to reprogram the phones with stolen identification numbers so that the carrier will recognize calls as legitimate.
 
Corporate Espionage
 The counterfeit phones are especially useful for narcotics traffickers because they can conceal the identity of the user. It is estimated that the wireless communications industry lost about $300 million last year to cellular fraud, and although the carrier is responsible for the cost of stolen air time, it is expected that unless more rings are cracked, legitimate users will in the long run begin bearing the cost.
The District Attorney's office has also focused in recent years on computer crimes involving corporate espionage -- an AT&T consultant involved in the sale of proprietary software and an MCI employee who allegedly stole customer-access codes.
Five defendants were eventually charged with breaking into the Westchester County government's telephone system and reconfiguring it to operate as a private nighttime phone system, Ms. Pirro said. The cost in unauthorized calls reached $20,000. Four of those arrested were youthful offenders, and the fifth was prosecuted as an adult and placed on probation. All five had to make restitution.
Ms. Pirro said that her office and others around the country were racing to keep pace with the new breed of criminal. "It seems that they are always one step ahead of us in law enforcement," she said.
 
'There Are Holes'
 Kenneth Rosenblatt, deputy district attorney in Santa Clara County, Calif., who is writing a book on high-tech crime, computer intrusions and the theft of trade secrets, said law-enforcement officials were in "unchartered territory" and had been behind the trend for about a decade.
Mr. Citarella in Westchester said that not only was there a shortage of trained personnel in the growing field of computer forensics but there was also a need to draft statutes to address the new direction of crime.
"The Fourth Amendment laws," Mr. Rosenblatt said, "have not accommodated well to the advent of computers; there are holes there. As with the closing of the frontier in the Wild West, there will be increasing pressure to regulate cyberspace."
Howard A. Schmidt, vice president of the International Association of Computer Investigative Specialists, a nonprofit training and research organization based in Portland, Ore., said that high-tech crime and computer forensics had taken a back seat at times to the more immediate issues of "blood spilled on the streets and saving kids' lives."
But he said that "cyber rangers" had begun to patrol the information superhighway, sometimes going undercover on on-line bulletin boards -- posing as juveniles in some cases to apprehend pedophiles and watching for stolen credit card rings.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeanine Piro, District Attorney, with electronic equipment confiscated after a cellular-phone ring was smashed. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (51%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AOL INC (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (93%); WASHINGTON, USA (93%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; SEX CRIMES; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; CELLULAR TELEPHONES; RECORDINGS (VIDEO); DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) CHAT ROOMS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SEX OFFENSES (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); CHILDREN (90%); CHILD ABUSE (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (89%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (89%); FELONIES (78%); ARRESTS (78%); EXTRADITION (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); CHILD PORNOGRAPHY (77%); PORNOGRAPHY (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (68%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (63%); 

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA DYANNE C GREER (75%); ALAN PAUL BARLOW (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



422 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 18, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Part 2; Page 16; Column 1; Sophisticated Traveler Magazine 

LENGTH: 4045 words

HEADLINE: SOUTHERN BELLE WITH A COUNTRY TWANG

BYLINE: By By Lee Smith; Lee Smith is the author of "The Devil's Dream" (Ballantine), a novel about a dynasty of country musicians.

 BODY:
NASHVILLE is like a big-haired old-country girl all dressed up for a night out on the town -- she's wearing red lipstick and snakeskin boots, she's got a Bible and a pint of Jack Daniel's stashed in her purse. She looks so good, you'd never guess how smart she is. You'd never know she's got that M.B.A. But, in fact, she's just as contradictory as her famous music.
Country music is all about contradiction. It tells a story, and since it is above all else a profoundly American music, that story is the story of conflict and change. The music chronicles our lives as we move from the farm to the city ("Last night I went to sleep in Detroit City/And I dreamed about the cotton fields and home," Danny Dill and Mel Tillis); as our roles change ("Oh we've burned our bras and we've burned our dinners/And we've burned our candles at both ends," K. T. Oslin); as we fall on hard times (Clint Black's "One More Payment"), and even as our language changes ("Call me Cleopatra everybody/'Cause I'm the Queen of Denial," Pam Tillis). If you want to know what's on people's minds in this country's heartland, listen to country music. And if you want a close-up look at that heartland, make a date with Nashville. 
 Only you've got to keep an open mind, the kind that can accommodate conflict and appreciate paradox. This is a city where you can hear Bill Monroe playing bluegrass at the Grand Ole Opry one night, then the Nashville Symphony (or Opera, or Ballet) at the Tennessee Performing Arts Center the next. This is a city whose elegant, white-tie, debutante-laden Swan Ball finds its counterpoint in the equally well-known but funkier, bohemian Swine Ball -- with the proceeds of both going to charity. Worlds apart, too, are the Opryland Hotel (serious big-time twang) and the 1853 Belle Meade Plantation house or Andrew Jackson's home, The Hermitage, now a national landmark.
Let's start with the Opryland Hotel. The main thing is, it's big. It's the biggest thing you ever saw. And it's fun, too, especially if you don't mind walking a lot, or waiting a long time for your bags to get to your room. This is because it has 1,891 rooms, including 120 suites. The centerpiece of the Opryland U.S.A. entertainment complex, this sprawling place offers six restaurants, several nightclubs, lots of shopping and four acres of water and tropical gardens (all of this is inside, mind you!). The Conservatory has 10,000 tropical plants covering a two-acre area crowned by a glass roof six stories high. Walkways, streams and statuary can be found amid the tropical plants. You can get a drink of Tennessee whisky in a grotto, which is not a bad idea. You will need all your strength in order to hike over to the Cascades, another "interiorscape" involving more water -- brooks, a waterfall and a lake covering half an acre. Don't miss the laser-lighted Cascades fountain show, called Dancing Waters. Until his recent death, the harpist Lloyd Lindroth performed there six nights a week. On my last visit, I watched the show with a group of ladies who had come on a tour bus from South Carolina. An involuntary "Oh!" went up from our whole bunch as the magic doorway high up in the hotel wall opened and Lloyd Lindroth emerged onto his little balcony, majestically dressed in a white sequined tuxedo. He flipped up his tuxedo tails, seated himself before his giant harp and flexed his fingers in the air. "Irene, Irene, is it Elvis?" one of the ladies from South Carolina kept asking too loudly (they just knew she would embarrass them all, they should have made her stay home). At Christmastime, the Opryland Hotel outdoes even itself, with 1.4 million Christmas lights.
If the Opryland Hotel is the essence of the New South, the Belle Meade Plantation surely epitomizes the Old. Often called the "Queen of TennesseePlantations," this Greek Revival mansion was a 5,400-acre working plantation in the 19th century. Now reduced to 30 acres, it remains imposing, a monument to a way of life that seems utterly unbelievable today. The cream-colored mansion features two-story columns supporting a rose-colored roof. Especially interesting to me were the outbuildings, the stables and the extensive carriage collection. When I told one of the guides that I was impressed by how beautifully everything had been restored, she came as close to snapping at me as her Southern drawl would allow: "My dear," she said, "Belle Meade Plantation has not been restored. It has been maintained."
So has The Hermitage, home of the military hero and our seventh President, Andrew Jackson. Though Jackson held slaves, loved horse racing and the patrician way of life he led here, he really thought of himself as a Westerner rather than a Southerner. He remained a staunch Unionist throughout his lifetime; perhaps it is his legacy that rendered Nashville ambivalent about secession before the Civil War. Today's visitor to The Hermitage can see a film about Jackson's life and take a self-guided tour of the Hermitage mansion and grounds, including a formal garden, slave cabins and Jackson's tomb, as well as Old Hermitage Church and the neighboring Confederate Cemetery. You can get in free on Jan. 8, the day Jackson defeated the British in the Battle of New Orleans in 1815. As the first President ever elected from the land across the mountains, Jackson represented the frontier.
So did Nashville itself. Traditionally a frontier town, a river town, it has always been in some ways more attuned to the bustling, open West than to the deep South or the cultured, anemic East. Founded as Fort Nashborough on Christmas Eve, 1779, by North Carolinians led by the explorer James Robertson, this outpost became a thriving center for trade and land speculation. Set strategically between the Midwest and the plantation belt, it was the northern terminus of the Natchez Trace and the major port on the Cumberland River. You can visit a fine replica of early Fort Nashborough today; children will also enjoy nearby Riverfront Park.
During the Civil War, Nashville was spared major damage by being the first large Confederate city to fall to Union forces in 1862; it actually flourished during the war as a Union supply base and emerged as a major economic center, led by railroad and manufacturing interests. In the 20th century, banking, brokerage and insurance became important industries. As the state capital, Nashville has always counted government as big business; as the buckle on the Bible Belt, it has more than 800 churches and the one of the largest religious publishing industries in the nation. Another of Nashville's biggest employers is Vanderbilt University, along with the Vanderbilt University Medical Center. Nashville has 16 institutions of higher learning all told, with traditionally black Fisk University and Meharry Medical College notable among them.
Commercial giant or Southern belle? Nashville's contradictory nature encompasses it all. Consider the Parthenon, in Centennial Park. It certainly epitomizes something, but I can never decide what. It is either the essence of classic beauty or ultimate tackiness. The only full-scale replica of the Greek Parthenon in existence, it was originally built for Tennessee's 1897 Centennial Exposition. It now houses a collection of works by 19th- and 20th-century American painters and a 42-foot-tall Athena. She's something to see. So is the Parthenon itself, especially by moonlight. And as you view this amazing edifice, you just might hear echoes of plaintive strumming from a few blocks down the street, where the Parthenon boarding house was for years home to any number of those boys who still come in on the bus every day from all across America with a great song written down in pencil on a sheet of notebook paper folded up real little in their back pockets. . . .
Myself, I'm addicted to Nashville. I used to live there, and I would be living there still if my ex-husband had not dragged me off kicking and screaming to North Carolina, where I have fallen into complications. That sounds like a country song, doesn't it? But then everything sounds like a song if you've ever lived in Nashville.
Fact is, music has long pervaded this city. Early Tennessee settlers loved to sing, and their Anglo-Celtic folk songs and ballads were enhanced by African influences and instruments, especially the banjo. A lively tradition of Southern song ("pickin' and singin' ") existed throughout the rural South. America's showboat circuit of the 1800's started on the Cumberland; Fisk University's Jubilee Singers popularized such black spirituals as "Swing Low, Sweet Chariot" as early as the 1870's. The city's thriving gospel-music business began in the early 1900's. So Nashville's trademark Grand Ole Opry was actually a Johnny-come-lately on the scene. Now the longest-running live radio show on earth, the Opry started out in 1925 as the WSM Saturday Night Barn Dance with its announcer, George D. Hay, presenting an 80-year-old fiddler named Uncle Jimmy Thompson and his piano-playing niece Eva. Uncle Jimmy swore he knew a thousand tunes, and his fiddle playing brought a flood of requests from listeners. More and more entertainers hired on, most of them amateurs, among them Dr. Humphrey Bate and his Possum Hunters, the Fruit Jar Drinkers and the Gully Jumpers. Despite some lean years -- especially during the advent of rock in the 50's, and a downturn in the mid-80's -- the early and enduring popularity of the Grand Ole Opry promised country music's present success. Such young stars as Garth Brooks, Trisha Yearwood and Mary- Chapin Carpenter add excitement to the lineup these days
Today's visitor will find Nashville's musical history everywhere available. Not to be missed is the Ryman Auditorium, historic home of the Grand Ole Opry from 1943 to 1974, which has just reopened following major renovation. Known as the "Mother Church of Country Music," it's a converted red-brick tabernacle still replete with church pews, stained-glass windows and a balcony originally built to accommodate a convention of Confederate veterans in 1896. You can stand right on the stage where Kitty Wells sang "It Wasn't God Who Made Honky Tonk Angels," and you can see the original flats advertising Opry sponsors from the early days (Crazy Water Crystals' "See for yourself what Nature can do!") to the more recent Martha White Self-Rising Flour and the Tennessee confection called Goo Goo Clusters. Now the Ryman is hosting live concerts again, as well as a musical show about the life of Patsy Cline.
Go out of the Ryman and straight into Tootsie's Orchid Lounge, equally historic. Generations of Opry stars have, and their signed pictures cover the walls. You can hear great music anytime, night or day, in Tootsie's, where newcomers and has-beens play for tips. The old Opry posters on the wall came from Hatch Show Print, which claims to be the oldest poster print shop in America. It's been in business since 1879 and still prints posters in the same way, on the same machines, so you can buy yourself some great-looking things at a reasonable price (including a reprint of the advertisement for Hank Williams' show set for New Year's Day, 1953, the one he never got to).
You will also want to check out the Country Music Hall of Fame and Museum, where the exhibits are wonderful and so is the shopping -- I bought my Elvis placemats here. Or you can shop at Barbara Mandrell Country, the late Conway Twitty's "Twitty City," the Hank Williams Jr. Museum, Ernest Tubb Record Shop, Johnny Cash's House of Cash. The Country Music Hall of Fame is right on Music Row, which started in the early 50's when Owen Bradley and his brother, Harold, built their Quonset Hut, the first studio on fabled 16th Avenue, soon joined by RCA's Studio B, on 17th Avenue, which you can tour. There you can see how Brenda Lee, Chet Atkins and the Everly Brothers recorded in the late 50's and early 60's. Nashville is now home base for somewhere around 70 record labels, with some 200 professional recording studios and more than 25,000 people in the music and entertainment business. Bill Ivey, the director of the Country Music Foundation, points out that it's "the only real entertainment center you can walk up and touch -- see where the stars live, where the writers write, see a recording room. It's hot." Indeed it is. As you stroll along 16th Avenue, you'll see them all -- big stars with big hair and scurrying P.R. people; harassed executives and laid-back session pickers; faithful fans from all over the country.
Although more than a million people live here, Nashville retains the feel of a smaller town. There are real neighborhoods; there's a lot of civic pride. And it's so pretty -- green and leafy, Nashville encompasses more than 8,000 acres of parks, said to be more per capita than any other city in the United States. These include the enormous Percy Warner and Edwin Warner Parks right in the city; the Tennessee Botanical Gardens at Cheekwood; Grassmere Wildlife Park, where you can see such native Tennessee animals as cougars, bears, bison and wolves in big open spaces. There's a state-of-the-art Nashville Zoo, with new red panda and pink flamingo exhibits. Opryland U.S.A. is as remarkable for its landscaping (flowers everywhere) as it is for its musical shows and rides.
Actually, my favorite place to hear music in Nashville is the Bluebird Cafe in Green Hills. This is a place so plain I can't even remember what it looks like. They've got beer, of course, and tables and chairs, but the music's the thing, and the music is simply wonderful. Songwriters' night is the best of all, when the songwriters sit in a circle taking their turns, and you can hear the likes of Billy Joe Shaver, Marshall Chapman, Don Schlitz, Janis Ian. And the Station Inn, down in the railroad gully below Union Station, is always reliable for great bluegrass; the open jam session on Sunday night is a lot of fun. It's a real listening place, as is Douglas Corner Cafe, which also features writers' showcases and an occasional open mike. A nice cross section of music (good alternative rock, in particular) is found at the Ace of Clubs.
The new dance clubs are the hottest thing in country, of course. Even if you'd rather die than two-step, let alone line-dance, you might want to go look anyway. Try Rodeos Dance Club or the South Fork Saloon out on Murfreesboro Road, or the huge, new Wildhorse Saloon downtown by the river. I myself can be found dancing away at the Bullpen Lounge underneath the Stockyard Restaurant (Motto: "You never know who'll be seen at the Stockyard!") with a whole bunch of cowboys, white-belt types and the occasional big star. I recommend it. I recommend Nashville, in fact -- she's a good old girl who knows how to have a good time.
 
SALOONS AND DANCE HALLS
 What follows is a highly selective directory. Cover charges vary from place to place and from evening to evening; telephone ahead to find out what's on.
TOOTSIE'S ORCHID LOUNGE, 422 Broadway (telephone: 615-726-0463), open daily.
BLUEBIRD CAFE, 4104 Hillsboro Road (615-383-1461), open daily.
STATION INN, 402 12th Avenue South (615-255-3307), closed Mondays.
DOUGLAS CORNER CAFE, 2106A Eighth Avenue South (615-298-1688), closed Sundays.
ACE OF CLUBS, 114 Second Avenue South (615-254-2237), closed Sundays and Mondays.
RODEOS DANCE CLUB, 1031 Murfreesboro Road (615-399-2666), closed Mondays and Tuesdays.
SOUTH FORK SALOON, 2265 Murfreesboro Road (615-361-9777), open daily.
WILDHORSE SALOON, 120 Second Avenue North (615-251-1000), open daily.
BULLPEN LOUNGE, 901 Second Avenue North and Stockyard Boulevard (615-255-6464), open daily.
 
 
ROOMS WITH A VIEW
 Nashville has ample accommodations for visitors, including a number of chain motels, where double rooms average about $55 a night. The following hotels offer unusual attractions.
OPRYLAND HOTEL, 2800 Opryland Drive (telephone: 615-889-1000), has 1,891 rooms and suites; rates range from an average of $175 for a standard double to $2,000 for a suite with two bedrooms, a reception area, an entertainment area with a grand piano, two wet bars and a view of the Conservatory, a vast glassed-in area with streams, walkways and statues. Restaurants include the jackets-preferred OLD HICKORY, which specializes in seafood, game, and lamb and veal preparations; dinner for two, with wine, is about $80.
HERMITAGE HOTEL, 231 Sixth Avenue North (615-244-3121), is a grandly Beaux-Arts establishment, built in 1910, with a Greek marble and Russian walnut lobby under an enormous stained-glass skylight. There are 112 suites, which range in price from about $120 for a one-bedroom suite to $195 for a suite with two bedrooms. Many rooms are currently being refurbished, and a renovation, scheduled to be completed by the end of this year, will transform the glassed-in veranda that runs the width of the building into a cocktail lounge. THE GRILL restaurant specializes in regional American fare; dinner for two, with wine, is about $60.
UNION STATION HOTEL, 1001 Broadway (615-726-1001; reservations: 800-331-2123), is a converted 1897 Romanesque Revival railroad station whose soaring lobby incorporates a stained-glass arch; some of the bedrooms have 25-foot vaulted ceilings. There are 138 rooms and suites, with rates ranging from an average of $120 for a standard double to $400 for a one-bedroom suite on a high floor overlooking the city. ARTHUR'S restaurant (615-255-1494) offers a menu of Continental specialties that changes daily; dinner for two, with wine, is about $100.
 
SIGHTS TO SEE
 OPRYLAND U.S.A., 2802 Opryland Drive (telephone: 615-889-6611), is open daily from 10 A.M. to 9 P.M. until Oct. 2, and from 10 to 9 on Fridays, Saturdays and Sundays only until the daily schedule resumes in late March. A one-day ticket, good for all rides and shows, is $23.95 for adults and $13.95 for children from 4 to 11.
BELLE MEADE PLANTATION, 5025 Harding Road (615-356-0501), is open from 9 to 5 on Mondays through Saturdays and from 1 to 5 on Sundays. Admission: $5.50.
THE HERMITAGE, 4580 Rachel's Lane (615-889-2941), is open daily from 9 to 5. Admission: $7.
FORT NASHBOROUGH, 170 First Avenue North (615-255-8192), is open daily from 9 to 5, weather permitting. Free.
THE PARTHENON, Centennial Park, West End and 25th Avenues (615-862-8431), is open from 9 to 4:30 on Tuesdays through Saturdays; from April through September, it is also open from 12:30 to 4:30 on Sundays. Admission: $2.50.
GRAND OLE OPRY, 2804 Opryland Drive (615-889-3060), performs every Friday and Saturday night, with additional matinees in the summer months. Tickets: $12 to $16.
RYMAN AUDITORIUM AND MUSEUM, 116 Fifth Avenue North (615-889-6611), is open daily from 8:30 to 4. Admission: $5. Call for schedules of evening performances, ticket prices and reservations.
COUNTRY MUSIC HALL OF FAME AND MUSEUM, 4 Music Square East (615-256-1639), is open from 8 A.M. to 7 P.M. on Mondays through Saturdays and from 9 to 5 on Sundays. Admission: $7.50, which includes tours of RCA's Studio B on nearby Roy Acuff Place. Elvis placemats are $2.99 each.
HATCH SHOW PRINT, 316 Broadway (615-256-2805), is owned by the Country Music Hall of Fame. It is open from 9 to 5 on Mondays through Fridays, 11 to 5 on Saturdays and occasionally on Sundays. Reprints of classic posters range from $3 to $50.
CHEEKWOOD (Tennessee Botanical Gardens and Art Museum), 1200 Forrest Park Drive (615-356-8000), is open from 9 to 5 on Mondays through Saturdays and from 1 to 5 on Sundays. Admission: $5.
GRASSMERE WILDLIFE PARK, 3777 Nolensville Road (615-833-1534), is open daily from 10 to 5. Admission: $5.50.
NASHVILLE ZOO, 1710 Ridge Circle, about 18 miles out of Nashville in Joelton, Tenn. (615-370-3333), is open daily, from 9 to 6. Admission: $5.50.
 
 
MEAT-AND-THREES AND MORE
 "Most people who come to Nashville under tow of somebody local get taken to the wrong places," said John Egerton, a Nashville resident and the author of "Southern Food" (Knopf). "We all want to impress our visitors with how urbane and sophisticated we are. So we take them to our French restaurants or to our Italian restaurants. But if a visitor wants to get a real sense of what is the most authentic, natural and original cooking in Nashville, I would direct that visitor to one of our meat-and-three cafes. We have lots of them, more than most towns, and I'm not sure why this is. They seem to breed each other, like car dealerships and mass murderers."
A meat-and-three, John explained, means a plate lunch, basically: meat loaf, roast beef, or fried chicken, say, with three such vegetables as turnip greens, creamed corn, green beans, fried green tomatoes or mashed potatoes. "The best time to go is the noon meal," John said. "They all tend to close early, and some are not open at supper."
The four SYLVAN PARK restaurants are typical meat-and-threes; the SYLVAN PARK MURPHY ROAD (4502 Murphy Road; telephone: 615-292-9275) is where Charlesetta Hughes makes her legendary pies -- 40 or 50 of them a day. (Try the chocolate meringue.) The clientele is as steady as the quality. You'll find the same two old guys out in the parking lot every day, waiting for the little restaurant to open. About $8 for a full meal,
including dessert and beverage; closed Sundays.
You might find Randy Travis sitting on a stool at HAP TOWNES RESTAURANT (493 Humphrey Street; 615-242-7035), another meat-and-three near Music Row. This small stone diner owned by the two Hap Towneses, father and son, has been a Nashville favorite for decades. Open Mondays through Fridays, with fried chicken on Tuesdays; about $6.50 for a full meal and beverage.
Plate lunches are a feature at the ELLISTON PLACE SODA SHOP (2111 Elliston Place; 615-327-1090), pictured on the front of one of George Jones's albums, as well as great milkshakes and real ice-cream sodas. With those little jukebox-things on the walls, its tile floor and lunch counter with stools, it hasn't changed since the 1950's. James Dean would feel right at home here. Open Mondays through Saturdays; about $9 for a plate lunch with a milkshake. Malts are $3.10.
My own favorite restaurant is the LOVELESS CAFE, a large white house out on Route 5, Highway 100 (615-646-9700), surrounded by rusting car bodies that create exactly the right atmosphere and attest to the authenticity of the food. The Loveless is full all the time, so call ahead -- especially on Sundays. My husband ate nine biscuits at a recent breakfast there, along with sausage gravy, grits, eggs and wonderful preserves, all dished up by Mary Lou Perry, who has been in the kitchen for 16 years. A large breakfast costs $7 or $8; a lunch or dinner of fried chicken
is $8.95, a steak dinner is $12.95 and a four-vegetable plate is $5.95.
There are a couple of other places I like a lot. One thing you'll notice when you walk into JIMMY KELLY'S RESTAURANT, in a renovated Victorian house at 217 Louise Avenue (615-329-4349), is that everybody seems to know everybody else -- but you'll get a warm welcome, too, as well as good food and lots of it. The first thing they bring you is a plate of tiny, delicious hot corn cakes. A dinner of, say, a blackened catfish appetizer, a steak, and pecan pie is about $60 for two, with a bottle of wine. Open for dinner only, closed Sundays.
And lots of people think 12TH AND PORTER (114 12th Avenue North; 615-254-7236) has the best food in town. The restaurant -- the decor is yard-sale chic -- also houses a wonderful music club. Appetizers at our recent dinner there included blue corn hoecakes with Boursin cheese and caviar; baby crab pizza; spicy potato pie with salsa, sour cream and green onions. Some entrees: roast duck tortellini; pasta ya-ya, fettuccine with sausage and chicken in a Cajun cream sauce; brie, tomato and basil pizza with pine nuts. Desserts? Coconut cake, Hershey bar cake and Porter passion -- an apple-cinnamon-cream cheese-peanut butter pie in a graham cracker crust. They also serve "Low Death Factor (lite)" items. A three-course dinner for two is about $60, with wine. Open for lunch Mondays through Fridays and for dinner Mondays through Saturdays. LEE SMITH

GRAPHIC: Photos: Songwriters' night at the Bluebird Cafe; Tootsie's Orchid Lounge; Leah Hulan, Miss Tennessee U.S.A. of 1993, makes a guest appearance at the Opryland Hotel; Two-stepping at the Wildhorse. (pg. 16); A costumed guide in front of the stabels at Belle Meade Plantation.; Shopping in the Conservatory at the Opryland Hotel; the Dancing Waters show; Elvis's gold Cadillac on display at the Country Music Hall of Fame. (pg. 17); Costumed docents await visitors at The Hermitage, Andrew Jackson's home. (pg. 38); The stately Greek Revival extgerior of The Hermitage. (pg. 39) (MARK PETERSON/SABA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 
Map of Tennessee showing location of Nashville. (pg. 59)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (99%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (99%); 

COMPANY: OPRYLAND HOTEL (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE (TENN); TENNESSEE; UNITED STATES (99%); TENNESSEE, USA (99%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL COUNTRY MUSIC (89%); MUSIC (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (70%); BALLET (67%); RESTAURANTS (67%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (65%); HISTORIC SITES (50%); 

PERSON: SMITH, LEE BELLE MEADE PLANTATION (77%); ANDREW JACKSON (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 18, 1994



423 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1578 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN IN HAITI: CARTER;
Carter's Diplomatic Mission Was a Last-Minute Gamble

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS JEHL, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
That Jimmy Carter had a place on center stage in the final act of President Clinton's end game with Haitian leaders was a last-minute improvisation.
Mr. Clinton had always intended to send one last emissary to persuade Haiti's military leaders to step down voluntarily, his aides said today. But it was only late last week, as he stood on the brink of an unpopular military operation, that Mr. Clinton decided to accept Mr. Carter's offer that he head the team that would try one last time to find a peaceful way out. 
 For the former President, who helped make way for peace in the Middle East but who suffered humiliation in the Iran hostage crisis, the starring role is his most prominent in a retirement devoted largely to a career as free-lance diplomat.
For Mr. Clinton, the mission presented such potential political and practical risks that some of his top advisers warned strongly against it.
But with Congressional and public opposition to an invasion mounting, the President saw in his predecessor a key that might forestall a military and political clash, Clinton aides said today. Mr. Carter had already begun to establish his own contacts with Haiti's military leaders, with whom he had worked over the years in making the monitoring of democracy and human rights in Haiti something of a crusade.
With American warships on the horizon off Port-au-Prince and American warplanes in the air, his entreaties to them -- echoed by Americans with the stature of Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and Gen. Colin L. Powell -- apparently persuaded the Haitian leaders that there were better options than braving an American military invasion.
"Either way you've gone the extra mile," a senior White House official said of the shift in Mr. Clinton's strategy that gave Mr. Carter another chance to be seen as a peacemaker. "If it works, you've probably prevented some bloodshed. If it doesn't work, you show that you've exhausted all options, which probably helps us build public support."
But as Mr. Carter's talks wore on, with Mr. Clinton left to rely for most of today on telephone reports from Port-au-Prince, it was plain that the unorthodox nature of his final diplomatic gambit had left some top advisers far from comfortable.
If Mr. Carter had failed, or was seen as pursuing his own agenda -- as he seemed to when he traveled to North Korea earlier this summer to help defuse a standoff there -- Mr. Clinton would have been left to bear the burden of having to order an invasion that did not have the backing of Congress and the public.
And even with the agreement that he announced tonight, the President is forced to share with Mr. Carter some of the glory that would otherwise fall to the White House for having averted a military clash.
After months in which Mr. Clinton delivered carefully calibrated threats, and weeks in which the military has mounted an extensive buildup in the Caribbean by a precise clock, what made Mr. Carter the Administration's last-ditch envoy began only on Wednesday when he telephoned his successor to renew an offer that had been rejected.
By today, some of Mr. Clinton's aides were arguing that Mr. Carter, Mr. Nunn of Georgia and General Powell constituted a team that could not have been better suited for the mission. They said the combination of a former President, a former military commander and a leading lawmaker virtually guaranteed that their efforts were seen as credible both by Haiti's leaders and the American public.
But Administration officials said Mr. Carter's request had been greeted with little enthusiasm by some of Mr. Clinton's top advisers, including Secretary of State Warren Christopher and Anthony Lake, the national security adviser. They remembered how his quasi-diplomatic trip to North Korea left the Administration seen as speaking with two tongues.
Mr. Clinton was similarly not comfortable about sending Mr. Carter alone, Administration officials said today. But even as the President began to talk with Mr. Carter about ways to include others in the delegation, Mr. Christopher and his deputy, Strobe Talbott, seemed to others in the Administration to be arguing that any final American emissary should be a representative of the United States Government.
That had been the working plan for several weeks, when Administration officials discussed a last-ditch plan to send a Central Intelligence Agency officer or William L. Swing, the United States Ambassador to Haiti, to meet with the military leaders to deliver an ultimatum.
But the Haitian leaders signaled about 10 days ago that they did not want to meet with Mr. Swing, Administration officials said today. And by the middle of last week, with public opinion running strongly against a possible invasion and the House preparing to vote on a resolution opposing military action, advisers to Mr. Clinton said he became attracted by the prospect of a highly visible attempt at peace.
In extemporizing while his aides were saying publicly that an invasion could be just days away, Mr. Clinton kept his decision making tightly held, consulting with only about a half-dozen top aides. Among those excluded from the deliberations, officials said today, were some of those who have been deeply involved for months in shaping Haiti policy, including Alexander F. Watson, the Assistant Secretary of State for Inter-American Affairs, and David R. Gergen, the special adviser to Mr. Clinton and Mr. Christopher.
After watching Mr. Clinton warn the Haitian leaders from the Oval Office on Thursday night that "your time is up," most of the Administration's foreign-policy experts, like most Americans, learned only on Friday that he had decided to send Mr. Carter on the mission. Some made no secret of their bitterness about the latest swerve in the Administration's planning.
While Mr. Clinton also said in that speech that the time for talks had passed, Administration officials said his language had been carefully drafted to leave a door open for a last-ditch mission. It was not long after the cameras stopped rolling that he, Mr. Lake, Vice President Gore and Leon E. Panetta, the White House chief of staff, retreated to a small study off the Oval Office to tell Mr. Carter to stand by for a mission to Haiti and to invite Senator Nunn and General Powell to join him.
Aides to Mr. Clinton said he felt comfortable enlisting Senator Nunn and General Powell even though they had voiced skepticism about an invasion.
Officials involved in the discussions about what form a final diplomatic mission should take said Mr. Clinton had concluded that a mission of high stature would help to "maintain the dignity" of Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and his colleagues at a time when they might be uncomfortable about meeting with United States officials. At the same time, the officials said, the President felt that enlisting those opposed to his policy could boost his own credibility, if their mission failed, in insisting that he was using military force only as a last resort.
Beyond the ties that Mr. Carter had already forged with General Cedras, officials said, Mr. Clinton saw other particular advantages: He recognized that General Powell, the former Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and the architect of the Persian Gulf war, was highly respected by Haiti's leaders for his military expertise and as a black American. Others said the fact that his popularity among Americans transcends political boundaries was seen as a way to protect the Carter-led mission from criticism from the right.
At the same time, the officials said Mr. Clinton saw Senator Nunn, the chairman of the Senate Armed Services Committee, as someone who could tell Haiti's leaders that strong opposition in Congress would not necessarily be an obstacle to Mr. Clinton's action.
By broadening the mission beyond Mr. Carter, the officials said, they argued that the emissaries would be less likely to exceed what Mr. Clinton intended as a narrow mandate.
Administration officials said today that Mr. Clinton had not made a final decision to send the three emissaries until Friday afternoon, when General Cedras told Mr. Carter that he wanted to meet with them.
Today, Administration officials were uncharacteristically circumspect about the debate in the White House. But officials made clear that the support had not been universal.
"All of the issues were aired in full," said a senior Administration official. And Mr. Panetta, when asked in a television interview today about divisions within the White House, said only, "When the President makes these kind of decision, I think the reality is that he is trying to exhaust the last effort for peace."
For Mr. Carter, who was forced into retirement in 1980 and has tried to redeem his foreign policy reputation, Haiti could be the clear triumph he has been seeking. He proved at least temporarily right this summer after he proclaimed that the crisis over North Korea's nuclear weapons programs was over, but it is not yet clear that the North Korean leadership will prove as accommodating as he had suggested.
Since forming his own private foreign policy apparatus, Mr. Carter has also monitored elections in Panama, Nicaragua, the Dominican Republic, Haiti, Zambia, Guyana, Ghana and Paraguay; worked with Ethiopia, Zambia, Guyana and other countries to strengthen their economies, and made several high-profile missions to Syria, the former Soviet Union and other countries.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Former President Jimmy Carter, left, with Senator Sam Nunn and Gen. Colin L. Powell en route to the airport last night in Port-au-Prince. (Reuters)(pg. A1); Former President Jimmy Carter with Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and Gen. Colin L. Powell on the balcony of the Haitian military headquarters during what appeared to be a break in talks with the military leaders. (Associated Press)(pg. A9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (58%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (90%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); MILITARY VESSELS (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); NAVAL VESSELS (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (70%); HOSTAGE TAKING (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

PERSON: CARTER, JIMMY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); JEHL, DOUGLAS JIMMY CARTER (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



424 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1725 words

HEADLINE: Crisis of Bread and Land Afflicts Russia's Hard-Pressed Farmers

BYLINE: By MICHAEL SPECTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: STUDENETS, Russia

 BODY:
The fevered days of autumn have descended heavily upon the farmers of Russia. An unusually cold summer stunted their crops and late rains nearly washed them away. Now the frosts are only a few weeks off, and if they come any sooner the nation will suffer its worst harvest in three decades.
"A lot in our country depends on the weather this autumn," Prime Minister Viktor S. Chernomyrdin told a German television reporter recently, voicing the common concern that a particularly poor harvest will hasten the effects of an already visible farm crisis. "What happens in the fields also has its effect on the political climate." 
 That has been true here for hundreds of years, of course. Almost nothing means more to Russians than bread, and debates about the annual grain harvest always herald the fall political season.
As a practical matter, Russia's anemic harvest -- estimates suggest that it will be less than 85 million tons, not nearly enough to feed the people -- will hurt only the nation's pride and its pocketbook. The United States has already agreed to ship some of its surplus to Russia again this year. Nobody will go hungry.
But despite the frenetic pace of the fall harvests, production of meat, milk, grain and vegetables has slipped each year since 1989. Clearly, weather is not the only problem confronting Russia's troubled farmers. Suspended between the lumbering world of a collective farm system that ran solely on the whims of the state and the brutal necessities of the free market, no section of the struggling economy has foundered as badly as agriculture.
A year after President Boris N. Yeltsin issued a historic decree guaranteeing Russians the right to buy and sell private land, fewer than 5 percent of the nation's 10 million agricultural workers own anything that could be described as a farm.
Government officials estimate that by the end of 1994 at least 30 percent of the farmers in Russia, big and small, will be bankrupt, although in today's Russia bankrupt industries and farms carry on like phantoms. Huge segments of society simply live by barter or in debt.
Private farmers have fared worse than the others. In 1992, 4 out of every 100 farmers who went out on their own were driven to bankruptcy. Last year the figure rose to 14 percent, and in the first half of this year to 70 percent.
By the end of the year, only a smattering of the farmers upon whom President Yeltsin once placed "all the main hopes for a fundamental transformation of the agrarian economy" will remain solvent.
"The facts are sad but simple," said Aleksandr A. Nikonov, president of the Agrarian Institute, a branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences. "The transition to a free market has hurt farmers more than any other sector of this economy. The old system was irrational, but it has been replaced by no system. There are no supports, no credits, no loans or guidance. It is as if the Government said, 'You are free now; do it by yourself.' "
 
Farm Crisis Spreads To Rest of Economy
 The farm crisis has rippled through the economy with amazing speed. Tractor manufacturers -- once the glory of Soviet industry -- have virtually gone out of business from one end of the country to the other: nobody can afford their merchandise. Miners are threatening to strike, saying farmers are charging too much for grain, destroying their incomes.
The results have embittered private farmers as well as employees of state kolkhozes, or cooperatives, whose average salary in May was 88,000 rubles (then worth about $46) -- lower than those for workers in any industrial segment of the economy. And they have postponed the day when Russia, one of the world's agricultural giants, will be able to feed itself.
The politics of the farm crisis -- and of private land in this new democracy -- are complex, but the math is simple. Five years ago a pound of wheat bought twice its weight in diesel fuel. This season, farmers here need to trade nine pounds of wheat for two of fuel.
In 1991 grain cost twice as much as fertilizer. Today, with much of the grain and livestock industry near collapse, fertilizer cost eight times as much as grain.
Most economists say it will take years to turn the huge collective farms into competitive enterprises.
"We should be proud that there is no hunger," said Viktor F. Lishchenko, director of agricultural business studies at the Academy of the National Economy of Russia. "That itself is an achievement. You couldn't invent a more difficult task than turning this command farm economy into a free one."
 
Supply System Falls Into Chaos
 Clearly nobody could have expected the revolution to be finished in a day. But there are still almost no cooperative banks here. The supply system vital to food processing has been sundered.
As a result, as much as 40 percent of all vegetables rot before they can be taken from the fields. Without money, new farm machinery is impossible to buy, and old machinery is hard to maintain. The State Agriculture Ministry says 68 percent of the farm machinery used in Russia today is more than 21 years old.
Everyone agrees reforms are needed, but to the men and women who toil in the fields, much as they have since before the serfs were freed in 1861, reforms are only words. And the Russian peasant has never had a great regard for words from Moscow.
"I was prepared to try it," said Vasily A. Starodubtsev, former head of the Soviet collective farm union and a member of the group that attempted a coup against Mikhail S. Gorbachev in August 1991. He is still head of the Lenin Collective Farm not far from here.
"I was prepared to try reforms and see what it would bring us," he said. "What it has brought is the most well-developed disaster in 50 years. Even under bad Communism we lived fairly well. We were the masters of our own lives. We had hope. What he have now is nothing."
As head of the region's largest collective, he long ago decided that the new way was a bad way. The picture of Mr. Gorbachev attached to his wall five years ago is gone. Lenin is back above his desk now -- and so, apparently, are the principles he stood for.
 
Though a Leninist, An Innovative C.E.O.
 Nonetheless, Mr. Starodubstev has earned a reputation as an innovator and a creative, if autocratic, leader among the 1,500 farmers who live and work there. Grain yields at the Lenin Collective are higher than at any other farm in the region.
What is more, people live decently here. The bread is great and there is plenty of it. Workers put in 18- to 20-hour days this season, but there are always three meals, and there is always a bus to take them home when the day is finally done. When they get some free time, the farmhands can relax in the enormous sauna or swim in the indoor pool.
"I can't say this is the best system in the world," said Mikhail G. Baklanov, 40, a tractor driver who, like his father and grandfathers, was born on a kolkhoz. "But it is steady work. And I really don't see a path to anything better. I have friends who are on their own. They are trying to plow a field with three people. It's crazy."
Mr. Starodubtsev does all he can to hold on to his "comrades," as he still calls them.
When he realized that the Government would no longer buy his potatoes, he flew to Vienna and contracted to buy the finest potato chip maker he could find. Next year he plans to become one of the country's biggest chip manufacturers. The ovens in the Lenin bakery are all from Italy. The milking process is as automated and sophisticated as that on a technically advanced Wisconsin dairy farm.
But the farm's profits have fallen in each of the last five years. This year it expects the first loss in a decade.
 
Greater Suffering For Private Farmers
 "Everyone is now trying to portray the farming crisis as the battle of the old-time farm collectives against the entrepreneurs," said Viktor I. Pashinin, a farmer from Tambov who is vice chairman of the Association of Peasant Farms and Agricultural Cooperatives of Russia. "That is simplistic. When the Government yanked out the rug from beneath this industry they ruined all of us together."
Mr. Pashinin represents the new class of private farmer, a class that the Government has repeatedly sworn is vital to reform.
But the private enterprise that comes from these farms is weak because the Government is afraid to support them, and starting fresh with no capital is almost impossible. In the past farmers would demand that the state buy their property. These days, that no longer works.
"In Russia we always say how times are tough on the farm, but I know they have gotten worse," said Aleksandr G. Yefremov, Deputy Agriculture Minister. "We don't have any real cooperative movement in this country the way America does. Nobody talks about going back on reform. What we do talk about is how fast to go forward."
Even those who did break up their kolkhozes have sad stories to tell. Unlike the trend in the United States, where every year most Americans get their food from bigger and more automated farms and where farm produce is heavily subsidized by the Government, what has been happening here is often the opposite.
 
Land to the Tiller, Cows to the Milker
 Economists say the best way to break up a collective farm is to divvy it up like a New York City condominium apartment -- you don't own the actual place, just a portion of the building equivalent to the space you occupy.
But most Russian farms have been split into irrational duchies. Milkmaids got cows and a plot of land. Mechanics got tractors.
"We used to live on one big farm," said Raisa A. Sokovlkov, 53, a former head of the town council in Studenets. "Now we live on 300. I am a milkmaid. I was given two cows. If you worked with chickens, you were given chickens. But I can't plow the 50 acres of land with a cow. And what if we could get it all out of the ground? Where would we sell it?"
It is a common complaint, particularly because criminal gangs tightly restrict access to big cities like Moscow. As a result, dozens of farmers stand all day long on the exit ramps of highways surrounding the city, selling produce the only way they can: out of the back of a truck.
"We never lived well here," Mrs. Sokovlkov said. "But aren't reforms supposed to make you live better?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers stacking hay at the Lenin Collective Farm, which like all farms in Russia suffers in a national crisis. (Gleb Kosorukov for The New York Times)(pg. A10)
 
Graph: "Comapare and Contrast: Hard Times on the Farms" shows Russian agricultural production for 1989 and 1993. (Source: Russian State Statistical Committee)(pg. A10)
 
Map of Russia showing location of Studenets. (pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE; FORECASTS; BANKRUPTCIES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; FARMERS FARMERS & RANCHERS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); GRAIN FARMING (78%); FARM LABOR (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); DEREGULATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (61%); 

PERSON: SPECTER, MICHAEL; YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



425 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
AGREEMENT ON HAITI
President Clinton said that the United States and Haiti's military leaders reached an agreement under which the ruling junta will step down next month and restore the exiled President to power. A1 

CENTER-STAGE FOR CARTER
For Jimmy Carter, his role in the negotiations on Haiti was his most prominent yet as a free-lance diplomat; and for President Carter, it may have been a way out of a military and political clash. A1
 
Whatever the outcome, American troops are poised to move in. A1
 
GROWING PROBLEMS IN RUSSIA
No section of Russia's foundering economy has fared as badly as agriculture, caught between the lumbering old Soviet collective farm system and the brutal necessities of the free market. A1
 
RISING STRESS IN SARAJEVO
Although the endless shelling of the Bosnian capital has stopped, many of the people in the surrounded city feel trapped, and their reserves of strength from earlier stages of the war are giving in to despair. A3
 
Another major episode of ethnic cleansing in Bosnia. A3
 
THAI POLICE CORRUPTION
The perseverence of a Saudi diplomat has led to unearthing of a major scandal that implicates Thailand's national police in a case of jewel theft and killings. A5
 
SWEDEN'S GOVERNMENT DEFEATED
Sweden voted out its center-right Government, restoring the Social Democrats, but it appeared that they would have to form a coalition Government. A11
 
EGYPT ECONOMY IN TROUBLE
The Egyptian Government has resisted making tough economic changes, and diplomats and economists fear that a crash will result in increasing support for a violent campaign by Islamic militants. A7
 
A Palestinian police officer was killed by Muslim militants. A6
 
Victoria Falls Journal: Stalking elephants, in living color. A4
 
National A12-15, B8-9
 
DISAFFECTION IN CALIFORNIA
Though Gov. Pete Wilson of California is now ahead of his Democratic opponent, Kathleen Brown, in the polls, the same polls show that neither is receiving a favorable rating from a majority of voters. A1
 
BATTLE OVER SIMPSON EVIDENCE
A series of pretrial hearings this week for O. J. Simpson will include one by the defense to exclude evidence obtained at his estate. A12
 
SEEKING A SAFER CIGARETTE
The fire chiefs of 13 cities are trying to persuade the tobacco industry to change the way cigarettes are made, to reduce the number of fires resulting from smoking, the leading cause of fire deaths. A12
 
NEW COLLEGE LOAN PLAN
This fall the Federal Department of Education has started a direct loan program intended to cut bankers' profits, streamline procedures and help students predict and organize their debts. A13
 
BREAST IMPLANT CHALLENGE
Recipients of breast implants who were expecting to share in a $4.25 billion settlement with implant makers may have to wait while 41 women from New Zealand challenge the amount they are to receive under the agreement. A14
 
INTERNET BROADCAST PLANS
The first radio station on a worldwide computer network has announced plans to begin broadcasting 24 hours a day in January. A15
 
NEW ERA OF RACIAL DISCORD
Federal court rulings, including the one declaring the Georgia Congressional district represented Cynthia McKinney unconstitutional, were fostered by a 1993 Supreme Court decision that has created political and racial discord like few other rulings in recent decades. B8
 
BATTLE OVER FISHING PANELS
A major fight is shaping up in Congress over little-known committees created to prevent overfishing of American waters by foreign vessels but criticized as allowing overfishing by Americans. B9
 
CALIFORNIA'S BUMPER CROP
Helicopters cruise three depressed counties in Northern California looking for large marijuana crops. The war against the crop has prompted complaints that the authorities are taking away people's livelihood. B9
 
A deaf dancer from Alabama won the Miss America contest. A12
 
Metro Digest B1
 
GIULIANI THE PERSUADER
Mayor Giuliani has had a remarkable string of successes in his dealings with city unions. But despite tough talk, he has done so less by confrontation than by a more subtle form of persuasion. A1
 
SEX OFFENDERS' RIGHTS
States are facing growing difficulties in trying to strike a balance between the fears of communities about convicted sexual offenders and the legal rights of ex-convicts seeking a place to live. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C10-18
 
Fun from sci-fi schlock. C11
 
Polish art: In a castle but on a shoestring. C11
 
Martha Graham dancers issue an ultimatum. C13
 
Music: Lena Horne at Carnegie Hall. C11
 
Whitney Houston at Radio City. C11
 
Mexican independence. C12
 
City Opera's "Tosca." C16
 
Dance: Namgyal Monks from Tibet. C14
 
Books: "No Ordinary Time." C18
 
Television: "Chicago Hope" and "E.R." C16
 
Sports C1-10
 
Columns: Anderson on Giants C9
 
Smith on Pro Football C8
 
Outdoors C4
 
Golf: United States gets the first sip from the Presidents Cup. C3
 
Pro Football: Meggett runs and passes Giants over Redskins.C1
 
Jets fall to Dolphins for their first loss this season. C1
 
Sports People C10
 
Obituaries D9
 
Vitas Gerulaitis, tennis champion.
 
Edward J. Patten, former Congressman from New Jersey.
 
Felisa Rincon de Gautier, former Mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
Affirmative action without fear.
 
A hopeful turn in Algeria.
 
Brent Staples: Marion Barry.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: Resolution matters.
 
William Safire: Haiti -- much ado about something.
 
Marshall Freeman Harris and Stephen W. Walker: Another sellout on Bosnia.
 
Chronicle B9
 
Bridge C14
 
Crossword C12

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); SWEDEN (92%); THAILAND (87%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EGYPT (92%); SWEDEN (92%); THAILAND (87%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLICE FORCES (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (84%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (73%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (71%); SCANDALS (71%); CORRUPTION (66%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%); TOBACCO MFG (64%); STUDENT LOANS (63%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (63%); RELIGION (63%); SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MFG (60%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); JIMMY CARTER (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



426 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
In Race for California Chief No Candidate Is Favorite

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 18

 BODY:
The candidate to watch in the California governor's race, the most important state election in the country this year, is None of the Above.
Officially, the polls show that Pete Wilson, the stolid Republican incumbent, has taken the lead after a slow start, again demonstrating that he is the California master of the confound-the-experts political surge. 
 State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, his Democratic opponent and the latest member of the Brown political dynasty to seek the California governorship, has slipped into second place after leading the race for the better part of a year, at one time by more than 20 points.
The momentum now seems to be with Mr. Wilson. But the polls also show something else about this contest, whose outcome will almost certainly affect the political climate leading up to the 1996 Presidential election, given California's national political power as the most populous state.
Buried under the figures, which have the Governor leading by 2 to 10 percentage points, are other figures that show both candidates failing to win a favorable rating from a majority of voters.
"What we have is an unhappy electorate looking for any excuse to abandon Pete Wilson but far from ready to settle on Kathleen Brown as the alternative," said Larry Berg, the director of the Jesse M. Unruh Institute of Politics at the University of Southern California. "Even though Wilson would seem to be the favorite now, the contest is still not decided and could swing either way, subject to the influence of television advertising, debates and anything else that helps define one candidate more clearly than the other."
As elsewhere in the country, a deep current of discontent with politicians is coursing through the California electorate, creating many undecided voters. This being a midterm election year during the tenure of a Democratic President whose popularity is slipping here as elsewhere, California Republicans, like others, hope to benefit.
But as the Governor's contradictory poll figures indicate, that is by no means a sure bet. While voters say they believe that Mr. Wilson is a more capable leader than Ms. Brown on most issues, he not only falls short along with her when it comes to winning a favorable rating from a majority of voters, but he also draws a larger unfavorable rating.
The issues in the campaign are weighty, notably the still-struggling California economy, crime, immigration and education. Mr. Wilson has done the better job of defining and exploiting them, in the judgment of many political analysts.
"People may not like him but at least he has defined himself on a number of issues," said Mark DiCamillo of the Field Institute, a nonpartisan polling organization in San Francisco. "On the other hand, a lot of voters say that while they like Kathleen Brown, they don't really know what she stands for because she mostly criticizes Wilson while offering no clear alternatives of her own."
Early in the contest, Mr. Wilson, a 61-year-old centrist, struggled to overcome Ms. Brown's contention that many of the state's economic problems were his fault. But in recent months, as the economy has begun to tick up, he has managed to make crime and immigration the hot issues.
Indeed, the latter has become the hottest issue in recent weeks as voters have begun to focus on the steadily rising monetary and human costs of an increasing influx of illegal immigrants from Mexico.
As the Governor has edged ahead in the polls, the rhetorical tone of the contest has changed, too. At times the exchanges are sharply personal and mean-spirited.
Ms. Brown, a 47-year-old moderate liberal who is the daughter of former Gov. Edmund G. (Pat) Brown and the sister of former Gov. Edmund G. (Jerry) Brown Jr., is normally smiling and affable on the campaign trail. But in recent weeks she has become increasingly acerbic as she focuses her frustration on Mr. Wilson's character.
"He's a dangerous, hypocritical, phony politician who doesn't lead but instead slavishly follows what the polls indicate will win him a few more votes," she says at rallies and fund-raising events.
The Governor counters by calling Ms. Brown a "political cipher" and "a total nonplayer," and says her political and governmental experience is limited mainly to a term as State Treasurer. By way of contrast, Mr. Wilson notes that in three decades of politicking he has run successfully -- often plodding impassively but steadily from behind -- for the State Assembly in 1966, Mayor of San Diego in 1971, United States Senator in 1982 and Governor in 1990.
"The people want performance instead of talk and fluff, and I can perform," he said. "Kathleen Brown is without real experience, a total nonperformer."
Whether or not Mr. Wilson is a slave to the polls, the polls show that in hammering on crime and immigration -- many voters see a connection between these issues -- he is responding to gut voter concerns. Two of every three California voters favor doing more to control illegal immigration, and four of every five list crime as their greatest concern.
The Governor favors cutting off most government services to illegal aliens and wants the Federal Government to strengthen border patrols. He also wants Washington to pick up a greater share of California's cost of dealing with the flood of aliens. "They keep coming," his television advertisements lament.
Ms. Brown also favors stricter control of illegal aliens. But she says Mr. Wilson's approach, much of it included in a referendum on the fall ballot, is too hard-line.
She says that it will result in intrusion into the lives of legal immigrants and work hardship on the children of illegal immigrants, particularly if the children are denied schooling.
"We'll be throwing them into the streets," Ms. Brown warns, "and they'll learn things there that will cost us a lot more in the end."
On Saturday, the Clinton Administration dispatched Attorney General Janet Reno to California to announce still another plan to beef up controls and patrols along the Mexican border, a move that could help both President Clinton and Ms. Brown with California voters.
Ms. Reno said the program was "specifically tailored for California" and would bring more money and 200 agents to the border in the San Diego area in the next 100 days. Over all, she said, she planned to send 700 new agents to the Southwest border in the fiscal year 1995.
But Mr. Wilson, in an unusually ebullient mood on Satuday at a meeting in San Diego with state Republican leaders, called the plan "tinkering" and "a Band-Aid for a hemorrhage," and predicted a Republican landslide in elections this fall.
The crime issue is a particularly difficult one for Ms. Brown because law and order generally tends to be a tougher sell for female candidates. She has made the sell even more difficult by opposing the death penalty, leading her critics to say that her liberalism is typical of the kind that ultimately cost her father and brother elective office.
Ms. Brown also faces another sexual obstacle in that she is asking California voters, who already have made electoral history by sending two women to the Senate, to elect still another woman to the top of the state's political hierarchy.
"We haven't reached the point yet where we don't have some voters who simply won't vote for a woman," said Sherry Bebitch Jeffe, a political scientist at Claremont Graduate School in California. "The question is, Just how many of those voters are still out there?"
Finally, as always in statewide races here, there is the matter of money for the advertising blitzes so necessary to reach into every corner of this huge, diverse state.
The most recent fund-raising reports, in midsummer, put Mr. Wilson ahead in both cash raised and cash still available to spend. He had pulled in $15 million as against $12 million for Ms. Brown, and he still had almost $5 million of that in hand, twice as much as Ms. Brown.
To help close the cash gap, Ms. Brown scheduled a fund-raising event tonight in Los Angeles, with the President as the featured speaker. But Mr. Clinton sent his wife, Hillary, when the Haiti situation tightened.
His trip will almost certainly be rescheduled.
Given the President's increasing unpopularity here, he might well cost Ms. Brown votes when he shows up with her. Offsetting that, political experts say, would be the $1 million or more that his appearance would net for the hard-pressed Brown campaign.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After a campaign speech recently in Santa Monica, Calif., Gov. Pete Wilson, top right, greeted former President George Bush. At a fund-raising event earlier this month in San Francisco, Kathleen Brown, below left, the Democratic candidate for governor, led applause for Hillary Rodham Clinton. (Fiona McDougall for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "The 1994 Campaign: California"
 
Governor's Race
Democrat -- Kathleen Brown, 47
Republican -- Pete Wilson, 61, the incumbent
 
Analysis
Mr. Wilson, the incumbent, was hurt early on in the race when Ms. Brown blamed his administration for the faltering California economy. But since then he has recovered well by changing the focus of the race to crime and immigration. Still, polls show a majority of voters hold serious reservations about both candidates.
 
Registered Voters
Dem. 7.4 million
Rep. 5.6 million
Ind. and Other 2.1 million
 
Latest Poll Results
A telephone poll of 1,165 registered voters by The Los Angeles Times from Sept. 8-11 showed Mr. Wilson with 46 percent, Ms. Brown with 44 percent and 9 per cent undecided. Margin of error: plus or minus three percentage poiints. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); PUBLIC OPINION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; ELECTIONS CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); GOVERNORS (91%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (64%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR; WILSON, PETE (GOV); BROWN, KATHLEEN (TREASURER) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



427 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1034 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
A Boom in Latin Business Reading

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: RIO DE JANEIRO, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Where can you find a report on Paraguay's new stock market, a three-page spread on Ecuador's Brady bond deal and a glowing Man of the Year cover article on Peru's President, Alberto K. Fujimori?
All this and more ran in recent issues of Latin Finance, a glossy magazine that fills the coffee-table niche in a rapidly expanding publishing industry devoted to covering business in Latin America. 
 On long flights south, American business passengers can pull out of their briefcases Latin Finance and U.S./Latin Trade, both monthlies, and Business Latin America, a weekly bulletin published by the owners of The Economist.
For Spanish-speaking executives, Dow Jones & Company offers America Economia, a monthly, and The Wall Street Journal Americas, a two-page insert in eight Latin American newspapers that began publication on Aug. 1.
"We have to get out there first," said Elias Selman Carranza, managing editor of America Economia, which is 50 percent owned by Dow Jones and has a paid circulation of 55,000. "In five years, there is going to be a Latin American Fortune or a Latin American Business Week."
Since 1990, the Latin American economy has grown by an average of 3 percent a year, a higher rate than in any region of the world other than Southeast Asia. And higher growth is expected after elections this year in Mexico and Brazil, the largest nations in the region.
"We are on the threshold of a potentially unique situation: the two biggest economies in the region with their acts together," Peter A. Conway, president of Latin Finance, said in a telephone interview from his office in Coral Gables, Fla.
Billions of dollars in United States investment are flowing into Latin America's seven big stock markets, reversing the flow of capital in the 1980's. With the debt crisis a memory, American banks are lending again. And with free trade a mantra chanted from Bogota to Buenos Aires, United States trade with Latin America is expected to surpass United States trade with Western Europe by the end of the 1990's.
"There is a Eurocentricity to reporting in the United States," said J. P. Faber, editor in chief of U.S./ Latin Trade, which is based in Miami. "Very few people in the United States are aware that Mexico is our third-largest trading partner, after Japan and Canada. You look in Business Week and you will see three articles on Germany for every one on Mexico."
Previous attempts to create a regional press for Latin America have fallen victim to the continent's far-flung dimensions and its irregular postal services. "Distribution in Latin America is a complex and difficult challenge for any publication," said Mr. Conway, who has published Latin Finance since it started in 1988. "The local mail stinks, so we have to send by courier."
To reach their largely American business audience, Latin Finance and U.S./Latin Trade distribute most of their copies through airlines and hotels. Paid subscriptions account for about 10 percent of Latin Finance's circulation of 50,000 and for about 35 percent of U.S./Latin Trade's circulation of 65,000.
"We catch the readers on the way down," Mr. Conway said of his strategy of distributing his magazine in first- and business-class sections of planes leaving the United States. In May Mr. Conway began a stepchild publication, Latin Finance Mexico.
The Wall Street Journal Americas is prepared in New York, sent digitally to Miami and then beamed by satellite to newspapers in seven Latin American countries.
"Latin America is so geographically huge that you have to print in each country," said Edward Schumacher, senior editor for the insert, which is placed in the business pages of subscribing newspapers. "For the Asia and European editions of The Journal, we print in two or three sites and reach the whole region. You can't do that in Latin America."
"Fortunately," he continued, "satellite technology and desktop publishing have brought a lot of the expenses down."
From Business Latin America, the 25-year-old veteran on the block, to the 18-month-old U.S./Latin America, these regional publications rely primarily on a network of American and British freelance writers.
The key to success these days, editors say, is satisfying the growing need for regional business news.
"When we started our publication, in 1987, it was the time of the Latin American debt crisis, and people thought we were crazy," Nils Strandberg, president of America Economia, said in an interview in his office at the Dow Jones headquarters in New York. "With all the bilateral trade agreements, Latin American managers are thinking regionally. Chileans now have $3 billion invested in Argentina, and more than $300 million in Peru. It's more than interest -- they have to follow their investments."
Mexico, Colombia and Venezuela signed a free trade agreement in June, forcing many local business executives to think beyond their borders for the first time. Beginning in January, most trade will be duty-free between Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Paraguay and Uruguay. In the last several years, Chile and Colombia have signed individual free trade agreements with most of Latin America's largest nations.
"Increasingly, Latin America's most aggressive corporations are looking to global markets," Mr. Strandberg said. "There is also a new generation of managers. Instead of American expatriates, you have American-trained Brazilians, Colombians and Mexicans."
Some readers maintain that at times Latin Finance and U.S./Latin Trade tailor their editorial copy to please advertisers.
"Space is given to a company according to the size of its ads," said Jerry Haar, director of Inter-American Business at the University of Miami's North-South Center. "Stories are skewed to getting ads on a particular issue."
Editors deny this, contending that they are highlighting business opportunities and fast-growing sectors of Latin American economies.
"We are trying to make Latin America a user-friendly place for our readers," Mr. Faber of U.S/Latin Trade said. "There is a huge amount of ignorance in the United States about trade and investment in Latin America. A lot of people think it is a guerrilla-infested jungle."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A number of magazines have sprung up devoted to Latin American business. Roger Conkling, left, vice president of Northern Telecom, assisted by Claudia Berger, a United Airlines employee, at United's lounge at Rio de Janiero airport, is among the executives reading magazines like Latin Finance. (John Maier Jr. for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (83%); 

COUNTRY: LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); PERU (92%); BRAZIL (92%); PARAGUAY (92%); ECUADOR (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); COLOMBIA (77%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (77%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (83%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LATIN AMERICA; LATIN AMERICA (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); MEXICO (93%); PERU (92%); BRAZIL (92%); PARAGUAY (92%); ECUADOR (92%); CANADA (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); COLOMBIA (77%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); BOGOTA, COLOMBIA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); PAID CIRCULATION (90%); BONDS (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TRENDS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CAPITAL MOVEMENTS (70%); DEBT CRISIS (66%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (66%); 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES PETER A CONWAY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



428 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: Fight Looming in Congress Over Panels That Regulate Commercial Fishing

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
A major fight is shaping up in Congress over the role of eight little-known committees created by Federal law two decades ago to protect American waters from overfishing by foreign vessels.
Critics of the committees, who include members of Congress, environmentalists and even some committee members, say that in some cases the panels have proved to be their own worst enemies by allowing overfishing of those same waters by American vessels. Such overharvesting has helped to bring about the fishing industry's drastic decline. 
 The regional councils set fishing limits and allocate catches between competing fishermen. While Congress specifically proposed that council members be knowledgeable about the fishing industry and be exempted from conflict-of-interest statutes, critics say panel members are prone to favor industry interests over those of the public or the long-term health of the fishing industry.
"Tough decisions have not been made," Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is vice chairman of the Commerce Committee's National Ocean Policy Study, said recently. "People who have been responsible for trying to curb the process have not done so and, most importantly, fishermen themselves, who for years under the management councils were given the responsibility to conserve, have not been conserving."
Most council members reject any suggestion of conflicts, and some councils have been credited with moving swiftly to avert economic and ecological problems.
The role of the councils is emerging as a major issue as Congress prepares to take up reauthorization of the law that created them, the Magnuson Fishery Conservation and Management Act. The 1976 law extended the nation's coastal waters to 200 miles from 3 to drive out foreign vessels that had been overharvesting the fish in those waters. Should Congress fail to amend the Magnuson Act, members would probably pass a resolution continuing the current law.
But the critics say that the council members have allowed domestic fishermen to pick up where the foreigners left off. For example, two council members from Alaska, who own fishing boats or processing plants, voted with other state representatives in 1991 to allocate more pollock and cod to fishermen from their state than to competitors from Washington State.
The New England council, faced with complaints from fishermen and pressure from politicians, was unable for years to agree to reduce catches of cod, haddock and yellowtail flounder even though data showed that stocks were catastrophically low. Last Monday, the council discussed the possibility of shutting down the once-rich Georges Bank fishery off Cape Cod, possibly for years, because new data indicated that stock losses were far greater than previously realized.
For their part, panel members attribute the fisheries' decline to the Government, which imposed regulations that slowed responses and provided millions of dollars in low-interest loans to the industry in the 1980's.
Over the last decade, consumer demand for fish has risen sharply.
James McCauley of the New England council said that the complex issues required members to know the industry, a requirement called for by the Magnuson Act.
"Yes, there is a conflict in a sense," said Mr. McCauley, chairman of the Point Judith Fishermen's Co-op in Rhode Island. "But they are using the knowledge I have and they could not do it any other way. I know what the bottom looks like, and I know the resource out there."
In establishing the council system, the Magnuson Act created one of the more curious entities in the Federal Government. It first charged council members, who are paid $300 a day for some 30 to 35 days of service annually, with a difficult balancing act: preserving the nation's marine resources while minimizing damage to the fishing industry.
A council plan is reviewed by both the National Marine Fisheries Service and the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration. They forward their recommendations to the Commerce Department, which can reject the plan though it has rarely taken such action.
Frank DeGeorge, the Inspector General of the Commerce Department, which oversees the councils, testified before Congress recently that the conflict-of-interest exemption covering the councils appears to be the only one affecting some 1,000 councils that advise the Government on various issues.
In an analysis delivered to Congress on Friday, the World Wildlife Fund, an environmental group in Washington, D.C., found that 84 percent of council members in 1992 were drawn from the commercial or recreational fishing industries.
"It is like timber companies deciding on the quantity of timber sales," said Michael Sutton, a vice president of the group, which is lobbying Congress to get more non-industry representatives on the panels.
Council members counter that they sometimes vote against their industry interests. But an investigation by Mr. DeGeorge's office of the Northern Pacific fishery council showed the fine legal line on which council members walk.
The Northern Pacific council manages fishing within the Bering Sea north of the Aleutian Islands. The fishery has become the scene of bitter in-fighting between fishermen from Alaska who process most of their catch of pollock and cod on shore and Washington State fishermen who operate trawlers that process fish at sea.
In 1991 the council, which has a majority of representatives from Alaska, voted to shift the fishery's allocation to favor on-shore processing. A subsequent inquiry by Mr. DeGeorge's office found that two of the Alaskan representatives, Ronald E. Hegge and Oscar Dyson, had boats or companies that would benefit from the vote.
But while Mr. DeGeorge found abuses in the vote, his report concluded that no action could be taken against the men, who denied any wrongdoing, because they had disclosed their holdings as required.
"We found that conduct that is forbidden under criminal conflict-of-interest laws in other contexts is permitted," his report stated.
Legal troubles do not appear to be a bar to council service. Last year, two companies, which were partly owned by two members of the Western Pacific council, acknowledged their involvement in the harvesting of 1,500 illegal lobsters off Hawaii and had paid $30,000 fines to the Commerce Department. The councils voted to take no action against the two members, both of whom said they had not been directly involved in the incident, a meeting transcript indicates.
Some councils with industry's aid have taken positive steps. In 1977, for example, the Mid-Atlantic council revived stocks of surf clams and ocean quahogs by placing strict quotas on their harvesting. But elsewhere, like New England, councils have been virtually paralyzed, some council members said.
"There was a reluctance on behalf of the council to change the makeup of the fishing industry socially or economically by fishery management," said Thomas Hill, a council member who is also the president of Atlantic and Pacific Marine Consultants Inc., a firm in Gloucester, Mass. "But by not making the changes, the council has backed into the very problems it was trying to avoid."
In 1977, the New England council adopted quotas to restore cod, haddock and yellowtail flounder, but five years later, it dropped the restrictions after fishermen protested that they were no longer needed.
At the same time, the Government made low-interest loans available to help build up the number of boats in the industry after the departure of the foreign vessels. That led to a dramatic growth in boat building. And with more vessels on the water, catches of cod at Georges Bank dropped by more than half from 1982 to 1986, according to Federal data.
For the next five years, scientists urged the panel to take strong action. But council members argued that a series of half-way measures would enable stocks to rebound. "They were grasping at straws," said Vaughn Anthony, the chief scientific adviser with the National Marine Fisheries Service in Woods Hole, Mass.
In 1991, after the settlement of a lawsuit against the Commerce Department by the Environmental Law Foundation, a group in Boston, the council began to develop a plan to reduce fishing pressure by placing a freeze on the number of vessels and by limiting a boat's days at sea.
But plan elements were still contested by fishermen and state representatives worried about constituents. The plan was adopted this year, but last Monday new data suggested that a shutdown of Georges Bank might be needed.
Even the councils' harshest critics agree that industry should be part of the councils, but several bills to reauthorize the Magnuson Act seek to reduce the possibility of conflicts by requiring members to disclose interests at times of votes or require a broadening of the councils to include more non-industry representatives.
William N. Myhre, a lawyer and lobbyist in Washington who represented some companies in the Bering Sea debate, said it was inevitable that industry-backed council members would vote their interests if only out of fear that their opponents would do so.
"You'd have to be naive not to," Mr. Myhre said. "To remain pure is to lose."

GRAPHIC: Graph: "AT A GLANCE: A Declining Catch" shows stock prices of there New England fishery council from 1976 to 1993. (Source: National Marine Fisheries Service)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; FISHING, COMMERCIAL; LAW AND LEGISLATION US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); COMMERCIAL FISHING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FISHERIES ADMINISTRATION (89%); FINFISH FISHING (89%); FISHERIES (89%); SUSTAINABLE FISHERIES (89%); FISHES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); FISHING TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FISHING LAW (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); MARINE RESOURCES MANAGEMENT (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); MARINE VESSELS (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); SEAFOOD (75%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY JOHN KERRY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



429 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 588 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
Companies
Since Borden agreed to be acquired by Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts, the anger of shareholders has deepened. Borden has had financial problems for years. Shareholders have been critical of management, and news of the deal did little to change minds. [Page D1.] 
 Bruce McNall's fall from sports and corporate stardom has come fast and hard, mystifying Hollywood friends, leaving bankruptcy lawyers and investigators to sort through tangled assets and ending a tale of international intrigue and empire building. [D1.]
 Exxon has chosen the less spectacular route to prosperity than competing oil companies, going slow on exploration in remote areas. It has picked its spots, relied on older, undeveloped strikes, and focused on higher dividends and profits. [D1.]
 Matsushita has demonstrated the principles of a computer memory with a storage capacity more than 1,000 times that of magnetic or optical disks, but said it would take until early next century to make a practical storage system from its technology. [D2.]
 Henry Ford 2d was a blunt man. On the subject of the decision that caused the greatest uproar in his last years running the Ford Motor Company -- his dismissal of Lee A. Iacocca in 1978 -- he has fired back in comments published posthumously. [D3.]
 
The Economy
 A major fight is shaping up in Congress over the role of eight little-known committees created by Federal law two decades ago to prevent overfishing by foreign vessels in American waters. [A1.]
 
International
 After an unusually cold summer, Russia may suffer its worst harvest in three decades. Weather is not the farmers' only problem. Suspended between the old collective system and the brutal necessities of the free market, no part of the bleak Russian economy has foundered as badly as agriculture. [A1.]
 Cocoa producing and consuming nations agreed to reduce output in the hope of increasing prices. [D3.]
 
The Media Business
 As network television begins its most turbulent season, the industry is shaken by upheaval at the local-station level, intensifying competition for viewers and uncertainty about the ownership of at least one of the three big networks. [D1.]
 Estee Lauder's new perfume commercial is remarkable for what it does not have: no languid poses, no serene music and no baffling slogan. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D5.]
 A ballot proposition in San Francisco about municipal advertising amounts to a newspaper popularity contest between one of the city's dailies and a three-day-a-week community newspaper. William Glaberson: Press. [D6.]
 The start-up United/Paramount television network, a network in name only, plans to begin broadcasting four hours of programming over two nights starting in January. It will focus on attracting young male viewers. [D7.]
 With Latin American economies heating up, so have business magazines tailored for investment there. [D7.]
 
Today's Columns
 Baby Superstore Inc. is preparing a stock offering that will give investors a crack at the latest variation on the superstore craze -- one-stop shopping for the bewildered parent. The company is gearing up to sell 2.725 million shares at $17 apiece. Analysts are calling it a bargain. Market Place. [D1.]
Improve on the standard paper clip?
 A couple from Pennsylvania have devised a clip with subtle design differences, sturdier wire, and, they say, a greater likelihood of holding together big quantities of paper. Teresa Riordan: Patents. [D2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (91%); FORDP (PAR) (83%); F (NYSE) (83%); EL (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (83%); NAICS448130 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' CLOTHING STORES (60%); SIC5641 CHILDREN'S & INFANTS' WEAR STORES (60%); NAICS446120 COSMETICS, BEAUTY SUPPLIES & PERFUME STORES (52%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC5122 DRUGS, DRUG PROPRIETARIES, & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (91%); FORD MOTOR CO (83%); BABY SUPERSTORE INC (60%); ESTEE LAUDER COS INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (74%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (69%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); MEN (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (75%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (75%); BABY PRODUCTS (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); LAWYERS (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (67%); PRICE INCREASES (50%); 

PERSON: HENRY FORD II (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



430 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 294 words

HEADLINE: SHOWDOWN IN HAITI: THE ACCORD;
Text of Haiti Agreement

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 18

 BODY:
Following is the text of the agreement reached today in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, between the United States and the ruling junta in Haiti:
THE PURPOSE of this agreement is to foster peace in Haiti, to avoid violence and bloodshed, to promote freedom and democracy and to forge a sustained and mutually beneficial relationship between the governments, people and institutions of Haiti and the United States. 
 TO IMPLEMENT this agreement, the Haitian military and police forces will work in close cooperation with the U.S. military mission. This cooperation, conducted with mutual respect, will last during the transitional period required for insuring vital institutions of the country.
IN ORDER to personally contribute to the success of this agreement, certain military officers of the Haitian armed forces are willing to consent to an early and honorable retirement in accordance with U.N. Resolutions 917 and 940 when a general amnesty will be voted into law by the Haitian Parliament, or Oct. 15, 1994, whichever is earlier. The parties to this agreement pledge to work with the Haitian Parliament to expedite this action. Their successors will be named according to the Haitian Constitution and existing military law.
THE MILITARY activities of the U.S. military mission will be coordinated with the Haitian military high command.
THE ECONOMIC embargo and the economic sanctions will be lifted without delay in accordance with relevant U.N. resolutions and the need of the Haitian people will met as quickly as possible.
THE FORTHCOMING legislative elections will be held in a free and democratic manner.
IT IS UNDERSTOOD that the above agreement is conditioned on the approval of the civilian Governments of the United States and Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (96%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (96%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLITICS (72%); POLICE FORCES (71%); AMNESTY (68%); APPROVALS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



431 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Dishing Out TV Menu to 'Dogpatch';
A Remote 3-Channel Town Suddenly Gets Oodles of Choices

BYLINE: By DOUGLAS MARTIN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PISECO, N.Y., Sept. 17

 BODY:
Veronica O'Rourke said her family's television viewing choices have long been a simple matter. "You've got three channels and you watch whatever one comes in that day," she said.
The place with almost no television suddenly had as much as just about anybody in the world, with the added bonus of perfect reception -- and all free for the first three months. Arietta, a sprawling "town" of nearly 500 square miles peopled by 301 scattered souls, about 70 miles northwest of Albany, had become a company's demonstration site for a television technology that beams signals into individual homes by means of umbrella-sized satellite reception dishes. 
 "It's like bringing cable to Dogpatch," said Laura Morehouse, who works in a health clinic and likes to watch nature shows. "We're coming up in the world. We're now like everyplace else."
Arietta was chosen for its bad reception, lack of cable, low economic levels and general remoteness after consulting a 131-page Census Bureau list of very small communities.
Executives of Primestar Partners, a partnership of General Electric and six cable companies, thought a highly publicized focus on one town would dramatize their mission of capturing an estimated 12 million households unprofitable for traditional cable.
"People have never seen CNN or TNN or what the heck," allowed Henry Rogers, Supervisor of the town of Arietta, which has its offices in the community center of the village of Piseco. "And we've been trying to get cable for 10 years. The whole town is wound up like a clock today."
And as two dozen crews worked to hook up more than 80 homes, the company presented its technology, which it said was unusual in that it uses more advanced digital codes, to a standing-room-only crowd in Arietta's community center. The size of the crowd was deemed commendable by local people because the occasion coincided with the first day of bear-hunting season.
"This is the first digital town in the history of the world, since the Egyptians built the Pyramids," said John J. Cusick, the company president, not shying away from hyperbole.
None of those gathered seemed inclined to bite the hand that was feeding them free doughnuts as well as three months of 77 channels, including 10 audio ones. Within two years, the company promises, its ability to compress digital information will allow it to offer more than 200 channels. It is already supplying 14 regional sports channels.
"To me, it's the circus," allowed Paul Schlansker, a dentist. "But on the whole, it's good for people to know what's going on in the world."
At a time when even Eskimo communities in the High Arctic have full cable service, the remoteness of Arietta would indeed be difficult to surpass. Only two of the three major networks come in -- and then not between 4 and 8 P.M. Mrs. O'Rourke says the Fox network is viewable only by means of a device on the antenna to enhance its signal -- and then only when the leaves have fallen from the trees.
A nearby cable company decided there were too few people to justify the service economically. Mr. Cusick said that would have cost $1,400 a subscriber, roughly twice the expenditure considered profitable. Primestar's service costs $300 to install (and will cost about $1 a day for those who keep the basic service after the three-month trial).
Conventional satellite dishes, which cost in excess of $3,000 and then require service payments to cable companies supplying programming, are economically out of reach for most residents.
Half the families in Arietta earn less than $25,000 a year; a doctor or full-service supermarket is at least a 50-mile drive away, and the nearest movie theater, which is a minimum of eight miles away for all residents, opens only in the summer. Telephones are still on party lines, and many houses run generators because they are not hooked up to electricity.
But it was less like television arriving on some South Pacific island where people had never seen it, than it was a leap from scratchy 1950's reception and choices to a communications world in which residents are painfully aware that people only a few miles away have enjoyed variety for years. Many rent videos and ask friends in nearby towns to tape shows.
"Especially in the winter, people up here kind of rely on a TV," said Charles Brown, who drives a school bus. Some winters, the snow is 15 feet deep. "We're hoping for educational programs to keep the kids occupied."
What is new is the thought of a new and more complicated relationship with the piece of furniture that is the television set. In particular, parents are wrestling with how to set limits. "I've got to figure out how to deal with the kids on this," said Mary Schlansker, a psychologist with two children. She said she hoped to concentrate their viewing, as well as her own, on programs on public television.
When Ashley Chamberlin was asked if she would play as much, the 3-year-old chirped, "I'm just going to watch TV."
Her family was one of four hooked up earlier this week in a test run, and so far she has been as good as her word. Her mother, Sadie, said Ashley had been up until midnight watching cartoons. "This is good and it's bad," Sadie said. "So far, it's like Saturday morning every day."
The importance of television is indicated by the fact that Charles Morehouse several years ago decided to move the trailer of his stroke-stricken mother from Arietta to a community 30 miles away with better reception.
An unknown is whether the new TV era will change a local life style that includes a well-attended weekly community dinner and occasional ice cream socials. "Come back in six months and see if we're all sheltered in," Ms. Schlansker said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ashley Schidzick, 3, running past her family's new Primestar satellite receiver. The house, in Arietta, N.Y., a town known for its poor television reception, has become a demonstration site for the company's television technology. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B1); In Arietta, N.Y., where television choices used to be limited to three channels, new umbrella-sized satellite dishes have changed that. Timothy O'Rourke, left, used a remote to surf through 77 channels while his brother Christopher, right, and their friend Shawn McLaughlin watched. (David Jennings for The New York Times)(pg. B6)
 
Map of New York state showing location of Arietta. (pg. B3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (64%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; PRIMESTAR PARTNERS GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; PRIMESTAR PARTNERS US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); US CENSUS BUREAU (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIETTA (NY); PISECO (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (64%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; SATELLITES; CABLE TELEVISION TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (78%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (75%); CENSUS (54%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (54%); 

PERSON: MARTIN, DOUGLAS MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



432 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: A Hopeful Turn in Algeria

 BODY:
Very late in the game, Algeria's army-backed regime has just taken its first big step back from the brink of a catastrophic showdown with Islamic politics. It has released top Islamic leaders from jail and invited them to talk about a compromise solution to the violent conflict that began when the army blocked an Islamic electoral victory in 1992.
Algiers is responding to a deteriorating security situation that has led many to predict that the present secular regime could fall as early as this year. But it is also acting in accordance with the wise and consistent advice of the Clinton Administration. Algeria is one case where the Administration has played an exemplary role, distancing itself from the rigid and uncompromising position of France, Algeria's former colonial master and the foreign country with the most to lose should Algeria violently collapse. 
 Already, Islamic terrorism and Government counterterrorism have killed more than 10,000 Algerians and created a climate of terror that has led many foreign businesses and diplomatic missions to withdraw or sharply reduce their staffs. It has also understandably frightened hundreds of thousands of secular Algerians, many of whom would try to flee if a violent Islamic takeover seemed imminent.
That prospect particularly upsets France, their most likely destination. Italy and Spain also fear refugees, economic disruption and political instability, while Tunisia and Morocco and Egypt worry about the boost an Algerian takeover would give to their own violent Islamic groups.
France, its domestic politics roiled by anti-immigrant demagogy directed mainly at its already sizable Algerian community, has reacted to the current crisis with panicky denial. It sees no alternative beyond propping up the present authorities as long as possible. But Washington, having practiced denial itself in the Shah's Iran and then having paid a price for it, now accepts that some accommodation with Islamic forces may be inevitable and that a negotiated transition could prove more comfortable than a violent one.
It is not yet clear whether serious negotiations can begin. The Islamic Salvation Front, the main Islamic group whose leaders the Government just released, has issued a conciliatory statement envisioning new talks. But the Front's own exile leadership demands further concessions before negotiations. Other, more radical groups that have gained strength since the Front was outlawed in 1992 oppose any negotiations at all. Nor is it known yet how much the Government is willing to concede for the sake of a solution.
The new peace initiative could still easily unravel. But at least there is now a chance to avoid the catastrophe so many could foresee, but so few seemed prepared to head off.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (67%); 

COUNTRY: ALGERIA (99%); FRANCE (91%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); 

CITY: ALGIERS, ALGERIA (58%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (67%); CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALGERIA; ALGERIA (99%); FRANCE (91%); MOROCCO (79%); EGYPT (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); ALGIERS, ALGERIA (58%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; ISLAM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; TERRORISM; POLITICAL PRISONERS RELIGION (94%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); TERRORISM (90%); POLITICS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); REFUGEES (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (71%); IMMIGRATION (68%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



433 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 19, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 996 words

HEADLINE: Another Sellout On Bosnia

BYLINE: By Marshall F. Harris and Stephen W. Walker; Marshall Freeman Harris and Stephen W. Walker resigned from the State Department in August 1993.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
A year ago, we resigned as the State Department's desk officers for Bosnia and Croatia to protest the Clinton Administration's policies on Bosnia. Since then, little has changed for the better and much has got worse.
Serbia's vicious assault on Bosnia and its non-Serb population continues, making it even more imperative that we end the arms embargo so that Bosnia can defend itself. 
 Instead, the five-nation "contact group" -- the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Russia -- is promoting its plan to partition Bosnia and to monitor the trade embargo on the Bosnian Serbs.
The Administration says it is a positive sign that the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic, is cooperating with the plan. Yet it should realize that Mr. Milosevic supports it not because he has finally come around to our way of thinking; rather, we have given in to his.
The plan gives him what he has wanted all along: an ethnically "pure," contiguous greater Serbia carved in blood from vast swaths of Bosnian and Croatian territory.
The West's acceptance of Belgrade's proposal to have international monitors certify the uncertifiable -- that Mr. Milosevic has actually cut off his Bosnian Serb proxies -- makes us even more complicitous. (Last week, the Bosnian commander, Gen. Rasim Delic, said the flow of weapons, ammunition and personnel across the border had not stopped since the embargo went into effect in August.)
Under the proposal, about 135 international observers will be concentrated at a few of the 48 major crossing points along the 375-mile border. Rather than actually check vehicles, they will only observe Serbian police inspections. This will not be nearly sufficient to keep the border secure.
But even if 10,000 monitors were sent to police this extremely porous border, the plan represents an ignominious retreat. In the face of daily Serbian violations of dozens of U.N. Security Council resolutions, the contact group has the means, authority and cause to compel Serbian compliance rather than simply monitor it.
In late July, it agreed to take steps in this direction by tightening sanctions, actually protecting the "safe areas" in Bosnia and ultimately ending the arms embargo against the Bosnian Government. Now the U.S. and its allies have reversed course.
President Milosevic understands that by declaring a pause in his overt support of the war he can get the Bosnian Serbs to follow his lead by signing a partition plan that realizes his goal of a greater Serbia. At the same time he looks like a peacemaker and can obtain relief from the economic sanctions against his regime.
Significantly, the Administration's agreement to relax sanctions contradicts U.N. Security Council resolutions that require they be maintained until Serbian forces in Bosnia disband, withdraw or surrender to the Bosnian Army.
Mr. Milosevic also understands that a U.S. Administration willing to tolerate the worst atrocities in Europe since World War II -- and to allow him to keep most of the territory he has captured -- is unlikely ever to force him or his proxies to retreat from current front lines, as the plan stipulates.
So the Administration's assertions that Mr. Milosevic has changed course and that the new policy is a success are a combination of self-deception and self-aggrandizement. They also disguise policy retreats that come at a great price.
First, by maintaining the arms embargo and allowing Serbia to keep the fruits of its aggression, Mr. Clinton has abandoned our treaty obligations to protect states' right of self-defense, respect international borders, prevent genocide and promote regional stability.
Second, appeasing Serbia will surely prolong the war, if not widen it. Feeling no threat of retaliation, Serbian forces have escalated their purge of non-Serbs from Bijeljina, Banja Luka and other Bosnian towns. And they are continuing their ethnic cleansing in Serbian regions that have non-Serb majorities, including Kosovo, the Sanjak and the Voyvodina.
Mr. Clinton's promise to introduce tens of thousands of U.S. troops once the Bosnian Serbs sign the plan -- a settlement neither the Bosnian Government nor its aggressors like or intend to honor -- threatens to make us a direct participant in a prolonged conflict.
Third, by capitulating to European and Russian willingness to reward Serbia, the Administration has weakened its hand in the struggle to end the arms embargo against the Bosnian Government. Well into the second third of his term, Mr. Clinton has still not attempted, either directly or through the U.N., to enact his "preferred policy" of ending the embargo.
As a result, large majorities in Congress have already voted in favor of binding measures mandating that the President end the embargo. Conferees debating amendments to the military appropriations bill may turn these measures into law before Congress adjourns next month.
Senators and representatives who want to end the embargo understand that Serbia's assault will continue until it is met by force or until all remaining non-Serbs are driven out of its self-styled greater Serbia. And they understand that the reason the Serbs have got away with more than two years of genocide is the embargo, which has left the Bosnians virtually defenseless.
They also know that a unilateral lifting of the embargo by the United States would soon become multilateral. The 109 U.N. members already on record in opposition to the embargo would join us immediately, and, though they might balk at first, our NATO allies would almost certainly follow.
As it proceeds blithely with plans to invade Haiti, the Administration is not listening to what majorities in the House and Senate are saying about Bosnia. Until President Clinton finds the political will to lead, our nation will continue to slide deeper and deeper into the abyss of unchecked Serbian aggression. It was true when we resigned, and it's even more true today.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (57%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (99%); SERBIA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); CROATIA (93%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (57%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE US PRESIDENTS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ARMS TRADE (89%); ARMS EMBARGOES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (88%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (71%); BORDER CONTROL (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (68%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); HARRIS, MARSHALL FREEMAN; WALKER, STEPHEN W BILL CLINTON (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 19, 1994



434 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 298 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI;
Text of Agreement Adverting U.S Invasion of Haiti

BYLINE: Reuters 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
Following is the text of the agreement reached in Port-au-Prince, Haiti, on Sunday between a United States delegation and the military-dominated leadership in Haiti:
The purpose of this agreement is to foster peace in Haiti, to avoid violence and bloodshed, to promote freedom and democracy and to forge a sustained and mutually beneficial relationship between the governments, people and institutions of Haiti and the United States. 
 To implement this agreement, the Haitian military and police forces will work in close cooperation with the U.S. military mission. This cooperation, conducted with mutual respect, will last during the transitional period required for insuring vital institutions of the country.
In order to personally contribute to the success of this agreement, certain military officers of the Haitian armed forces are willing to consent to an early and honorable retirement in accordance with U.N. Resolutions 917 and 940 when a general amnesty will be voted into law by the Haitian Parliament, or Oct. 15, 1994, whichever is earlier. The parties to this agreement pledge to work with the Haitian Parliament to expedite this action. Their successors will be named according to the Haitian Constitution and existing military law.
The military activities of the U.S. military mission will be coordinated with the Haitian military high command.
The economic embargo and the economic sanctions will be lifted without delay in accordance with relevant U.N. resolutions and the need of the Haitian people will met as quickly as possible.
The forthcoming legislative elections will be held in a free and democratic manner.
It is understood that the above agreement is conditioned on the approval of the civilian Governments of the United States and Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY & VETERANS LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (88%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); LEGISLATION (73%); POLICE FORCES (70%); AMNESTY (68%); APPROVALS (68%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (65%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



435 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: IN PERSPECTIVE;
The G.I.'s Are in Haiti: Now for the Hard Part

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr. 

 BODY:
The agreement he and his two fellow negotiators reached on Sunday night with the Haitian generals, Jimmy Carter told Congressional leaders yesterday, has "many imperfections." It is also full of ambiguities, some of which could easily prove its undoing.
But it has already had important substantive and political results, and it may eventually have more. To state the most obvious first, the American troops who landed in Haiti yesterday morning faced no hostile fire. Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras of Haiti and Lieut. Gen. Henry H. Shelton of the United States confronted each other across a conference table, not in the streets of Port-au-Prince. And the crowds gathered outside military headquarters there were docile, not hostile. 
 For President Clinton, the events of the last 24 hours produced an undoubted triumph. However sloppy or confused the buildup may have looked, the denouement could hardly have been better. In the hope of averting an invasion that neither he nor most other Americans wanted, he gambled, turning to three men with whom his relations have been difficult, and won.
His credibility with other countries and his standing at home will no doubt improve, at least in the short term, although many Americans still think the Haitian problem unworthy of the commitment of troops, even as peacekeepers and nation-builders. Democratic candidates in the midterm elections have been spared a fresh burden.
Now, however, comes the hard part. Like the French in the 19th century, like the Marines who occupied Haiti from 1915 to 1934, the American forces who are trying to impose a new order will confront a complex and violent society with no history of democracy.
"Each day that goes by, there will be more confusion and uncertainty," said Senator John W. Warner, Republican of Virginia.
For two centuries, political opponents in Haiti have routinely slaughtered each other. Backers of President Jean-Bertrand Aristide, followers of General Cedras and the former Tontons Macoute retain their homicidal tendencies, to say nothing of their weapons.
General Shelton said at a news conference that keeping them from each others' throats would be the responsibility of the reformed Haitian police, aided by the American military. But that is a tall order. Who is to be disarmed? Who is to control the police?
If widespread violence erupts, it will not be easy to keep United States forces out of harm's way, and if they take casualties in any significant number, Mr. Clinton could find himself in political hot water once again. Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the minority leader, said yesterday that he would be better able to evaluate the situation "in 60 days, 90 days, six months, who knows how long?"
Mr. Clinton and his aides can only hope that no one emerges to lead a revolt of those who hate Father Aristide or the United States or all foreigners who would seek to force Haiti to change its ways.
One potential rebel leader is the chief of the Port-au-Prince police, Lieut. Col. Michel Francois. He appears to have taken no part in the negotiations, and his whereabouts is unknown.
Presumably because they had no choice, the negotiators left open the question of when or whether General Cedras and his right-hand man, Brig. Gen. Philippe Biamby, would leave the country. Lynn Garrison, one of General Cedras's advisers, said yesterday afternoon that the general had no intention of leaving Haiti -- ever -- and they have formally agreed only to yield power, no later than Oct. 15.
Perhaps General Cedras will spend his time, Mr. Garrison said, scuba diving or writing his memoirs. But with the amnesty he is to be granted under the deal, he could presumably do whatever he wanted; so could General Biamby. If they chose, they could be a powerful destabilizing force.
General Cedras gave his word that he would cooperate, and he did so in his initial meeting this morning with General Shelton.
But the underlying problem in this whole enterprise is that Mr. Clinton is counting upon people who have repeatedly broken their word in the past to keep their word this time. General Cedras, after all, is the same man who signed the Governors Island agreement, then blatantly defied it. He is the same man whom Mr. Clinton accused on Thursday evening of ordering a vicious campaign of rape and murder.
It sounded weird to hear Gen. Colin L. Powell, one of the negotiators, discussing his appeals to the "military honor" of a man whom the President had so recently condemned as a butcher. It sounded equally surreal to hear President Carter praising the peacemaking role of President Emile Jonassaint, whom the White House has been denouncing for months as the illegitimate head of an illicit Government with whom the United States would never do business.
Current plans call for American forces to be supplemented and then replaced, for the most part, by an international police force operating under United Nations auspices. But it is not clear how soon that will take place. It depends in part on how soon Father Aristide, a man of widespread political appeal but questionable governmental skills, can re-establish his legitimacy and form a viable team.
The mood of some Aristide supporters who gathered at the port yesterday to watch Americans coming ashore was depressed, almost sullen. Many said they feared for their lives because General Cedras was to be permitted to stay. They -- indeed, most Haitians -- are looking for the kinds of guarantees that it will be hard for Father Aristide or anyone else to make good on.
Democracy-building such as he is undertaking is no easy thing, as the experiences of a dozen African nations richer and less inured to violence than Haiti have demonstrated. In Haiti it is vastly complicated by the influence of the voodoo priests and secret societies that formed the backbone of the Duvalier dictatorship.
Whether Mr. Clinton's decision to use American troops in Haiti and President Carter's peacemaking mission have opened the way for real change, or simply inaugurated another futile effort to reshape a society that has long resisted reform, may not be known for years.
The President himself made no sweeping claims of victory yesterday, confining himself to the declaration that the agreement "has dramatically increased chances for a peaceful transition."
Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat who served with Mr. Carter and General Powell on the negotiating team, commented pointedly yesterday that returning Father Aristide to Haiti did not constitute democracy and would not by itself solve the nation's problems. Doing that, he said, would require the development of political institutions, the creation of a workable economy and the protection of political and other minorities.
Even if no violence develops in the coming months, even if the flood of refugees is not resumed, it will not be clear until the next scheduled presidential election, in 1995, whether democracy has put down roots. Father Aristide has promised to step aside then, but few would be astonished if he changed his mind, and many forces in Haiti might find it in their interests to sow discord and disruption.

GRAPHIC: Photos: American troops landed yesterday in Port-au-Prince, dropping into traditional combat positions, but . . . (Associated Press); . . . quickly got up as they met mostly members of the international press upon arriving at the airport . . . (Agence France-Presse); . . . and upon meeting Haitian civilians, assumed combat position again, but met no resistance. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (70%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (98%); KANSAS, USA (79%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (70%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FORECASTS ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PEACEKEEPING (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (73%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (73%); JOHN WARNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



436 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 2931 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: DIPLOMACY;
On the Brink of War, a Tense Battle of Wills

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times; The following article is based on reporting by John H. Cushman Jr., Steven Greenhouse, Douglas Jehl and Elaine Sciolino and was written by Ms. Sciolino.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
The talks in Haiti on Sunday dragged on past a noon deadline, then past a 3 o'clock extension. By early evening, President Clinton was pacing the Oval Office, visibly impatient with his three envoys, who had not yet persuaded the military leaders to resign.
On an ordinary, unsecured telephone line from Port-au-Prince, former President Jimmy Carter, the chief emissary, begged over and over for more time, but Mr. Clinton was insistent. "We've been friends for a long time," he said, "but I'm going to have to order you out of there in 30 more minutes. You've got to get out." 
 What concerned the President was that at 6:47 P.M., the first planes had left Pope Air Force Base in North Carolina to begin the invasion of Haiti.
Mr. Carter had tried to keep himself ignorant of the military timetable, to give himself as much room to maneuver as possible. But even before he spoke to Mr. Clinton, the talks had been interrupted by Brig. Gen. Philippe Biamby, Haiti's army chief of staff, who burst into the room to alert the Haitians that they would soon be under attack.
"We can't trust the Americans," he blurted out, according to an American in the room.
In the end, according to accounts today by Mr. Carter and others who took part in the weekend's events, it took the mediation of Emile Jonassaint, the 81-year-old President installed by the military junta, to push the generals into a deal -- a one-page, single-spaced document that allowed American soldiers to enter Haiti today as friendly occupiers rather than as hostile invaders.
"I say to you that we'll have peace, not war," Mr. Jonassaint said as his ministers sat in stony silence.
After three years of policy shifts, increased economic sanctions and military threats, it finally came down to two days of intense personal encounters in Washington and Port-au-Prince.
The negotiating that averted combat became a test of wills among an American Commander in Chief reluctant to use force in the face of overwhelming Congressional and popular opposition, Haitian military officers as determined to hold on to power as they were to preserve their place in history, and a stubborn ex-President who specializes in peace talks and was hungry for a deal.
Thus resulted a deal that requires Haiti's three military rulers to relinquish power but grants them amnesty for the violent repression committed in their name.
For Mr. Clinton, an imperfect deal was more important than being consistent with his earlier tough talk about refusing to negotiate with the junta, if consistency meant spilling what Secretary of State Warren Christopher has called "the blood and treasure of the United States."
To get to that point, the three negotiators had to leap a number of hurdles -- delicate political and diplomatic issues, a rapidly expiring military deadline, a vow by General Biamby to commit suicide rather than to relinquish power, and a desperate, emotional outburst from the wife of Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the leader of the Haitian junta.
On Saturday, her son's 10th birthday, General Cedras' wife, Yannick Prosper, told her husband that she would rather die with her children during an American invasion than see her husband forced from power.
The next morning, after a long night of talks, Mr. Carter and his fellow negotiators went to the Cedras home for an emotional meeting.
Gen. Colin L. Powell, a man deeply respected by the Haitian military, personally persuaded them that it would be more honorable to give up power than to die. "This is what military honor is, this is what courage is," was general's argument, Mr. Carter said today.
 
The Threat
Clinton Prepares To Use Force
 On Aug. 26, at a meeting of his top advisers, Mr. Clinton approved the final version of an invasion plan that the military had been drafting for months. He set the clock ticking: unless Haiti's leaders stepped down, he wanted the military to be prepared to launch an invasion during the week beginning Sept. 19. The decision capped months of growing frustration over the failure of economic sanctions to pry the Haitian leaders from power.
During his vacation on Martha's Vineyard, Mr. Clinton kept a deliberate public silence about Haiti, even though some were saying that he should take his case for military action to the nation. Mr. Clinton was in a political bind: Polls showing that two-thirds of Americans opposed his policy, and he feared that when the issue came before Congress, lawmakers would try to block any military action.
Aides including David R. Gergen and George Stephanopolous won approval for a strategy calling for Mr. Clinton to ratchet up his language in the 10 days before an invasion. The strategy was aimed at avoiding the kind of prolonged attention that might give Congress time to head it off.
"We needed to get as much positive impact as we could without opening a debate that would be harmful, not helpful," a senior White House official said.
But once Mr. Clinton returned from his 13-day holiday, the blitz came hard and fast. In beating the war drums, the White House all but announced the convening of closed-door councils. The State Department issued a report calling the Haitian military's human-rights record the worst in the hemisphere. The President himself summoned wire-service reporters to share gruesome photographs of murdered Haitians who had been supporters of Father Aristide.
To further show Haiti's rulers that he was serious, Mr. Clinton began a highly visible military build-up in the Caribbean. This was possible partly because Haiti's tiny army posed so inconsiderable a threat that the Pentagon had little need to keep its movements secret.
At the same time, the Administration began to drive home a new message: it would send troops into Haiti even if the leaders stepped down. Whether or not the American operation would be a 20,000-man invasion, the so-called Plan A, or a 15,000-man mission to secure the island, the nearly 20 American warships in place by the end of last week had a reason for loitering on Haiti's horizons.
With Congress and public polls against an invasion, President Clinton made a belated effort to rally the nation behind him. He took to national television to deliver his first speech on Haiti and his most explicit threat: "Leave now," he told the Haitian junta on Thursday, "or we will force you from power."
Mr. Clinton kept secret the date of the invasion, which was set early last week. Barring a last-minute breakthrough, they decided, American commandos and paratroopers would begin to storm ashore in Haiti shortly before 2 A.M. today.
 
The Diplomacy
Jimmy Carter Seeks a Role
 Mr. Clinton had another secret: the calls he had been receiving from Jimmy Carter offering to mediate the crisis.
For months Mr. Carter had badgered the White House to give him a role in resolving the Haiti crisis, just as he eventually was given a role with North Korea. He had got know General Cedras as head of an election team monitoring the December 1990 election, when the general, then a colonel, organized security for the balloting.
Upon arriving home early last week from a long trip to Africa and Russia, Mr. Carter found a letter from Charles David, the de facto Foreign Minister of Haiti, asking him to serve as a mediator.
Mr. Carter sent his phone number to General Cedras through intermediaries. A few minutes later, the general called, and with his brother Alex acting as interpreter, suggested that he wanted a deal, Mr. Carter said.
Mr. Carter called Mr. Clinton with the news. Today, the former President said that even before the mission was approved, he had done another bit of free-lance diplomacy. He had approached the two men who would become the other mediators -- Gen. Powell and Senator Sam Nunn, the Georgia Democrat, to ask them whether they would be willing to go with him to Haiti "if it came to that."
Mr. Clinton always had hoped for a last-minute breakthrough that would compel the Haitians to step down. The White House had been bombarded for days with messages that the military leaders wanted a deal -- from relatives of the civilian leaders, from retired Haitian military officers with ties to the Pentagon, even one relayed from the Haitian President ousted earlier, Jean-Claude Duvalier, from his exile in the south of France.
But several top advisers, including Secretary Christopher; Anthony Lake, Mr. Clinton's national security adviser, and Deputy Secretary of State Strobe Talbott, expressed strong reservations about using Mr. Carter to make the final moves. In a private hourlong meeting with Vice President Al Gore, a strong promoter of the Carter mission, hours before Mr. Clinton's speech on Thursday, Mr. Christopher insisted that any such mission must seek to "clarify" rather than "complicate" the situation.
But Mr. Clinton was not content with the way the game was ending. Mr. Carter's approach had left him enamored of the idea of a high-profile action -- even at risk of relying on a predecessor with a record as an unpredictable emissary.
Within minutes after the television cameras stopped rolling, Mr. Clinton retreated with Mr. Gore, Mr. Lake and Leon E. Panetta, his chief of staff, to a small study off the Oval Office to tell Mr. Carter, Senator Nunn and General Powell that he wanted them to stand by for a last-minute mission.
They should try to strike a deal, he said. But under no circumstances should they offer to derail or delay the invasion.
 
The Clock
Negotiations Drag As Deadline Nears
 It took only the slightest signal from General Cedras that he would receive such a delegation before the White House announced its surprise swerve in strategy. Early Saturday morning the three men were bound for Haiti aboard a United States Air Force jet. From the moment it touched down in Port-au-Prince, Mr. Carter and his team began a non-stop blitz to cut a deal.
They met with Mr. Jonassaint, the provisional President whom the United States had refused to recognize; with business leaders, members of Parliament and a retired general who was one of Mr. Carter's old contacts. From Saturday afternoon until 2 A.M. that night, and then through the day on Sunday, they met with General Cedras and General Biamby, whose refusal to step down had put the United States on the brink of combat.
Lieut. Col. Michel Francois, the police chief and the third member of the ruling junta, boycotted the talks, although he once pledged to follow the lead of the military and leave power.
Throughout the talks, on the second floor of the white, two-story Army headquarters, Mr. Carter told the two men that invasion was imminent, that Haiti's military would be destroyed and that they and their families would suffer. In what he today called long and painful conversations, General Powell reminded the leaders that he was also a military man, and told them: "You have no idea of the firepower we have."
Senator Nunn noted that he had made a speech on Friday opposing an invasion, but told the leaders that despite Congressional opposition, Mr. Clinton's mind was made up, and that once an invasion started, Congress would back its President.
The broad mandate Mr. Clinton gave to the emissaries meant that they could discuss much more than just the narrow arrangements for the leaders' departure, which the White House had long said would be the only focus of any last-minute talks.
They promised amnesty to the Haitian leaders Mr. Clinton had accused of murder and mayhem. They indicated that despite Mr. Clinton's demand that they step down "now," he might be willing to allow them a few more face-saving weeks in office.
But as Sunday's talks wore on, Mr. Carter and his partners remained unable to persuade the military leaders to step down by a specific date. And as General Powell had been told but did not share with his companions, the clock was ticking down.
From the Oval Office, Mr. Clinton had told Mr. Carter and his team that they must conclude their negotiations by noon, so that they could return to Washington in time for him to put the invasion plan on hold. He later pushed back that deadline to 3 P.M. Twice he allowed them to remain in Port-au-Prince for just another hour. But Mr. Carter repeatedly asked for more time, saying he was getting close to a deal.
With the invasion set to begin shortly after 2 A.M., that left the President and his advisers increasingly anxious.
At one point Mr. Lake, the national security adviser, turned to Gen. John M. D. Shalikashvili, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, with a question he asked only half in jest: Could the Marines poised to evacuate Americans from Haiti be used to withdraw the former President and his team?
Mr. Clinton remained unwilling to postpone the invasion. On Saturday, as Mr. Carter and his team began their talks, he gave an oral order that set the military operation in motion. Told by Defense Secretary William J. Perry at 1 P.M. that he needed to give a go-ahead to paratroopers to load their equipment if the invasion was to proceed on schedule, the President instructed: "Pack 'em."
At about 5 P.M., General Powell telephoned Mr. Clinton to say that the team had reached a deal under which the leaders would step down -- but not until Parliament approved a general amnesty. Lawrence Rossin, a National Security Council staff member who accompanied the team to Port-au-Prince, quickly faxed a copy of the agreement to the White House.
Mr. Clinton pored over the document and found it wanting.
"Clinton's instant reaction was that it was totally unacceptable," a senior Administration official said today. "We could not let the departure date be dependent on something beyond our control."
The Administration was also apparently mindful that General Cedras had made his resignation last year contingent on a parliamentary amnesty, and then cited the failure to approve the amnesty as a reason for remaining in power.
As the invasion clock continued to click down, the President told his advisers he feared there was not enough time to make an agreement work.
Secretary Christopher argued that "it was essential" that the plan include a fixed date for the departure of the military leaders. Mr. Talbott, a journalist and author before joining the Administration, furiously rewrote the agreement. At Mr. Christopher's insistence, he inserted a departure deadline of Oct. 15, regardless of whether the Parliament passed a general amnesty.
Mr. Clinton grudgingly said he could live with that date.
 
The Haitians
Breaking News To Father Aristide
 The White House had another problem: how to break the news to Father Aristide that an imperfect deal was in the works.
When the ousted priest was informed about the Carter mission, he expressed the hope that no concessions would be made to the men who had ousted him from power.
After the American delegation relayed the outlines of a deal to the White House on Sunday afternoon, William H. Gray 3d, the Administration's special Haiti envoy, and Mr. Lake, the national security adviser, paid a call on Mr. Aristide.
The two men were in deep pain -- Mr. Lake had just undergone emergency oral surgery and Mr. Gray had lost a cap on one of his teeth.
"Things are moving very quickly, much faster than we thought," Mr. Lake told him. "We've got a lot of decisions to make and we need your input."
The exiled President was not at all happy with the agreement. In a two-hour meeting, he charged that the deal went further than the United Nations-brokered accord he signed with the military at Governors Island in July 1993, which made a vague reference to his right to grant amnesty for people who had committed political crimes.
The new agreement, he said, talks of "general amnesty." He peppered the officials with questions: What government did the document refer to -- his Government or the military Government in Haiti? Did the reference to American coordination with the Haitian military command refer to commanders he would name or to General Cedras' colleagues?
"I don't agree with these points," he said.
As for a clause in the agreement to lift the economic embargo, Mr. Aristide had already made clear that he staunchly opposed such a move until he was back in the Presidential Palace in Port-au-Prince.
His most serious complaint was that to allow the military to stay in power for a few weeks gave it legitimacy and delayed his return to power, according to people familiar with the meeting. He wanted to know why the deal included no demand that the military leaders leave the country.
"Mr. President," Mr. Gray replied, "with our military there and your return, do you really think the junta leaders want to stick around?"
The two American officials sought to play down the problems in the accord, dismissing them as minor details that could be worked out.
Father Aristide said he understood, but asked if it would not be better to clarify everything in writing?
Back at the White House, Mr. Lake and Mr. Gray reported Father Aristide's concerns.
Yet even as Mr. Carter and his team returned home triumphant today, Administration officials acknowledged that their problems had just begun. A sign of what remained to be done had come after midnight this morning, when Mr. Carter was awakened from a mid-air nap by a call from an aide at the United States Embassy in Port-au-Prince.
The Haitian leaders were upset, the aide told the former President, because Mr. Clinton's speech announcing the mission's success referred to them as dictators.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Soldiers with the 10th Mountain Division, top, preparing to jump form their helicopter yesterday onto the airport in Port-au-Prince. (Angel Franco/The New York Times); Haitian soldiers at military headquarters, above, watching American helicopters over the capital. (Carol Halebian for The New York Times) (pg. A13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (95%); 

STATE: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (95%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DOUGLAS, ISLE OF MAN (59%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); AMNESTY (78%); ARMIES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); AIR FORCES (77%); PEACE PROCESS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CARTER, JIMMY; SCIOLINO, ELAINE; CUSHMAN, JOHN H JR; GREENHOUSE, STEVEN; JEHL, DOUGLAS BILL CLINTON (91%); JIMMY CARTER (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



437 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: IN WASHINGTON;
As President Claims Victory, Doubts Remain

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 19

 BODY:
President Clinton and his three high-level envoys declared success today in their last-gasp bargaining to avert an invasion of Haiti.
Mr. Clinton pledged that a peaceful American occupation now under way will "make sure that the leaders keep their word" to restore that country's first freely elected President. [Excerpts from the news conference by Mr. Clinton and his envoys, page A14.] 
 At the same moment, the first nagging differences over just how to pull that return off began surfacing in the White House, in Congress and in the offices of the Haitian leader Mr. Clinton seeks to reinstate, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
In separate remarks, the White House and the head of its delegation to Haiti, former President Jimmy Carter, appeared to disagree over whether the accord Mr. Carter helped negotiate on Sunday will -- or even should -- force Haiti's military dictators into exile. Some of Mr. Clinton's strongest supporters on Capitol Hill expressed doubt that Mr. Aristide would be able to rule effectively if the dictators remain on the island, as the agreement permits.
And Father Aristide's supporters expressed deep concern over parts of the agreement, including a provision that allows the dictators to remain in power for another month, although Father Aristide himself appears resigned to its terms.
The President, savoring a diplomatic victory whose nail-chewing drama seemed almost written for television, was having little of nay-saying today. Barely six hours after Mr. Carter and the other two envoys, Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and Gen. Colin L. Powell, arrived in Washington from Haiti, Mr. Clinton hauled them to breakfast at the White House and, later, to a broadcast news conference in the chandelier-studded East Room.
There Mr. Clinton declared that "American steadfastness" had forced the Haitian military rulers, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras and Brig. Gen. Philippe Biamby, to finally adhere to a year-old promise to surrender power.
The three negotiators heaped praise on the President, who pressed his plans for an invasion most of this month with little visible support in opinion polls and less than that in Congress. Mr. Carter called him courageous; General Powell called the accord "your enormous achievement"; Senator Nunn hailed his "strong leadership."
Mr. Clinton chose to hedge his bets on the success of the operation, noting that Haiti has a history of violence and a military unaccustomed to relinquishing power freely.
"I want to emphasize that the situation in Haiti remains difficult; it remains uncertain; the mission still has risks," he said. "But clearly we are in a better position to work for peace in a peaceable way today than we were yesterday."
On Sunday, Mr. Clinton stepped up to and over the brink of military action, ordering American warplanes into the air to ferry paratroops to Haiti, before Messrs. Carter, Nunn and Powell finally won a promise from General Cedras and General Biamby to give up their power.
Lieut. Col. Michel Francois, the Port-au-Prince police chief and a third leader in the dictatorship, was said to be in hiding. Although other top Haitian officials strongly opposed the dictators' decision to resign, and Haiti's Defense Minister quit in protest, Administration officials said they did not expect Colonel Francois to be able to rally serious resistance to the occupation.
As 15,000 American troops began landing by ship and helicopter and fanning out across the island, General Powell praised Mr. Clinton's leadership and said that the President's willingness to enter into last-minute talks had averted a potential disaster.
"The image that we were all afraid we would see sometime this week has been avoided," General Powell said. "And that image was of American youngsters killing Haitian youngsters and Haitian youngsters killing American youngsters. Instead, what we see on our television screens this morning are tentative beginnings of the new relationship, where these armed forces are talking to one another."
The seven-point accord signed on Sunday is unusually vague, partly reflecting the haste in which it was drafted. Administration officials nevertheless anticipate no problems in interpreting its terms to their taste, largely because they believe the swarm of American troops in Haiti leave the generals little choice.
The agreement calls for "certain military officers" in Haiti's military command to resign their offices by Oct. 15 and for a new Parliament -- the current one is stacked with military supporters -- to be elected later "in a free and democratic manner."
It also calls for the Parliament to grant a general amnesty to an unspecified number of military officers, and for a rapid end to economic sanctions imposed by the United States, the Organization of American States and the United Nations.
Administration officials hope to replace the occupying force, which is to include small contingents from 24 other nations, with a smaller United Nations peacekeeping force within months. That army would number about 6,000 soldiers, perhaps half of them American.
General Powell urged the public today not to dwell on the fine points of the agreement, saying the details "will be worked out in due course."
"Let's not lose sight of the overall achievement," he said. "The U.N. resolutions will be executed. President Aristide will return. And we have the opportunity for a future of peace and democracy in Haiti and a superb relationship between our two countries."
Still, key parts of the accord seemed to turn on its more devilish details, a fact not lost on the participants today. No one knew for sure what would become of Generals Cedras and Biamby once they resign.
The Administration agreed in Sunday's talks that the generals would not have to leave Haiti, but only resign. Mr. Clinton said today that the Administration dropped suggestions of exile to keep the talks alive.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher said Sunday that while exile was not formally part of the accord, "for all practical purposes they are certain to leave."
"I doubt that they will want to stay there when President Aristide is returned to power," he said.
Mr. Carter, speaking this morning on CNN, called it "a serious violation of inherent human rights for a citizen to be forced into exile," and said the issue of whether or when to leave Haiti was for the generals to decide. Later, at his news conference, Mr. Clinton urged "that we not let this issue cloud the enormity of what has occurred."
But it was of clear concern to Father Aristide's backers and some members of Congress, who suggested that the generals might try to seize power again.
Randall Robinson, a Washington rights advocate and Aristide supporter whose hunger strike last spring spurred Mr. Clinton to decide to oust Haiti's dictators, said today that their exile "should be non-negotiable."
"Mr. Aristide only has a promise, the same promise he got last year at Governors Island," Mr. Robinson said, alluding to the 1993 agreement that General Cedras signed, and later abrogated, which called for him to cede power to Father Aristide by Oct. 15, 1993.
Senator Christopher Dodd, a Connecticut Democrat who is one of Mr. Clinton's most solid supporters in Congress, expressed skepticism about Sunday's agreement for similar reasons. "Unfortunately, we've seen the Haitian military make promises before that they haven't kept," he said. "And I, for one, am skeptical that they've changed their stripes."
A second pressing question is what the signers of the accord meant when they called for a general amnesty for the military.
Secretary Christopher said on Sunday that the United States believes that an amnesty should cover all 7,000 members of the military, and Mr. Clinton noted that Father Aristide had already agreed to an amnesty in the ill-fated Governor's Island accord.
But that amnesty covered only political crimes, not the murders, torture and other human rights abuses that Mr. Clinton and others insist that the dictators have engineered.
Father Aristide was not talking today. His allies said he has reservations about amnesty and other key parts of the accord. Representative Joseph P. Kennedy Jr., a Massachusetts Democrat, said Father Aristide told him today that he "was concerned by the notion that crimes against humanity, murders and tortures can be amnestied."
Equally uncertain was the true meaning of the agreement's call to lift economic sanctions "without delay," a phrase the Administration seemed to suggest today is meaningless. Instead, officials said, the United States will probably seek to link the easing of embargoes and thawing of frozen assets to the dictators' progress in filling their end of the bargain.
The United States representative at the United Nations, Madeleine K. Albright, said the timing of any action on sanctions must be "recalibrated."
Separately, the United Nations said it would soon send 100 civil rights experts to Haiti, as well as 60 military experts who will monitor the conduct of American forces.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton praised "American steadfastness" over Haiti yesterday. With him were former President Jimmy Carter, Senator Sam Nunn of Georgia and Gen. Colin L. Powell, his envoys to Haiti's military junta. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); GEORGIA, USA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICS (74%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (68%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CARTER, JIMMY; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); JIMMY CARTER (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



438 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1316 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: OVERVIEW;
3,000 U.S. TROOPS LAND WITHOUT OPPOSITION AND TAKE OVER PORTS AND AIRFIELDS IN HAITI

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Sept.19

 BODY:
As Haitian soldiers watched impassively, more than 3,000 American troops landed here today, taking control of airfields and ports in the first phase of a military operation that has forced recent enemies to become reluctant partners in the restoration of the country's elected President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide.
Descending from a fleet of Blackhawk helicopters just after 9:30 this morning, units of the United States Army's 10th Mountain Division landed at the same civilian airport where about 12 hours earlier a diplomatic delegation led by former President Jimmy Carter had departed after averting an American invasion. 
 The troops immediately dropped into traditional combat positions, lying prone on the ground and pointing their rifles toward the airport terminal. There was no hint of resistance from Haiti's small and ill-equipped army.
Lieut. Gen. Henry H. Shelton, commander of a military force that is expected to grow to 15,000 soldiers from 25 nations, went straight from the airport to military headquarters downtown, where he conferred with Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, the Haitian military commander in chief, who has been denounced by President Clinton for his junta's violations of human rights. Later the American commander described the one-hour meeting as cordial.
Outside military headquarters, curious Haitian civilians snapped photographs of the American soldiers and stared into the sky as Cobra helicopters flew overhead. At the port Haitian onlookers, who for weeks had been warned that an American invasion would endanger their lives, gaped, smiled and waved as soldiers in camouflage uniforms were disgorged from Navy landing ships.
"This is a nice Caribbean vacation," Lieut. Michael Tunnell of Kingsport, Tenn., said after arriving in the first contingent.
Emboldened by the presence of American troops, supporters of Father Aristide, who gathered at the port this afternoon, erupted in spontaneous cheers and chants, saluting the arrival of the Americans. In a country where skin color is a major source of class conflict, one poorly dressed, dark-skinned vendor of souvenirs approached a group of lighter-skinned Haitians sitting on the hoods of their expensive cars and began to berate them, calling them a pack of thieves and freeloaders.
"Yesterday you were saying 'no' to Aristide," he said. "Today you're watching the helicopters land, and you're not saying a thing. You've put me in jail, shot at my house and beaten me on the head, but not anymore. I have a right to live in this country too."
Late this afternoon, police and paramilitary troops armed with semiautomatic weapons broke up one pro-Aristide rally at the port, beating participants with nightsticks and planks of wood and chasing them for several blocks. Many demonstrators lost their shoes in their haste to escape beatings, and when they returned to retrieve them, the police again chased them away. American troops nearby watched but did not intervene, witnesses said.
To calm civilians, American helicopters flew low over the capital, broadcasting a message in Creole: "This is not war. Stay calm. We are here to bring democracy and humanitarian aid."
For their part, American soldiers said that they were relieved, and that the negotiated settlement announced on Sunday night made their job easier and reduced the likelihood of combat.
After the meeting at military headquarters, General Shelton spoke warmly of General Cedras and said the Haitian military chief would play an important role in many of the decisions made in the days ahead. He said he intended to "clear the rules with General Cedras" on such crucial questions as where Americans troops should be deployed and how Haitian paramilitary forces should be disarmed.
"We have stressed from the beginning that this is not an occupation force," General Shelton said at a news conference.
Maj. Gen. Jared Bates of the Pentagon's Joint Chiefs of Staff, who accompanied Mr. Carter on his diplomatic mission over the weekend, went even further. He said American forces here were working in partnership with the established Haitian authorities that Washington was deriding as a band of thugs only a few days ago.
"The Haitian Government is in charge," General Bates said in an interview this morning. "We are cooperating with them and they are cooperating with us."
General Bates also expressed optimism that the Haitian armed forces, whose history of human rights and other abuses has been widely documented, could be reformed.
"I do not know enough about this army to speak with you in any detail," he said. "But I can tell you that the people I have talked to over the last three days are prepared to make this arrangement work, and that's the most important thing. I'm looking to the future, not the past."
Though American officials here expressed satisfaction with the agreement that requires General Cedras to give up his post no later than Oct. 15, there were strong reservations from many quarters.
"I am perplexed," said a diplomat from a country that supports the restoration of Father Aristide. "Why give these guys three extra weeks?"
Several diplomats complained today that the Carter mission had made unnecessary concessions and had gotten too little in return. The United States "had them with their backs to the wall and a gun to their head, so why give them anything?" one asked.
Ever since General Cedras installed Emile Jonassaint as the country's de facto President in May, the Haitian authorities have said their two main goals were to force the United States to grant some form of diplomatic recognition and to obtain a commitment to lift the United Nations economic embargo that has strangled the Haitian economy.
Haiti achieved both those goals in the agreement Mr. Clinton approved, in exchange for promises of the sort the military has made before and always broken, diplomats here argued.
Indeed, in anticipation that economic sanctions will soon be lifted, vendors of black-market gasoline, which has been selling here for more than $8 a gallon, were frantically trying to unload their product today.
Many of Father Aristide's supporters said they too were unhappy with the agreement, which does not specifically oblige General Cedras and other military leaders to leave the country, but only to step down. They expressed alarm at the signs of coziness between American and Haitian military officers and said they feared a repetition of the Governors Island Agreement, in which General Cedras promised to step down and hand power back to Father Aristide in October 1993, but then reneged.
"I do not understand this course," said the Rev. Hugo Triest, coordinator of the Haitian Conference of Clergy. "What democracy can they restore with the military? What credibility can you give to a military that has not honored its word?"
Eudrice Raymond, a pro-Aristide Senator, said, "It is a Haitian custom not to admit you are wrong," adding that the agreement paves the way for military leaders to return to public life, and perhaps even run for office.
Despite statements by American officials that they expect their stay here to be brief, some Haitians were skeptical.
"You cannot ask me if I'm happy under a U.S. occupation," said Senator Ebrane Cadet, a supporter of General Cedras.
But Haitian military officers seemed eager to cooperate with the American forces. When Gen. David C. Meade, commander of the 10th Mountain Division from Fort Drum, N.Y., approached two members of the high command at the airport this morning, he was greeted with a crisp salute from Col. Marcial Romulus, the Haitian Army's chief of operations.
Moments later, an American soldier in full combat gear approached the terminal, surveyed the scene, saw that all was calm, and relaxed. "Slow down," he ordered another soldier. "There's nowhere to go."

GRAPHIC: Photos: American soldiers from the 10th Mountain Division took up positions yesterday at the airport in Port-au-Prince (Reuters), and Haitians greeted helicopters that ferried U.S. forces in the capital. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); Haitian police and paramilitary troops with sticks and guns broke up a pro-Aristide rally in Port-au-Prince yesterday, beating participants and chasing them away. American troops watched but did not intervene. (Phillippe Diederich for The New York Times) (pg. A10)
 
Diagrams: "HOW IT HAPPENED: Moving Troops Into Haiti"
 
INITIAL OPERATIONS
 Three battalions of infantry moved into Haiti yesterdya, landing in helicopters at the civilian international airport in the suburbs of Port-au-Prince. Battalions vary in size, but could number as many as 900 troops each. A total of 15,000 jtroops are expected to enter Haiti through the main port and the civilian airport over the next several days.
 Blackhawk attack helicopters andCobra gunships are patrolling the skies over Haiti.
 
IN CAP-HAITIEN
 The amphibious assault ship Wasp carries 1,900 marines from the Special Purpose Air-Ground Task Force based inCamp Lejeune, N.C. They are waiting to enter northern Haiti, including the city of Cap-Haitien. The mariners have been sailing off the coast of Haiti for several months.
 
IN DOWNTOWN PORT-AU-PRINCE
 
1. At dawn yesterday, two U.S. warships and a Coast Guard cutter glided into port and secured the main harbor. Derelict vessels were being removed to open the port.
 
2. Troops from the 10th Mountain Division, shuttled in by helicopter from the aircraft carrier Eisenhower, jumped to the tarmac at the airport and took up positions. The troops are from Fort Drum, N.Y., and are trained to move fast, without heavy tanks or artillery.
 
3. The troops secured the U.S. Embassy, the civilian airport, key roads and the area around the main port. A few troops were also dispatched to the Haitian military headquarters.
 
4. In the harbor last night: the Mount Whitney, an amphibious command ship used to control the Haitian operation, the Eisenhower, a U.S. frigate and a U.S. coastal patrol ship.
 
(pg. A10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (90%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); US DEPARTMENT OF ARMY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (93%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMIES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); HELICOPTERS (89%); MILITARY HELICOPTERS (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); NAVIES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); 

PERSON: CEDRAS, RAOUL (LT GEN); ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); SHELTON, HENRY M (LT GEN); ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (78%); JIMMY CARTER (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



439 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: Custody Fight in Capital: A Working Mother Loses

BYLINE: By SUSAN CHIRA 

 BODY:
When Sharon Prost surrendered her two sons to her former husband's custody 11 days ago, it was the climactic act in a cautionary tale of two-career couples in the '90's.
To Ms. Prost, 43, a counsel to Senator Orrin G. Hatch, and the feminist legal groups rallying around her, the decision by a Washington judge to remove the children is chilling evidence of a judicial backlash against professional women. 
 To her former husband, Kenneth Greene, 48, the assistant executive director of the American Federation of Television and Radio Artists, and his supporters, the decision is an overdue affirmation of fathers who have long been victims of bias in the courts themselves.
It is a tale unfolding under the klieg lights of professional Washington, with a high-powered cast of players and some unexpected alliances. On one side are feminist legal groups whose outrage at the decision is matched only by that of Senator Hatch, the Utah Republican who angered many feminists with his combative questioning of Prof. Anita F. Hill during the Clarence Thomas hearings. And in Senator Hatch's generally conservative home state, several women's organizations have been collecting money to contribute to Ms. Prost's legal costs.
On the other side are fathers who say most judges automatically, and unfairly, favor mothers and who are hailing the ruling, made by a judge who is herself a mother.
The decision comes as more mothers of young children are working, as more fathers are aggressively seeking custody, and after a well-publicized Michigan case in which a mother going to college lost custody of her daughter because she had been placed in day care. And it raises questions that men and women are still struggling to answer -- how to balance motherhood and professional ambition, and how much fathers are willing to buck tradition by putting their children before their careers.
"I've had women all over Capitol Hill say, 'That could be us,' " said Senator Hatch, who has persuaded the Senate Ethics Committee to allow him to establish a legal defense fund for Ms. Prost. She is appealing the decision, which also requires her to pay $23,010 a year in child support, and hopes an appeals court will hear the case in November.
But David L. Levy, president of the Children's Rights Council, a Washington-based fathers' rights group, said the case showed that fathers were finally getting some credit as parents. "This was not a double standard," he said. "It's entirely consistent with who is perceived as doing more of the daily care of the child. It was all in favor of women before."
The battle lines were drawn after a July decision by Judge Harriett R. Taylor of the District of Columbia Superior Court. Ms. Prost, Mr. Greene and Judge Taylor would not comment for publication on the case, but their stands are vividly presented in the legal documents.
In a sharply worded opinion that offers a glimpse into the lives of two Washington professionals who married in 1984 and separated eight years later, Judge Taylor painted Ms. Prost as a driven workaholic who seldom arrived home before dinner and Mr. Greene as a doting father who put his children first.
In her opinion, Judge Taylor quotes friends and relatives of Mr. Greene's, as well as a baby sitter, who said Ms. Prost often ate dinner alone and very late at night, "while sitting on the kitchen floor, with her plate on the floor, talking on the telephone or writing while she was eating."
Friends of Mr. Greene described Ms. Prost as working even during her children's birthday parties, of "barking orders" at them, and of being "very tightly wound."
By contrast, the judge said Mr. Greene was a playful, affectionate parent to his two sons -- Matthew, 7, and Jeffrey, 4. Mr. Greene, Judge Taylor said, insisted that his current job, which he obtained after a nearly two-year bout of unemployment, offer him flexible hours.
In granting Mr. Greene custody, Judge Taylor said Ms. Prost was "more devoted to and absorbed by her work and her career than anything else in her life, including her health, her children and her family."
But Ms. Prost's supporters, including the Women's Legal Defense Fund, which filed a brief in the case, called that picture a distortion that reflected a common courtroom bias against working mothers.
"This is an injustice," Senator Hatch said. "Here's a professional woman I have seen day in, day out anguished over her children. This judge ignores the maximum effort that she made while rewarding the minimum effort that he made."
While Judge Taylor praised Mr. Greene for attending the parent interview for his son's kindergarten, going on class trips, and dropping by occasionally to read children a story, Ms. Prost's supporters argued, the judge ignored the testimony of the kindergarten teacher who said Ms. Prost was a "surrogate room mom."
Mr. Greene got credit for arriving home first, Ms. Prost's lawyers said, but Ms. Prost was not praised for getting up every morning at 5:30 and playing with her sons before she left for work at 8.
Moreover, Ms. Prost's supporters said, the judge ignored the testimony of a psychiatrist approved by both sides who said the children's primary attachment was to their mother, and failed to take into account that while Mr. Greene was unemployed, he did not take care of the children full time.
Joan Entmacher, senior policy counsel of the Women's Legal Defense Fund, a Washington-based legal advocacy group, asserted that such selective use of the testimony revealed that Judge Taylor was holding working mothers to a higher standard than working fathers.
Ms. Entmacher and Nancy D. Polikoff, a law professor at American University who has studied custody disputes, said several researchers had found that while in general mothers were usually awarded custody, fathers won a majority of the cases in which custody was contested. And, they said, the decisions reveal that when both parents have jobs, the courts judge mothers more harshly for working than the fathers.
Whether the Prost-Greene case shows discrimination against working mothers or an embrace of nurturing fathers depends on which of two bitterly contested accounts is given credence. For example, Ms. Prost testified that she never worked as late as Mr. Greene's witnesses said. Her job as chief minority counsel to the Senate Judiciary Committee, she said, forced her to work late only a few times a year, chiefly during confirmation hearings like those for Clarence Thomas and Ruth Bader Ginsburg.
Although he has opposed requiring employers to provide generous maternity leave, flexible working hours and job sharing, Senator Hatch testified that as a father of six, he instituted such benefits for his own workers.
Mr. Hatch said his office officially closed at 6 P.M. when the Senate was in session and 4:30 P.M. when it was in recess -- about half the year. In chiding Ms. Prost for her hours, Ms. Prost's lawyers said, the judge had clearly wrongly thought that the Senate was in recess only on Federal holidays. And Ms. Prost pointed to five and a half months of Senate day care logs showing that she never signed her younger son out of the center after 6 P.M., and often did so before 4 P.M.
But Sandra G. Wilkof, Mr. Greene's lawyer, said the judge was right to believe those witnesses who testified that Ms. Prost did indeed often return home after 7 or 8 P.M. "She couldn't convince the judge that a chief minority counsel works less than 40 hours a week, and I'm not surprised," she said. She asserted that the day care logs proved only that Ms. Prost was "showboating" by leaving early during the custody battle.
Ms. Wilkof, as well as two other lawyers and custody experts who reviewed the legal documents, Ellen Effron and Jeffrey Atkinson, dismissed the idea of sex bias. The real bias, Ms. Wilkof said, lies at the door of Ms. Prost, who expected that she should get the children because she is the mother.
Judge Taylor, in turning down a motion to alter her judgment, wrote that the bias assertion "boggles the mind." The judge, who is 62 and worked part time when her children were young, wrote, "A woman is as entitled as defendant, or any other man, to put her work and career ahead of the other demands in her life."
But she added, "Having consciously or unconsciously made that decision, however, plaintiff must live with its consequences."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (68%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN FEDERATION OF TELEVISION & RADIO ARTISTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (68%); 

SUBJECT: CHILD CUSTODY AND SUPPORT; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; FEMINIST MOVEMENT; MEN CHILD CUSTODY & SUPPORT (90%); WORKING MOTHERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (90%); CHILDREN (89%); FAMILY LAW (78%); PARENTAL DUTIES & RIGHTS (78%); ETHICS (77%); SUITS & CLAIMS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); WOMEN (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); VERDICTS (76%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (76%); APPEALS COURTS (74%); CONSERVATISM (72%); CHILD WELFARE (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); 

PERSON: HATCH, ORRIN G (SEN); PROST, SHARON; GREENE, KENNETH; TAYLOR, HARRIET R (JUDGE); CHIRA, SUSAN ORRIN HATCH (90%); CLARENCE THOMAS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



440 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 20; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Regain a Little From Big Friday Losses

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Treasury prices recovered somewhat yesterday from a plunge on Friday as some investors took advantage of lower prices to buy.
The bond market was jolted on Friday by a Government report on industrial production that revived fears of accelerating inflation. Bond prices fell sharply, pushing yields, which move in the opposite direction, out of a trading range they had been in since July. Yesterday, the price of the 30-year bond rose 5/32 , to 972/32 , for a yield of 7.75 percent, down from 7.77 percent, a two-year high, on Friday. 
 "The market is getting pretty cheap," said Tom Carpenter, chief economist at ASB Capital Management in Washington, which has $10 billion in assets. "How much more it can get beat up is difficult to say."
Still, gains were limited by a perception that faster economic growth will push bond yields to 8 percent by the end of the year, traders and investors said.
The industrial production report on Friday suggested that the ecomomy would continue to grow briskly despite five increases in short-term interest rates by the Federal Reserve this year. The report fueled speculation that the Fed would need to raise rates again after its policy meeting Sept. 27 to slow the pace of inflation, which erodes the value of fixed-income securities like bonds. Many analysts had expected the Fed to wait until its November meeting before acting.
"I guess the bond bulls are getting pretty bloody here," said Larry Marks, director of fixed-income research at Harbor Capital Management in Boston, which has about $600 million in fixed investments. "I've been on the bullish side, expecting the economy to slow down and bonds to respond. That keeps getting pushed further and further back."
If the Fed plans another rate increase, "Why buy?" said Charles Quigley, a trader at Chemical Securities in London. "On Friday, I felt yields had in no way begun to discount the next move by the Fed. If that's the case, backing up the market 10 or 15 basis points has only just begun the next leg lower." A basis point is one-hundredth of 1 percent.
Some investors said they would not place any major bets on the direction of interest rates until the Fed's next move is clear. "We'd like to wait until we see the whites of the Fed's eyes before making a major move," Mr. Marks Harbor Capital Management said.
Even though bonds have risen to their highest yields in more than two years, some investors are not convinced that inflation is accelerating.
"What we have done is more or less stay the course, because real rates of return are abnormally high," said John Ray, who manages a $400 million bond portfolio at Commerce Capital Management in Memphis.
At an economics conference at Boston College yesterday, Robert E. Rubin, the head of the National Economic Council, said the so-called inflation premium had been eliminated from long-term interest rates. He said the rise in rates came from a growing economy and modest inflation, not high inflation and slow growth.
At the regular weekly Treasury auction of three- and six-month bills yesterday, rates were mixed. The Treasury sold $11.6 billion in three-month bills at an average discount rate of 4.61 percent, the same as last week, and $11.7 billion in six-month bills at an average discount rate of 5.05 percent, up from 4.99 percent last week.
The following are the results of the Treasury's auction of three- and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	Average Price	98.835	97.447	Discounted Rate	4.61%	5.05%	Coupon Yield	4.73%	5.25%	High Price	98.840	97.457	Discounted Rate	4.59%	5.03%	Coupon Yield	4.71%	5.23%	Low Price	98.835	97.447	Discounted Rate	4.61%	5.05%	Coupon Yield	4.73%	5.25%	Accepted at low price	76%	24%	Total applied for	$48,727,633	$49,087,734	Accepted	$11,626,421	$11,736,480	Noncompetitive	$1,364,033	$1,248,828	
 
Both issues are dated Sept. 22, 1994. The three-month bills mature on Dec. 22, 1994, and the six-month bills mature on March 23, 1995.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "3-Month Treasury Bills" shows average discounted rate of 3-month treasury bills in percent at weekly auction from June to Sept. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT HARBOR CAPITAL MANAGEMENT CO INC (54%); COMMERCE CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (50%); BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT BOSTON COLLEGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LONDON, ENGLAND (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES BOND MARKETS (94%); BONDS (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



441 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Tourism Rebounds in Affordable New York

BYLINE: By JOHN T. McQUISTON 

 BODY:
Helped by favorable exchange rates and a growing domestic economy, New York City drew more tourists this summer than in any of the previous six years.
Not only did tourists visit traditional attractions like the Statue of Liberty and the Empire State Building in increasing numbers, but many, particularly those from overseas, ventured to less likely destinations, like Brooklyn and Harlem. 
 "This has been the best summer in recent memory," said Richard Altman, a spokesman for the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau. "For starters, New York is now more affordable for foreign tourists, and we've gotten a lot of good coverage lately in travel trade magazines."
The outlook for the rest of the year is also strong, he said.
"So far, we've beat every month over '93, and we expect that trend to continue well into '95."
Hotel occupancy in June was the highest in 14 years, and July's figures were the best since 1986.
New York City was not the only area that benefited. From Cape May, N.J., to Mystic Seaport in Connecticut and the beaches and resort towns of Long Island, the numbers of visitors surpassed those of last year, which was rated among the best ever.
At Mystic Seaport, for example, which is Connecticut's most popular tourist attraction, attendance over the Labor Day holiday weekend far surpassed last year's, said Liz Gwillim, director of external affairs.
Mike Beringer, spokesman for the tourism division of the Connecticut Department of Economic Development, said calls to the state's toll-free tourist information line had increased to 212,601 this summer, from 127,214 last year. "And that's a good barometer for the tourism industry here," he said.
In addition to a relatively weak dollar -- which makes travel less expensive for foreigners -- and a stronger domestic economy, the region's tourism industry was helped by major events like the Gay Games, the World Cup soccer matches and the United States Open tennis championships. Pope John Paul II's visit next month is also expected to increase tourism.
Roland Zochbauer, 32, who works for the public transportation system in Linz, Austria, said he had stayed away from New York for nine years because it cost too much the last time he visited.
"It cost me twice as much then," said Mr. Zochbauer, who had walked up Broadway and visited Times Square, Battery Park City, Liberty Island, the Empire State Building and Greenwich Village in the same day. "Now the dollar is much lower."
The World Cup soccer games pumped an estimated $400 million into the region's economy, and the Gay Games added an additional $111 million, officials said. The United States Open tennis tournament attracted 529,687 fans -- its largest attendance ever -- and contributed $112 million, said David Neustadt, a spokesman for the City Comptroller's office.
Tourism officials said many of the visitors, particularly those from Europe, were venturing to areas other than the usual destinations.
"There's a lot of interest in Harlem and the city's wide range of ethnic neighborhoods in Brooklyn and Queens," said Mr. Altman of the Convention and Visitors Bureau. "The American culture is something that folks from Japan and Europe really gravitate to."
Jannes Vanderwal, 45, a computer specialist from Utrecht, the Netherlands, was visiting New York City with his wife, Mariana, 44, a preacher, and said Harlem was on their list of places to visit.
"People in my country, and my friends here, say Harlem is terrible, but I don't believe it and I want to see it for myself," Mr. Vanderwal said.
A survey of 25 of the city's major hotels showed that 70 percent of the visitors were from the United States, 12 percent from Europe, 6 percent from the Far East and Pacific Rim, 4 percent from Canada and Mexico, 4 percent from South and Central America and 4 percent from various other locations, said John Fox, senior vice president of PKF Consulting, an international company specializing in the hotel and real-estate industries.
Compared with 1993, he said, the biggest increase was from the Far East and Pacific Rim, which showed a 7 percent gain, while the number of European guests increased 6 percent.
Hotel occupancy rates were also solid in other parts of the region. Michael Davidson, president of the Long Island Convention and Visitors Bureau, said the occupancy rates there were up 9 percentage points from last year and 10 percentage points from 1992.
"Even though we had a hot and muggy July and some cool days in August, it was a good weather year for tourists, and advance reservations indicate that the fall is shaping up very strong as well," Mr. Davidson said.
This summer was also lucrative for the travel and tourist business in New Jersey, said Karen G. Shaffer, spokeswoman for the travel and tourism division of the New Jersey Department of Commerce and Economic Development. She said hotel, motels and inns reported a strong increase in bookings over last year.
Some visitors to New York City said they were drawn by the city's allure. Fernando Herrero, 37, a banker from Madrid, hiked over the Brooklyn Bridge on Friday.
"It's the capital of the world more or less, culturally, economically and socially," he said. "I have seen a lot about the city on TV and in pictures -- the movie 'Manhattan' by Woody Allen, for example."

GRAPHIC: Photos: While more tourists are venturing to the farther reaches of Manhattan and even the other boroughs, traditional attractions have not lost their cachet. The Karama family, from Morocco, waited to board the Liberty Island ferry. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); New York City's best year for tourism in this decade is showing no signs of slowing down, officials are saying, thanks to good exchange rates and the growing domestic economy. Tourists took pictures riding a bus through the theater district. (C. M. Hardt for The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 
Graph: "TALLY: Upturn in Tourism" shows New York City's hotel occupancy rates from 1986 to 1994. (Source: PKF Consulting)(pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); MOROCCO (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LINZ, AUSTRIA (50%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (58%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (98%); MOROCCO (79%); AUSTRIA (73%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); LINZ, AUSTRIA (50%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; CURRENCY; NYTRAVEL DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (91%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); TOURISM (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LODGING (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HOTEL OCCUPANCY (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); US LABOR DAY (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); TRENDS (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); CITIES (73%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (66%); SOCCER (66%); SPORTS & RECREATION (66%); TENNIS (66%); SPORTS (66%); TOURNAMENTS (66%); TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (61%); 

PERSON: MCQUISTON, JOHN T

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



442 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 
First Financial won the bidding for Western Union Financial Services in an unusual bankruptcy court auction after Forstmann Little and First Data withdrew. First Financial, an Atlanta company in credit card processing and debt collection, offered $1.193 billion for the New Valley subsidiary. [Page D1.] 

Federated will close six stores in metropolitan New York in its merger with Macy, including Abraham & Straus, Herald Square. Separately, Myron E. Ullman 3d, Macy's chairman, said he would resign at the end of January. [D1.]
Prudential Securities agreed to pay $1.1 million in fines and restitution to settle charges of securities law violations with Idaho state regulators. In settling the case, Prudential admitted that it had failed to supervise some of its brokers adequately. [D1.]
In another salvo in the Haft family battle for Dart Group, Herbert H. Haft sued a son, Ronald S. Haft, accusing him of taking part in a plan to misappropriate at least $7 million. [D2.]
Nestle will buy Alpo Petfoods for $510 million in cash. The purchase, from Grand Metropolitan, should strengthen Nestle's strong presence in the United States pet food market. [D5.]
The $12.6 billion AT&T-McCaw deal was completed, with the F.C.C's approval. AT&T is expected to move swiftly to invest in new digital equipment and introduce new services. [D5.]
Cooper Industries plans to spin off its petroleum and industrial-equipment business into a separate company. [D5.]
Coca-Cola forecast that international sales would grow by 14 percent in the third quarter, and its stock jumped. [D5.]
Micron Technology's chief and two other top officers quit, citing personal reasons. The departures surprised analysts. [D6.]
A Federal court refused to reinstate Apple Computer's 1988 copyright suit against Microsoft and Hewlett-Packard. [D6.]
 
The Economy
 
Alan Greenspan urged that banks be allowed to sell stocks and insurance. Mr. Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, called on Congress to lift barriers to these businesses. [D2.]
Tourism boomed this summer in the New York region, helped by favorable exchange rates and a growing domestic economy. [B1.]
 
Markets
 
The collapse of the market for bonds backed by home mortgages is being mourned on Wall Street. The bonds, known as mortgage-backed securities, make up $1.5 trillion, or 30 percent, of the total U.S. bond market. In recent years, they accounted for half or more of the earnings of some firms. But when interest rates shot up, mortgage refinancings fell and the firms lost money. [D1.]
Stocks ended little changed despite big gains in Coca-Cola and Eli Lilly. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.37 points. [D10.]
Crude oil prices jumped as traders focused on winter heating demand and tensions in Saudi Arabia. Coffee prices surged. [D17.]
The dollar fell against the yen amid expectations that a report would show a wider United States trade gap with Japan. [D17.]
Bonds posted a modest recovery from a steep fall on Friday as investors took advantage of lower prices. [D20.]
 
Today's Columns
 
The speculative tide in bonds is rising again, despite the large losses suffered by many investors this year. The optimism of investors shows that many think the worst is over and reflects the fact that they have not grown concerned about the poor returns of the Treasury market. But the heavy borrowing of money to buy bonds alarms some analysts. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D1.]
To promote its fall lineup, CBS is pulling out all the stops, including a late-night infomercial, pullout magazine ads, T-shirt offers and a CD-ROM. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D21.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: WU (NYSE) (58%); NESN (SWX) (55%); KO (NYSE) (54%); MU (NASDAQ) (53%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (53%); LLY (SWX) (50%); LLY (NYSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (55%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (53%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (53%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); 

STATE: IDAHO, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WESTERN UNION CO (58%); NESTLE SA (55%); COCA-COLA CO (54%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (53%); MICROSOFT CORP (53%); ELI LILLY & CO (50%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); MERCHANT BANKING (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (85%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); LITIGATION (78%); MERGERS (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); CREDIT CARDS (77%); PET FOOD MFG (77%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); SECURITIES LAW (75%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (75%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); US DOLLAR (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); PET FOODS (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (69%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (69%); MISAPPROPRIATION (67%); COFFEE MARKETS (66%); COFFEE (66%); INTEREST RATES (65%); MORTGAGE RATES (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (65%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); COPYRIGHT (50%); 

PERSON: MYRON E ULLMAN (56%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



443 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 752 words

HEADLINE: Cuomo Proposes a Cut in Utility Tax

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: FARMINGDALE, L.I., Sept. 19

 BODY:
Gov. Mario M. Cuomo traveled today to Long Island, where residents pay among the highest electric rates in the United States, to propose an election-year cut in a state tax on utilities that is passed on to consumers.
Four years ago, the Governor and the Legislature raised the tax, which is known as the gross receipts tax, by 15 percent to help balance the state budget at the height of the recession. Mr. Cuomo said he was not prepared today to say how much the tax should be cut or how the state would compensate for the lost revenue. 
 With utility rates a major business and political issue on Long Island, and with Long Island an important battleground in this year's gubernatorial race, Mr. Cuomo used his speech at the State University at Farmingdale to propose other measures aimed at reducing rates. All of the proposals made something of a bogyman of the Long Island Lighting Company, which holds a virtual monopoly on providing electricity in Nassau and Suffolk counties.
"We hold the proposition that the rates are too high and that they are unnecessarily high," Mr. Cuomo said. He added that he wanted the savings from the tax cut to be passed along to consumers. "We're in no mood to cut taxes to increase the profits of utilities," he said. "We want to reduce the costs of the ratepayer."
Besides proposing the tax cut, Mr. Cuomo called for a decrease in Lilco rates, instead of the two-year freeze that the utility has proposed to the Public Service Commission. He also said he would ask the Public Service Commission, whose members he appoints, to open Long Island to competition from other energy providers, possibly by forcing Lilco to transport electricity from other utilities over its lines. And he said he had asked state officials to study the feasibility of a public takeover of Lilco, a threat that has been used in the past.
Tax cuts have become a major issue in the Governor's re-election campaign against State Senator George E. Pataki, the Republican nominee. Mr. Pataki also has pledged a significant decrease in state taxes, but has yet to release a detailed plan. He is expected, however, to call for cutting the utilities tax, his aides said.
Mr. Pataki's aides depicted Mr. Cuomo's announcement as a campaign ploy. "It's a shame there isn't an election every month or we wouldn't have to be rolling back any of Mario Cuomo's massive tax increases," said Zenia Mucha, a Pataki spokeswoman.
During the recession, Mr. Cuomo and the Legislature canceled the third installment of a three-year cut in personal income taxes and raised taxes on businesses, petroleum and cigarettes. One of the increases was a 15 percent surcharge on the gross receipts tax, which is set at 4.25 percent of the revenues of utility companies.
Both business leaders and residential ratepayers have criticized the tax as regressive and a deterrent to growth, particularly in industries that use a lot of electricity, like high technology, and in regions like Long Island where the cost of power is already the highest in the continental United States.
This year, with the economy improving and the election approaching, the Governor and Legislature cut taxes by about $475 million, an amount that is expected to grow to about $1.6 billion when the reductions are fully implemented in 1997. One of the cuts reduced the surcharge on the gross receipts tax to 12.5 percent from 15 percent.
Last month, Mr. Cuomo said he would propose an additional tax cut of between $1 billion and $1.5 billion before the Nov. 8 election. Today was the first time he specified a tax to be cut under his plan. But he said he would not provide further details until he receives recommendations on tax cuts from his tax commissioner, James W. Wetzler, presumably within the next few weeks.
While the Governor's tax plan would affect the entire state, his other proposals were targeted at Long Island. He said he would ask the Public Service Commission to promote competition for Lilco by providing open access to the transmission lines owned by the utility. And he said the state would study the feasibility of constructing a transmission line of its own.
A Lilco spokeswoman said the company would cooperate with those studies and said it supported the Governor's plan to cut utility taxes. "We would welcome relief for our customers from the burden of these high taxes," said the spokeswoman, Suzanne Halpin. "If adopted, the Governor's proposal would be a step forward in reducing energy costs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (84%); NG (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (84%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (84%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (84%); SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) NATIONAL GRID PLC (84%); PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO) PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; RATES; TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); UTILITY RATES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CORPORATE TAX (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (73%); APPOINTMENTS (71%); INCOME TAX (71%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



444 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 511 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Three Top Officers To Leave Micron

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The chief executive of Micron Technology Inc., Joseph L. Parkinson, and two other top officers resigned from the computer chip company yesterday, citing personal reasons.
Top officers of Micron's largest subsidiary, the chip making operation, were named to lead the parent company. 
 The action surprised analysts because Micron, the world's ninth-largest maker of memory chips, has had no apparent financial trouble.
It is expected to report its performance for the fiscal fourth quarter later this week. Analysts have forecast a profit of $1.21 a share, down from $1.52 a year earlier.
"Usually, when you watch a company you see some shuffling around that suggests a transition," said Jim Handy, principal analyst at Dataquest Inc., in San Jose, Calif. "We didn't see anything that indicated to us there would be any change that way here."
A spokeswoman for Micron, Julie Nash, said she could not elaborate on the resignations.
Micron, based in Boise, Idaho, has grown steadily in the last five years, taking advantage of the recession in Japan to gain market share against its toughest competitors.
Mr. Parkinson, who is also the chairman and co-founded the company with his brother, Ward, in 1978; the president, James W. Garrett, and the chief financial officer, Reid N. Langrill, will leave Micron during the next month.
The head of Micron's semiconductor subsidiary, Steven R. Appleton, will take over as chairman and chief executive. The division's chief technical officer, Tyler Lowrey, and chief financial officer, Bill Stover, will assume those titles for the entire company.
"The guys who are coming up are very strong," said Thomas Thornhill, an analyst at Montgomery Securities in San Francisco. "It is a surprise that these other guys are leaving, unexpected."
Mr. Parkinson, Mr. Garrett and Mr. Langrill will continue to consult with Micron for six months after their resignations are effective.
Micron's stock has risen during the last year, although the climb has sometimes been unsteady. Like other technology stocks, it is sometimes subject to sudden swings.
Shares of Micron fell $1.75, to $39.675, on the New York Stock Exchange yesterday, before the resignations were announced.
"With them all leaving at a time when the stock is flying high, I think people will be able to look onto the fundamentals of the business," Mr. Handy of Dataquest said.
But, he added, "I sure wish I knew what precipitated it."
The company's growth in the last two years has exceeded that of virtually every other memory chip maker, with the exception of Samsung Electronics of Korea, which emerged last year as the No. 1 manufacturer. Its products are used in personal computers and other electronic products.
Earlier this summer, Micron announced that it would expand its test and assembly plant in Boise, where it employs 5,300 people.
Micron earned $259 million on sales of $1.14 billion during the nine months that ended on June 2. In addition to chip manufacturing, Micron builds computers, communications systems and display devices.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (93%); SMSN (LSE) (50%); 005930 (KSE) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (93%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (93%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (70%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (70%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (70%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (70%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (93%); DATAQUEST INC (70%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%); SAMSUNG ELECTRONICS CO LTD (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (70%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (70%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); BOISE, ID, USA (70%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS EXECUTIVES (91%); MEMORY CHIPS (90%); COMPUTER CHIPS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (90%); MICROPROCESSORS (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); ELECTRONICS (78%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%); MARKET SHARE (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (73%); SEMICONDUCTORS (71%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (60%); 

PERSON: PARKINSON, JOSEPH L; GARRETT, JAMES W; LANGRILL, REID N STEVEN R APPLETON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



445 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 640 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Mostly Flat but a Few Big Names Surge

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
The stock market closed little changed yesterday. But the final figures masked some notable rises in stocks, like Coca-Cola and Eli Lilly, as well as trading heavily influenced by high-speed computer-aided transactions.
Stock traders largely ignored the peaceful resolution of the Haitian crisis, and international currency traders paid more attention to anticipating this morning's release of July trade-deficit figures than they did to peace in the Caribbean. They bid down the value of the dollar in advance of the figures, which are expected to show a wider deficit and thus lead to a weakening of the dollar. 
 Yesterday, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 3.37 points, to 3,936.72, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index fell 0.34 point, to 470.85. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index was off 1.19 points, to 776.72.
The Dow rose early, setting a gain of almost 20 points about 10:45 A.M. But a spurt in trading around 1:40 P.M., detected by Birinyi Associates, quickly clipped about 8 points off the average. After that, the Dow fell steadily for 50 minutes, then oscillated. A surge in buy orders at the end of the session, probably computer related, lifted the Dow less than 3 points.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was below normal, with 277.1 million shares changing hands, about 3 percent below this year's average of 286 million shares.
Coca-Cola rallied the markets early with a forecast, released before Wall Street trading began, that its worldwide sales would be up 12 percent in the third quarter, probably producing its best quarter in five years and significantly exceeding analysts' estimates. Coca-Cola rose 1 1/4, to 49, on heavy volume of nearly three million shares. Coke, one of the 30 Dow stocks, added almost 4.5 points to the Dow average.
Eli Lilly also rose sharply, up 2 3/8, to 58 3/8, after several analysts revised their assessments of the drug company. In addition, Lilly reported that it and Somatogen, its partner in developing artificial blood products, had made enough progress that Lilly was increasing the venture's research funds by $1 million.
Shares of Time Warner were up 1 3/8, to 37 5/8, after Dan Dorfman, a financial columnist in USA Today, reported that General Electric might be studying a bid for Time Warner. G.E. denied the report; its shares were off 1/2, to 50 1/2.
McGraw-Hill, another media giant, saw its shares drop 1, to 75 1/2, but they remained close to their 52-week high of 77 1/4, set on Friday. McGraw-Hill had no comment that day when the New York Stock Exchange asked if it had any news to report. McGraw-Hill has been the subject of rumors about a takeover by Bertelsmann of Germany or another large European conglomerate.
Andrea Electronics, whose stock more than quintupled to 53 a share in the summer of 1993 and then fell to around 12 recently, zoomed again yesterday. It rose 7 7/8, to 19 5/8, on heavy volume after announcing that BellSouth would use Andrea's noise-reduction technology in some of its telephones.
Safety Components International rose 2 3/4, to 17 1/4, yesterday after the company said that its military subsidiary had won a $65 million United States Army contract to supply mortar cartridges.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 0.14 point, to 259.63, with advancing stocks lagging behind those declining, 1,214 to 966. The American Stock Exchange market-value index rose 1.27 points, to 461.13.
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 14 rose, led by International Paper, which gained 1 5/8, to 78 1/4, on no immediate news.
Among the stocks that make up the S.& P. 500 index, 221 fell, led by General Electric.
The most active stock, at 4.7 million shares, was Intel, which rose 3/8, to 67 1/4, after a recommendation by the manager of a Fidelity fund.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (90%); LLY (SWX) (58%); LLY (NYSE) (58%); TWX (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (90%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%); 

COUNTRY: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE) COCA-COLA CO (90%); ELI LILLY & CO (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); TIME WARNER INC (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE)

GEOGRAPHIC: CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); CURRENCIES (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (77%); BONDS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (74%); BLOOD DERIVATIVES (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



446 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 4; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Scrappy Arcade Owner Gives Up the Fight

BYLINE: Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WESTPORT, Conn., Sept. 19

 BODY:
For the first time in 12 years, Pac-Man and Turbo aren't working at Arnie's Place. The arcade, which divided this wealthy suburb and led to repeated court battles, closed Sunday after customers played their last rounds of pinball, air hockey and shoot-'em-up video games like Revolution.
In the end, Arnie Kaye, the flamboyant owner, said he was worn out from his disputes with town officials. 
 "I've spent more than a million dollars in legal fees fighting for my right to stay open, and we're not doing the business we used to do," he said. "It's a combination of economics and disgust. I feel I have been harassed by the town long enough and it's time to pack it in."
Town officials, however, say the harassment went both ways. They recall Mr. Kaye's threats to turn the arcade, located on Post Road, into a pornographic theater and to let members of the Hell's Angels take up residence there, as well as his refusal to comply with zoning regulations.
Still, there is nostalgia about the closing of the arcade, which Mr. Kaye, 53, said was moving to Brewster, N.Y., about an hour away, under new owners.
"I'm saddened that it's closing," said William Seiden, a former First Selectman who opposed the arcade's opening and once had Mr. Kaye arrested for trying to force his way into Mr. Seiden's office.
"I made a mistake on the game room, no doubt about that," Mr. Seiden said. "I thought it would be detrimental to kids, but it wasn't. He ran it well, and it ended up actually being a big asset for the town. It became a good place for young people to play."
Most town officials felt otherwise in 1982.
"We were initially concerned about traffic, and parking in particular," said Constance Greenfield, who was a member of the Zoning Commission when it rejected Mr. Kaye's original request for a zoning permit and who later, as chairwoman of the commission, battled with Mr. Kaye over other zoning issues. "We had never had anything like what he was proposing.
"We wanted to keep this a beautiful, quiet New England suburban town. We didn't want it to become a city."
Mr. Kaye, calling town officials snobs, did not give up. To draw attention to his plight, he chained himself to Town Hall, hired someone to dress as Pac-Man and hand out $50 bills to anyone wearing an "I Support Arnie's Place" T-shirt and appeared on national talk shows.
"Their opposition boomeranged on them," Mr. Kaye said. "We opened up anyway and all the notoriety and attention helped to bring in thousands of people in the beginning. I was in business, and Mr. Seiden lost the next election."
Three weeks after the arcade was opened, on June 14, 1982, it was closed by a Superior Court judge, who then ordered the Zoning Commission to reconsider Mr. Kaye's application. A month later, the commission granted approval, but limited Mr. Kaye to 50 machines. He installed 80 machines, prompting the town to take court action that led to removal of the extra machines.
Then, things got nasty.
Mr. Kaye, saying it was hypocritical for the town to allow a topless bar but deny his request for more machines, threatened to turn his property into a pornographic theater and name it after Mr. Seiden. Then, he invited members of the Hell's Angels Motorcycle Club to town and offered them a rent-free home.
There have also been fights over parking and over what the town contends is Mr. Kaye's use of more square feet in his business than is allowed under the zoning codes, an issue still being fought over in the courts.
"My threats got more and more bizarre as my frustrations grew," Mr. Kaye said. "All I wanted to do was provide a clean, wholesome environment for kids where they could play and have fun. I'll always be proud of having done that."
Mr. Kaye said he planned to rent out the building, form a political watchdog committee and run for selectman so he could change Westport's zoning laws.
Many longtime patrons stopped by Arnie's Place over the weekend to play a few last games.
"It really stinks that they forced him to close down," said Daniel Schine, who brought his four children and four of their friends. "It's one of the few places in town where kids can do something at night that doesn't involve trouble. I always felt my kids were safe here."
Jonathan Stichel, 14, said, "It's our last chance, and we're going to play as many games as we can for as long as we can."
His 12-year-old brother, Alexander, added sadly: "There's no other place around here like this. I guess we'll just have to watch a lot more television now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Although Arnie's Place in Westport, Conn., was intended as an arcade, the wars there went beyond Pac-Man and video shootouts to battles with town officials over zoning regulations. "My threats got more and more bizarre as my frustrations grew," said Arnie Kaye, in his arcade, which closed Sunday. (Chris Maynard for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (70%); 

COMPANY: ARNIE'S PLACE (WESTPORT, CONN)

ORGANIZATION: ARNIE'S PLACE (WESTPORT, CONN)

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTPORT (CONN); UNITED STATES (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NORTHEAST USA (70%); 

SUBJECT: ARCADES; ZONING CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); CITIES (89%); ZONING (89%); SUBURBS (77%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); COMPUTER GAMES (72%); PORNOGRAPHY (52%); 

PERSON: KAYE, ARNIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



447 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Losing Bond Investors Are Betting Again

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
This year is shaping up as the worst ever for bond market investors -- and yet there are signs that speculation in bonds is building again as investors who lost money betting on bonds decide to step up and place new bets.
It is that speculation -- which shows up as the heavy borrowing of money to buy bonds -- that alarms some bond market analysts and persuades them that bond prices might have farther to fall. 
 The clearest indication of that is the amount of money that the largest bond dealers are lending to investors to buy Treasury securities. That figure peaked at $216 billion last fall, not long after the bond market itself peaked. Then, as bond market losses grew and speculators fled for cover, it fell to $125 billion in April.
But it has been rising since then, and last week the Federal Reserve Bank of New York reported that the lending was back to $206 billion as of Aug. 17. To be sure, the figures are volatile from week to week, but even looking at them on a five-week moving average the figure has risen from a low of less than $150 billion to $189 billion now.
"These numbers show there is no fear" among bond investors, said James A. Bianco, the director of research at Arbor Trading Group, a brokerage firm in Barrington, Ill. "People are still comfortable doing this even after a year in which the market has not rewarded them for doing this."
Much of that borrowing -- as well as borrowing from other lenders such as banks -- is for a strategy of borrowing at short-term rates and buying longer-term securities. That produces a clear profit -- it is called a "carry" in the business -- if rates remain level. But if short-term rates rise, the cost of financing the position goes up, eroding or even wiping out the profits. And higher rates for longer-term securities can drive down the value of the longer-term securities that were purchased.
The sheer amount of speculation earlier this year was widely held responsible for the rapidity with which interest rates rose. Many speculators, ranging from huge hedge funds to small investors who thought they had found an easy way to make money, unwound their positions quickly, driving interest rates higher. But many analysts had thought the speculative tide in the bond markets had eased.
There is no clear measure of the total amount of bond market speculation. The figures on borrowing from the leading bond dealers -- called primary dealers -- is only a small part of the speculation. But the fact that it is headed up has caught attention as a sign that many investors believe the worst is over for bonds, and that the big profits of the past three years are the norm.
"There has been a great speculative mania in bonds, conditioned by these three years in which you could do no wrong if you were long," said James Grant, the editor of Grant's Interest Rate Observer, a New York financial newsletter. "The reflex in the bond market is to be long and levered," he added, using market slang for owning bonds purchased with borrowed money.
The data on lending by primary dealers cover the period only up to the last increase in short-term interest rates by the Fed in August, and reflect a widespread confidence at that time that the Fed's move would be the last one for a while and that bond prices were likely to rally.
They did for a time but recently fell back and the yield on 30-year Treasury bonds rose to 7.77 percent, the highest since June 1992. Yesterday, bond prices rallied a bit, pushing the yield on 30-year bonds down to 7.75 percent.
The optimism of investors shows that many think the worst is over in the bond market and reflects the fact that they have not grown concerned about the poor returns of the Treasury market. According to figures compiled by Ryan Labs of New York, the worst 12 months ever for investors in 30-year Treasuries was from April 1979 through March 1980, when an investor lost 17.2 percent of the value of such bonds, even after considering the income from the bond's coupon.
But, Mr. Bianco said, a buyer of 30-year bonds at last October's high for bond prices, when the 30-year bond yield fell to 5.78 percent, has seen a loss of 18.3 percent since then through Friday.
Most bond market investors own bonds with maturities far shorter than 30 years, and as a result suffer less when interest rates rise. But even so, this has been an unusually bad year for bonds. Ryan Labs computes a total return index for the entire market of Treasury notes and bonds, and calculates that from the start of the year through Friday the market had taken a loss of 3.54 percent. That is, the capital losses on longer-term bonds have offset the interest income by that amount.
Given the nature of the Treasury markets, such losses are highly unusual. The last full year in which Treasury investors incurred a loss was in 1969, when the deficit came to seven-tenths of 1 percent. Ryan Labs has computed its index back to 1950, and reports that the worst calendar year was in 1959, when the loss came to 2.34 percent.
To Mr. Bianco, the fact that speculation in the bond market has come roaring back, even amid such losses, is proof that investors remain overconfident. When the market really bottoms, and interest rates top out, he believes that there will be far fewer investors willing to speculate on bonds. For now, he says, the current wave of speculators is unlikely to make money.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Bonds on Margin" shows the net amount borrowed from primary Treasury bond dealers to finance purchases of Government securities from 1990 to 1994. (Source: Arbor Trading Group, based on Federal Reserve data)(pg. D10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INVESTMENT STRATEGIES BONDS (92%); BOND MARKETS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



448 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 9; Column 2; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 656 words

HEADLINE: Major Tokyo Quake Would Cost $1.2 Trillion, Study Says

 BODY:
THE economic damage that would be caused by a major earthquake in Tokyo could reach $1.2 trillion, enough to send tremors through global economic markets and disrupt the economies of other countries, a researcher says.
"The effect would be massive and worldwide," forcing Japan to withdraw its foreign investments and focus on rebuilding its capital city, said the researcher, Dr. Haresh Shah, a professor of civil engineering at Stanford University. 
 Dr. Shah led a team of Stanford researchers in a recent study that assessed potential losses from great earthquakes in Tokyo, San Francisco Bay and Los Angeles. In all three places, the study predicted economic damage would be twice as great as previously estimated while the number of deaths would be cut in half.
The results, which have not yet been published in a scientific or academic journal, are similar to figures compiled in a separate study to be made public later this year by the California Office of Emergency Services. Risk Management Solutions Inc., a private company in Menlo Park, Calif., that represents more than 100 insurance agencies, sponsored the study after deciding that earlier estimates were not realistic. A 1981 report of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, for example, warned that its findings contained an error potential of a factor of two or three.
The Stanford researchers found that a repetition of the Great Kanto earthquake that demolished Tokyo in 1923 and killed 140,000 people could cause 40,000 to 60,000 deaths today. That earthquake is estimated to have measured 8.3 on the Richter scale of ground motion. In California, a recurrence of the 8.3-magnitude earthquake that struck San Francisco in 1906 and killed 3,000 people could cause 2,000 to 6,000 deaths and $115 billion to $135 billion in economic damage, the study found.
And a 7.0-magnitude earthquake on the densely populated Newport-Inglewood fault in the Los Angeles area could cause 2,000 to 5,000 deaths and $125 billion to $145 billion in losses. By comparison, the Northridge earthquake of 6.7 magnitude on Jan. 17 killed 60 people and caused up to $20 billion in financial losses.
Experts say the lower casualty figures are not surprising and are mainly due to improved building codes, which aim to save lives rather than minimize structural damage.
"Some damage is a positive thing because energy of the earthquake is dissipated," said Dr. Andrei M. Reinhorn, professor of structural engineering at the State University of New York at Buffalo. But he said that preserving lives had come at a cost. Many buildings, even some that appear sound, require extensive and costly repairs after an earthquake. Sometimes they must be demolished.
The study concluded that about 40 percent of estimated economic losses constituted brick-and-mortar repairs. An equal amount was attributed to the costs of business interruption, a category that was not included in previous studies. Repairs to roads, bridges and utilities, and workers' compensation claims accounted for the remainder.
The researchers' estimates have potentially devastating consequences for the insurance industry and could bankrupt some companies, said Robert B. Downer, vice president of the actuarial department at Farmers Insurance in Los Angeles. "We just don't have the surplus at this point to incur a loss of that magnitude," he said. "Most insurance companies would be in the same position."
The science of calculating loss estimates in earthquake-prone areas is still a developing field. Risk Management Solutions used a new computer mapping technique that combined data about individual structures and geological conditions to determine, house by house, the consequences of a catastrophic earthquake.
The study did not seek to predict the probability of such an event, but earthquake experts say a California earthquake of 7.0 magnitude or higher is likely in the next 30 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (69%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (69%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: STANFORD UNIVERSITY RISK MANAGEMENT SOLUTIONS INC (69%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (93%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO (JAPAN); SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); LOS ANGELES (CALIF); JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (96%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: EARTHQUAKES; FORECASTS; RESEARCH EARTHQUAKES (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); ENGINEERING (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); RISK MANAGEMENT (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (77%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (76%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (76%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (74%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (71%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (67%); 

PERSON: HARESH SHAH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



449 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 411 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
The Strike Hits Home: Mets Drop 28 From Front Office

BYLINE: By JENNIFER FREY 

 BODY:
Craig Sanders worked in media relations. Bob O'Hara was the team traveling secretary, the person who made the hotel and plane reservations for the Mets. Vinny Greco helped care for the team's equipment. Randye Ringler worked in communications.
Today, they are all out of work. Sanders, O'Hara, Greco and Ringler were among 28 members of the Mets' front-office staff who found themselves unemployed when the Mets pared their front-office staff yesterday as a result of the cancellation of the remainder of the season. 
 In a release issued late yesterday afternoon, the Mets announced that they had trimmed their front-office staff to 51 people, the latest cuts coming in addition to earlier cutbacks that affected 38 part-time, seasonal, or full-time employees.
"If I were in Fred Wilpon's or Nelson Doubleday's shoes, I don't know that I wouldn't have done the same thing," said Sanders, a four-year employee, referring to the team's co-owners. "I appreciate the organization and everything it has done for me. But it was a really sad day. Some people were really hit hard."
The cutbacks were heaviest in the area of ticket operations, but affected personnel ranging from Greco, who worked in the Mets' clubhouse, to Ringler, who was the director of communications. Secretaries in several departments -- some with more than 10 years of service -- also were affected. Some employees were terminated, but "a large majority are layoffs, with the hope they will return," according to David Howard, the club's general counsel.
More than a dozen clubs have made front-office layoffs.
Both the Reds and the Padres have released their directors of public relations, and calls to Jim Ferguson's former office in San Diego are greeted by this message: "This is Jim Ferguson. Press zero to return to the switchboard. You'll have to talk to somebody else. I don't work here anymore."
The Yankees have refused to release specific information regarding their front-office cutbacks, but David Sussman, the team's general counsel, said yesterday that of the the approximately 50 employees at the New York office, the Yankees had "furloughed a significant percentage." Most employees will be eligible to reapply for their positions when the labor situation is resolved.
"The majority of my time the past few weeks has been listening to fans who are unhappy about the strike," Sanders said. "Now, I guess I have something more to complain about than most people."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS NEW YORK METS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (73%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS BASEBALL (90%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); LAWYERS (62%); LAYOFFS (56%); 

PERSON: FREY, JENNIFER NELSON DOUBLEDAY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



450 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2025 words

HEADLINE: The Fall of a Baseball Autumn;
The Ballplayers' Strike Seems to Have Been Inevitable

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The baseball season was about to expire when management and union representatives met in New York to try to find some common ground on which they could salvage negotiations and forge a new collective bargaining agreement. At one point, Stan Kasten, the Atlanta Braves' president, rose and made two columns on a blackboard, and then began drawing connecting lines.
Whatever Kasten intended, the union didn't get his point. According to a person who attended the session, Kasten said: "Well, my first idea didn't work, so I'll go to my second." 
 "What was your first?" he was asked.
The extent of this miscommunication at a meeting Sept. 10 points up the breadth of the gap the two sides were trying to bridge as they worked, unsuccessfully, to settle the labor dispute that was keeping the players out on strike. That it still existed even at their last face-fo-face meeting and only four days before the season was called off underscores how totally the players and owners had failed to bridge that gap.
Nearly 775 players are in the 40th day of their walkout today, but the number has become meaningless. The shutdown, the eighth work stoppage in 23 baseball seasons, has become the most devastating in sports history and threatens to become worse, holding the potential to wreck the 1995 season as well.
In retrospect, the strike that began Aug. 12 appears to have been inevitable. The two sides entered the negotiations so distant in their economic thinking that they never were able to traverse the gulf between them. In fact, interviews in recent days with members of both sides have established that there were few moments in the talks that offered even the barest hint of movement.
Some of the most experienced minds on the players' side saw the owners' actions over the last four years as providing footprints that form an unmistakable trail. From the lockout-ending agreement in 1990 to the ouster of the commissioner in 1992 to the vote that changed the ratification requirement in 1994, the owners, in the union's view, had led the players to a strike that has wrenched the World Series out of its permanent place in the nation's psyche.
The owners' current labor initiative began with the desire of some lower-revenue clubs to create a system under which the wealthier teams would share a greater portion of their revenue. But they linked that system to a salary cap for the players, reviving an idea they had proposed in the 1990 negotiations.
Fay Vincent was baseball's commissioner then. When the clubs' negotiators were making no progress toward reaching agreement and ending the owners' lockout in March 1990, Vincent offered to lend his conciliatory hand to the talks.
For some owners, his hand was too conciliatory. Two years later, Bud Selig of the Milwaukee Brewers and Jerry Reinsdorf of the Chicago White Sox, who as members of management's labor relations committee had endorsed the agreement Vincent negotiated, led a movement to force the commissioner's resignation. No commissioner, they vowed, would undermine the owners' bargaining position again.
"This effort was undertaken shortly after Fay Vincent took the salary cap off the table in 1990," Eugene Orza, the union's associate general counsel, said of the owners' current strategy. "Some people realized then that having a guy like that around was an obstacle, and this has been in the works the past four years."
Selig denied the existence of any link between any previous negotiation and this one.
"I've heard that theory and I reject it totally and completely," he said. "All the events that have happened have happened for a myriad of reasons and each event has happened for different reasons. The Fay Vincent thing, in my mind, was not because of labor. It was for many things that were not happening. As to what happened in 1990, now you have this huge turnover of owners who came in and became convinced that they can't live with this system."
But a person intimately familiar with the thinking of Selig and Reinsdorf echoed the view of the people on the players' side.
"They didn't plan in any great detail how this would work," said the person, who has worked with both Selig and Reinsdorf and spoke on the condition of anonymity. "But once the 1990 negotiation ended, Selig and Reinsdorf immediately thought that 1994 was going to be the year, and they'd have to do things differently."
The idea, the person related, was to remove Vincent and anyone else they perceived as soft on labor. That included Steve Greenberg, the deputy commissioner and a former player agent. The owners didn't fire Greenberg, but they kept him out of labor matters and he eventually resigned.
Selig and Reinsdorf both have talked about the damage they felt commissioners have done owners in labor negotiations.
"They felt that if Vincent hadn't done what he did, they would've made a breakthrough in 1990," the person familiar with their planning said.
As far as Donald Fehr, the union chief, is concerned, Exhibit B was the owners' action at a meeting in Cincinnati last June 8. With Reinsdorf the architect of the plan, the owners changed from a simple majority of 15 to a three-fourths vote of 21 the required number of owners needed to ratify an agreement reached during a strike. This meant that a smaller group of moderate owners couldn't form a coalition to push for an agreement against the wishes of the hard-liners.
Fehr called the change "ominous" and said, "That is an act of people preparing for war."
The war has only escalated since.
 
Selig Produces Solidarity
 Selig has been the acting commissioner since Vincent was deposed. The owner of the Milwaukee Brewers, he also has spearheaded the effort to induce high-revenue clubs to share more of their local revenue with low-revenue clubs like his.
In a remarkable display of consensus building and power of persuasion, the 60-year-old Selig has held his colleagues together as they have marched toward the goal they failed to attain in 1990 -- a cap on payrolls in the face of soaring salaries.
With help from a corps of tough-minded owners, Selig has succeeded in molding a solidarity the owners never have shown in labor negotiations and one that would have brought a beaming smile from Vince Lombardi, the fabled coach of Selig's beloved Green Bay Packers.
The owners, in fact, seem to be pleased that they have reached this point without doing their quadrennial surrender. The only other time they held together this long was during the 50-day strike in 1981, but the glue then was their strike insurance. They don't have that crutch this time.
"The owners remind me of a team in the locker room at halftime of a football game," Randy Hendricks, a player agent, said. "The scoreboard says 0-0, they've lost two of their star players, half the fans have gone home and they're celebrating because they wondered if they could play the game hard against the other side."
Selig said he hasn't seen that reaction. "It's absolutely foolish because no one has won anything," he added. "All parties are suffering economically and psychologically. Yes, the owners held together, but no rational person could be gleeful. There's nothing to be gleeful about because it's in no one's best interest to be where we are. If they're gleeful, they're misguided."
 
A Moderate Owner Makes No Difference
 Toward the end of the second week of the strike, a group of 12 owners and club executives, at the urging of Federal mediators, met for two days with a group of players in New York. The mediators decided to adjourn that effort, though, when dialogue became heated, especially between Reinsdorf and Lauren Rich, a tough union lawyer who, like Reinsdorf, grew up in Brooklyn.
"Can you believe how she treated us?" Reinsdorf said angrily after the owners broke for a caucus.
"Jerry," said Jerry McMorris, owner of the Colorado Rockies, "you've led a very sheltered life."
McMorris, a trucking magnate, proceeded to relate stories of behavior he had experienced in bargaining with the Teamsters union. "That was a civil meeting," he remarked of the session with the players.
Most of the talking occurred away from the bargaining table and did not include Richard Ravitch, the clubs' chief labor executive, but those discussions didn't lead to anything either.
McMorris, meanwhile, became a focal point for the players because he, a moderate among numerous hard-liners, was willing to explore ideas other than a cap. He began having phone conversations with union officials and also met with them in in New York.
Diligent as his efforts were, they were unproductive. So were the ongoing conversations that four agents -- Tom Reich, Hendricks, Ron Shapiro and Tony Attanasio -- had with such owners and club executives as Selig, Reinsdorf, Paul Beeston of Toronto, Peter Angelos of Baltimore, Kasten of Atlanta and John Harrington of Boston.
In many of the instances, it was management people who initiated contact with the agents to explore ideas that might lead to a breakthrough in the dispute. In the end, the efforts failed.
But telephone conversations on Labor Day weekend did produce something. Through McMorris's efforts, union officials, who had tried unsuccessfully to get a computer disk that had all of the details of the clubs' revenue-sharing plan, received by fax on Saturday night a document with those details.
Discovering different details from those they had received last April, the union people formulated their own tax plan that would produce revenue to be shared with the low-revenue clubs. They presented the plan to management negotiators Sept. 8, and it was rejected the next day, Friday.
Selig, joining the talks for the first time that day, met with Fehr and his colleagues after the formal session.
"I told our people to stay over the next day and examine the tax idea," Selig said. "Brainstorm it. Maybe it will come up with something. But everything our people brought up, they said no."
That day, Sept. 10, McMorris left New York to fly back to Colorado. "We're a long way apart," McMorris said. "I wish we weren't, but we are."
Four days later, Selig canceled the rest of the season and the post-season.
 
Misperceptions And No Movement
 Just as the players had their position, the owners wouldn't budge from their salary cap. Although some other teams very likely would accept something less than a cap, the only clubs prepared to agree to any reasonable deal to save the season and the post-season were the two New York teams, the Los Angeles Dodgers, the Toronto Blue Jays, the Baltimore Orioles and the Rockies.
Through it all, miscommunication and misperceptions characterized the talks. Less than 15 hours before Selig announced the cancellation of the rest of the season, union officials, who had heard of Selig's intentions, received a message indirectly from an owner wanting to know why the union hadn't made a counteroffer to the owners' new offer.
What new offer? they asked.
It was based on a luxury tax, the owner sent word back, with the payroll limit being somewhere around $40 million and the tax escalating from 25 percent to 50 percent to 75 percent depending on the level the payroll reached. The union never had received the proposal.
Although union officials said the plan didn't do much for them, they said they might have made a counteroffer if they had received it a few days earlier.
The World Series died because neither side was ready to accept the other's position or move close enough to it to produce an agreement. Both sides, of course, blame each other, but the players can't shake the belief that this was all preordained.
Attanasio, the agent, likened the result to a battlefield scene.
"They give the coordinates and call in an air strike," the agent said. "Then they use heavy artillery, bring in antipersonnel stuff and lob mortars. Nobody can live. After that, they use flamethrowers and small-arms fire. When you go in, you stand on top of the hill and proclaim you've won. You look around and see nothing but bodies. Then you ask yourself, 'What did we do and why did we do it?' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rangers' Kevin Brown, at left, with the union leader Donald Fehr, Brewers' B. J. Surhoff and Indians' Dennis Martinez after negotiations Sept. 9 (Steve Berman for The New York Times)(pg. B12); Jerry McMorris, Rockies' owner, tried for an accord but produced little. (Associated Press)(pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN TEXAS RANGERS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (58%); ATLANTA BRAVES (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL PLAYERS ASSN TEXAS RANGERS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); MILWAUKEE BREWERS (59%); NEW YORK RANGERS (59%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (59%); ATLANTA BRAVES (58%); ATLANTA BRAVES (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (90%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; LABOR; STRIKES BASEBALL (94%); STRIKES (91%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); ATHLETES (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (89%); LOCKOUTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SPORTS (73%); SPORTS & RECREATION (73%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY FAY VINCENT (89%); BUD SELIG (87%); JERRY REINSDORF (77%); STAN KASTEN (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



451 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 5; Science Desk; Medical Science Page

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: Fierce Competition Marked Fervid Race For Cancer Gene

BYLINE: By NATALIE ANGIER 

 BODY:
WITH the discovery of a gene that causes inherited breast cancer, the many competitors in this most impassioned and publicly visible of all genetic races find themselves blinking in the sun, still a bit shocked that the long hunt is over.
No one is more surprised, and gratified, than Dr. Mark H. Skolnick of the University of Utah, whose team plucked the gene from a crowded stretch of chromosome 17, and out of the grasp of 12 other teams that had thrown hats and hopes into the ring. 
 "It was a hard problem and it took almost two years just to get to the right region," said Dr. Skolnick, who worked with 44 colleagues from five institutions. "It's very exciting to win such a race."
With the welcome advantage of hindsight, Dr. Skolnick ascribed his success to relentless hard work, a few missteps by his competitors and an extraordinary genetic resource: Utah's large, stable families and the vast genealogical archives of the Mormon church. Others on the team admitted there was also a strong component of the scientist's best friend. "What do I attribute our success to?" said Dr. Roger Wiseman, one of Dr. Skolnick's collaborators. "Luck."
The losers in the contest express a mixture of relief that the fugitive gene has been found, disappointment that it was not found in their laboratories, and, in some cases, frustration at knowing they probably had a piece of the desired gene but had failed to recognize it for what it was. A number of the defeated had devoted the entire effort of their laboratories for the last four years to the search for the gene, called BRCA1, and some are questioning whether the extreme competition accelerated or impeded the quest.
The medical, emotional and economic stakes were unusually large for a gene hunt. Not only is breast cancer the most hated scourge among women today, and a subject on many a politician's and activist's lips, but the identification of a gene linked to the disease offered great practical value in the form of tests to identify women at high risk of the disease and perhaps even new therapies.
Matching the high profile of the coveted gene were the high profiles of many of the contenders. Dr. Skolnick, 48, a former mathematician, made a name for himself 15 years ago, when he helped invent the technique that led to DNA, or genetic, fingerprinting. He has restlessly migrated from one project to another, working in Italy to track genetic changes among different human populations and this spring discovering a widely publicized gene linked to melanoma, a deadly skin cancer.
Three years ago he helped found a biotechnology company, Myriad Genetics Inc., of Salt Lake City, to seek out genes involved in common human diseases. The fledgling company now has a bonanza in BRCA1, for which it has filed a patent.
Among his most fervid and celebrated competitors were Dr. Mary-Claire King of the University of California at Berkeley, who got the race going when she announced the approximate chromosomal location of BRCA1 in 1990; Dr. Francis S. Collins, the director of the National Center for Human Genome Research at the National Institutes of Health and a certified gene jockey who helped find such previous prizes as the genes for cystic fibrosis, Huntington's disease and neurofibromatosis, and Dr. Raymond L. White, another geneticist at the University of Utah, who also helped discover the neurofibromatosis gene and genes involved in colon cancer.
The race was enlivened by longstanding feuds among the principal players, all of whom are known for their intensity, ambitiousness and competitiveness. Many of the quarrels, which are well known in the biomedical field, stem from past collaborations that fell apart, as high-powered scientific collaborations so often do. Like rock musicians, scientists thrive on recognition, and it is harder to get full recognition when one is part of a band.
"There's always competition for a limited resource, and here the resource is genes," Dr. White said. "We're in a world where affiliations come and go, the rules are rather poorly defined and there are lots of opportunities for misunderstanding." Besides, he said with a whooping laugh, "some of us take pleasure in people not liking us."
Perhaps the main reason behind the intensity of the race was the clarity of the goal. Most scientific problems are amorphous and difficult to frame. In this case, researchers knew that a gene associated with familial breast cancer was located somewhere on the bottom half of chromosome 17. Dr. King and others had demonstrated as much through molecular studies of families in which many women suffered from breast cancer, ovarian cancer or both.
Researchers knew that mutations in the gene gave carriers an 85 percent lifetime risk of contracting breast cancer, often before the age of 50. And they estimated that as many as 5 percent of all cases of breast cancer might be due to inherited defects in the gene.
Knowing the approximate neighborhood of the gene, scientists had only to narrow it down to a particular address. They had to pick through an undifferentiated morass of about a million subunits, or base pairs, of DNA, which probably held scores and scores of genes, as well as confounding stretches between genes.
To do that, all who leapt into the fray took fairly similar approaches. Looking through the DNA in blood cells from families with hereditary breast cancer, they searched for telltale patterns, or genetic markers, that would point toward the gene proper. And when they unearthed promising candidate genes, they checked to see if the gene differed at all between a family member who had the cancer, and one without the tumor.
As always happens in a scientific race, the contenders knew through the genetics rumor mill roughly where everybody was positioned from one month to the next. For a long time, nobody seemed to have the advantage. "Six months ago, I don't think you could have predicted from looking at anybody's strategy who would get there first," said Dr. Collins.
But in mid-July, the Skolnick team realized it had what almost certainly was the gene. "When we finally got toward the end, my first reaction was disbelief, that we can't possibly be correct, we must be missing something," said Dr. P. Andrew Futreal, who works in Dr. Wiseman's laboratory at the National Institute of Environmental Health Sciences in Research Triangle Park, N.C. "But the data kept coming back from Utah, confirming that we had finally landed on the right gene."
In recounting his triumph, Dr. Skolnick emphasized the importance of his team's access to the unusually large families of Utah. One of them, for example, had 40 women who suffered from breast or ovarian cancer. A few revealing patterns in the family's chromosomes allowed the scientists to narrow down the DNA region of study to almost half what the other groups were scratching through.
Some groups went down a dead end by seeking the gene through comparisons with the DNA of other animals, thinking that BRCA1 would very likely be conserved from one mammalian species to the next. As it turns out, said Dr. Wiseman, the breast cancer gene has changed significantly in its passage through evolutionary time, so the zoological approach was doomed to disappointment.
Dr. Walter Gilbert of Harvard University, a co-founder of Myriad Genetics, suggested that Dr. Skolnick succeeded because he kept his collaborative team running smoothly and relatively harmoniously, while some other groups worked under a kind of fission-fusion system, with collaborators sort of collaborating, and sort of competing.
For some of the scientists in the race, those with less astral reputations than the celebrity contestants, the search for the gene was at least partly motivated by pragmatic career concerns. A big discovery brings attention and all the essential sequelae.
"You get more grants, more money, more speaking engagements at scientific conferences, better graduate students and postdoctoral fellows applying to your lab," said Dr. Barbara Weber of the University of Pennsylvania, an unsuccessful contender who said her entire laboratory had devoted every minute of the last three years to finding the gene. "It's also very glamorous. So of course I'm disappointed and frustrated." On the other hand, she said, "you can still look around and say you have your kids and your health. On a scale from 1 to 10, good to bad, this is really no worse than a 5, or maybe a 6."
Dr. Wiseman said of his successful search for BRCA1, "It was the most extraordinary scientific endeavor I've been involved with in my short career." Nevertheless, as someone who came from the relatively obscure and comparatively civilized world of mouse genetics, he found the vitriol surrounding the search for the breast cancer gene hard to believe. "I was shocked by the competitiveness," he said. "It was a real eye-opener."
Despite any lingering grudges, the losers conceded the race with graciousness, complimenting Dr. Skolnick and his 44 collaborators at five institutions for their evident hard, meticulous work. Dr. King, for example, who may have been the scientist most obsessed with finding the gene -- "It was her reason for getting up in the morning," said Dr. Collins -- and whose personal less-than-tender feelings about Dr. Skolnick are well known to her colleagues , nonetheless described the discovery as "beautiful" and "lovely" and deserving of all the praise it might win.
The researchers realize that their ego disappointments must take a back seat to the considerable and far more pressing problems at hand. Among them are figuring out how the newly discovered gene works in both its healthy and mutant state; how many different mutations in the gene give rise to cancer, and whether some mutations are associated more strongly with breast cancer, and others with ovarian cancer, which is also linked to BRCA1; and what can be done to reverse the effects of a mutation in the gene, resulting in a cure for the disease.
The next question for all researchers in the field is, of course, what now? Some say they plan to study the gene in mouse experiments. Others are already trying to learn where the protein produced by the gene labors in the cell, and what its task is.
Myriad Genetics is moving forward as swiftly as possible to develop a screening test to check for mutations in the gene. Who will benefit from the test and how is not yet clear. Women from high-risk families with mothers, sisters and aunts affected may want to know if they inherited a faulty gene. Others who have only a relative or two with breast cancer may also consider being tested. Yet should a woman test positive, her choices are limited. She can watch and worry and go in for regular mammograms. She can opt for prophylactic mastectomy or try taking the experimental drug tamoxifen, but neither course has been proven to prevent cancer. And she can always hope that a medical breakthrough arrives before her cancer.
"Women will have to be very careful," said Frances Visco, president of the National Breast Cancer Coalition in Washington. "You're talking about giving them a test telling them they have an 85 percent chance of getting a disease that we don't know how to prevent, and for which there is no known cure."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Mark H. Skolnick led team that found gene on chromosome 17. (University of Utah/Associated Press) (pg. C3)
 
Diagram: "Needle ina Haystack: Search for Breast Cancer Gene"
 Schematic representation of the gene-crowded area of chromosome 17 in which a gene for familial breast cancer has finally been found. To give some idea of the complexity of the search, each successively smaller segment of DNA is composed of fewer and fewer base pairs, the genetic code contained in the double-helix molecule of DNA, right. The gene encompasses about 80,000 base pairs out of the thee bilion for human genome. (Sources: Dr. Susan L. Neuhausen/University of Utah; Dr. David Goldgart and Dr. Mark Skolnick/University of Utah and Human Molecular Genetics (gene segment maps); Science (chromosome 17); "A.M.A. Encyclopedia of Medicine" (Random House) (pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MYGN (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (60%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); MORMON CHURCH MYRIAD GENETICS INC (60%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (94%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF UTAH; UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (BERKELEY); MORMON CHURCH UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (94%); UNIVERSITY OF UTAH (94%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH; UNITED STATES (92%); UTAH, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (67%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: CANCER; BREAST; GENETICS AND HEREDITY; RESEARCH BREAST CANCER (91%); GENETIC DISEASE FACTORS (90%); GENES & CHROMOSOMES (90%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (90%); RELIGION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (89%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (89%); DNA (89%); CANCER (89%); SKIN CANCER (78%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (78%); GENEALOGY (72%); SCIENCE NEWS (71%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (71%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (67%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (53%); 

PERSON: KING, MARY-CLAIRE (DR); SKOLNICK, MARK H (DR); ANGIER, NATALIE MARK H SKOLNICK (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



452 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 4; Column 1; Science Desk; The Environment Page

LENGTH: 1407 words

HEADLINE: Emissions Must Be Cut to Avert Shift in Climate, Panel Says

BYLINE: By WILLIAM K. STEVENS 

 BODY:
EVEN if worldwide emissions of carbon dioxide were capped at present levels, atmospheric concentrations of the heat-trapping gas would continue to increase for at least two centuries, rising well beyond the point at which the earth's climate would be disrupted, an international panel of scientists has reported.
Just holding the atmospheric concentration at double today's amount would require cutting global emissions below 1990 levels, the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change said in a report last week. A doubling of today's concentration would raise the earth's average surface temperature by 3 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit and cause substantial climatic change, the panel found earlier. 
 The latest report from the panel, which advises the United Nations, is designed to guide parties to the climate treaty signed two years ago at the Earth Summit in Rio de Janeiro as they discuss whether the treaty should be strengthened. The discussion is expected to begin at the parties' first meeting next March in Berlin. As ratified by more than 80 countries, including the United States, the agreement requires developed countries to take actions aimed at capping carbon dioxide emissions at 1990 levels by the year 2000. There are no specific requirements for other countries.
But even if this target were applied globally and fully met, the new report says, the atmospheric concentration of carbon dioxide would still approach a doubling of its preindustrial level by the end of the next century. The reason, essentially, is that too much of the gas is already being spewed into the air as a result of the burning of coal, oil and natural gas and the destruction of forests to be absorbed quickly by remaining terrestrial vegetation and the oceans. As a result, the gas builds up.
Atmospheric carbon dioxide is the most important of a number of trace gases, including methane, that trap heat in the form of infrared radiation emitted by the earth after its surface is heated by the sun's rays.
It has long been recognized in a general sense that stabilizing carbon dioxide concentrations would require cutting emissions, and the Rio target has been widely considered a first step only. But the new analysis is the panel's first attempt to pin down more specifically and quantitatively the relationship between various levels of emissions, the long-term concentrations that result and the time periods involved.
"If you want to stabilize eventually, you've got to consider what you do now; that's a message that comes clearly through from the figures in our report," said Sir John Houghton, a British atmospheric physicist who is co-chairman of the intergovernmental panel's scientific working group, which issued the new report in Maastricht, the Netherlands. Dr. Houghton said he was speaking for himself, not the group.
The intergovernmental panel, which consists of 2,500 scientists and experts from around the globe, was created by the United Nations in 1988 to assess the state of knowledge about climate change. In scientific reports in 1990 and 1992, the panel said that a doubling of atmospheric carbon dioxide would cause the earth's climate to warm by 3 to 8 degrees Fahrenheit. By way of comparison, various estimates say the earth has warmed by 5 to 9 degrees since the depths of the last ice age.
This magnitude of warming, many climatologists say, would at the very least upset the earth's climate by altering atmospheric circulation patterns that determine where it is hot and cold, where and how much rain falls, where and how often storms strike and how violent they are.
Since cutting carbon dioxide emissions would have major economic impact, the idea that the emissions could bring climatic disaster has been disputed by political conservatives and some industry spokesmen. The intergovernmental panel's assessments on the climatic impact of carbon dioxide have also been attacked by scientists who reached contrary conclusions. The panel is preparing a reassessment of the response of climate to the continuing rise in heat-trapping gases, to be completed in about a year.
In the meantime, the group's new report outlines a daunting challenge to parties to the climate treaty as they grapple with the question of stabilizing carbon dioxide at a safe atmospheric level, as the treaty requires.
The new findings are based on a range of computer models of the global carbon cycle, in which recycled carbon moves continuously, over varying periods of time, among animals, plants, microbes, the atmosphere, the oceans and sedimentary rocks. In recent millenniums, scientists say, this flux produced a concentration of atmospheric carbon dioxide that was more or less constant at about 280 parts per million. Since the dawn of the industrial age, the level has risen to about 360 parts per million, an increase of 28.5 percent.
In the last century, the average surface temperature of the earth has risen by about 1 degree, but scientists say this warming could as easily have been produced by the climate system's natural fluctuations as by the increase in heat-trapping gases.
Many uncertainties surround the new analysis of emissions and concentrations. The carbon-cycle models differ in their estimates by plus or minus 15 percent, and they include a number of simplifications, assumptions and missing elements. For instance, scientists have long been unable to account for the fate of about 20 percent of the carbon dioxide emitted as a result of human activity. The oceans and the atmosphere take up the bulk. The new report says that some of the remainder is probably being absorbed by the regrowth of forests in the Northern Hemisphere. And a substantial part of the missing fraction may be residing in the deep roots of grasses planted to make way for cattle in South American savannas, according to a report by scientists at the International Center for Tropical Agriculture in Cali, Colombia, appearing in the current issue of the British journal Nature.
In any case, the model studies found that if carbon dioxide emissions were maintained at today's levels, atmospheric concentrations of the gas would increase for at least 200 years, reaching about 500 parts per million -- almost twice the pre-industrial concentration -- by the end of the next century.
The analysis also found that concentrations can be stabilized at any and all levels up to 750 parts per million, about twice today's concentration, only by cutting emissions below 1990 levels. The ultimate stabilization level depends on total accumulated emissions and is unaffected by the schedule on which they are reduced, the report said. But it said higher emissions in earlier decades would require lower ones later. "You can have a bonanza for a time and burn what you want," said Dr. Houghton, but "then you've got to come down with a bang." In that case, he said, higher emissions in the earlier decades would cause some measure of climate change.
Since bringing an immediate halt to carbon dioxide emissions is considered an economic and political impossibility, some further rise in overall concentrations appears inevitable. Environmentalists consider it unacceptable to settle for a capping of emissions at today's levels -- itself no easy task -- because, they say, it risks a highly unstable climate. The task before parties to the climate treaty may be to seek some climatically, economically and politically acceptable middle ground.
For instance, said Dr. Houghton, again speaking as an individual, a reasonable goal might be to stabilize the carbon dioxide concentration around 450 parts per million. This might be accomplished, he said, by holding global emissions roughly constant for the first half of the next century, and then beginning to reduce them.
"That would be a pretty demanding target, but one that might be just about achievable," he said. "I think that to talk about tougher targets than that would be extraordinarily difficult."
In any case, he said, "we should start to do what we can do now and also begin to plan to do more" and "not wait 10 or 20 years till things are more clear." If climate change turns out to be on the mild end of the range predicted by the intergovernmental panel for a doubling of carbon dioxide, he said, it might be possible to stabilize concentrations at 650 or 750 parts per million.
But to stay at even those levels, he said, emissions "need to come down."


GRAPHIC: In the earth's carbon cycle, the respiration of living things on land, both animals and plants, pumps carbon into the atmosphere; photosynthesis by trees and other plants removes much of it. The ocean is also a major absorber and discharger of carbon. The portion in the atmosphere is in the form of carbon dioxide, the major greenhouse gas. Concentrations of the gas averaged 280 parts per million before the industrial era. Now, as a result of fossil-fuel burning and deforestation, it is about 360 parts per million.
labels here; probabl need to decrease widhth.h width.
 
(Source: "Global Warming: The Complete Briefing," John Houghton (Lion Publishing)
Diagram: "Where the Carbon Comes From And Where It Goes"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); NETHERLANDS (65%); 

STATE: EARTH (93%); 

CITY: BERLIN, GERMANY (76%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%); 

COMPANY: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE INTERGOVERNMENTAL PANEL ON CLIMATE CHANGE (83%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BRAZIL (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (76%); NETHERLANDS (65%); EARTH (93%); BERLIN, GERMANY (76%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; FORECASTS; WEATHER; RESEARCH EMISSIONS (93%); CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (91%); GREENHOUSE GASES (91%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); METHANE (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); METEOROLOGY (78%); MILLENNIUM (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); PHYSICS (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (76%); WEATHER (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); DEFORESTATION (72%); 

PERSON: STEVENS, WILLIAM K

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



453 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 321 words

HEADLINE: Let's Try Cooperation In Japan Auto Talks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
As the United States Government heads down to the wire in trade negotiations with Japan (news article, Sept. 14), some analysts wrongly conclude that difficulties in the auto talks arise from fears in Japan that import sales may increase. A bit of background might be enlightening. 
 The so-called Framework discussions started more than a year ago with the purpose of establishing a new economic relationship between the United States and Japan. Autos and auto parts were included in the Framework, not because of any identifiable barriers, but rather because Japan sold more automobiles in the United States than United States companies sell in Japan.
The hangup in the talks is negotiating future indicators, criteria yardsticks or whatever else one wants to call numerical targets. This approach violates the basic principles of trading relations between countries.
More to the point, however, is that it simply can't work. Taking the next step, which is now being openly discussed in Washington, of retaliating against Japan for refusing to agree to such proposals would lead to chaos in world trade.
Sales of foreign automobiles in Japan have been increasing in recent years more from the European makers than from the United States Big Three. Now that the Big Three have begun to build cars for the Japanese market and are intensifying their marketing efforts, their sales are also beginning to jump dramatically.
In August, imports captured 10.7 percent of the Japanese passenger-car market, while Japanese purchases of American auto parts have increased 500 percent since 1986 to $15.5 billion.
The real solution to developing business is to keep working cooperatively between companies and industries, rather than pursuing the counterproductive approach of mandating results.
 
WILLIAM C. DUNCAN
General Director, Japan
Automobile Manufacturers Assn.
Washington, Sept. 14, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (99%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PROTECTIONISM (TRADE) LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (68%); 

PERSON: DUNCAN, WILLIAM C

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



454 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 267 words

HEADLINE: America's Meat Eaters Don't Get the Message

 BODY:
To the Editor:
A 2,000-page report published today by the Environmental Protection Agency concludes that dioxin levels in the fatty tissues of Americans who consume meat, fish, eggs and dairy products pose significant health risks. 
 These include elevated incidence of cancer, disruption of the immune and hormonal systems, sexual abnormalities and stunted fetal growth. (Dioxins are released by industrial processes, settle in soil and waterways, and accumulate in animal tissues.) The conclusions are based on an exhaustive three-year review of dozens of medical studies.
Meat industry and supportive government agencies are already working to subvert the report's startling conclusions and to reduce their economic fallout. The National Cattlemen's Association, following the lead of the tobacco industry, complained of insufficient evidence. And this year, Lynn Goldman, assistant administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, assured reporters that "the benefits of a balanced nutritional diet" -- presumably the cholesterol and saturated fat in meat -- "far outweigh the risk of dioxin."
During the last two decades hardly a month has passed without the disclosure of another report linking consumption of animal fat and meat with elevated risk of heart failure, stroke, cancer, diabetes, atherosclerosis, immune system disorders and other chronic diseases that each year maim and kill 1.5 million Americans. How many reports will it take before American consumers get the message?
 
ALEX HERSHAFT
President
Farm Animal Reform Movement
Bethesda, Md., Sept. 13, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: MARYLAND, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%); FARM ANIMAL REFORM MOVEMENT (54%); FARM ANIMAL REFORM MOVEMENT (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (93%); NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%); NATIONAL CATTLEMEN'S ASSOCIATION (56%); FARM ANIMAL REFORM MOVEMENT (54%); FARM ANIMAL REFORM MOVEMENT (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MARYLAND, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: MEAT; HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES; DIOXIN (CHEMICAL); FISH AND OTHER MARINE LIFE; EGGS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DIET AND NUTRITION; AIR POLLUTION ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (92%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); NUTRITION (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); OILS & FATS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (88%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (77%); WATER POLLUTION (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (73%); CHRONIC DISEASES (72%); CHOLESTEROL (72%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (72%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (72%); STROKES (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (70%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (69%); HEART DISEASE (66%); DIABETES (66%); EVIDENCE (54%); 

PERSON: HERSHAFT, ALEX

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



455 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 913 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Wants Laws To Let Banks Expand

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: NEWTON, Mass., Sept. 19

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, called today for Congress to expand banks' business options by allowing them to sell insurance and stocks.
Mr. Greenspan also suggested that some limits could be placed on bank deposit insurance and seemed to imply that these limits might be imposed as part of a compromise that would allow banks into securities and insurance activities. 
 Depository insurance makes it possible for banks to hold larger and riskier asset portfolios than otherwise, distorting the economy and exposing taxpayers to possible significant losses, Mr. Greenspan said.
Last week, Congress passed legislation allowing banks to do more business across state lines. But Mr. Greenspan cautioned today that if banks were not allowed to diversify into these new lines of business, they might still prove uncompetitive.
"So far, banks have been adept at finding ways to better serve their customers by taking advantage of new technologies and markets," he said. "However, I am concerned that they may be reaching the limits to efficient and low-cost ways of doing so. The unanswered question is: Will we continue to rescind and modify outdated laws and regulations in order to permit banks to serve the needs of their customers?"
Mr. Greenspan issued similar warnings during the Bush Administration, which tried unsuccessfully to persuade Congress to pass interstate banking legislation and remove other restrictions on banks. While his position is not new, he is the first senior banking official to put forward the next agenda for American banking deregulation after approval of interstate banking.
Insurance and brokerage companies remain hostile to any move by Congress to allow banks to move into their industries, making it unclear when any further legislation may pass.
The Senate gave final approval on Sept. 13 to a bill that eliminates the remaining restrictions in a dozen states on interstate banking and wipes out the costly requirement that banks set up a separate subsidiary in each state. President Clinton lobbied for the legislation and is expected to sign it in the coming days.
Mr. Greenspan did not discuss short-term interest rates today, which the Federal Reserve has raised five times so far this year.
The Federal Reserve chairman was one of eight Washington policy makers who spoke at a conference here at Boston College. The turnout was unusually large, but when academics try to attract prominent Federal officials to academic conferences, nothing quite matches an influential alumnus in Congress.
Boston College has Representative Edward J. Markey, '68, a Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House Energy and Commerce Committee's panel on financial and telecommunications regulation. He is known for summoning Government officials to numerous, sometimes confrontational hearings and when he agreed to serve as co-chairman of the conference, they leaped at the chance to attend.
So enthusiastic was the turnout that the college, seeking to avoid ticklish decisions on prestige, labeled four guests as keynote speakers: Mr. Greenspan; Laura D'Andrea Tyson, the chairwoman of the President's Council of Economic Advisers; Robert E. Rubin, the head of the National Economic Council, and Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich.
All but Mr. Reich, who fell ill this morning in Washington, spoke today. So did Robert D. Reischauer, the director of the Congressional Budget Office; four of the five commissioners of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and the chief executives of several big financial firms, including Daniel P. Tully of Merrill Lynch & Company and John C. Bogle of the Vanguard Group.
Also attending were Franco Modigliani, a 1985 Nobel laureate in economics; Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist and former adviser to President Ronald Reagan, and Peter Lynch, former manager of the Magellan Fund at Fidelity Investments.
Mr. Markey, the loyal alumnus, contended that the turnout reflected "the prestige of Boston College."
But Mr. Rubin put it much more bluntly. "You ever look at Ed Markey's subcommittee and who they've got jurisdiction over?" he joked at the beginning of his luncheon address, adding, "Whenever Ed calls and asks me a question, I find it very simple to answer -- I say 'Ed, what do you want it to be?' "
The turnout did not appear likely to affect Mr. Markey's prospects for re-election, which already seemed assured. His district, which lies five miles from Boston College at its closest point, has four times as many Democrats as Republicans. He ran unopposed in the Democratic primary, has raised far more money than his Republican opponent and has won every general election since 1976 by wide margins.
All of the Government officials chose to emphasize themes from previous speeches rather than making new statements. Mr. Rubin and Ms. Tyson did make pre-emptive criticisms of several ideas that Congressional Republicans are likely to emphasize when they present their autumn campaign themes next week.
"We're now entering a political climate, the November elections and the Presidential elections two years from now," Mr. Rubin said. "There's going to be a tremendous tendency, you can see it already coming, for a lot of political people to come up with lists of goodies -- a middle-class tax cut, capital gains tax cuts, expansions of I.R.A.'s."
 The caption also reversed the names of the president of Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. She is Cathy Minehan.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Business Day on Tuesday, with an article about the remarks of Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, at a conference at Boston College, misidentified one panelist in a discussion of financial markets. The panelist, fourth from the right, was William C. Ferguson, the chairman and chief executive of the Nynex Corporation, not Martin Feldstein, a Harvard economist and former adviser to President Ronald Reagan. Because of an editing error, the article also referred incorrectly to Mr. Feldstein. His office said he did not attend the conference.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyler Mathisen, left, Money magazine editor, moderated a panel discussion at a Boston College conference on financial markets yesterday. Panelists, from right, were: Franco Modigliani, a Nobel laureate in economics; Minehan Cathy, the Federal Reserve; Peter Lynch, Fidelity Investments; Martin Feldstein, Harvard; Karen Ferguson, the Pension Rights Center, and J. Carter Beese, S.E.C. commissioner. (The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (64%); BOSTON COLLEGE (59%); BOSTON COLLEGE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: BOSTON COLLEGE (59%); BOSTON COLLEGE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: BANKS AND BANKING; INTERSTATE BANKING (US); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; STOCKS AND BONDS; INSURANCE; DEPOSIT INSURANCE LEGISLATION (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); APPROVALS (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LOBBYING (78%); BONDS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (76%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (71%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (70%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (66%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (66%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN); TYSON, LAURA D'ANDREA (CHMN); RUBIN, ROBERT E; REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) ALAN GREENSPAN (93%); EDWARD J MARKEY (58%); BILL CLINTON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 1994



456 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 20, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Transportation Workers Face More Frequent Tests for Drugs

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
Thousands of bus drivers, train engineers and other transportation workers in the region will face more frequent random testing for drugs and alcohol beginning in January under a Federal law that is expected to cost regional transit operators millions of dollars a year.
 The New York Transit Authority expects its annual cost of testing to rise to $5 million from $1.5 million. 
It's going to be a complicated proposition," said Jared Lebow, a Transit Authority spokesman, "with some overtime or regularly scheduled extra train operators or bus operators, to make sure we don't impact service too greatly."
 The law requires that transit systems conduct one random urine test for drugs each year for every two employees in "safety sensitive" jobs, and one breath test for alcohol for every four "safety sensitive" employees.
 The degree to which alcohol is a problem is not clear. In August 1991 a drunken subway operator killed five people in a crash in Union Square, which prompted New York to increase its testing. In contrast, Connecticut Transit, a bus system with 775 employees, conducted 1,172 random tests over three years from 1991 to 1993 and found no alcohol use. It did find more than a dozen with traces of marijuana or cocaine, though.
 Some bus drivers in Connecticut and New Jersey have never been subject to random alcohol tests.
 At the Federal Transit Authority, Judy Z. Meade, the senior drug and alcohol program manager, said that some systems that had never tested would find "in the neighborhood of 5 to 6 percent positive tests."
 "Rates will be fairly high for the first two years, because it takes time for corporate climate to change," Ms. Meade said. "It takes time for John Doe to see his buddy Sam Smith be hauled away." But the deterrent will grow over time, she said.
 The Federal rules, issued by the Department of Transportation in February under the Omnibus Transportation Employee Testing of 1991, requires testing in the middle of workers' shifts, which means having substitute workers available. Most systems that test now do it at the beginning or end of the work day.
 Conducting even half as many tests as there are employees will not insure that everyone is tested. Michael A. Sanders, the Transit and Ridesharing Administrator at the Connecticut Department of Transportation, said that despite having conducted nearly 1,200 random tests in three years on a work force of 775, about 200 people have never been tested.
 While the Connecticut tests found no alcohol, Mr. Lebow said that at the New York Transit Authority in 1993, 0.47 percent tested positive for alcohol on random tests, and 1.85 percent in drug tests. The drug rate was comparable to Connecticut Transit's.
 The Transit Authority and other systems also conduct tests as part of pre-employment physicals, when workers return to duty after extended absences, after accidents, and whenever the authority is suspicious.
At the Port Authority, about 1,400 employees who drive snowplows, dump trucks and runway sweepers will be subject to testing for the first time, said John M.Kampfe, a spokesman. Another 450 workers on the PATH system, including engineers, train dispatchers and signalmen are already tested for drugs, but not alcohol.
 At New Jersey Transit, existing drug tests nearly meet the new Federal standards, said Elizabeth Schneider, director of medical services. But alcohol tests will be new and will probably turn up a substantial number of people working under the influence, especially in rail operations, she said. "People work unsupervised," she said. "It's a traditional railroad problem."
 Under the new Federal regulations, breath test readings showing a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.02 to 0.039 constitute grounds for taking an employee out of service for up to eight hours. From 0.04 up, the employee must be removed from the job and referred to a substance abuse program for professional evaluation, she said.
 In most states a blood-alcohol concentration of 0.1 (or two and a half times as high as 0.04) is sufficient to convict the driver of a private automobile of driving while impaired or drunk.

CORRECTION-DATE: November 9, 1994, Wednesday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sept. 20 about newFederal requirements for drug and alcohol tests for transit workers in cluded a statement, attributed to a New Jersey Transit official, suggest ing that new alcohol tests will proba bly turn up a substantial number of people working under the influence, especially in rail operations.
In letters dated Sept. 20 and Oct. 18, officials of New Jersey Transit say that the remarks of Elizabeth Schneider, their director of medical services, were misinterpreted. They say she was talking about potential problems in the rail industry in gen eral, not about New Jersey Transit, and that she did not characterize the numbers as substantial in any case.
 The agency's letters were delayed in routing between editors at The Times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD CONNECTICUT TRANSIT (56%); FEDERAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (83%); NEW YORK TRANSIT AUTHORITY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL TRANSIT AUTHORITY (83%); NEW YORK TRANSIT AUTHORITY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; RATES; INTEREST RATES DRUG TESTING (90%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (90%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (78%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); TRAINS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE TREATMENT (73%); COCAINE (73%); CANNABIS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); 

PERSON: THAYER, FREDERICK C (PROF) JUDY Z MEADE (56%); JOHN DOE (56%); JARED LEBOW (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 1994



457 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1077 words

HEADLINE: New York City Hospitals Chief to Lay Off 3,000

BYLINE: By MELINDA HENNEBERGER 

 BODY:
The president of New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation said yesterday that he plans to lay off about 3,000 workers and eliminate hundreds of hospital beds to close a budget gap and make the hospitals more competitive in a shrinking industry.
The president, Dr. Bruce Siegel, who oversees the city's 11 public hospitals and several dozen clinics, said the cuts would be made before the end of the fiscal year next June and would be scattered throughout the system. 
 Dr. Siegel said that one hospital likely to be hit with "potentially hundreds" of layoffs was Harlem Hospital Center, many of whose 746 beds have been empty on any given day in recent months.
Beds will be taken out of service at other hospitals as well, he said.
Though he does not need formal approval to proceed, he said he would give more details of his plan to the agency's board tomorrow.
Union officials said they were flabbergasted by what they knew of the Health and Hospitals Corporation's plan and said that two discussions with the agency earlier this week about the possibilities of such cuts had been extremely contentious.
"They said it translates into 3,000 workers, but they won't give us any details," said Stanley Hill, executive director of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees. "It's a disaster."
"At Harlem Hospital, they want to eliminate beds and people, but their attitude is not to cooperate and work with us," Mr. Hill said. "You're talking about people's livelihoods and about community services."
Dr. Siegel said the cuts were needed to close a $356 million gap in the agency's $3.6 billion budget and to lower costs to attract referrals from managed-care companies. The Health and Hospitals Corporation has about 8,000 acute-care beds and employs 48,000 workers.
An official involved in meetings about the proposed cuts, who spoke on condition of anonymity, said some treatment programs would be merged, laboratory operations would be consolidated and two surgery units at the Bronx Municipal Hospital Center would be combined.
The corporation's difficulties are partly due to the city's financial problems. The Giuliani administration has reduced the city's subsidy to the agency by $50 million as it grapples with its own deficit.
But most of the shortfall is related to the changes taking place throughout the nation in the medical industry. Hospitals everywhere are shrinking as medical care moves into outpatient clinics because of technological advances and efforts by managed-care companies to contain costs.
And Dr. Siegel said no place would be exempt from reductions.
"We're looking at layoffs all over the place -- some administrators, managers, aides, nurses, housekeepers," he said. "As our patients stay less time in the hospital and we close units, these are people we're not going to be able to employ any more."
Dr. Siegel said there would prOE bly also be staff cuts in clinics.
"We have a huge amount of staffing" in the clinics, he said, with "lots of very senior nurses and administrators, lots of aides, lots of techs, and that makes it difficult for us to get contracts with HMO's. They look at this staff, this overhead, and say forget it."
In addition to staffing cuts, roughly 4 percent, or 320 hospital beds will likely be taken out of service, though they will not be officially decertified by the state, officials said. Other economies will come from merging two alcoholism-treatment programs at Queens Hospital Center and Elmhurst Hospital Center, and from centralizing laboratory operations at one site within each of the system's six new regional networks, while closing the other labs.
Since January, the corporation has already trimmed 1,052 jobs from its central office, through attrition and 226 layoffs. And the new cuts would include another 300 layoffs at the city hospitals' headquarters, officials said.
Only days ago, most private hospitals in New York City guaranteed job security for many hospital workers, in exchange for a one-year wage freeze, a deal considered a major coup for the union in the current environment.
But several hospital executives say that industry-wide trends are hitting the public hospitals hardest for a variety of reasons, including the fact that the city hospitals have been slower to adapt to the newly competitive market.
In recent months, Dr. Siegel has been pressing the corporation's hospital administrators to come up with ways to save money. But none of the plans came close to solving the problems, he said.
Dr. Siegel said that, on average, patients in city hospitals stay longer than those in private hospitals, "not because they're getting better care, not because we're nicer people, but because we're not as organized." Hospitals are trying to reduce the length of in-patient stays because no matter how long a patient stays, Medicaid and other insurers pay the same amount for treatment.
Pamela S. Brier, executive director of Bellevue Hospital Center and head of one of the newly organized regional networks of city facilities acknowledged that some cuts were probably inevitable.
"It's very painful and very difficult, but there's no question we're going to have to do some things we don't want to do," she said.
Ms. Brier said that she expected some staffing reductions at Bellevue, but along with other hospital administrators was still working on the particulars of where the cuts would be made.
"From our perspective, we've been working on this for a long time, but we're not there yet," she said.
Dr. Siegel said that a general agreement was hammered out in the weekend meetings with administrators, but that many of the specifics were still being fine-tuned by hospital officials. And though he said the board does not need to formally approve the plan at tomorrow's meeting, he added that board members "have to feel comfortable with it."
Meanwhile, union and elected officials said they are lobbying the Mayor's office to derail the plan.
"The Health and Hospitals Corporation tells me that next month 3,000 people are going to be laid off, and we don't know what impact that's going to have," said Representative Charles B. Rangel, Democrat of New York. "I've talked to the city and told them this is a crisis. You can talk about empty beds all you want, but I think you've got an explosive situation on your hands. You don't just fire people based on economics."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: HEALTH AND HOSPITALS CORP (NYC); HARLEM HOSPITAL (NYC) HEALTH&HOSPITALS CORP (67%); AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: HEALTH AND HOSPITALS CORP (NYC); HARLEM HOSPITAL (NYC) AMERICAN FEDERATION OF STATE COUNTY & MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; HOSPITALS LAYOFFS (94%); HOSPITALS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); ACUTE CARE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (77%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (73%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COUNTIES (72%); CIVIL SERVICES (65%); 

PERSON: HENNEBERGER, MELINDA; SIEGEL, BRUCE (DR) MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



458 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-17
 
HAITI VIOLENCE CONTINUES
Haitian policemen attacked the crowds who went to greet American troops and killed one man, as it became clear that the violent forces in Haiti remained in control. A1
 
The man beaten to death was a frail coconut vendor. A15 

BITTERSWEET ROLE FOR CARTER
Even though he should be basking in his moment of glory over his new foreign policy role, former President Jimmy Carter continues to have an uneasy relationship with the Clinton Administration. A1
 
HAITI POLICE ROLE REJECTED
The Clinton Administration said American soldiers would not act as police in Haiti, but the exiled President said the Haitian military should be disarmed. A1
 
DISAPPOINTMENT FROM ARISTIDE
The exiled President of Haiti indicated he was displeased with the pact the United States reached with Haitian military leaders. A16
 
Attaches are thugs who support Haiti's terror campaign. A15
 
A plan to seize the Haitian ruler was reported and denied. A15
 
Haitians greeted marines who landed on Haiti's north coast. A14
 
Exiled lawmakers were puzzled over their role in the pact. A16
 
Haiti is expected to pass an amnesty for military leaders. A17
 
The Haitian accord gave Mr. Clinton a lift, polls indicate. A16
 
TRADE DEFICIT WORSENS
America's trade deficit with the rest of the world grew sharply worse in July to an unexpected $10.99 billion, its second worst in history, the Government said in a report that fanned inflation fears and depressed the value of stocks, bonds and the dollar. A1
 
ZULU LEADERS AT ODDS
The king of the Zulus split with the Zulu national leader, and their expected competition for leadership of the seven million Zulus is expected to add to the strains on the new South African Government. A11
 
A TAX SCANDAL IN ITALY
Santo Versace, chief executive of a leading Italian fashion house, Gianni Versace S.R.L., has fallen under suspicion of having bribed Government tax inspectors in exchange for favorable audits in Italy's latest business scandal. D1
 
America freed Russia from a cold war trade provision. A3
 
Corruption arrests in Italy, including a former Interior Minister. A5
 
The U.N. General Assembly met and selected a leader. A10
 
The junta met with the detained Burmese opposition leader. A3
 
Gincun Journal: Less and less land to till in China. A4
 
National A18-21, B7-8
 
A CASE FOR DROPPING HEALTH CARE
Two leading Republican opponents of health legislation and one of its oldest Democratic supporters urged the President to give up on the issue for the year. A1
 
Insurance commissioners want new powers to protect consumers. B7
 
NO MORE CAMERAS IN U.S. COURTS
The judges who set policy for Federal courts refused to make permanent a three-year experiment that allowed television coverage of some Federal trials and appeals. A18
 
GUN DEATHS TALLIED WITH SHOES
More than 40,000 pairs of shoes were arranged near the base of the Capitol to protest the number of Americans killed by guns. A18
 
LOOPHOLE FREES IRISH NATIONALIST
In the first use of a loophole in an extradition treaty, an Irish nationalist convicted of attempted murder was freed in San Francisco. A18
 
TESTIMONY IN TAILHOOK TRIAL
Two female guards at the Las Vegas Hilton said they were told to avoid the Tailhook convention because it was dangerous. A19
 
D.A.'S VIEW OF THE SIMPSON CASE
Prosecutors have pared their case against O. J. Simpson to a simple scenario: After killing his former wife, he slashed the throat of a friend who happened by. A20
 
FED UP WITH 2-PARTY SYSTEM
Voters are so "angry, self-absorbed and politically unanchored" that they have lost confidence in political parties and elected officials, a new Times-Mirror poll shows. A21
 
TOBACCO'S DEATH TOLL
Smoking kills three million people worldwide each year, one every 10 seconds, and the numbers continue to grow, a report concluded. B8
 
The C.I.A. director reported on affirmative action at the agency. B7
 
The space shuttle found alternate parking in the Mojave Desert. B8
 
Education Page B12
 
Private, all-black boarding schools experience a resurgence.
 
A study looks at why rural students outperform urban students.
 
A community college offers an academic money-back guarantee.
 
Metro Digest B1
 
HOSPITAL LAYOFFS EXPECTED
The president of New York City's Health and Hospitals Corporation said he plans to lay off about 3,000 workers and eliminate hundreds of beds to close a budget gap. A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Living Section C1-9
 
Health Page C10
 
Personal Health: Myths about depression at menopause.
Large study links exercise to a lower risk of breast cancer.
 
Arts/Entertainment C13-18
 
Martha Graham dancers reach contract. C14
Film: Rejuvenated "My Fair Lady." C13
Dance: Critic's Notebook C13
 
Obituaries D18-19
 
JULE STYNE DIES
Jule Styne, the versatile, prolific songwriter whose tunes became standards for three generations and who was the composer of such classic Broadway musicals as "Gypsy" and "Funny Girl," died yesterday in Manhattan. He was 88. A1
 
Sports B13-18
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A22-23
 
Editorials
 
Long shadow of the Exxon Valdez.
Military censorship lives.
The heart of Manhattan.
 
Letters
 
Bob Herbert: Betrayal.
Anna Quindlen: A fine mess.
Lawrence Pezzullo: Our stake in Haiti just got a lot higher.
 
Chronicle B11
 
Crossword C18

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

COMPANY: GIANNI VERSACE SPA (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (92%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%); CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (79%); HOMICIDE (78%); BRIBERY (78%); COLD WAR (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BONDS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LEGISLATION (75%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (71%); INFLATION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (70%); FASHION DESIGNERS (67%); CONSUMER LAW (67%); TAX FRAUD (67%); CORRUPTION (67%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (67%); INSURANCE REGULATION & POLICY (67%); SCANDALS (67%); INSURANCE (64%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (63%); FASHION & APPAREL (62%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (62%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (60%); POLICE FORCES (58%); POLLS & SURVEYS (53%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: JIMMY CARTER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



459 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1226 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: ARISTIDE;
Exiled President Urges Quick Disarming Of Haitian Troops and Paramilitary Units

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, called on the United States today to rapidly disarm his country's military and paramilitary groups.
Father Aristide, who had been silent since an agreement was struck on Sunday with Haiti's military Government, issued a statement that did not even mention the accord. Instead, he indicated in elliptical language his disappointment with the terms of the accord, which his aides said he considered to have no legitimacy. 
 But in meetings and telephone conversations today with American officials, the exiled leader voiced dismay, his aides said, that American troops in Haiti stood by while Haiti's military police clubbed Aristide supporters at demonstrations in Port-au-Prince.
Father Aristide's advisers said that, for fear of appearing ungrateful, he was loath to express public criticism of the agreement reached by a delegation led by former President Jimmy Carter. But he allowed his Ambassador and attorneys here to articulate his principal message: that the Administration needed to disarm Haiti's 7,000 soldiers and paramilitary groups opposed to Father Aristide.
"To have true democracy in Haiti, you must disarm those people whom the President of the United States has called thugs and murderers," said Ira Kurzban, general counsel for President Aristide. "If you don't disarm the Haitian Army and the paramilitary organizations, not only could you not have democracy, but you're putting American soldiers in harm's way."
These public statements, and Mr. Aristide's private complaints, prompted Mr. Clinton to dispatch Anthony Lake, the national security adviser, and Lieut. Gen. John J. Sheehan, the director of operations for the Joint Chiefs of Staff, to meet this evening with the exiled leader in an attempt to reassure him about the military mission, senior Administration officials said.
The White House issued a statement after the meeting saying that Father Aristide had accepted an invitation to visit the Pentagon on Wednesday for further briefings from Defense Secretary William J. Perry and from General John M. D. Shalikashvili, the chairan of the Joint Chiefs of Staff.
The statement said Mr. Lake had told Father Aristide that the President was committed to working with him and others among Haiti's legitimate authorities to prepare for their return, even as the United States is cooperating now with the country's military leaders.
Although several Administration officials acknowledged their anger at seeing Haiti's military police clubbing demonstrators, the Administration insisted that the military's mission was not to intercede in violence between Haitians or to play cop on the beat.
Mr. Kurzban and other Aristide aides said the exiled leader was essentially treating the agreement as irrelevant, partly because he believed it conflicted with United Nations resolutions. They said the agreement had no legitimacy because it was signed by Haiti's military-appointed President, Emile Jonassaint, who is not recognized by Father Aristide or by the Administration.
Michael Barnes, an adviser to Father Aristide, said the Haitian leader thought it was improper for American forces in Haiti to deal only with the military Government.
"President Aristide wants the U.S. to begin dealing with the legitimate Government in Haiti, to start talking with the Defense Minister he appointed, who has courageously remained in Haiti," Mr. Barnes said.
Father Aristide's advisers said the agreement made too broad a promise of amnesty for the military and should have required Haiti's coup leaders to cede power immediately and leave the country. The Aristide camp faults the Carter agreement because it calls for a general amnesty that would absolve the military of all crimes.
Father Aristide's advisers insist that this action is unconstitutional, because amnesty may be granted only for "political crimes," like ones related to the September 1991 coup.
"We must build a state of law so that there will be neither violence nor vengeance in our nation," Father Aristide said in his formal statement. "We remain vigilant to the declaration of democracy expressed by the people of Haiti, as, together with the people of Haiti, we move toward a new beginning."
The Administration sought to shrug off Father Aristide's lack of praise for both Sunday's agreement and the landing of American troops to help restore him to power.
"When some time has gone by, when he is able to resolve in his mind some of the details of this and put it in the larger perspective, I think that he will be supportive," a senior Administration official said.
But some members of Congress were more blunt in suggesting that Father Aristide seemed ungrateful. Representative David Obey, Democrat of Wisconsin, said in a speech from the House floor that only two words would have been appropriate from the Haitian leader: "Thank you."
Mr. Kurzban, the Aristide adviser, criticized the Pentagon for shunting aside its own plan to disarm Haiti's military and paramilitary groups within days of landing in Haiti. While the Administration is moving gradually to buy back guns from paramilitary groups, officials say they do not plan to begin disarming Haitian soldiers until the leader of Haiti's military Government, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, fulfills his promise of stepping down by Oct. 15.
"When Baby Doc Duvalier fled in 1986, everybody was dancing in the streets, then all these Haitians were killed because the Tonton Macoute who did all the killing under Duvalier still had the weapons," Mr. Kurzban said. "Unless you disarm these people, there are going to be lots of problems."
In a White House news briefing today, General Shalikashvili, head of the Joint Chiefs, praised the Carter agreement because it allowed the United States to land thousands of troops in Haiti "without a single shot fired up to now, without a single American having been wounded and died or without a single Haitian being wounded and died."
A senior Administration official who briefed reporters at the White House acknowledged that Mr. Clinton had grown concerned by late last week at the prospect of a power vacuum in Haiti if General Cedras stepped down immediately, as he had demanded.
The official said that concern had left Mr. Clinton willing, in principle, to accept an agreement negotiated by Mr. Carter that would allow General Cedras to remain in power for a short time. Mr. Clinton saw that as an acceptable trade-off because he believed American forces would be safer if they could count on cooperation from the Haitian Army.
As for the Administration's promise to lift economic sanctions, a senior official emphasized today that the agreement had said sanctions would be lifted in accordance with Security Council Resolution 940. That resolution, he noted, does not allow the sanctions to be lifted until General Cedras relinquishes power; in any case, he said, there is little sentiment within the United Nations for lifting them immediately.
In addition to the United Nations, the Organization of American States and the United States maintain sanctions against Haiti. But the official suggested that if the Administration considered exceptions to the sanctions, it would look first to what steps might help in providing "what our troops need in their mission."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the ousted President of Haiti. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times); Supporters of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide hailed American troops in Port-au-Prince yesterday; A Haitian girl sitting beside a roadblock set up by American troops yesterday warily eyed a soldier. (Photographs by The Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (96%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (93%); ARMED FORCES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); POLITICS (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); LAWYERS (69%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN JIMMY CARTER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



460 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk; Education Page

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Small Schools Are Key to Learning

BYLINE: By DIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Year after year, small rural schools in the Midwest and West register the highest Scholastic Assessment Test scores in the nation, a phenomenon usually attributed to the racial homogeneity of places like Iowa, the consistent leader in the rankings.
But a study challenging those assumptions as inaccurate, as well as racist, has found instead that rural schools do better because they are small. Minority children in rural states outperform their counterparts in the rest of the nation, according to The Report Card on American Education, a study conducted by the American Legislative Exchange Council. 
 "There is this unspoken message that places like Iowa do better because there are fewer black kids," said Bill Meyers, vice-president of the council, an association of state legislators. "It's one of the more subtle forms of racism, and it's just plain wrong."
The study found that school size, not classroom size, was the key in the performance of students. Children do better in places small enough that "the principal knows the name of each student." Schools with fewer than 300 students showed the best performance, Mr. Meyers said, even though class size in many of these schools was higher than the national average.
Moreover, schools in the rural Midwest placed more emphasis on core subjects, like reading and mathematics, than did schools in urban centers. Schools in these rural states, he said, more clearly viewed themselves as "places of learning, rather than social service agencies."
The states whose students performed highest in 1994 were: Iowa, Kansas, Minnesota, Montana, Nebraska, South Dakota, Utah, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
None of these states ranked among the top 10 in spending on education. In fact, most of them spent less than the national average. Utah, ranked last in spending among the states.
"We already know that money will not solve our education problems," the study said. "There is a growing consensus that successful schools have three key qualities in common: a belief that all children can learn -- and challenge their students academically; local control; and a high degree of parental involvement. These are things that money cannot buy but that concerned communities can provide."
Over all, the performance by American students on achievement tests this year showed no improvement from last year. Since 1972, the average score on the Scholastic Assessment Test, the most widely used college-entrance examination, has declined by 35 points.
The high school graduation rate in 1994 was 71.2 percent, unchanged from a year ago.
An important advantage for smaller schools was the ability of parents to become involved in a significant way, Mr. Meyers said. In a small school, a parent can attend a school board meeting and have some chance of being influential, but parents in big school districts more often believe it is futile to navigate the bureaucracy.
In addition, students in a small school stand a far better chance of participating in extracurricular activities, which boosts confidence levels. In a school of 3,000 or 4,000, only the very top students can get a chance to play football or edit the school newspaper.
"When a student cannot participate, he or she gets the message that, 'I'm not good enough,' " Mr. Meyers said. "There has been a lot of social engineering-type thought about ways to raise students self-esteem. Part of the problem might be that we're putting students in these big environments where their self-esteem is going to take a beating."
In smaller schools, Mr. Meyers said, teachers and administrators were more demanding of students and more likely to communicate with parents.
"Many of these things were once accepted as the norm," he said.
The study also found that spending for teachers since 1972 increased by only 3.5 percent after accounting for inflation. Meanwhile, spending for everything besides teachers increased by nearly 90 percent after inflation, in the same time.
The states in which students scored best were those which spent a bigger share of the education budget on teachers, Mr. Meyers said.
Despite the seeming advantages of small schools, public education in America has been moving toward bigger schools for more than a generation. Nationally, just over 10 percent of students attend schools with enrollments of 300 or less.
Mr. Meyers said some urban schools recently moved toward the small-scale approach, dividing a big school into five or six smaller ones.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "REPORT CARD: States and School Performance" lists test scores, graduation rate and amount of spending per student in '93 for various schools; and schools that are the top spenders. (Source: American Legislative Exchange Council)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: EDUCATION PAGE (NYT)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE EXCHANGE COUNCIL AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE EXCHANGE COUNCIL (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE EXCHANGE COUNCIL AMERICAN LEGISLATIVE EXCHANGE COUNCIL (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); IOWA, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (93%); MONTANA, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); TESTS AND TESTING; SCHOLASTIC ASSESSMENT TEST (SAT); RURAL AREAS; URBAN AREAS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES RURAL COMMUNITIES (92%); RURAL SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ACADEMIC TESTING (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RANKINGS (89%); GRADUATION RATES (78%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); PARENTING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); CORE CURRICULUM (66%); RELIGION (66%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (64%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (60%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (50%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, DIRK BILL MEYERS (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



461 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 13; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Falter On Rise in Trade Deficit

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities slipped yesterday after a Government report showed that the nation's trade deficit had widened in July. The larger deficit also weakened the dollar, which put further pressure on bonds. Treasury securities also suffered from higher commodity prices.
The Commerce Department's report of the July trade balance was a little worse than expected. The report showed the nation's trade deficit in goods and services widening to nearly $11 billion, compared with $9 billion in June. Exports were a little weaker than expected and imports were stronger. 
 The price of the 30-year bond fell 8/32 yesterday, to 9626/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from price, rose to 7.77 percent, from 7.75 percent on Monday. Inflation jitters and concern about further rate increases by the Federal Reserve helped to keep buyers at bay, as sellers used each uptick in prices as an opportunity to sell.
The yield is at its highest level since Aug. 24, 1992, when it was 7.82 percent.
Before the trade data were released, bond prices were already declining from overnight selling in Europe and Japan amid concern about inflation and its negative impact on the value of investments.
 "Japanese accounts have been selling all their foreign holdings, including U.S. Treasuries as well as European bonds," said James Hale, a fixed-income analyst with MMS International in San Francisco. "It's not that they hold large amounts of these securities, but when they sell they influence other investors."
And while both the dollar and Treasury prices recovered some losses, traders called it a difficult day.
Late yesterday, Johnson Redbook Services released its latest weekly survey on retail sales. The survey showed sales up 3 percent, weaker than the 4.2 percent increase for the previous weeks of September.
Charles Roden, managing director and head of fixed-income investing for Josephthal, Lyon & Ross, said that aside from the trade data, the market was also pressured from the supply side by a $1.5 billion global bond issue from the World Bank.
The global bonds, which mature in five years and are not callable for the life of the issue, were priced at 99.471 to yield 7.253 percent through underwriters led by UBS Securities.
Mr. Roden also noted that the market might have been concerned about yesterday's announcement regarding the size of next week's Treasury auctions of two- and five-year notes. "With all the negatives, there were a few plus sides today," Mr. Roden said. "The dollar rebounded and that helped the market psychologically.
"My guys tell me that some economists on the Street are telling institutional investors that they are now expecting not just one rate increase from the Fed, but multiple short-term rate increases," he added. "If you believe that, then many money managers will have to rethink their strategies."
Gains in commodity prices, especially precious metals, also helped to undermine bonds. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities rose 1.56 points, to 230.97. Gold prices jumped $3.60 an ounce yesterday, to $397.20.
 In the municipal market, the Puerto Rico Municipal Finance Agency sold $273.5 million of tax-exempt bonds through CS First Boston. The issue, most of which is insured by Financial Security Assurance and rated triple-A by Moody's Investors Service and the Standard & Poor's Corporation, was initially priced to yield a maximum of 6.35 percent for an issue due in 2019.
Serial bonds with shorter maturities were priced to yield from 4.60 percent in 1996 to 6.10 percent in 2009, with another long bond due in 2014 priced to yield 6.30 percent.
Among corporate issues sold yesterday was a $500 million debt offering by Wal-Mart Stores through Goldman, Sachs and Merrill Lynch.
The discount retailer sold $250 million of 8 percent notes due in 2005 at a price of 99.767 to yield 8.03 percent and $250 million of 8.5 percent debentures due in 2024 at a price of 99.031 to yield 8.59 percent.
Underwriters said the issues were rated Aa1 by Moody's and AA by S.& P.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Treasury Yield Curve" shows yields of selected Treasury securities in percent. (Source: Technical Data)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; TREASURY DEPARTMENT JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT; TREASURY DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (94%); BONDS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PRICE INCREASES (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); US DOLLAR (79%); AUCTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); SALES FIGURES (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (75%); INTEREST RATES (68%); RETAIL SALES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT CHARLES RODEN (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



462 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 775 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Survey Finds Voters in U.S. Rootless and Self-Absorbed

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
As they turn inward and worry about their own financial difficulties, American voters have become less compassionate about the problems of the poor and minorities, a study of public opinion shows.
The finding was part of a wide-ranging study, conducted by the Times Mirror Center for the People and the Press and made public today, that found an electorate that is "angry, self-absorbed and politically unanchored." 
 It concluded that there is "no clear direction in the public's political thinking other than frustration with the current system and an eager responsiveness to alternative political solutions and appeals."
The changed attitudes on race and social welfare, and a growing resentment toward immigrants, were striking given the relatively healthy state of the economy. The finding helps explain why President Clinton has not reaped much political benefit from an improved economy; most people say they do not feel the improvements and appear uncertain about their own economic future.
For the first time in the seven years of Times-Mirror surveys, a majority of whites, 51 percent, say they agree that equal rights have been pushed too far; in 1992, only 42 percent shared that view.
The racial attitudes tracked in the poll show considerable shifts. People now are less inclined to express concerns for the plight of black Americans than they were only two years ago, after the trial of four white police officers charged in the beating of Rodney G. King and the riots that followed in Los Angeles.
Fourty-four percent of whites say there has not been much real improvement in the position of blacks in the United States; 54 percent gave that response in 1992.
The poll also found a striking decline in public support for social welfare programs. Fifty-seven percent said it was the responsibility of government to take care of people who cannot take care of themselves, down from 69 percent in 1992 and 71 percent in 1987.
There were some demonstrations of tolerance for minorities, AIDS patients and homosexuals, so long as people's pocketbooks were not affected. In the biggest shift, 65 percent agreed that it is all right for blacks and whites to date, a 22-point increase over the figure for 1987.
The poll depicted an electorate that is so embittered and cynical that it is far less likely to believe in political parties and veteran politicians.
The disaffection is demonstrated by the finding that many young people, whose allegiances are often a gauge of future ideological trends, are politically rootless. The Republican Party squandered an 11-point advantage it held among adults under the age of 30 at the beginning of George Bush's Presidency, according to the survey. But Mr. Clinton has also failed to hold the support of a large segment of the young people he won over in the 1992 campaign.
Among adults under the age of 30 who identify with a political party, Republicans have a slight advantage over Democrats, 30 to 26 percent. But the highest proportion, 41 percent, call themselves independents.
"Neither party has an advantage with people under 30, or with voters 30 to 49, for that matter," the study said. "The slight numerical nationwide advantage held by Democrats results from a lingering preference for the Democratic Party among older voters still influenced by the Kennedy years, or more distantly, by the New Deal."
The Times Mirror Center has conducted a series of major surveys since 1987 to analyze public views in more depth than many public opinion surveys. For this survey, 3,800 adults nationwide were interviewed by telephone from July 12 to July 25. The poll's margin of sampling error is plus or minus two percentage points.
Another sign of voter unease is that the dynamics that led Ross Perot to win 19 percent of the vote in his independent bid for the Presidency in 1992 has not abated. Today 53 percent of the nation's voters said there should be a third major political party in the United States, the survey found.
The survey also found that 20 percent of the electorate was ready to bolt to a third party. This group of swing voters, which the survey labels "new economy independents," fits no easy political mold: It consists largely of high school graduates under 50 who are not optimistic about their future job opportunities. They are fed up with political parties and opposed to government regulation, yet they are strong environmentalists. They believe in social welfare programs but are not sympathetic to blacks. And though they are religious, they are moderate on social issues like homosexual rights. Three in 10 of this group voted for Mr. Perot.

GRAPHIC: Table: "SURVEY: Dissatisfaction With the Major Parties" shows demographics of persons polled who believe the should be a third major political party in the U.S. (Source: From a survey by the Times Mirror Center for People and the Press. Telephone interviews were conducted July 12-27 with 3,800 people age 18 and older. Margin of error: plus or minus two percentage points.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: TIMES MIRROR CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND PRESS THE TIMES MIRROR CENTER (70%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: TIMES MIRROR CENTER FOR THE PEOPLE AND PRESS THE TIMES MIRROR CENTER (70%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; VOTER BEHAVIOR; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PUBLIC OPINION VOTERS & VOTING (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (91%); POLITICS (90%); TRENDS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); RIOTS (71%); GAYS & LESBIANS (66%); AIDS & HIV (64%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (52%); 

PERSON: BERKE, RICHARD L BILL CLINTON (72%); GEORGE W BUSH (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



463 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
 The American trade deficit with the rest of the world, particularly Japan, rose sharply in July. The report came as Japanese and American trade officials began their final round of negotiations on market-opening measures this week. [Page A1.] 
 Italy's wave of business scandals has touched Gianni Versace, the fashion house. The company's chief executive, Santo Versace, has been accused of making illegal payments in 1990. [D1.]
Russia has been freed from a U.S. law, known as the Jackson-Vanik amendment, that tied trade conditions to emigration. [A3.]
 China is discovering the cost of its drive for economic growth as farmland disappears to make room for industry. [A4.]
 Azerbaijan and Western companies signed a 30-year deal to develop Caspian Sea oilfields, some of the world's richest. [D2.]
 
Companies
 A jury found that Herbert H. Haft had wrongfully dismissed a son from his executive posts at two family-owned companies. [D1.]
 Philip Morris is facing new shareholder pressure to split its cigarette business from its food and beverage businesses. [D1.]
 The teamsters' union will oppose the bid for Borden, saying it would not sell its shares to Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts. [D1.]
 Browning-Ferris made a $570.3 million offer for Attwoods, a London-based rival in waste management. [D4.]
 AT&T outlined plans to wed McCaw Cellular technology with its brand name. [D4.]
 Three big hospital chains have reportedly been negotiating a multibillion-dollar merger. [D4.]
 Magma Power said it was considering an $840 million takeover offer by one of its chief rivals in geothermal energy. [D4.]
 Viacom reached employment agreements with H. Wayne Huizenga and other top Blockbuster executives. [D17.]
 The judge in the Macy bankruptcy case wants a guarantee that Federated will continue Macy's traditional Thanksgiving Day parade and its Fourth of July fireworks. [B1.]
Bob Gutkowski was ousted as president of Madison Square Garden, which is being acquired by ITT and Cablevision. [B13.]
 
Business Technology
 Is the future of television digital? While technical experts say that the video industry is locking into a technological standard it may live to regret, tens of thousands of people are scrambling to buy equipment to receive 150 channels of digital programming. [D1.]
 
Markets
 Stocks tumbled after a report showed a wider United States trade deficit. Computer selling helped deepen the decline. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 67.63 points. [D1.]
 Treasury prices slipped on selling prompted by the U.S. trade figures. [D13.]
 Gold prices jumped as more investors sought a safe haven from inflation. Orange juice and wheat prices also rose sharply. [D16.]
 The dollar fell against the yen, weakened by increased concerns over the United States trade deficit with Japan. [D16.]
 
Today's Columns
 Management shake-ups are not new to Micron Technology, and the unexpected resignation of its top three officers failed to rattle Wall Street. Market Place. [D6.]
 Infomercials have acquired a certain legitimacy as nationally known marketers -- the latest being the Florida Citrus Commission -- start to use them. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D17.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: KKR (NYSE) (68%); VIA (NASDAQ) (53%); MU (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (68%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (68%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (53%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (53%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ITALY (88%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); 

STATE: CASPIAN SEA (72%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: KKR & CO LP (68%); VIACOM INC (53%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); ITALY (88%); AZERBAIJAN (79%); CASPIAN SEA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (86%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); STOCK INDEXES (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); GOLD MARKETS (78%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (77%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (76%); FOOD & BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); FASHION & APPAREL (72%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (72%); MERGERS (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (72%); SCANDALS (72%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); GEOTHERMAL ENERGY (69%); VERDICTS (68%); JURY TRIALS (68%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); TOBACCO MFG (67%); LABOR UNIONS (66%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (66%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (65%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (62%); PARADES & MARCHES (62%); THANKSGIVING (62%); VIDEO INDUSTRY (61%); HOSPITALS (50%); 

PERSON: ANN LIVERMORE (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



464 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1264 words

HEADLINE: On the Trail of 10 Tons of Garbage, and Bursitis

BYLINE: By N. R. KLEINFIELD 

 BODY:
Before the sun rose, the sanitation crew bounced down Delancey Street yesterday past the tall, resolute buildings and headed uptown to pick up the rotting food remains and discarded shreds that were the city's detritus.
At 6:15, traffic was light. As was customary, John Viglietta drove and Bill Corcoran rode beside him. It was clear out, thankfully for Mr. Corcoran, who, at 38, already suffered the sanitation worker's trademark arthritis and bursitis. On rainy days, they exact their price. Every day, the men pick up about 10 tons of garbage, the weight of 66 refrigerators. 
 The first load was small yesterday. In dulled light, Mr. Corcoran, a burly man with short-cropped hair, hoisted the bags one by one and, with practiced ease, tossed them into the cavity of the truck. The odor was enough to weaken the knees, though Mr. Corcoran seemed oblivious. "It smells like money to me," he said. "That smell pays my mortgage."
As the malodorous leavings flew into the truck, the two men contemplated, among other things, their sentiments about the new labor agreement they must vote on that raises their wages but also requires the work force to pick up 20 percent more garbage. Mr. Corcoran and Mr. Viglietta have been advised that, starting next month, their route will be expanded and their quota will be more than 13 tons.
"That's tough," Mr. Corcoran said. "I'm not kicking up my heels."
Crews citywide now collect an average of 8.5 tons of trash a shift, below the high of 9.8 tons in the early 1980's, before recycling eased the workload. The contract proposal calls for new routes defined by the city that will mean an average load of 10.1 tons. Since some routes are far more spread out than others, targets for individual crews will range from 8 to 14 tons. Crews that fall short will have their pay docked.
Yesterday, as they do every Tuesday, Mr. Corcoran and Mr. Viglietta were picking up the residential trash along 21st and 22d Street between First and Third Avenues, plus a slice of Peter Cooper Village and the United Nations International School.
The crew -- which was suggested by the sanitation union to a reporter who wanted to follow their day -- was not one of those able to complete its route in three or four hours, as some teams can. Still, while their shift runs from 6 A.M. to 2 P.M., they said that they often returned to the garage between 12:30 and 1 P.M. They conceded that they could probably pick up more garbage.
Like many others of the 7,400 sanitation workers, Mr. Corcoran and Mr. Viglietta were not buoyant about the agreement -- some workers were adamant that they could not pick up more garbage -- but they were resigned to accepting it.
"I think it's the best we could get in the economic climate and with the new mayor," said Mr. Corcoran, who has collected garbage for 13 years. "I don't think we got as much as we deserve. But there are no givebacks, no layoffs."
"I feel O.K. about it," said Mr. Viglietta, 41, who has 14 years of experience. "We could see it coming. Recycling took away a lot of the work."
With their experience, Mr. Corcoran and Mr. Viglietta are paid about $42,000 a year, which will go up to about $45,000 under the new contract.
Both men tackled a towering pile of trash bags on the other side of Second Avenue. Once enough bags were aboard, they flicked on the hopper. It began crushing the garbage. A loud, grinding noise, the city's early alarm clock, reverberated from the truck.
"All kinds of stuff people put out," Mr. Corcoran said. "One guy in our garage found a body once. I've only found prostheses."
In the summer, maggots crawl over the garbage. Mice and rats feast on it. On a previous route, Mr. Viglietta and Mr. Corcoran came to know a rat that fed every day from the same trash can. When it heard the truck coming, it would withdraw. "It was an educated rat," Mr. Viglietta said.
Besides the regular aches, both Mr. Corcoran and Mr. Viglietta have been cut by broken glass in garbage bags. Once Mr. Corcoran had a hypodermic needle puncture a finger. He dropped a trash can and broke his foot. Seven years ago, a car ran a red light and hit Mr. Corcoran, breaking his foot, ankle and several ribs. Mr. Viglietta suffers chronic back pain and is "working on arthritis."
They would not mind more respect. "The only time people notice us is when we don't show up or they're stuck behind the truck," Mr. Corcoran said. "Ninety-nine percent of the people don't know we exist. Ah, I guess if I wanted recognition maybe I would have become a ballplayer or a rock star."
By 7:35, the north side of 21st Street was done (another truck did the south side) and they moved to 22d Street. Again, they only did the north side, except between First and Second Avenues.
The piles were big, 40 to 50 bags. The work slowed near First Avenue. Cars and trucks were parked helter-skelter; traffic was thick. Every time the garbage truck stopped, a line of cars formed. So, every few minutes, Mr. Viglietta circled the block to let cars by.
Just as Mr. Viglietta returned from one of his laps, a woman pulled up behind the truck and leaped out of her car with fire in her eyes.
"I came down here and was behind the truck and I went around the block and now I'm behind it again," she said. "I need to get in my garage."
"What am I supposed to do?" Mr. Corcoran said. "I've got garbage to pick up."
The woman raised her voice: "I'm a doctor and I've got an emergency."
"I'm a sanitation worker and I've got garbage," Mr. Corcoran shot back. "What am I supposed to do? Disappear?"
"It's been 20 minutes now," the woman said. "I want to get in my garage. It's an emergency."
"It can't be too much of an emergency if you've waited 20 minutes," Mr. Corcoran said.
Finally, Mr. Viglietta agreed to circle the block yet again. The woman did not thank him.
"Now what makes her time more important than mine?" Mr. Corcoran sneered. "But she's a doctor!"
After parking her car, the doctor conversed with the parking attendant and then came strolling down the block. She passed by Mr. Corcoran without a word. To her back, he said, "Hurry to that emergency. Hurry to that emergency."
When Mr. Viglietta returned, both of them started lifting bags. The doctor still irked them.
"Oh, I get it," Mr. Corcoran said. "She had to get into that garage before 9 to get the early-bird special. In by 9, out by 6."
"Yeah, that's the emergency," Mr. Viglietta said.
They crept down the block. Now came a treat, an old stove squatting next to a pile of trash bags.
"I love crushing an appliance," Mr. Corcoran said. "It breaks up the routine."
At 9:30, halfway done in Peter Cooper Village, the bulk of the route had been picked up. The truck was close to full, so the crew retreated to one of the drop-offs, at 59th Street and the Hudson River, to deposit it in a garbage barge.
When they arrived, the place was uncharacteristically congested. More than 30 trucks preceded them. Not until 11:15 could they dump their load. Then they headed downtown for their lunch break.
At 12:20, they were back on Peter Cooper Road for three more pickups. The hammering sun brought perspiration to the men's faces.
Next, they circled around and tackled the south side of 22d Street, which was light.
The final stop was the United Nations School: 70 bags. It was 1:10, and they were done, later than usual because of the crowd at the drop-off. They had picked up about 11 tons of garbage.
Mr. Corcoran mopped his brow. "It's not as easy as you'd think," he said. "It's work picking up garbage."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The daily rounds of the city's sanitation workers would be longer under a proposed new contract that would require them to pick up 20 percent more garbage in return for more money. One crew -- John Viglietta, left, and Bill Corcoran -- seemed to reflect a common sentiment, resignation that it was inevitable, as they went about their route yesterday on Manhattan's East Side. (John Sotomayor/The New York Times)
 
Map of Manhattan showing location of the truck route.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC)

ORGANIZATION: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL; CONTRACTS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; PRODUCTIVITY MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (90%); CITY LIFE (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (76%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (60%); 

PERSON: KLEINFIELD, N R; CORCORAN, BILL; VIGLIETTA, JOHN BILL CORCORAN (96%); JOHN VIGLIETTA (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



465 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1075 words

HEADLINE: Deficit in Trade Surged in July; Markets Jolted

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 20

 BODY:
America's trade deficit with the rest of the world rose sharply in July to the second-highest level in history, the Government said today in a report that fanned inflation fears, rattled the financial markets and depressed the value of stocks, bonds and the dollar.
The worse-than-expected trade report came as Japanese auto companies, in a highly unusual move, warned the Clinton Administration that they might break off their cooperation with the American auto industry, particularly their purchases of American auto parts, if the White House imposed trade sanctions on Japan. 
 The Clinton Administration has threatened to put punitive tariffs on Japan on Sept. 30 if Tokyo does not agree to open its markets in insurance, government procurement, automobiles and auto parts. The two sides began their final round of negotiations on market-opening this week and currency speculators are already placing their bets as to whether the talks will succeed or fail.
If the negotiations fail, the dollar is expected to weaken even further against the yen; if they succeed, the dollar is likely to strengthen, as speculators conclude that the Administration will not want to use currency to put pressure on Tokyo.
There was some positive news on trade matters for the Administration today, though. The Japanese Finance Ministry informed Washington that the Government in Tokyo intended to put off imposing a consumption tax for three years instead of the two-year delay originally planned. A longer delay in the tax should help stimulate the Japanese economy and the purchase of American goods by Japanese consumers.
There was also some good trade news for the Administration from Capitol Hill, where members of the House Ways and Means Committee and the Senate Finance Committee agreed on legislation that would approve and put in force the global trade accord known as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade.
Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, said the White House would like to see the legislation be introduced on Monday. Under the fast-track rules governing trade agreements, the House and Senate would then have 90 working days to vote on the measure, with no amendments allowed. President Clinton told reporters today, "I hope it can be completed in a speedy and bipartisan fashion this year."
The GATT agreement is expected to stimulate billions of dollars in new world trade by lowering and eliminating tariffs, quotas and subsidies in 123 countries. The United States could use the boost. The Commerce Department reported today that the trade deficit in goods and services widened to $10.99 billion in July, up 21.6 percent from June's level. Sluggish summer sales of American commercial aircraft and an unexpectedly sharp rise in imported oil prices were cited as the main reasons for the wider deficit.
It was the second-largest monthly merchandise deficit in American history, topped only by a $15.9 billion gap in December 1985. The deficit with Japan alone soared to $5.67 billion in July, the widest since March, while the deficit with China expanded to a record $2.67 billion.
With only 10 days left before the American-imposed deadline in the Japan trade talks, each side is seeking to bring maximum pressure on the other.
In a speech in Tokyo today, Lawrence Summers, the Treasury Department's Under Secretary for International Affairs, attacked the Japanese Government's overall economic policies as misguided, self-serving and harmful to other industrial countries.
While America has put its economic house in order, Mr. Summers said, Japan is failing to push deregulation vigorously, failing to make domestic consumption rather than exports the engine of economic growth, and failing to stimulate its growth with proper fiscal and monetary policies.
From the Japanese side came a different message. In an open letter published in Japan and addressed to Mr. Kantor, the Japan Automobile Manufacturers Association said that any American sanctions would cause its members "to determine whether continued industry-level cooperation is justifiable."
The association, which represents all 13 of Japan's major vehicle manufacturers, insisted that Japan was not engaged in any unfair trade practices in the auto markets. It contended that the list of American suppliers of auto parts to Japanese auto makers has grown from about 300 to 1,250 over the last five years and that purchases of American auto parts have jumped by more than 500 percent since 1986.
Nevertheless, automobiles and auto parts still account for two-thirds of Japan's $60 billion annual trade surplus with the United States. Andrew H. Card Jr., president of the American Automobile Manufacturers Association, said the Japanese association's statement offered further evidence that Japan "is simply ignoring the problem."
Mr. Kantor said, "It is unfortunate that the Japanese auto manufacturers have articulated their concerns in an unrestrained manner."
Privately, other American officials and analysts scoffed at the threat by Japan's auto makers to break off cooperation. They reasoned that Japan has much more at stake in automobile exports than the United States does and that Tokyo would feel more pain than Washington in a tit-for-tat sanctions war.
Officials say they expect one of three outcomes from the Japanese-American trade talks in the next 10 days.
In the best-case outcome, they said, the two countries would reach agreements for opening Japanese markets in insurance and government procurement. Japan might also agree to some further purchases of American auto parts, but other auto issues would be dealt with later.
A less preferable outcome, American officials say, would bring agreements on insurance and government procurement, but nothing on automobiles. The Administration might go ahead in the non-auto areas but put some symbolic sanctions on Japan in a sector like glass manufacturing, where the Japanese have frozen out American producers. This would signal Washington's displeasure that Tokyo was not making any move to open its car market.
The worst-case outcome, they said, would be to have no agreements in any area, with the talks collapsing as they did last February and the dollar plunging against the yen. Because many people believe that the White House cannot afford such a crisis while it is embroiled in Haiti, it seems possible that some way will be found to make a deal.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "A Deeper Deficit" tracks the deficit, or the excess of imports over exports for goods and services, since February 1993. Figures are seasonally adjusted. (pg. A1); "Balance of Trade" tracks dollar amount of imports and exports over the same period and shows the balance for July 1994. (Source: Commerce Department) (pg. D2)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) AMERICAN COMMERCIAL VEHICLES (50%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS AND TRADE (GATT) GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; AUTOMOBILES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); PROTECTIONISM (TRADE); LAW AND LEGISLATION; TREATIES; TAXATION; CURRENCY; STOCKS AND BONDS ; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS AND TRADE TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFLATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); EXCISE TAX (76%); SALES TAX (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); IMPORT PRICES (74%); GLOBALIZATION (74%); PRICE INCREASES (73%); HISTORY (73%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (72%); TAX LAW (70%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (64%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (60%); 

PERSON: FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (79%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



466 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Store Closings in Merger Seen as an Unwelcome Change

BYLINE: By RAYMOND HERNANDEZ 

 BODY:
Patrick James is suddenly worried about the future of his Garden City art shop, located in one of the most upscale shopping districts on Long Island.
In White Plains, the Mayor, S. J. Schulman got the news and wondered where the city would find another first-class department store for its downtown district. 
 And in Flushing, Queens, a community planning official, Regina Colletta, is baffled that just as the once-struggling commercial hub is beginning to thrive, one of its biggest stores is scheduled to close.
From Suffolk County in Eastern Long Island north to White Plains in Westchester to Herald Square in Manhattan, shoppers, small merchants and local officials were stunned to learn yesterday that a half-dozen upscale department stores -- two Abraham & Straus stores, two Stern's stores, a Macy's and a Bloomingdale's -- were scheduled to close in the next two years as a result of the pending merger between R. H. Macy & Company and Federated Department Stores Inc.
The looming departure of these businesses -- high-end retailers that in some cases served as magnets for their local shopping districts -- will be felt in a lot of people's day-to-day routines. As Barbara Lubel, a shopper at the Bloomingdale's on Franklin Avenue in Garden City, put it: "I just heard the news last night and it really saddened me. The Island has become mostly large shopping malls with very few upscale department stores left. Closing Bloomingdale's would be like the end of an era."
Some customers saw the closings as an inconvenience that would force them to change shopping habits that they had developed over years and even decades. Many small merchants, who have relied on the department stores to generate traffic, gloomily predicted the demise of local retail hubs already struggling to compete with modern malls and large discount retailers like The Home Depot, Bradlees and Kmart.
The decision to close the stores was in response to the concern of the New York State Attorney General, G. Oliver Koppell, that the merger between Federated and R. H. Macy would reduce business competition. Under the plan, Federated agreed to keep the stores open until it was able to sell them. If the stores are not sold in two years, Federated will hold further meetings with the Attorney General's office.
Mr. Koppell defended the agreement, under which the stores must be sold to another retailer who would be willing to hire the employees of the stores that Federated would close.
"We're very pleased that there's going to be a divestiture of these six stores," he said. "It's going to open competition and bring new department stores into the area. If these stores were not divested, there would have been a virtual lock on the department store business."
But around the metropolitan region, the question for many was which retailers, if any, would come forward and replace the six department stores.
Mr. James, the owner of the art shop in Garden City, said his business relied, in large part, on the kind of well-to-do shopper that Bloomingdale's was able to draw to the area. He said the closing would be devastating, even if another store moved in.
"In all honesty, Bloomingdale's brings a certain type of client, who buys our paintings," Mr. James said. "The closing will have an effect, even though we still have a Lord & Taylor and a Saks Fifth Avenue. But how long will they stay? I don't know."
Frank Georgiou, owner of a restaurant on Franklin Avenue in Garden City, doubted that any major retailer would want to open in a shopping district so dominated by furriers, jewelers, antiques dealers and bridal boutiques.
"The rents are too high," Mr. Georgiou said. "I don't think anyone will be able to afford it."
In White Plains, shoppers and small merchants said the closing of Macy's would kill the main reason people shop along Mamaroneck Avenue instead of in nearby malls.
"It's the last nail in the coffin for the little merchant on Mamaroneck Avenue," said Mark Lederman, whose family had already decided to relocate their camera store, Colortone Camera, to Elmsford, N.Y. "Macy's was the last thing to bring people to the avenue. It's extremely upsetting."
Mr. Schulman, the Mayor of White Plains, said the key to maintaining the downtown shopping district's "middle-market" niche is finding a retailer "that is of similar quality to Macy's."
"I certainly don't want a store that is on the lower end of the retail scale," he said. "And I certainly don't want a warehouse-style store without much customer service."
Many shoppers agreed. "For this location, we need a good store with quality merchandise," said Madeline Johnson, a retired teacher who was browsing the clothing section on the second floor of Macy's. "I'd hate to see it turn into something like a Filene's Basement."
At the same time, many felt that interest in the operation of the store had long ago waned. They mentioned a decrease in the variety of merchandise, and said any replacement would be welcome.
"I like J. C. Penney much better," said Marilyn Mazzella, after arriving at the Macy's to register at the bridal registry. "I get a little upset when I come in here because I end up walking in circles and never find what I want."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While the rumblings of corporate mergers are common to Wall Street, it is where stores close and jobs are lost that the shock waves are felt. In Garden City, L.I., the fear is of the planned merger of R. H. Macy and Federated Department Stores and the intention to close Bloomingdale's on Franklin Avenue. (Steve Berman for The New York Times); Big stores are anchors to towns as well as magnets for shoppers. In White Plains, the closing of its Macy's is a blow to its economy as well as a disruption for shoppers like Patty Thomas, left, and Beverly Richards. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (96%); HD (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (96%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (96%); NAICS444120 PAINT & WALLPAPER STORES (84%); NAICS444110 HOME CENTERS (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MACY, R H, & CO INC; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC MACY'S INC (96%); HOME DEPOT INC (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: MACY, R H, & CO INC; FEDERATED DEPARTMENT STORES INC

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) RETAILERS (93%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); DIVESTITURES (87%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (74%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (60%); 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, RAYMOND MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



467 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 706 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: VICTIMS;
In Sight of U.S. Ships in Port-au-Prince, the Killing Continues

BYLINE: By GARRY PIERRE-PIERRE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Sept. 20

 BODY:
He was a frail man who eked out a living selling coconuts on the streets.
A Haitian policeman clubbed him to death today with a stick of wood just a few feet from heavily armed United States infantrymen who, obeying their orders, did nothing to stop it. 
 The death of the coconut vendor, at 11:30 A.M. just across the street from the docks here, was part of a daylong assault by the Haitian police on people who came to watch the American military deployment.
People had streamed there by the thousands to gaze at the American ships as they docked, helicopters thundering overhead, and wave to and kiss the sober-faced soldiers.
"They've oppressed us," Marie Aliencin said of the Haitian Army as she waved to the arriving United States forces, adding in wonder, "We're getting beat up in front of the Americans."
The beatings led to recurring demonstrations by groups of people chanting democracy slogans and praising the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, Haiti's deposed President-in-exile.
Over and over, they danced in rare, open defiance of the police, who responded with gun butts, tear gas, tire irons and clubs made of sticks of wood.
Some, including Ms. Aliencin, admitted that they were glad of the small army of reporters, photographers and camera crews recording the violence. "We want the world to know what we've been through in the last three years," she said.
But the Haitians could not understand why the American military stood by in their helmets and flak jackets and watched it all happen from atop concrete walls and behind fences.
The challenge posed by the demonstrators, who hurled rocks and curses at the police, is one that the Haitian security forces have not to deal with here in Port-au-Prince since September 1991, when Father Aristide was overthrown in a violent military coup.
"We do this because these are very bad people," said Robert Louis, one of several protesters who taunted the police. "These people have beaten us and humiliated us and made us less than men."
The blue-uniformed Haitian police, some wearing helmets and others carrying shields, charged into the ranks of the demonstrators, hitting anyone in reach. One police officer repeatedly fired tear gas at the crowds, but his aim was bad. He bounced one canister off the headquarters of the Foreign Minister, lobbed another onto the roof where it smoldered for several minutes and blasted another at head-level through a crowd of journalists.
Some did find their mark, however, and demonstrators fled choking and weeping from the gray smoke. "They act like they want to kill us," said Jimmy Fresnel, a teen-ager who said he came to the docks just to see what all the excitement was about.
"Because I love Aristide, this is what they do to me," said Jean Stevenson, an unemployed mechanic who was beaten on the head and shoulders by four police officers while standing on Harry S. Truman Boulevard.
"I'm going to kill one of them," an officer at the scene told his colleagues. "I don't want to get hit by rocks."
At one point a truckload of uniformed soldiers arrived as backup. Most who suppressed the crowd were in uniform, but mixed in were a few so-called "attaches," plainclothes thugs who have no official authority but wreak violence on behalf of the security forces.
Some of the attaches, armed with pipes and sticks, beat and chased the onlookers. One man in a yellow polo shirt and black sunglasses hit a young boy in the face with a club and then laughed as other attaches beat the boy as he ran down the sidewalk. A teenager, a girl of about 14, stood bleeding profusely from her mouth and smashed nose.
"What we're watching here is a big thing," Mr. Joseph said of the beatings. "But at least we hope that things will get better."
Though his name was not known, the slain coconut vendor became a sort of a battle cry as the day wore on. "They have already killed one of us," said one woman, with tears streaming down her face.
The man's coconuts had been neatly stacked in a shopping cart when the police attacked him. Much later this afternoon, when most of the demonstrators had given up and gone home, the coconuts were still there, some left in his neat pile, others scattered and crushed.

GRAPHIC: Maps/Chart: "DEVELOPMENTS: Yesterday in Haiti" outlines the happenings of events in Haiti yesterday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (66%); 

CITY: PIERRE, SD, USA (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (66%); PIERRE, SD, USA (66%); 

SUBJECT: DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); RIOTS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); VEHICLE & BODY ARMOR (75%); COUPS (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%); WRITERS (65%); HELICOPTERS (55%); 

PERSON: PIERRE-PIERRE, GARRY; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



468 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Trade Data Spur a Big Stock Drop

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
America's mounting trade deficit was bad news for the dollar yesterday, and that, in turn, meant bad news for the stock market. Its fall accelerated by high-speed computer-guided trading near the end of the session, the Dow Jones industrial average lost all its hard-won gains since Aug. 30 and slipped below 3,900.
The Dow index of 30 blue-chip stocks, the best-known measure of stock performance, lost 67.63 points to close at 3,869.09, and the other leading indexes also fell. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 stock index fell 7.49 points, to 463.36, and the smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 9.98 points, to 766.74. 
 Stock prices usually fall because traders dislike a stock or are pessimistic about the economy, or both. But sometimes, as happened yesterday with the computer selling, factors that have little to do with market fundamentals or the world economy also play a large role.
Traders were dumping stocks all day after the release of worse-than-expected figures concerning the July trade deficit, which at $10.99 billion was the second highest in the nation's history. Then, a huge computer-guided "sell" program further reduced leading stock indexes at 3:36 P.M. Minutes later, when the Dow fell 50 points, the program activated the New York Stock Exchange's "circuit breaker" rules, which are intended to curb the computerized trading known as index arbitrage.
The probable identity of the computer trader will not be clear until the exchange publishes its computerized trading figures later this month. Nor was it clear why the trader was selling stocks in a falling market, when bargain hunting might have seemed more likely.
Jeffrey Rubin, a market analyst at Birinyi Associates, which tracks such trading, estimated that the sell program involved some 28 million shares in 360 S.& P. 500 stocks. It reduced the Dow by 20.10 points and the S.& P. 500 by 2.49 points, he said.
Christine A. Callies, an equity market strategist at Brown Brothers Harriman, said the market had risen too high on technical factors, rather than market sentiment. "This just wipes the slate clean," she said.
The market had been rising for three weeks, partly because of such factors as "short covering," by which traders who had sold borrowed shares betting that stock prices would fall were forced to buy shares when prices unexpectedly rose. Traders also bid up stocks because they believed that the Federal Reserve, which raised short-term interest rates by half a percentage point on Aug. 16, would not act again until after the November elections.
But now, that consensus has melted away. Yesterday's near-record low for the dollar versus the Japanese yen in the currency markets worried stock traders. That prompted the leading stock indexes to retreat from further assualts on their records for the year. The Dow's high this year is 3,978.36 points on Jan. 31. The S.& P. 500's high is 482.00 points on Feb. 2, and the Nasdaq's peak is 803.93 points on March 18.
The immediate cause of yesterday's fall was the Commerce Department's trade report. Wall Street economists had expected the deficit would total a worrisome $9.8 billion. When it exceeded that by a startling $1.19 billion, and included a wider deficit with Japan, the dollar fell to a New York close of 97.65 yen, just a fraction above the closing low set on July 12 of 97.40 yen after hitting a post-World War II low of 96.60 yen in intraday trading.
Japanese are paid in dollars for Japanese goods they sell in the United States, and then exchange those dollars for yen or other major currencies. The resulting glut of dollars has pushed the dollar's value to the lowest point in nearly 50 years. A weak dollar means foreign investors are less likely to buy stocks and bonds because gains will be cut when converted to their own currencies.
Amid the general retreat, some stocks advanced. Magma Power, which operates geothermal power plants, rose 7 1/4, to 34 3/4, after receiving an $840 million takeover bid from a rival, the California Energy Company. Shares of the 3Com Corporation, a computer company, rose 1 1/8, to 38 3/8, after it said its first-quarter profit had more than doubled.
Shares of First Alert and American Sensors, the two principal makers of carbon-monoxide detectors, rose on expectation of higher sales after reports that Vitas Gerulaitis, the former tennis star, died accidentally from carbon-monoxide poisoning. First Alert rose 2, to 27, and American Sensors rose 1 3/8, to 20 1/4.
Volume on the New York Stock Exchange was far above average, with 326.1 million shares changing hands, about 14 percent above this year's average of 286 million shares.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 3.72 points, to 255.91, with declining stocks far outpacing advancers, 1,812 to 492. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 2.98 points, to 458.15.
Of the 30 component stocks that make up the Dow industrials, 28 fell, led by E.I. du Pont de Nemours, which gave up 1 3/4, to 57 3/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. (pg. D6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET STOCK INDEXES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); CURRENCIES (89%); COMPUTER TRADING SYSTEMS (89%); US DOLLAR (89%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); ELECTIONS (60%); HISTORY (51%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



469 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 346 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Concerns Over Trade Deficit Push Dollar Lower vs. Yen

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar fell near its all-time low against the Japanese yen yesterday, weakened by a worse-than-expected report on the American trade deficit and fading prospects for a trade accord between the United States and Japan.
But the dollar gained against most leading European currencies as market demand for yen and a recovery in American bond prices helped limit selling pressure on the dollar. 
 The dollar began to weaken against the yen after the Commerce Department reported a 21.6 percent rise in the United States trade deficit in July, to $10.99 billion, putting the country well on track toward its worst trade imbalance in seven years. The shortfall with Japan increased 3 percent, to $5.67 billion.
The currency market had expected at most a small rise in the overall deficit. And yesterday's report reminded dealers not to expect a letup in the sale of dollars by Japanese exporters, a key factor behind the currency's 13 percent slide this year.
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar settled at 97.65 Japanese yen, down from 98.44 on Monday. Yesterday's close was the lowest since July 12, when the dollar closed at 97.40 yen after hitting a post-World War II low of 96.60 yen in intraday trading.
The selloff of dollars was also fueled by comments by the United States and Japanese Governments, seeking to apply pressure on each other ahead of a Sept. 30 deadline for a trade agreement that has been imposed by Washington. The United States has threatened sanctions on Japanese exports unless the two sides reach an agreement on government contracts by then.
"The market's reaction today has more to do with concerns that we won't get an agreement by Sept. 30," Chris Iggo, an economist with Chase Manhattan Bank, said.
A recovery in the American bond market and reports of dollar buying by large institutional investors helped to push the dollar up against European currencies.
In New York trading yesterday, the dollar rose to 1.5520 German marks, from 1.5480 marks on Monday. The dollar also rose to 1.2868 Swiss francs, from 1.2850.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (72%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT CHASE MANHATTAN BANK NORGE AS (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK OF CANADA (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK FRANCE (53%); CHASE MANHATTAN BANK DELAWARE (53%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (99%); JAPAN (96%); EUROPE (93%); GERMANY (72%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (93%); CURRENCIES (93%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); JAPANESE YEN (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); BONDS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); GERMAN MARK (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (64%); WORLD WAR II (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



470 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 379 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Prices Surge on Fears That Inflation Will Pick Up

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Gold prices surged yesterday, stopping just short of $400 an ounce, amid growing concern that a strong United States economy will accelerate the pace of inflation.
Silver and platinum prices also gained as investors who are concerned that inflation will erode the value of their stock and bond holdings buy precious metals, which hold their value when inflation picks up. 
 On other markets, orange juice and wheat prices rose. The Commodity Research Bureau index of 21 commodities gained 1.56 points, to 230.97.
Recent reports have shown that the United States economy is expanding quickly, which could lead to faster inflation growth.
"Everybody's worried about inflation; we know it's coming," said Leonard Kaplan, vice president of the Imperial Bank in Los Angeles. "The market is saying it's going to be worse than we think."
The gold contract for December delivery rose as high as $399.10 an ounce before retreating to settle up $3.60, at $397.20, a 13-month high, on the Commodity Exchange of New York. December silver gained 20.3 cents, to $5.67 an ounce, while October platinum rose $7, to $420.70 an ounce, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Orange juice prices jumped 3 percent amid concern that high temperatures in Florida may reduce next year's crop.
The hot weather "might not allow the first bloom to take very well," said Bob Tate, an analyst with Dean Witter Reynolds Inc. in Orlando, Fla. "It's still too early to say."
Orange juice for November delivery rose 3.70 cents, to 91.40 cents a pound, on the New York Cotton Exchange.
Wheat futures rose on signs of increased demand for American wheat.
The Agriculture Department said Egypt had bought 390,000 metric tons under an export bonus subsidy program, and traders said the country could buy another 1.5 million tons soon.
Egypt usually buys as much as 2.5 million tons of Australian wheat each year, said John Kleist, director of agricultural research with Quantum Financial Services in Chicago. But a drought has slashed Australia's harvest by more than 38 percent this year.
"The possibility exists that Egypt may be in for additional wheat because of the problems in Australia," he said.
September wheat gained 5.25 cents, to $3.8275 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); SIC6221 COMMODITY CONTRACTS BROKERS & DEALERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (90%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); DEAN WITTER REYNOLDS INC (66%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (53%); QUANTUM FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (52%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (55%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AUSTRALIA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ORLANDO, FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES TRADING; PRICES; GOLD; UNITED STATES ECONOMY PRICE INCREASES (93%); GOLD MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); PLATINUM MARKETS (90%); ORANGE JUICE MARKETS (90%); GRAIN MARKETS (90%); FIBER MARKETS (89%); COTTON MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); BOND MARKETS (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); METALS MARKETS (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); BEVERAGE PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); AGRICULTURAL RESEARCH (76%); AGRONOMY (76%); CROP RESEARCH (76%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BONDS (73%); WEATHER (70%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



471 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Martha Graham Company Reaches Pact With Dancers

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
The Martha Graham Dance Company reached a settlement with its dancers on Monday night after labor unrest threatened its "Radical Graham" season, which is to open the Next Wave festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Sept. 28. The dancers ratified a contract after a 10-hour meeting on Monday at the offices of the American Guild of Musical Artists, the dancers' union.
As part of the agreement, the dancers withdrew their demand for a guarantee of employment amounting to 20 weeks a year. Such a guarantee was the major sticking point in the negotiations, which have gone on for 10 months. Management withdrew its demands for concessions on travel overtime. 
 "The Martha Graham Dance Company continues to be the only AGMA dance company without a minimum guarantee of work weeks," the dancers said in a statement released after the meeting, which was attended by most of the company's 21 dancers and two board members, in addition to representatives of the union and management. "The artists understand financial constraints of any company in this economic climate, but there is a great sense of frustration among the dancers that the management and its board of directors are unable to make a commitment equal to the one that the dancers must make to be trained and available for 52 weeks in each year."
In a statement this morning, Ron Protas, the company's artistic director, said: "I and the Martha Graham board of trustees rejoice at the news that after much reasoning together, the Martha Graham dancers and management have reached an agreement that will enable the 'Radical Graham' season at BAM -- which celebrates Martha Graham's centennial -- to go on as planned."
The new contract expires on June 30, 1996. The dancers had been working without a contract since June 1993, although the company agreed to pay the minimum salaries the dancers would have received if a new contract had been ratified. The salaries increase 3 to 4 percent, with first-year apprentices receiving $247 a week, up from $240, and first-year principal dancers receiving $735 a week, up from $714.
Last week, the union issued an ultimatum to the company, suggesting that the dancers might take action if a new contract was not signed by 12:01 A.M. next Wednesday, the day of their scheduled opening at the Brooklyn Academy of Music. On Thursday, Graham employees received paychecks for about half their weekly salaries because of late receipt of a confirmed grant. The dancers refused the checks and walked out on Friday afternoon when they were not paid their full salaries. They were paid yesterday and reported back to rehearsal at the Graham headquarters on East 63d Street in Manhattan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: GRAHAM, MARTHA, DANCE CO MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE CO (94%); BROOKLYN ACADEMY (59%); AMERICAN GUILD OF MUSICAL ARTISTS (83%); AMERICAN GUILD OF MUSICAL ARTISTS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAHAM, MARTHA, DANCE CO AMERICAN GUILD OF MUSICAL ARTISTS (83%); AMERICAN GUILD OF MUSICAL ARTISTS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; CONTRACTS DANCE COMPANIES (92%); DANCE (92%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); DANCERS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); OVERTIME (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); LABOR UNIONS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (72%); WORK WEEK (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); AVERAGE WEEKLY EARNINGS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: MARTHA GRAHAM (97%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



472 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 1; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: A Cool Quest: One Wine Lover's Search for the Right Cellar

BYLINE: By ALLEN R. MYERSON 

DATELINE: DALLAS

 BODY:
IF there's anything more intimidating than shopping for wine, it's shopping for a wine cellar. My desire to keep my wine from becoming something worth pouring only onto salads soon confronted cooling contraptions with the size, complexity and price of intercontinental ballistic missiles.
Not that I have any great collection. Maybe eight or nine cases, much of that bought before leaving New York last fall, knowing that prices and selection in Dallas were no match. The closest thing I have to a wine cellar is a closet in the coolest room of my house. 
 Those who sell wine cellars would have us believe that momentary exposure to more than 70 degrees turns cabernet into vinegar. Who knows? But in Dallas, the temperature reached the mid-80's in March, the 100's by June. This year, New York was almost as scorching.
By late spring, I was sweating. Every time I saw a newspaper advertisement for wine cellars with a headline like "Mouton melting?" my temperature rose another few degrees, even though my collection runs more to California Chateau Technoburb than to Mouton.
I was in a race against the thermometer, and I was losing.
I bought the Wine Spectator magazine and hurriedly called some of the cellar sellers who advertise there and in some newspapers. First, I had to discuss how much room I needed. When I told sales clerks over the phone that I had about 100 bottles, they advised providing enough space for at least 100 more.
Then I had to choose between a free-standing refrigeration unit or the conversion of a closet or part of a room. For more than 600 bottles, a build-it-yourself conversion was much cheaper than a free-standing unit, the sales clerks said, not counting the loss of household space.
In the International Wine Accessories catalogue, I saw kits starting at $849 that store as many as 700 bottles. "It has insulation and a cooling unit, so you're ready to rock 'n' roll," a salesman told me. Or maybe just fox trot. Shipping and racks, it turned out, were several hundred dollars more.
Would I ever have enough wine to justify the labor and the cost? Not if I wanted to afford food to accompany that wine. As a corporate vagabond, I also realized that I wouldn't want to install a new wine room each time I moved. What's more, the older houses my wife and I prefer have too few closets to begin with, and in many parts of the country, including Dallas, basements are rare.
Thus I went looking for a free-standing cellar. My first source of confusion was the brand names listed in the catalogues. Three of the major makers turned out to be Vinotemp, Vinocraft and Vinotheque.
Then there was the techno-babble. A Vinotheque brochure boasted that the Vintronic III temperature stabilizer is "a digital, microprocessor-based wine temperature thermostat," featuring "a smart binary encoder" and "triac relays." The Vintronic III, I read, takes the wine's temperature 120 times a minute to maintain the temperature within 0.05 degrees, as if national security depended on it.
Buying a wine cellar was clearly too vital to do over the phone. I sought counsel and a tour of the International Wine Accessories store in Dallas. Considering the ponderous tone of the catalogues, the company president, Robert S. Orenstein, was surprisingly bubbly.
"I'm going to take a little of the mystique out," he said with a knowing grin. "Then I'm going to put more back in later."
He confessed that his best-selling item is a $16.95 T-shirt with a grape cluster and the words, "Whip me, crush me, make me wine." As he spoke, he strolled through rooms of hulking wine cellars, some plain but others with as much carved oak and leaded glass as the front doors of a striving Dallas subdivision.
He stopped at one cellar. "Stand back and look at this," he said. "What do you have? You have a box with two doors, a cooling unit and a rack. There is no magic."
He moved on. "Here's the competing brand," he said. "The only difference is the racks."
But what about all the different brand names, all those Vino's? "None of these people have any imagination," Mr. Orenstein said. Most retailers who sell their own brand of cellar actually have one of the three Vino's manufacture them, he added.
Then came the matter of space. To boast the largest capacity, many manufacturers have racks so narrow that only Bordeaux and California cabernets can fit, Mr. Orenstein said. Some have racks large enough for other wines, but few could handle many rotund bottles of Champagne. "The manufacturers are all so sneaky," he said. "It drives me nuts."
Me, too. Finally, I asked him whether my spare refrigerator wouldn't do. Well, no, he said. It would be too cold, keeping my wine in suspended animation instead of graceful maturation. It would also dry out the air, eventually crumbling the corks.
How about one of those cheaper wine cellars that look like deli cases on steroids? It was time for the mystique, at least as it pertains to design.
"A lot of people miss the boat," Mr. Orenstein said. "They say, 'I'm just going to throw it in the laundry room.' Well, yes, but then they move and it has to go in the bedroom."
"Men always go for functional stuff," he said. "But if you want to say esthetics doesn't matter, think it through."
The catalogues and advertisements show seemingly functional 200-bottle wine cellars for less than $1,000. Esthetics are extra. A lot extra. A plain 250-bottle Vinocraft with an unfinished oak cabinet that Mr. Orenstein recommended has a base price of $1,399. A furniture finish adds $195, and shipping from California is at least another $300.
If I want a real piece of furniture rather than an intimidating wooden box, it's still more. A door with some simple flat moldings around the edges adds $450, some curving moldings instead adds $599, and curving moldings with a window adds $995.
"If you don't have the windows, it would look like a coffin," Mr. Orenstein advised.
My likely expense for the Vinocraft was zooming past $2,000 and on toward $3,000. For a glorified fridge. It was time to call an economist, Orley Ashenfelter of Princeton University, who publishes Liquid Assets, a wine buying and price guide.
Mr. Ashenfelter was as ready to dispose of wine cellars as a punter is ready to dispose of a football. Except for wines that are very hard to get -- 1978 Italian Barolos, maybe -- buying a wine cellar makes much less sense to him than buying wines that need no long storage.
"If you like mature wines," he said, the best thing to do is "not to store them yourself, but to buy them at auction." He finds that auction prices for aged wines are often as low, or lower, than retail prices for young wines.
I already had young wines, but I soon found another reason for hesitating to order a cellar. Wine collectors, acting almost as slowly as their Bordeaux ages, usually delay placing their orders until the weather is hot. By the summer, the wait for a wine cellar is usually several weeks, sometimes months. My race was already lost.
No wine cellar before its time, it seemed. And for me, the time to order a wine cellar might be next year. Or the year after.
 
Catalogues: A Free Look
 Many companies nationwide offer free catalogues on wine cellars. Here are a few.
WINE ENTHUSIAST STORE 8 Saw Mill River Road, Hawthorne, N.Y., 10532; (800) 356-8466.
KEDCO WINE STORAGE SYSTEMS 564 Smith Street, Farmingdale, L.I. 11735-1168; (516) 454-7800.
INTERNATIONAL WINE ACCESSORIES 11020 Audelia Road, Suite B-113, Dallas 75243; (800) 527-4072.
WINE APPRECIATION GUILD STORE 155 Connecticut Street, San Francisco 94107; (800) 231-9463 in California, (800) 242-9462 outside California.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL WINE ACCESSORIES INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); CALIFORNIA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; REFRIGERATORS; WINES ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); WINE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (73%); PRINT ADVERTISING (72%); THERMAL SENSORS (69%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (67%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALLEN R; ASHENFELTER, ORLEY (PROF) MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



473 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: Immigration Chaos Keeps U.S. in Cheap Labor

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The gross ineptitude and mismanagement that pervades the United States Immigration and Naturalization Service, described in your "Chaos at the Gates" series (front page, Sept. 11-15) cannot be dismissed as a Government bureaucracy that does not work. The real question is: Why is there no serious pressure from the public or from Government officials to improve the agency's performance? What purpose is served by an inefficiency that allows three million to four million undocumented immigrants to reside in this country? 
 A major segment of the United States economy benefits from the presence of undocumented immigrants, and therein lies at least part of the answer. The United States is in the enviable position of having a nearly limitless supply of inexpensive labor clamoring at its gates.
Moreover, in recent years it has been attracting skilled, highly motivated immigrants for even the most menial jobs. And, through legislation and selective enforcement of immigration law, the Government not only creates a supply of cheap, powerless labor, but can also partly regulate what immigrants are admitted and under what conditions.
The presence of undocumented immigrants is also advantageous because, for many, the sojourn in the United States is temporary. Most, at least initially, view their stay as transitory, and it is this ready-made impermanence that meshes so neatly with the kinds of jobs they fill.
Undocumented immigrants are overwhelmingly employed in the secondary sector of the United States labor market, which is characterized by low-wage jobs, with no job security, few or no benefits and little or no advancement opportunity. Because of the disadvantages, finding native-born workers to fill such jobs can be a problem.
Enter undocumented immigrants. Seeing themselves as "here today and gone tomorrow," they are less disheartened by the lack of career prospects and other drawbacks of the secondary job market.
Undocumented immigration to the United States channels in low-cost, often well-educated workers, who are willing, even eager, to take jobs that otherwise might go unfilled. It is well to recall this when we condemn the immigration service's "inefficiency." What appears as ineptitude may actually be tacit Government policy.
 
MAXINE L. MARGOLIS
Gainesville, Fla., Sept. 16, 1994
The writer, a professor of anthropology at the University of Florida, is author of "Little Brazil: An Ethnography of Brazilian Immigrants in New York City."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) US CITIZENSHIP & IMMIGRATION SERVICES (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; SURVEYS AND SERIES; BUREAUCRATIC RED TAPE; ILLEGAL ALIENS IMMIGRATION (96%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); REFUGEES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: MARGOLIS, MAXINE L

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



474 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 274 words

HEADLINE: More Recycling Reduces Dioxin Better Than an Incinerator Ban

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The Environmental Protection Agency report on the health risks from dioxin is welcome (news article, Sept. 14). Dioxin, which is a probable cause of cancer and of developmental disorders, is largely produced from the combustion of such chlorine-containing substances as plastics. Therefore, the main source of dioxins is incinerator smokestacks. In addition, incineration releases other pollutants and also contributes to global warming.
Yet instead of outlawing incinerators, worldwide experience suggests that it is better to create a recycling-friendly economic environment. This is achieved by mandating that newspapers be printed on recycled paper and that soda be sold in recycled bottles.
Once such laws take effect, a market develops for used newspapers and soda bottles, and consequently they disappear from regular garbage. The combustible fraction in municipal waste drops to the point where the garbage can no longer be burned, and therefore incineration is phased out.
Worldwide experience also shows that when regulations treat the dioxin-containing fly-ash from incinerators as toxic waste, resulting disposal costs tend to work against incineration and in favor of recycling.
It can be concluded that if the proper regulations exist, economic forces will support recycling. On a per-ton basis, recycling in populated areas will cost half as much as landfilling and one-third as much as incineration. In addition, the recycling industry creates low-skilled jobs and reduces pollution.
 
BELA LIPTAK
Stamford, Conn., Sept. 14, 1994
The writer is the author of "Municipal Waste Disposal in the 1990's."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (75%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (EPA) US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); US ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (75%); CONNECTICUT, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: AIR POLLUTION; DIOXIN (CHEMICAL); HAZARDOUS AND TOXIC SUBSTANCES ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MATERIALS RECOVERY & RECYCLING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (90%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (90%); WRITERS (89%); LANDFILLS (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); SOLID WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); CANCER (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); PARTICULATE MATTER (76%); WASTE MANAGEMENT & REMEDIATION SERVICES (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); CHLORINE (72%); DEVELOPMENTAL DISABILITIES (72%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%); 

PERSON: LIPTAK, BELA

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



475 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 312 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Chooses An African As President

BYLINE: By RICHARD D. LYONS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 20

 BODY:
The General Assembly opened a new session today that is expected to draw the largest number of heads of state and prime ministers ever to address the forum.
In its first order of business, the assembly elected Amara Essy, a 49-year-old former Foreign Minister of the Ivory Coast, as president. Mr. Essy, who has also served with the United Nations in New York and Geneva, replaces Samuel Insanally of Guyana. 
 Though the post, rotated annually among the five major regional blocs, is mainly ceremonial, the president has the power to set the agenda, control the order of speakers and resolve intractable disputes within the Assembly.
At least 59 leaders are to address the 49th session of the General Assembly, among them President Clinton and President Boris N. Yeltsin, who are to speak next Monday, and Pope John Paul II, who is to speak on Oct. 21.
Rosario Green of Mexico, the Assistant Secretary General in charge of the assembly meeting, said the large number of leaders scheduled to attend "reflects the attention the assembly is getting" and "more commitment to the United Nations today than in the past."
Ms. Green noted that the United Nations was going through a "difficult transformation period," as an increasing number of smaller member nations seek "landing places" for their views and expertise for solving to their own problems.
Assembly leaders said they would seek to steer the 184 member nations toward issues like economic development, social ills and the environment, though those issues were likely to be overshadowed by the American intervention in Haiti, the civil war in Bosnia and the continuing turmoil in Rwanda.
The Assembly's actions on the 157 items on its agenda carry no force of law, but positions taken here during the next three months carry international weight and affect the votes of the 15-member Security Council.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about the opening of the United Nations General Assembly referred incorrectly to its new President, Amara Essy. He is the current Foreign Minister of Ivory Coast, not a former one.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ROSARIO, ARGENTINA (52%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); COTE D'IVOIRE (92%); RWANDA (79%); HAITI (79%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ROSARIO, ARGENTINA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); 

PERSON: LYONS, RICHARD D; ESSY, AMARA (AMB) BILL CLINTON (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



476 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 21, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 813 words

HEADLINE: Report Says New York Taxes Are the 2d Highest in the U.S.

BYLINE: By TOM REDBURN 

 BODY:
New York's state and local tax burden remains the second highest in the country, according to a new report by the State Business Council, and the gap between New York and other states is widening after a slight narrowing in the late 1980's.
Taxes paid in 1992 by businesses and individuals to New York State and local governments averaged $3,531.85 per resident, 62.5 percent above the national average and second only to Alaska. But Alaska's figures are distorted by the overwhelming share of its taxes that is paid by a handful of oil companies. 
 Just behind New York in the state rankings were Connecticut and New Jersey. Per capita, however, state and local taxes in Connecticut, at 40.8 percent above the national average, and New Jersey, 35.2 percent higher, were significantly lower than in New York.
The report highlights a longstanding issue -- New York's heavy state and local tax burden -- that is at the center of the election race between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and State Senator George E. Pataki, his Republican rival for governor. The report, based on Census data, was prepared by the research arm of the State Business Council, a lobbying group that has long argued that lower taxes for businesses and individuals would improve the state's economy.
While the figures, based on a common way of looking at Census data, are not in dispute, their interpretation is.
State officials said that New York stands out largely because local taxes in places like New York City, its suburbs, and other large cities are much higher than in other states. They also point out that New Yorkers generally earn more than residents of other states, which makes it easier for them to pay higher taxes.
"We've reduced the state tax burden," said Tom Conroy, a spokesman for Governor Cuomo. "If you look at state taxes as a share of personal income, New York has gone from 14th in 1982, when Governor Cuomo was first elected, to 22d today."
Looking at state taxes on a per-capita basis, rather than as a share of personal income, New York ranked sixth among the 50 states. Its per-capita state tax burden of $1,661.96 was 28 percent above the national average of $1,290.34.
Among the states, New York has by far the highest overall local taxes, averaging $1,869.88 per capita, 112 percent above the national average of $882.91.
But David Shaffer, president of the Business Council's Public Policy Institute, said the "distinction between state and local taxes is mostly of interest to politicians trying to shift blame from their constituents away from themselves."
"From the point of view of the taxpayer," he said, "the total of what they have to pay is what counts."
He added that New York's high local taxes, including local property taxes, often reflect obligations imposed by the state government.
Mr. Pataki, in a statement, said the report demonstrate that taxes in New York "are out of control."
He added, "I will cut taxes and create an atmosphere for economic renewal."
Frank Mauro, executive director of the Fiscal Policy Institute, which is sponsored by labor and community organizations, said the figures in the Business Council report overstate the tax burden on New Yorkers. This is because the report include taxes paid by outsiders, like residents of other states who work in New York and tourists who pay sales taxes on goods bought in the state.
"We export a lot of our taxes to other places," he said. "These aggregate numbers do not really tell you how much individuals are paying out of their own pocket."
The tax gap between New York and other states widened in 1992 partly because state and local governments in the state raised taxes more than other states and partly because the recession of the early 1990's hit harder in the Northeast, holding down income gains in New York and other nearby states, Mr. Shaffer said.
New Yorkers have long paid higher state and local taxes than people elsewhere in the nation. The gap grew sharply in the 1960's and 1970's before leveling off during much of the next decade. Between 1987 and 1991, the difference between New York and other states narrowed a bit. From 1991 to 1992, state taxes grew more than local taxes by a small amount.
Measured as taxes collected per $1,000 in personal income so as to reflect differences in income among states, state and local governments in New York took in 14 percent more than the national average in 1964. The gap between New York and other states widened to 41.1 percent by 1980, then narrowed slightly before peaking again at 41.6 percent above the national average in 1986 and 1987. It dropped as low as 34.6 percent in 1991 before rising again to 36.9 percent above the national average in 1992.
On that basis, New York state and local taxes in 1992 averaged $157.71 per $1,000 in personal income, compared with the national average of $115.22.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 22, 1994, Thursday
PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

 CORRECTION:
A chart yesterday with an article about the state and local tax burden in New York referred incorrectly in some editions to the average per capita local tax in New York. It is $1,870, not $1,359.
A subheading on Wednesday with an article about a report on taxes in New York State described the burden imprecisely. As the article stated, total taxes paid by businesses and individuals to the state and local governments in 1992 averaged out to $3,531.85 per state resident; that is not the average amount paid by individual New Yorkers.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "RANKING: Leaders in Tax Burdens" shows the top five states in per capita state and local taxes in 1992. (Source: Public Policy Institute)
 
Chart: "STATE BY STATE: Tax Burdens Across U.S." lists per capita state and local taxes in 1992 for the states. (Source: Public Police Institute) (pg. B5)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE BUSINESS COUNCIL (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE BUSINESS COUNCIL (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; ALASKA; ;; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION TAXES & TAXATION (92%); RANKINGS (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CENSUS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); POLITICS (72%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (72%); 

PERSON: REDBURN, TOM MARIO M CUOMO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 21, 1994



477 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 989 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Is Criticized by London, Party's Comptroller Candidate

BYLINE: By IAN FISHER 

 BODY:
In a surprising assault on party unity, Herbert London, the Republican candidate for comptroller, criticized his own party's nominee for governor yesterday, saying State Senator George E. Pataki "has not clearly defined himself or his plan to cut taxes and stop runaway spending."
The criticism from Mr. London, who had been Mr. Pataki's chief rival for the Republican nomination this spring, came in a one-page statement only hours after the question of comptroller independence emerged as the defining issue in a debate between Mr. London and his Democratic opponent, H. Carl McCall. 
 Mr. McCall has also taken care to distance himself from the head of his ticket, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, a longtime friend who is considered vulnerable this year. But Mr. McCall has never attacked Mr. Cuomo so directly.
Mr. London said that as an independent comptroller candidate, he was compelled to speak out. "As the titular head of the Republican Party, George Pataki is obligated to give the voters a reason to chose him over Mario Cuomo, based on clearly defined policies," his statement said. "Voters must not be forced to choose the next governor of this state based solely on an 'Anybody but Cuomo' campaign."
The statement came after weeks in which Democrats, as well as a handful of Republicans, have said Mr. Pataki has not specifically outlined what he would do if elected. Earlier in the day, Mr. Pataki released a welfare plan that Democrats said called mostly for speeding up or expanding policies that have already been proposed by Mr. Cuomo. [Page B13.]
Last night the Pataki campaign appeared to be taken by surprise by Mr. London's attack. A spokeswoman, Zenia Mucha, would say only that Mr. Pataki would release an economic plan soon. But many campaign workers had expected that after a contentious fight leading up to the party's nomination, Mr. London would work for the ticket.
Mr. London's motive was unclear last night. While he could be helped by appearing independent -- New Yorkers often choose comptrollers from the party opposite the governor's -- he could be hurt in raising money if Republican leaders are upset enough by his attack. He was not available for comment last night, but a spokesman released a statement hinting that he wanted to distance himself from Mr. Pataki as a qualification to run for comptroller.
"It's just something he feels he's morally obligated to do," said a campaign spokesman, Anthony DeStefano. "Nothing will prevent him from fulfilling his obligation to the taxpayers, either during the campaign or after he is elected."
Michael Long, the chairman of the Conservative Party, which has been a strong backer of Mr. London since he ran as its candidate for governor four years ago, said he too was surprised by Mr. London's statement.
"He didn't talk to me about it," Mr. Long said. "I would like to think that he was just trying to show his independence."
"Herb has a lot of enthusiastic supporters around him, and I certainly am one of them," he said. "But I think the enthusiasm may go a step too far. There was probably no intent meant here except the enthusiastic feeling that maybe if he was in the position, he would already be putting out his plan."
Mr. London, a New York University professor and former dean, came in a close third four years ago against the Republican candidate, Pierre Rinfret, in the race against Mr. Cuomo. Since then, he had run an exhausting four-year battle for the party's nomination for governor, but was shut out at the convention in May when most party leaders, including Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, backed Mr. Pataki.
Mr. London had said he would take no other spot except the gubernatorial nomination and called Mr. Pataki "unelectable" and "more interested in the advancement of his own political career" than in helping New York. But the pressure was intense to unite the Republicans and Conservatives -- to prevent splitting the anti-Cuomo vote again this year -- and by the convention's end, Mr. London had agreed to sign on as the comptroller candidate.
In the debate yesterday, Mr. McCall used the means of Mr. London's ascent to question his ability to be independent -- a charge Mr. London fired back at Mr. McCall and his ties to Democratic leaders.
"He made a deal with Pataki and others," Mr. McCall said at a debate sponsored by the Citizens Budget Commission, a private fiscal monitoring group. "After he called them assassins for rejecting his bid to be governor, he then sat down with the assassins and decided to become their candidate for comptroller. How can he talk about independence?"
In the kind of indirect attack that has angered the Cuomo campaign, Mr. McCall also put distance between himself and Mr. Cuomo during the debate, mentioning that he had sued him last year and criticizing the state's record in promoting economic development.
"In New York, what have we done for the private sector?" he said, not mentioning Mr. Cuomo by name. "Instead of rolling out the red carpet, we have rolled out red tape."
Neither comptroller candidate lost an opportunity at the debate yesterday -- their first public encounter -- to question the other's qualifications and integrity.
"It seems to me that the forgotten New Yorkers need a representative -- not a political insider, not simply somebody who is going to represent the political machine, not somebody who is going to do Mario Cuomo's bidding," Mr. London said, "but somebody who will serve as an independent, fair-minded broker."
For his part, Mr. McCall asserted that he was better qualified and that Mr. London, a longtime conservative who opposes abortion and gun control, was running only "to insinuate his ideas into the caldron of Albany politics."
"Let's look at Mr. London's ideas -- ideas that are out of step with the people of New York," he said.
Mr. London said he was only interested in insinuating his fiscal ideas.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Herbert London, the Republican cnadidate for state comptroller, dureing a debate yesterday in Manhattan. (pg. B1); H. Carl McCall, right, the Democrat, and Herbert London, the Republican, agreed that taxes were too high but disagreed about who would be the best fiscal watchdog. Raymond Horton, standing, was moderator. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times) (pg. B12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; TAXATION; COMPTROLLERS; TAXATION; DEBATING POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); TAX LAW (77%); 

PERSON: FISHER, IAN; LONDON, HERBERT; PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); MCCALL, H CARL (COMPTROLLER) MICHAEL J LONG (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



478 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Rejecting New York City's Bid, Bank to Move to Connecticut

BYLINE: By THOMAS J. LUECK 

 BODY:
The Swiss Bank Corporation, rejecting offers of tax incentives to keep 1,500 workers in Manhattan, said yesterday that it would move 1,300 of those workers to a new office tower it planned to build in downtown Stamford, Conn.
Swiss Bank, an investment banking concern, said it would hire an additional 700 workers, bringing total employment in Stamford to 2,000 when the new building opens in 1998. 
 The announcement, made yesterday in Hartford, came as a blow to New York City, which has scored repeated successes in recent years in persuading companies not to leave Manhattan, largely through the use of tax breaks.
But it was a major victory for Stamford, which has been plagued by a glut of office space and has lost some of the luster, earned in the 1960's to the early 1980's, as one of the nation's fastest growing business centers outside big cities.
Connecticut's prize did not come cheaply. The state agreed to provide tax breaks that could amount to $120 million over 10 years, or $60,000 a worker, more than twice as much as New York City has ever offered in incentives.
The Connecticut tax break could grow to $165 million if Swiss Bank remains and expands in Stamford for 15 years.
"This is the largest entry of a new corporation into the State of Connecticut in my lifetime," Gov. Lowell P. Weicker Jr. said yesterday.
With several large banking, securities and insurance companies already based in Fairfield County, he said the Swiss Bank move would make Connecticut "one of the great financial centers of the world."
New York City officials said that they had put up a determined fight to retain Swiss Bank, one of the largest of 350 foreign-owned banks with offices in Manhattan. John Dyson, the Deputy Mayor for finance and economic development, flew to Basil, Switzerland, to meet with top executives of the bank at their international headquarters.
"The city worked very hard," said Forest Taylor, a spokesman for Mr. Dyson. He declined to say what tax breaks the city offered to Swiss Bank.
In the past, the city and the state used tax incentives to retain Morgan Stanley & Company, Kidder, Peabody and other financial-service companies that threatened to leave.
The city has never offered packages valued at more than $25,000 per employee.
"The Mayor is being very frugal with scarce financial resources and he is not about to give away the store to any company that threatens to leave," Mr. Taylor said.
Swiss Bank said it planned to build a 20-story tower on 11 acres next to the Stamford railroad station and Interstate 95. The land, which is partly owned by the city and has an estimated value of $5 million, is to be turned over at no cost to the bank.
The site is the same one on which Morgan Stanley had an option. That deal fell through in 1992 when the brokerage firm accepted a 10-year package of New York City tax breaks and other incentives worth $39 million and agreed to keep its headquarters and 4,100 workers in Manhattan.
Although it appeared unlikely yesterday to be a major impediment, one hurdle remains to Swiss Bank's move to Stamford. Connecticut law prohibits foreign-owned banks from doing business in its borders.
But a bill to lift that restriction for banking concerns like Swiss Bank that are engaged mainly in investment banking, not customer deposits and lending, is expected to face little opposition in the Connecticut legislature when it is voted on at a special session next month.
The measure has the support of many in the Connecticut business community, including bankers.
"Ninety-five percent of the banks in Connecticut have no problem with it," said Gerald M. Noonan, president of the Connecticut Bankers Association, a trade group. "We think of it as a real plus."
Swiss Bank, which has been expanding rapidly, in currency trading, international lending and other investment banking activities, now has its Manhattan workers divided between the upper floors of the Swiss Bank Tower at 10 East 50th Street, a 27-story building on which it holds a 100-year lease, and another building it owns at Broadway and Park Row.
The bank said it would retain 200 workers in the East 50th Street building, including those in charge of its Latin American operations, and would retain a currency trading floor at the building it owns on Broadway, or another in lower Manhattan.
After its move to Stamford, the bank said it might seek a buyer for the Broadway building and tenants for the space it frees up on East 50th Street.
Connecticut's incentive package entails a 50 percent reduction in the state's 11.5 percent corporate-income tax over 10 years.
Whether the tax breaks reach the maximum of $120 million depends on how profitable the company is.
The package includes other incentives to keep Swiss Bank in Stamford. If, at the end of 10 years, the bank has increased its Connecticut employment to 3,000 workers, it is to receive a 25 percent reduction in its corporate-income tax bills for the next five years.
For Stamford, which attracted more than a dozen headquarters of large American corporations in the 1960's and 1970's, the Swiss Bank move will mean new construction after years of little activity.
Among the largest companies with headquarters in Stamford are the Xerox Corporation, the GTE Corporation Champion International and the General Reinsurance Company.
Although the movement of such highly diversified corporations to Stamford had ended by the mid-1970's, hundreds of smaller companies followed over the next decades as law firms, advertising agencies, accounting concerns and others set up shop, largely to provide services to the city's corporate giants.
The migration to Stamford, however, slowed after the 1987 stock market crash and in the ensuring recession, when many the same large companies that are based in STamford and elsewhere in Fairfield County sold off operations and shed executive workers.
That led to a glut of vacant offices across the county, with vacancy rates exceeding 20 percent for the last four years.
According to an analysis by Edward S. Gordon, a real-estate firm, Fairfield County's vacancy rate stands at 20.5 percent, compared with 14.5 percent in midtown Manhattan, 16.7 percent in Northern New Jersey and 23 percent in lower Manhattan.
Despite its excess office capacity, executives said that the city has begun attracting an influx of small financial-service firms.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (83%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (83%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (83%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BANK CORP; SWISS BANK CORP MORGAN STANLEY (83%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (63%); BROADWAY&PARK ROW (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISS BANK CORP; SWISS BANK CORP BROADWAY&PARK ROW (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; STAMFORD (CONN); UNITED STATES (97%); CONNECTICUT, USA (97%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: RELOCATION OF BUSINESS TAX INCENTIVES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); RELOCATIONS (78%); CITIES (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (73%); INSURANCE (64%); 

PERSON: LUECK, THOMAS J DAVID DAVIS (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



479 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 12; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 200 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI;
More Aid, but No End to Sanctions

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Relief supplies to Haiti will increase sharply as American troops are deployed, easing the effects of the United Nations embargo that has devastated the Haitian economy, the United States delegate to the United Nations said today.
But the United States will not ask the Security Council to lift the embargo until Haiti's junta steps down and the exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, returns to office, the delegate, Madeleine K. Albright, said. 
 Before the arrival of troops, Haiti's military often blocked deliveries of relief supplies. Now, Ms. Albright said, "it is possible to make those deliveries more robust and they can be delivered better thanks to the American military."
She acknowledged the "pain that is caused to Haitian society" by the sanctions, but said lifting them "should be tied to the return of President Aristide."
Relief supplies are exempt from the United Nations embargo, which bans trade and most financial transactions with Haiti. Unicef also announced today that it was immediately expanding its distribution of food, water and vitamins in Haiti. More than two dozen relief groups are at work in Haiti, where they feed 1 of every 7 Haitians.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (56%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (56%); UNITED NATIONS CHILDREN'S FUND (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (98%); HAITI (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (93%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (91%); ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRENDS (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



480 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1784 words

HEADLINE: Old Flame Burns the Housing Secretary

BYLINE: By JASON DePARLE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The extramarital affair that once threatened to destroy the career of Henry G. Cisneros, the current Federal Housing Secretary and former Mayor of San Antonio, is again complicating his public life.
The new complications spring from telephone conversations, secretly taped by his former mistress over the course of three years, in which they discussed his payments to her that ultimately amounted to about $200,000. 
 The tapes, which the woman, Linda Medlar, has sold to a tabloid television program, provide no evidence of wrongdoing. But they have prompted Mr. Cisneros to acknowledge that he paid Ms. Medlar more than $50,000 in 1993, in apparent contradiction of his public statement this summer that the payments had ended by the time he joined the Clinton Cabinet early last year.
Tape transcripts issued by the television show "Inside Edition" have also led him to acknowledge that after becoming Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, he approached a wealthy Texas businessman, Morris Jaffe, to seek financial help for Ms. Medlar. Ms. Medlar herself has said that after Mr. Cisneros's visit to Mr. Jaffe, the businessman sent her a $5,000 check with the notation "loan."
The tapes have placed Mr. Cisneros in the uncomfortable position of defending his character and candor in the handling of an episode he has long struggled to put behind him. At one point in the transcripts, involving a 1992 conversation with Ms. Medlar about his approaching confirmation hearings to be Housing Secretary, he seems to contemplate misleading a Senate committee about the matter, although in other places he emphasizes a need to tell the truth.
In a recent interview, Mr. Cisneros said he had been steadfastly honest in describing the financial transactions to the Federal Bureau of Investigation, which routinely performs background checks on Presidential nominees, and to members of the Clinton transition team. He said that Ms. Medlar, in secretly recording their telephone discussions, had tried to steer him into making embarrassing remarks and that it was unfair "to use those conversations as proof of anything."
He also said there had been nothing improper in the payments, which he said were not "hush money or blackmail" but rather a well-meaning attempt to help Ms. Medlar get back on her feet after their relationship ended. He described Mr. Jaffe as a longtime friend and said that, despite extensive real estate holdings, the businessman had "no connection to HUD that I'm aware of in any way."
But Mr. Cisneros also acknowledged that the tapes had complicated his attempts to disentangle his political life from the damaging personal affair. Parts of the transcripts even quote him as being critical of President Clinton. At one point, Mr. Cisneros says that Mr. Clinton "just can't seem to decide hard things" and that meetings with him "sort of lolligag." On another occasion, he says, "Bill is too much of a hail-fellow-well-met politician, willing to do a deal with the business interests."
The transcripts also quote him as referring to F.B.I. agents checking his background before his appointment as "gossipers and scandalizers" who are "real bad at tracking down financial things."
The Secretary, who has generally received high marks for his leadership of the housing department, apologized in the recent interview for those remarks, calling them "a lot of foolish talk." He said Ms. Medlar had been "purposefully drawing me out," and stressed that he had "the highest respect for President Clinton."
Mr. Cisneros first acknowledged his relationship with Ms. Medlar in 1988, when he was still Mayor of San Antonio and a rising star in the Democratic Party; she was a former worker in one of his election campaigns. After leaving office the next year, he ended the relationship and reconciled with his wife. But in 1990 he also began to make sizable payments to Ms. Medlar -- by her accounting, about $200,000 from 1990 through 1993, a figure he does not dispute.
Mr. Cisneros's tax returns show that his earnings as a partner in an investment company averaged about $198,000 a year from 1990 through 1992.
In the interview, he said the payments had been a voluntary attempt to help Ms. Medlar, a political fund-raiser by vocation, since the publicity from the affair had hampered her efforts to find work. "There was enough difficulty about this for everyone," he said, "and enough dishonor, if you will. I felt it was honorable to help her if I could."
But once he sold his business and joined the Clinton Administration, he said, he could no longer afford the payments.
Ms. Medlar, unemployed and living in Lubbock, Tex., is now suing Mr. Cisneros in a state court there for $256,000 in further support. She says he has broken an agreement to pay her $4,000 a month until her daughter, now a teen-ager, graduates from college in 1999. Mr. Cisneros says that they had no such agreement and that Ms. Medlar is making the tapes public in a campaign "to turn up the pressure to exact a settlement."
Ms. Medlar, who has acknowledged that she taped the conversations to protect herself in the very event that Mr. Cisneros stopped making payments to her, seems at some points in the transcripts to be trying to lure him into an admission of improper or even criminal activity. For instance, she suggests that on one occasion, when Mr. Cisneros was Mayor, Mr. Jaffe gave him an envelope filled with $10,000 in cash. "Absolutely not," Mr. Cisneros responds on the tape. On another occasion, Ms. Medlar warns him: "Honey, I'm as smart as they come. I know exactly what would do you in."
In the interview, Mr. Cisneros acknowledged having feared that Clinton transition officials would misconstrue the payments as "hush money," even though the affair had been widely publicized. He said he had taken pains to be "forthcoming at every step of the vetting process."
Webster L. Hubbell, who was a senior Clinton transition official and later Associate Attorney General, said in an interview that Mr. Cisneros had been "totally forthcoming" about the matter. He said that the transition team had accepted the explanation that Mr. Cisneros had been providing money to help Ms. Medlar, not to silence her, and that the team had found it "quite admirable."
Ms. Medlar's lawyers this week played a tape that they said dated from Dec. 24, 1992, in which Mr. Cisneros discussed what he would say if asked about the payments at his confirmation hearing. "I'll tell them what we agreed," he said, "and the only person in the world who can sink me at that point -- and I mean serious, I'm talking contempt of Congress, jail -- is you."
But in the recent interview, Mr. Cisneros said he had never had any intention of misleading Congress and had simply been trying to convince Ms. Medlar that he needed to tell the truth. "I'm describing how serious misleading the Senate in a confirmation hearing would be," he said, "knowing full well that if it came up, I would do nothing but tell the truth."
Mr. Cisneros pointed to other parts of the transcripts where he insisted he would tell the truth, at times to Ms. Medlar's evident displeasure. "Henry, I could just brain you for that," she says. Noting that Ms. Medlar had been hospitalized for depression and had often cried on the phone, he said that at times he had simply been trying to calm her.
As it turned out, Mr. Cisneros was not asked about the payments at his confirmation hearing, before the Senate Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs. He said he later discussed them in a private conversation with Senator Donald W. Riegle Jr., the Michigan Democrat who is chairman of the committee.
Mr. Riegle did not return phone calls seeking comment. Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York, the committee's ranking Republican, said: "This is a personal matter. I do not believe this in any way reflects upon the Secretary's performance." Calls to Barry Toiv, spokesman for the White House chief of staff, Leon E. Panetta, went unanswered.
Ms. Medlar said she had about 40 hours of tapes, covering three years, 1991-93. She made about a third of them available to "Inside Edition" after the show paid her a sum that her lawyers described as reaching "five figures." After broadcasting part of the tapes last week, the show distributed transcripts without her permission, she said.
Ms. Medlar said she plans to use the tapes in court to bolster her contention that Mr. Cisneros had promised to continue paying her.
When she filed suit in July, Mr. Cisneros issued a statement through the press office of his department that said, "I have not provided any assistance since assuming office in January of 1993." He now acknowledges making payments in February, March and June of that year, totaling more than $50,000.
But Mr. Cisneros said in the interview that those payments had been part of an agreement reached with Ms. Medlar before he entered the Government and that he did not consider them 1993 assistance. He said his statement, which referred vaguely to a 1992 promise to help Ms. Medlar "transition to a job over the forthcoming year," had been hastily drafted and should have been more precise.
Mr. Cisneros said that in late 1993, after he had stopped paying Ms. Medlar, he approached Mr. Jaffe, the Texas businessman, in an effort to identify business opportunities for her. Although Mr. Cisneros said there had been nothing wrong in those conversations, the transcripts clearly make him seem uncomfortable about it.
The 71-year-old Mr. Jaffe is a well-known figure in Texas politics, with holdings in oil, real estate and aerospace ventures. He helped arrange a lucrative oil deal for Jim Wright, then Speaker of the House, that was a factor in the ethics investigation that ultimately drove Mr. Wright from office.
The transcripts quote Mr. Cisneros as saying in late 1993 that he is worried that Mr. Jaffe's office "has a tap, because the Feds were after him." He adds that when he speaks with Mr. Jaffe, "I am very cryptic in the things I say."
But in the interview, Mr. Cisneros said he had been concerned only that someone listening in might misconstrue their conversation and think he was approaching Mr. Jaffe for aid for himself.
He said Mr. Jaffe had considered helping Ms. Medlar start a travel agency and had directed some business to a lighting company run by Ms. Medlar's family, in an unsuccessful attempt to produce a job for her.
He said he had learned about the loan only from Ms. Medlar. "Jesus!" he exclaimed when Ms. Medlar informed him of the loan in a taped conversation. "This guy's a savior."
Mr. Jaffe did not return phone calls seeking comment.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Housing Secretary Henry G. Cisneros in his agency's headquarters in Washington yesterday. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); Linda Medlar

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (90%); 

CITY: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: WIRETAPPING AND OTHER EAVESDROPPING DEVICES AND METHODS; ETHICS; RECORDINGS (AUDIO) HOUSING AUTHORITIES (92%); TRANSCRIPTS (90%); PUBLIC HOUSING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); WIRETAPPING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); CITIES (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (71%); POLITICS (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (64%); ETHICS (64%); 

PERSON: CISNEROS, HENRY G (SEC); MEDLAR, LINDA BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



481 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 592 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

International
China is rushing ahead to double auto production to three million vehicles a year by the end of the decade. American, Japanese and European auto makers are competing to participate in a handful of joint ventures with China to produce family sedans for the world's largest untapped car market. [Page D1.]
 
Markets
Stocks fell sharply for a second day as new pessimism on interest rates held sway on Wall Street. Many traders now predict that the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates as soon as Tuesday. The Dow has fallen 85.12 points since Monday. [D1.] 
 Uncovered short sales increased on both the New York and the American stock exchanges for the month. [D2.]
Treasury prices continued to slump. A report on housing starts helped make investors skittish. [D8.]
The dollar was flat as currency dealers awaited developments in trade talks between Japan and the United States. [D17.]
Heating oil and crude oil prices fell after a report showed large oil supplies in the United States. Lumber prices dropped. [D17.]
 
Companies
Insurers remain vulnerable to billions of dollars in environmental claims despite expected changes in the Superfund law. [D1.]
Several large Philip Morris shareholders complained that the company would not discuss the idea of splitting tobacco and non-tobacco operations. The shareholders, mainly public pension funds, walked out of a meeting with board members. [D1.]
The deep-discount brokerage business is being investigated by the Securities and Exchange Commission. [D9.]
Motorola has raised $1.57 billion for Iridium, which plans to launch 66 satellites and build a global wireless-telephone network. [D3.]
Arby's will be allied with Long John Silver's in an ambitious attempt at fast-food dual branding. Triarc, the owner of Arby's, agreed to acquire Long John Silver's in a $525 million deal. [D4.]
Paul B. Kazarian suggested that his investment firm would make a friendly takeover offer for Borden. [D4.]
Harold D. Kahn was named chief of Macy's East. [D4.]
Arrow Electronics agreed to buy Anthem Electronics in a stock swap that was valued at $416.4 million. [D4.]
Hills Stores plans to buy back $75 million of stock in an effort to reach a compromise with Dickstein Partners. [D5.]
Leo Burnett resigned from a big Sony account. [D21.]
Swiss Bank said it would move to Stamford, Conn., despite offers of tax incentives to keep 1,500 workers in Manhattan. [B1.]
 
The Economy
Housing starts surged 2.1 percent in August, lifted by a strong gain in the construction of apartments and condominiums. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
The image of Geritol is challenged by "Quiz Show," Robert Redford's new film about the television quiz-show scandals of the 1950's. But the marketer of Geritol, which sponsored the rigged quiz program "Twenty-One," is trying to use the unwanted publicity to its advantage. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D1.]
Calls to strip baseball owners of their antitrust protection will probably be heard in Congress in the coming weeks. But perhaps it is time to think bigger -- to reorganize Major League Baseball in a way that puts the fans' interests first. Economists offer some possibilities. Peter Passell: Economic Scene. [D2.]
Royalties have been a gold mine for Texas Instruments. Since a Japanese court ruled that Fujitsu had not violated a basic Texas Instruments chip patent, Wall Street has wondered whether the company can count on big royalty revenues. Market Place. [D10.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MSI (NYSE) (54%); ARW (NYSE) (52%); M (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (54%); NAICS423690 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (52%); SIC5065 OTHER ELECTRONIC PARTS & EQUIPMENT (52%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (52%); NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (52%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (54%); ARROW ELECTRONICS INC (52%); MACY'S INC (52%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); HEATING OIL (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); JOINT VENTURES (77%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); HOUSING STARTS (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TAKEOVERS (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); OIL & GAS PRICES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (75%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (75%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (74%); CONDOMINIUMS (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (74%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (74%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (74%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (74%); HEATING OIL PRICES (74%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (73%); PENSION FUNDS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); INSURANCE (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (72%); SEDANS (72%); FORESTRY & LOGGING TRADE (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); ENVIRONMENTAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); SPONSORSHIP (68%); APPOINTMENTS (67%); TAX LAW (66%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (66%); SUPERFUND (66%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (64%); DISCOUNT BROKERS (50%); TAX INCENTIVES (50%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (50%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: JOHN SILVER (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



482 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1515 words

HEADLINE: China Is Planning a People's Car

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TIANJIN, China, Sept. 15

 BODY:
In the People's Republic it is being called the people's car, an affordable compact sedan for the masses in the world's largest untapped car market.
The car is the focus of an ambitious effort by leaders of China's Communist Party to double the nation's annual production to three million vehicles, half of them automobiles, by the end of the decade. Increasingly, the cars would go to individual consumers; in the past the emphasis had been on larger vehicles like mini-vans that could move groups of people. 
 American, Japanese and European auto makers are scrambling for the right to participate in a handful of joint-venture partnerships with China's state-owned auto combines to produce several versions of the family sedan.
But many Chinese and Western experts, drawing from what happened in the United States and other industrial nations, contend that a transportation system dominated by the automobile could become a huge mistake in China, which already suffers from traffic congestion, choking pollution and dwindling supplies of oil. A big increase in gasoline consumption in China, they say, could hasten the next worldwide energy crisis.
"The automobile cannot be extended to 1.2 billion Chinese, not even to 100 million or 200 million," said Vaclav Smil, a Canadian scientist who studies the challenges to China's growth in the next century.
"That is an insane route," he continued. "There is not a single Chinese city that does not suffer from gridlock already."
Still, according to an industrial policy announced in July, China seeks to develop its automotive sector into a "pillar industry" of the national economy "as soon as possible."
China's state planners under Prime Minister Li Peng have seized on the auto industry as one of four heavy industries whose growth can help sustain the country's rapid economic expansion over the next two decades. The other three are telecommunications, computers and petrochemicals.
Just as the automobile captured the American dream at the expense of mass transit, China's leaders are eager for the giant internal consumer market to move to the next stage of materialism. Sustained economic growth is an urgent political requirement for the leadership, whose legitimacy flows from the ability to deliver prosperity to the masses.
The Chinese family car for the coming century will emerge from a competition that is pitting the world's leading auto makers against one another to design and produce economy models that individual consumers could buy for under $5,000. While no detailed specifications have been issued, the car would be made in China but incorporate Western technology of the 1990's, with emphasis on modern safety standards, pollution control and fuel efficiency.
Foreign auto makers already in China may finally see the big payoff. Chrysler produces Jeep Cherokees in a joint venture with a Chinese auto maker in Beijing. Volkswagen has been producing its Santana model in Shanghai since 1985. Citroen is active in Wuhan, Audi in Changchun and Peugeot in Guangzhou. To create a modern, vertically integrated auto industry, the Chinese Government has been pressing foreign auto companies to make more parts locally as a condition of participation.
Because of such intense competition, Western auto makers are keeping their plans confidential. But Chrysler's chief executive, Robert J. Eaton, accompanied Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown to China last month. And Chrysler has been vying with Daimler-Benz for a contract, potentially worth up to $1.2 billion, to make mini-vans and engines in Hainan.
General Motors established a $100 million partnership foothold with the Jinbei Automotive Company in 1993 and began assembling kits of its S-10 pickup truck in Shenyang, though many Chinese customers found them too fancy and costly. And this summer, Ford Motor signed agreements worth $50 million to make auto parts in Shanghai.
But what all three American auto makers seek is a full-fledged partnership with the Chinese in the mainstream of the developing domestic automobile market.
The competition is still heating up. This month both Toyota and Mitsubishi sent their corporate presidents to court China's state auto plant commissars. Nissan's delegation is due in November.
"China offers the greatest potential market in the world and that's why everyone is coming," said Toshiaki Yasuda, who heads Nissan's effort to find a Chinese partner by next year.
At the Tianjin Automotive Industry Corporation in this industrial port city, 70 miles southeast of Beijing, the general manager, Ji Xuecheng, says he thinks the Charade subcompacts that his factory is turning out under a licensing agreement with Daihatsu of Japan could be the starting point for what he, too, calls the people's car.
"Society is making progress and the people's living standards are being raised," Mr. Ji, 60, said. "So there will be a big demand for passenger cars in the future."
The three most successful joint ventures between Chinese auto makers and their Western partners will be allowed to dominate 70 percent of the domestic market with their competing small sedans. The Government described its goal as one of "mass production and fewer factories and a market structure with orderly competition among a small number of large-scale enterprises."
Under the new industrial policy, China will begin producing the new sedans in 1996 or 1997, on assembly lines modernized and streamlined with technology from Japan and the West. By the year 2000, the Chinese auto industry will theoretically produce three million vehicles a year, half of them passenger cars, and Chinese leaders see nothing but growth beyond.
"The problem is, they don't think about traffic or people's lives, they just think about production, production, production," said Prof. Ding Jingping, an industrial economist at the Chinese Academy of Social Sciences. "This is one of the aspects of the centrally planned economy."
In the 15 years since China's paramount leader, Deng Xiaoping, began his effort to overhaul the economy, millions of Chinese have bought their first refrigerator, telephone, clothes washer and television set, driving the economy's growth.
The next consumer quest, Communist Party leaders have figured, will be for high-end products like computers, fax machines and automobiles. They may be right, judging by the record crowds that mobbed this year's auto show in Beijing.
Chinese schoolchildren memorize the specifications of new-car brochures as American youngsters do baseball cards.
The first Ferrari was sold in China this year -- to a Chinese developer who already owned black and white Mercedeses.
Even Chairman Mao's grandson, Wang Xiaozhi, confided in a newspaper interview that he dreamed of owning a car.
Today across China, only about 700,000 out of seven million cars are private. Most vehicles are purchased and operated by the workplaces where most Chinese are employed. In Beijing, Shanghai and other large cities, bicycles remain a primary mode of transportation.
The country's total vehicle production this year could reach 1.5 million, about one-tenth the level of the United States or Japan. But China's auto production has been growing at an annual rate of 17 percent since 1979. In 1993, production jumped 22.8 percent, outpacing overall economic growth of 13 percent.
With supply still unable to keep up with demand, China's leaders overcame arguments about traffic, pollution and mass transit to endorse even greater automobile production.
The Chinese fascination with cars, recalling that of Americans, occurs while big cities choke on traffic, air pollution grows worse and scientists are raising alarms that China's precious base of arable farmland will shrink further under the press of any road building campaign.
As for energy consumption, China became a net importer of oil last year after production in its major oilfields failed to keep up with demand. Discoveries in the South China Sea and Tarim Basin in western China have been slow to produce results.
"Forty percent of United States energy consumption goes into private cars, and the United States is importing half of its crude oil," Professor Smil, the Canadian scientist, said. "If the Chinese try to model themselves on the United States, or Japan or South Korea, there is simply not enough crude oil on the planet for them to import and, of course, it will speed up the arrival of the third oil crisis."
To create a true automobile economy would require a huge investment in roads and highways in China, which today has about as many miles of road as existed in the United States at the end of the 19th century. The few dozen short stretches of modern freeways built in the last decade are almost lost in a rural landscape where dirt paths and narrow farm-to-market lanes still predominate.
"If China only worries about production, without any overall transportation planning, then China is headed for big trouble," said Guocang Huan, an economist for J. P. Morgan in Asia who visited Beijing last week.

GRAPHIC: Photo: China is planning to double auto production to three million vehicles a year by the end of the decade. But the nation already suffers from tremendous traffic congestion, as this recent rush hour scene in Beijing attests. (Mark Leong for The New York Times)
 
Graph: "On the Road in China" show miles of railroads and paved highways in 1952 and 1992. Graph also tracks annual number motor vehicle produced since 1980, along with a projection for 2000. (Source: China State Statistical Bureau) (pg. D8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; EUROPE; JAPAN; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; JOINT VENTURES AND CONSORTIUMS; NEW MODELS, DESIGN AND PRODUCTS; PRICES; PRODUCTION MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); SEDANS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); CONSUMPTION (77%); POLITICS (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); GASOLINE (76%); MINIVANS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (74%); JOINT VENTURES (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (67%); PETROCHEMICALS (67%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



483 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 566 words

HEADLINE: METRO DIGEST

 BODY:

METRO DIGEST
 
$100 MILLION TO FINANCE NEW SCHOOLS
In one of the nation's most ambitious efforts to improve public schools, New York City will receive $100 million -- half of it from the Annenberg Foundation -- to replace some of the city's large, overcrowded neighborhood schools with 50 small experimental schools in the next five years. The new schools will serve about 50,000 of New York's 1.2 million school children, and will emphasize greater individual attention and more parental involvement. A1.
 
ANCIENT CRAFT SHAPES MODERN DESIGNS
The ancient Chinese craft of feng shui, a blend of astrology, design and Eastern philosophy aimed at harmonizing the placement of man-made structures in nature, has begun to exert an influence on the hard-edged world of real estate in America. The former Gulf and Western Building, 40 Wall Street and the China Trust Bank in Queens are among projects in which developers called in feng shui experts. A1. 

NEW YORK CITY
 
FINDING SAYS OFFICER WAS SHOT IN BACK
The Medical Examiner's office has told prosecutors investigating last month's shooting of a transit officer by an off-duty city police officer that all the transit officer's wounds appear to be from gunshots to the back, law-enforcement officials said. B3.
 
STATEN ISLAND WOMAN SLAIN IN HER HOME
A week short of her 87th birthday, a reclusive Staten Island widow was found slain, her hands bound behind her back, in the bedroom of the home where she had lived some 40 years. B3.
 
SAFETY CHIEF CHASTISED FOR CONTRACTS
The safety chief for the city's public schools will be reprimanded for violating rules on the awarding of contracts, officials said. B8.
 
MUSIC STORE AND MORE FOR TIMES SQUARE
A six-story atrium at Broadway and 45th Street, which was supposed to embody the new sparkle of Times Square but instead wound up as a vacant shell, is to open next year with an enormous music store, a sports-theme restaurant and a four-screen movie theater. B10.
 
REGION
 
JUSTICE OFFICIALS CLARIFY STAND
Justice Department officials said that the Clinton Administration intended to argue in favor of an appeal of a civil rights case that it helped to win, but that it would participate only as a friend of the court. The case involves a white Piscataway, N.J., teacher who was laid off so that a black colleague could be retained. B6.
 
GROARK JOINS CONNECTICUT ELECTION FRAY
After sitting on the sidelines during the Republican and Democratic primary campaigns, Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark, the nominee of A Connecticut Party, took center stage in the first debate among five candidates for governor. B6.
 
L.I. SEEN AT ECONOMIC CROSSROADS
Burdened by high taxes and utility rates, and with job growth at a standstill, Long Island is at a crossroads, economists and business leaders said at an economic conference. B6.
 
KILLING IN VILLAGE IS FIRST IN 12 YEARS
The co-owner of an insurance agency was shot to death in the agency's office on Tuesday night in the first slaying in the village of Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., in 12 years, the authorities said. B6.
 
PATAKI URGES REDUCTIONS IN WELFARE
Continuing his efforts to define his candidacy for governor, State Senator George E. Pataki called for reducing the number of New Yorkers on welfare by requiring more to work. B13.
 
Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick B3
 
Chronicle B14

GRAPHIC: Graph: "PULSE: Corrections Officers" shows number of officers and inmates for each officer in New York, New Jersey, and Connecticut during 1989 and 1994. (Source: State correction departments)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: 2891 (TAIEX) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: CHINATRUST FINANCIAL HOLDING CO LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS SHOOTINGS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (87%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (78%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PARENTING (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); PHILOSOPHY (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (67%); CIVIL RIGHTS (63%); CONTRACT AWARDS (63%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (63%); RESTAURANTS (62%); THEME RESTAURANTS (61%); GOVERNORS (53%); MOVIE THEATERS (50%); THEATER (50%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (50%); 

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



484 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 820 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
Economists step up to the plate on ways to reorganize baseball for the benefit of the fans.

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
WITH baseball junkies suffering from World Series withdrawal, Congress is in a mood to make the club owners share their pain. At very least, there will be a concerted effort in coming weeks to strip the owners of their antitrust protection, which in turn would eliminate their right to cap salaries without the players' consent.
But some wonder whether it is time to think bigger -- to reorganize Major League Baseball in a way that puts the fans' interests first. And, surprise, surprise, economists are happy to rush in where tradition-bound commentators fear to tread. 
 Two approaches are especially provocative:
Playing the N.C.A.A. Way. Major League Baseball is confined to 28 cities when it is being played at all. Why not 38 or 48? Because the owners of the existing franchises make the decisions, and have every reason to believe that expansion does not pay: local revenues from increasing league size would not offset the dilution of national television rights. Indeed, the $90 million franchise fee charged to the latest applicants, was explicitly intended to compensate for the bite into broadcast revenues.
That arrangement suits George Daly, dean of the Stern School of Business at New York University, who thinks the owners' interest in keeping baseball small coincides with the public interest. In an era of television, he suggests, fans can as easily grow attached to teams whose stadiums are 1,000 miles away as those 100 miles away. "For all I know," he concludes, "baseball is too big" in the sense that fewer clubs playing with the cream of professional athletes could generate as much pleasure for the public.
But that is not how Roger Noll, an economist at Stanford University and consultant to the players association, sees it. The logic of free markets puts the burden on those who would restrict entry to an industry. And in Mr. Noll's view, the most practical way to let the market decide how many teams play in the majors would be to break baseball into a half-dozen smaller (perhaps regional) leagues and let them negotiate playoffs for a national championship.
Weakening the leagues would reduce the financial barriers to starting yet more leagues or reorganizing existing ones. Baseball, Mr. Noll hopes, would then evolve into a system similar to N.C.A.A. basketball, with teams operating with lower costs in dozens of smaller markets.
The catch, argues Gerald Scully, an economist at the University of Texas at Dallas, is that fans would trade "quality for quantity." After all, he notes, "you can't replicate 500 Bobby Bonds."
But Mr. Scully does concede the attraction of the Noll vision. Baseball would, in a sense, return to its roots, with much lower salaries, more dependence on local fan loyalty and stronger intercity rivalries. And the likely dilution in the quality of play might paradoxically increase interest in the game. The best of college basketball and football are no less exciting than their professional counterparts, at least in part because ordinary mortals are occasionally inspired to play beyond their capacities.
The British Option. Remodeling the professional game after the N.C.A.A. may seem a bridge too far for traditionalists. But Philip K. Porter, an economist at the University of South Florida, offers an alternative that seems far less disruptive, though no less revolutionary in impact.
In Britain, he notes, professional soccer clubs compete in A and B divisions, much the way American baseball is divided into the major and minor leagues. There is one gigantic difference, though: Whole teams, rather than players, switch leagues when they excel or fail. Specifically, an A division team must trade places with the best of the B division when it finishes at the bottom of its division standings for two consecutive years.
Think of the implications: First and foremost, baseball-crazed cities would no longer be at the mercy of major league club owners. If the professional team in, say, Tampa invested enough in players and management, it would probably get a crack at joining the big leagues. Only slightly less important, incompetent or cynical major league owners would no longer be secure. "Only the best-managed teams could stay at the top," Mr. Porter explains.
Major League Baseball would thus become a truly national game, one in which any city able to support the costs of a big league team would have a crack at same. By the same token, though, there would be no tendency to dilute player quality. And even the fans of teams that could not aspire to major league performance would be better off since they would catch the excitement of competition with other minor league clubs still on the way up.
Is any of this possible? Not if Washington leaves it to professional baseball to clean up its own mess. But if the fans -- and thus Congress -- are angry enough, the legal leverage is there to reshape the game.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; MAJOR LEAGUES; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS BASEBALL (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (89%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BASEBALL TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (77%); BASKETBALL (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (66%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER ROGER NOLL (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



485 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: METRO MATTERS;
City Is Fighting Garbage, But Will It Sweep Crime?

BYLINE: By Joyce Purnick 

 BODY:
IT seems almost unfair, sort of raining-on-the-paradelike, to ask this question, but here it is anyway: Will City Hall take the same tough stance with police officers as it did with its sanitation workers?
Under the city's tentative and roundly praised contract with its sanitation union, garbage collectors may finally work a full day for a full day's pay. If the deal develops none of the loopholes so common to city labor accords, the contract is great news for those who favor cleaner streets and greater economy. 
 But what of the police? Will Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who says, "There are no sacred cows," really admit the Police Department into his not-so-exclusive club of budget-cut victims?
The Sanitation Department is to the Police Department as Staten Island is to Brooklyn: small. Sanitation's budget is $542 million; the police budget is $2.1 billion. Sanitation employees number about 10,000 people to the N.Y.P.D.'s 38,000, most of them officers. If economies are possible in Sanitation, just think of the prospects in the Police Department.
A police force of more than 30,000 officers sounds large. It is. But in fact, fewer than 11,000 are out fighting crime each day, unevenly distributed over three shifts. Why? Because duly trained cops are otherwise occupied. They are cleaning out horse stables, painting street barriers, mopping up police precincts, delivering mail, doing research, keeping logs, teaching other officers to drive or running the supply bureau.
DEALING with queries from the press takes 23 uniformed officers, and the City Council has found that uniformed officers spent 12,390 shifts in 1993 loading, unloading and ferrying police barriers to parades or demonstrations. "We were incredibly upset by this and anticipated a change," said the chairman of the Council's Finance Committee, Herbert E. Berman. "But change does not take place easily in the Police Department."
Certainly not without a push from City Hall. But so far, the Mayor has treated police officers like princes of the city (and princesses). Except for imposing a two-month delay in the starting date of classes at the Police Academy, he has protected the department, saying savings will come from the proposed merger of the housing and transit police with the N.Y.P.D. With even more cuts looming, the Mayor indicated this week that the department might have to tighten its belt but gave no details.
Critics keep pointing out that Mr. Giuliani need not lay off a single officer, or cut one penny out of the police budget, to make the department more efficient. "You can spend the same amount of money and provide more services," said Raymond D. Horton, the President of the Citizens Budget Commission, arguing for reforming the Police Department.
If he did that, though, Mr. Giuliani would risk the disapproval of his police friends -- staunch supporters during last year's mayoral campaign -- because police officers and their union resist the very changes that would save the most money. They are heatedly opposed to increasing the number of cars assigned to one officer instead of two; increasing the average number of days an officer works (200 a year, says the Budget Commission, including about 40 days spent in court, in training or doing paperwork), or letting lower-paid civilians take over safe and comfortable jobs so that more officers can go into the streets.
WHEN David N. Dinkins was Mayor, Police Commissioners Raymond W. Kelly and Lee P. Brown planned to hire many more civilians. But they couldn't afford it because, to get state funds for the Safe Streets, Safe City program, they locked themselves into an agreement with the Legislature to expand the uniformed force. That agreement has had the effect of preventing the hiring of civilians, and Mr. Giuliani contends it would be futile to try to renegotiate it. Nor does he or any other elected official show any inclination to try; hiring police officers is popular.
So police officers do jobs that don't require police training, because somebody has to. "There are jobs to be done," said former Commissioner Kelly. "If you don't have a body in civilian clothes, you're going to have a uniformed officer do it."
The city could hire more civilians, once funds from the new Federal crime law are appropriated. But Mr. Giuliani is considering making cuts in the Police Department's civilian ranks in the next round of budget reductions. If he does, then the money from Washington would only be substituting federally financed bodies for city-financed bodies. That would save city dollars but would not free more officers for crime-fighting.
Where does all this leave New Yorkers? With more police officers than ever -- but not any more on the streets. Then again, those streets may soon be more efficiently swept.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC); UNIFORMED SANITATIONMEN'S ASSN (NYC); SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (56%); POLICE DEPARTMENT (90%); SANITATION DEPARTMENT (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: POLICE DEPARTMENT (NYC); UNIFORMED SANITATIONMEN'S ASSN (NYC); SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) POLICE DEPARTMENT (90%); SANITATION DEPARTMENT (72%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLICE; WASTE MATERIALS AND DISPOSAL POLICE FORCES (94%); CITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SOLID WASTE COLLECTION (77%); BUDGET CUTS (74%); MAMMALS (74%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (74%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



486 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: SECURITY;
From the Shores of Haiti Into Hearts of the People

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: CAP-HAITIEN, Haiti, Sept. 21

 BODY:
A small drama unfolded this morning at the crowded main traffic circle here, where half a dozen United States marines stood sentry in two light armored tanks surrounded by concertina wire.
As two Haitian soldiers approached on foot, two M-16-toting marines in battle dress hopped down and walked to the edge of the wire. Haitians and Americans eyed each other in tense silence as the Haitian soldiers strode through the suddenly hushed crowd and up the road. As they left, a lusty cheer and waves of clapping suddenly erupted from the people. 
 "Before, the people were afraid of the Haitian soldiers and would have scattered when they came," explained Israel Lager, a 30-year-old handyman. "But the soldiers have no more importance now in front of the Americans."
Since a last-minute accord averted a United States invasion, American and Haitian security forces ostensibly have been partners in policing this impoverished country. But the people here in Haiti's second-largest city know that's just politics and window dressing. They view the 1,900 marines patrolling this northern coastal town as their saviors from years of state-sanctioned violence and their hope for a shot at democracy.
Late Tuesday night, a parade of Haitians trailed marine Humvees through the streets, celebrating the end of evening curfew. Marching along, they sang in Creole, "Chains that are binding us are loosening up."
In addition to lofty ideals, the people of Cap-Haitien have concrete needs they expect the Americans to deliver. The city has been without electricity, save a few generators, for more than a year. Prices for rice and cassava have more than tripled in that time. Justinien Hospital is desperately low on basic medicines, gauze, bandages and ambulances.
And just about everyone interviewed today in the slums near the airfield said he needed a job. "The Americans have come to fix our country," said Mr. Lager.
These high expectations have some marines worried. "They want everything now and all at once," Capt. Gregg Lyons, the grim-faced commander of F Company, Second Battalion, said as he looked anxiously at the swelling crowd outside a wire fence his troops erected at the airport entrance. "We'll do what we can. But I'm afraid if we don't deliver all they expect in the next few days, they'll turn angry."
Marines today sent a front-loader and a truck to scoop up some of the piles of stinking garbage and debris that block the rutted city streets. A medical survey team visited the hospital to promise delivery of 200 pallets of medicine and supplies from the amphibious ship Wasp offshore. And Col. Tom Jones, the Marine commander here, met with the president of the city's chamber of commerce and other civic leaders to find out what Cap-Haitien needs.
Residents throughout the city voiced their needs in interviews. Jean Diessel, 28, wants a job so he can build a house for his wife and five children and move out of the one-room apartment he now rents. Suzette Mondesir, 47, wants food prices to go down so she can afford to feed her three children more than a single midday meal of rice, beans and sugar cane. "I have no money to send my children to school, or even to buy clothes and shoes," she said, pointing to the worn sandals her 5-year-old daughter Genie, wore.
Many residents expressed hope the international economic embargo against Haiti would be lifted soon. Some signs indicated a change soon. Gasoline smuggled in from the Dominican Republic cost $30 for a one-gallon jug today, down from $40 a jug two days ago. Pierre Sem, a 29-year-old student, said the sanctions had crippled the job market. "If the embargo is over, I can get a job and pay for my law studies."
Some Haitian women see the marines as a one-way ticket out of the poverty most people here suffer. Along the airport's perimeter wire, an attractive young woman in a pretty white dress, blue shorts and small hoop earrings quietly handed a crumpled note to Ruddy Jean-Louis, a Navy dental technician who is one of 35 Creole-speaking interpreters assigned to Marine units here. Inside the note: her name (Anna) and her address. "I don't think these people know what democracy is, they just want a change," said Mr. Jean-Louis, who left Haiti 16 years ago as a child.
Most of the poorer people interviewed today said they supported the exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, because he championed their cause. But wealthier residents were more skeptical and said it would be America's job to insure that Father Aristide reached out to all classes of Haitians and established a fair system of governing.
"If he comes back as a President of all Haitians, rich and poor, he'll be O.K.," said Rudy Stephan, a 42-year-old sugar cane plantation owner who attended Montclair State University in New Jersey and served in the United States Air Force as a radar operator from 1973 to 1977. "But if he appeals only to the masses, we will just be plunged into more chaos."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The United States marines who landed in the northern Haitian port of Cap-Haitien are viewed by the people there as saviors from state-sanctioned violence. A group of Haitians gathered near the airport yesterday to watch marines fill sandbags to set up a defensive position. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); 

COMPANY: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; CAP HAITIEN (HAITI); UNITED STATES (99%); HAITI (99%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ARMED FORCES (90%); CITY LIFE (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICS (72%); SLUM DWELLINGS (67%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (67%); CURFEW (66%); COASTAL AREAS (66%); POWER FAILURES (64%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: SCHMITT, ERIC

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



487 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 694 words

HEADLINE: Pataki Offers Welfare Plan; Critics Say It's Like Cuomo's

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

 BODY:
Continuing his efforts to define his candidacy for governor, State Senator George E. Pataki called yesterday for reducing the number of people on welfare by requiring more of them to work, penalizing welfare families whose children routinely skip school and creating an independent monitor for welfare fraud.
But while Mr. Pataki, a Republican from Putnam County, called his proposal a "dramatic" effort to "break the cycle of dependency," much of the plan called for speeding up or expanding policies that have already been proposed or put into effect by Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, his three-term Democatic rival. 
 "It's good to know that he has accepted the Governor's agenda on welfare," said Michael J. Dowling, the State Commissioner of Social Services.
In a news conference in Manhattan, Mr. Pataki acknowledged that the state had instituted a range of welfare-to-work programs. But he contended that Mr. Cuomo had not pushed those programs aggressively, saying: "The record, I think, is quite clear. Welfare has gone up, but workfare has gone down."
Mr. Pataki released state statistics showing that since Mr. Cuomo took office in 1983, the percentage of childless, able-bodied welfare recipients in workfare, a state program to place welfare recipients in jobs with nonprofit or government agencies, has dropped from 34 percent to 14 percent. And the welfare caseload has risen by 300,000 to 1.6 million.
The Cuomo administration said Mr. Pataki's figures were misleading with a rising number of welfare recipients in educational and job-training programs that did not exist in 1982. Mr. Dowling said 38 percent of all childless, able-bodied welfare recipients are either working or enrolled in such educational programs.
The Pataki campaign began airing two commercials yesterday attacking Mr. Cuomo on welfare. "We must give people the skills they need to get off welfare," Mr. Pataki says. "But under Mario Cuomo welfare spending always goes up while workfare has gone down."
Mr. Cuomo's aides said the commercial was inaccurate because welfare spending was static throughout much of the 1980's, declined in one year and began to balloon only in the 1990's with the national recession.
Yesterday's events marked the second consecutive week that Mr. Pataki, who has been criticized by Mr. Cuomo for not detailing his positions on many issues, has coordinated the release of a policy paper with new television commercials. Both times, he has sought to underscore what he considers sharp differences between him and Mr. Cuomo.
But unlike last week, when Mr. Pataki called for term limits and citizen initiative -- proposals not supported by Mr. Cuomo -- this week's welfare proposal surprised some political analysts as being remarkably similar to Mr. Cuomo's own initiatives.
Some analysts said Mr. Pataki might have decided that proposing more sweeping changes -- like imposing time limits on welfare, something Mr. Pataki has endorsed in the past -- might alienate the large block of moderate voters who remain undecided in the race.
At his news conference, Mr. Pataki allowed two county executives who have advocated workfare, Andrew P. O'Rourke of Westchester and Raymond Meier of Oneida County, to speak almost as long as he did.
Mr. Pataki said he would encourage counties, which administer welfare programs, to increase workfare enrollment by requiring that the state pay part of the clerical costs involved in finding jobs and monitoring compliance. Under workfare, the state docks welfare payments for clients who fail to show up for work.
Mr. O'Rourke said the program has helped reduced welfare rolls in Westchester by 15,000 since 1989.
Under the Pataki plan, a tax credit for low-income families scheduled to be phased in by 1997 would take full effect by 1995. In June Mr. Pataki voted against the state budget that included that tax credit, saying the budget called for too much spending and not enough tax cuts.
Mr. Pataki would also seek Federal approvals to require welfare families to keep their children in school or face a cut in their welfare grants -- a plan the Cuomo administration is already pursuing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUTNAM COUNTY COMPREHENSIVE (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; WELFARE (US); WELFARE RECIPIENTS, EMPLOYMENT OF; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING GOVERNORS (91%); CHILDREN (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); WELFARE FRAUD (78%); TERM LIMITS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); POLITICS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); STATISTICS (71%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); 

PERSON: DAO, JAMES; PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN) GEORGE E PATAKI (98%); MARIO M CUOMO (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



488 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Supermarket Invests in Harlem, Long Shunned by Chains

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
For years, residents in inner-city neighborhoods like Harlem, Jamaica and East New York complained that the giant supermarkets that serve the suburbs and wealthier parts of the city had shunned their neighborhoods, forcing them to shop in overpriced and understocked bodegas and other small stores.
But in an unusual retail program to be announced today, a nonprofit community development group has collected $24 million from 10 major corporations to help finance a proposed 53,000-square-foot Pathmark store on 125th Street in East Harlem as well as similar stores in inner-city neighborhoods across the country. 
 The program, organized by the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a community development group started by the Ford Foundation, is intended to use private money to build supermarkets in low-income neighborhoods, giving the investors a stake in the stores.
Details of the Harlem project, which is expected to be built on a city-owned site between Lexington and Third Avenues, are still being completed.
But Stan Sorkin, a spokesman for the Supermarkets General Corporation, the Woodbridge, N.J., company that operates Pathmark supermarkets, said that he expected construction to begin in the first half of 1995 and that the supermarket would open within two years.
The company expects the supermarket to employ about 250 people.
In addition to the Harlem project, the community development group expects the corporate fund to provide start-up money for two supermarkets in the South Bronx and one in Newark. The other cities intended to receive the retail investment money are Los Angeles, Chicago, Miami, Washington, Kansas City, San Diego, Houston, Philadelphia, Boston, Phoenix, Seattle and San Francisco.
The initial investment of $24 million will come from 10 corporations, including Prudential, G.E. Capital, Bank of America, Home Savings of America and J. P. Morgan. Officials say the program is expected to produce 2,000 permanent jobs across the country in the first two years.
The effort will provide community developers with initial financing as well as low-interest loans for up to 30 percent of the development costs. The balance will be provided by conventional bank loans or investments from retailers.
In the case of the Harlem project, the money is expected to go to the development arm of the Abyssinian Baptist Church and the Community Association of East Harlem Triangle, which would build the store and lease it to Pathmark.
In return for their money the corporate investors are expected to earn 10 percent annually over a 10-year period. But beyond the investment, there is a public relations value, since many of the nation's top corporations have been accused of ignoring the inner city in their investments.
Charles Rinehart, chairman and chief executive of Home Savings of America, said the company's involvement in the program was part of a continuing investment in inner-city neighborhoods.
"As an S.& L. we have a tradition of making long-term loans in inner city neighborhoods," Mr. Rinehart said. "This investment is part of our commitment to the neighborhoods we serve. It gives a stake in the communities in central cities where we have been lending for 25 years. It is important to make as many people as possible part of the economy."
Officials of the development group declined to discuss specifics of the Harlem project, but a person familiar with the negotiations said $4 million of the $24 million fund would go to the 125th Street project, which is expected to cost $12 million. A city official said the developers were seeking the rest of the financing.
Supermarket chains have often refused to do business in low-income, inner-city neighborhoods. They said the difficulty of finding suitable sites, the high cost of security and the poverty of residents made such investments risky.
As a result, consumer advocates say, residents must make do with poorly stocked stores offering low-quality, overpriced food. Prices in local stores can be 50 percent higher than the cost of the same items in stores in middle-income neighborhoods.
Over the years, several attempts to attract major supermarket chains to Harlem have failed. Pathmark has been negotiating with the city and various community groups in Harlem for more than three years to try to open a store on 125th Street.
But Paul S. Grogan, president of the community development group, said that the success of two supermarkets in which Pathmark has invested, in Newark and in the Bedford-Stuyvesant section of Brooklyn, demonstrated that inner-city supermarkets can be profitable.
The Brooklyn supermarket, a 44,000-square-foot store that opened as part of the Bedford-Stuyvesant Restoration Project in 1978, has annual sales of $25 million.
Those success stories, Mr. Grogan said, usually follow years of complicated negotiations and require a patchwork of financing sources.
Mr. Grogan said the retailers who have been profitable in such neighborhoods have discovered that while incomes are lower than in other neighborhoods, the population density increases the buying power in these communities.
Ellen C. Weiman, a spokeswoman for the New York City's Economic Development Corporation, the agency negotiating the supermarket deal for the city, said the Abyssinian Development Corporation and its partner are completing the public review process and arranging for the rest of the financing for the project.
Ms. Weiman said the Harlem project was part of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's neighborhood retail program.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (54%); BAC (LSE) (54%); 8648 (TSE) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (84%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PATHMARK SUPERMARKETS; LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT CORP; FORD FOUNDATION PATHMARK STORES INC (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (54%); HOME SAVINGS OF AMERICA FSB (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: PATHMARK SUPERMARKETS; LOCAL INITIATIVES SUPPORT CORP; FORD FOUNDATION

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; EAST HARLEM (NYC); HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; SUPERMARKETS; CORPORATIONS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (96%); CITY LIFE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); SAVINGS & LOANS (86%); RETAILERS (77%); FOUNDATIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, SHAWN G

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



489 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 896 words

HEADLINE: Pessimism Takes Hold On Wall St.

BYLINE: By ANTHONY RAMIREZ 

 BODY:
A quickening pessimism, based on recent economic data, has suddenly soured the mood on Wall Street and sent stock and bond prices sharply lower.
Many traders say the Federal Reserve will raise short-term interest rates as soon as Tuesday, when the Fed's policy-making committee meets, battering both stocks and bonds just three days before the end of a problematic third quarter. 
 Yesterday, in the second consecutive day of sharp decline, the stock market gave up another 17.49 points on the Dow Jones industrial average to close at 3,851.60. Since Monday, the Dow has dropped 85 points. Indeed, if the market had closed at 3 P.M., instead of 4 P.M., the Dow would have been clocked at a 115-point fall for two days.
During the next few days, traders are likely to trim stock prices further in advance of the Fed meeting, analysts say.
What had steadied the financial markets in the last month, and helped rally the Dow to near its all-time high of 3,978.36, was a shaky assumption: that both economic growth and inflation were contained well enough that the Fed would forgo a sixth increase in short-term interest rates, at least until after the November elections.
"There was a naive belief that the Fed wouldn't have to tighten," said Dennis Jarrett, chief market analyst at Kidder, Peabody & Company. "That naivete has been shattered."
John Lipsky, chief economist at Salomon Brothers, added, "The midsummer night's dream that the U.S. was in for a period of moderate economic growth with no inflationary pressures has evaporated."
Trading was heavy yesterday at more than 355 million shares on the New York Stock Stock Exchange, almost 24 percent more than this year's daily average of 287 million shares. The broader Standard & Poor's 500 index fell 1.90 points, to 461.46. The smaller-company Nasdaq composite index fell 6.03 points, to 760.71.
Unlike Tuesday's fall, which was deepened by high-speed, computer-guided trading of large blocks of stocks, yesterday's decline showed little such trading and signaled a genuine shift in market sentiment.
Stock and bond traders trace the change in mood to an unexpectedly high Producer Price Index on Sept. 9, indicating higher inflation to come. The Consumer Price Index on Sept. 13 did not surprise the market, only because Wall Street analysts hastily revised their estimates to reflect the producer figure.
Subsequent economic data, including factory use and Tuesday's trade-deficit figures, further darkened the outlook.
The Dow, S.& P. 500 and Nasdaq composite index all fell sharply until 3 P.M. The Dow, for example, dropped more than 47 points. But in the last hour, prices lifted a bit and the Dow closed down less than 18 points.
"People are always worried about another crash," said Thomas Gallagher, head of equity trading at Oppenheimer & Company. "So they sold stocks for most of the day. But when they saw that prices weren't falling, they started buying again."
The event preceding yesterday's decline was a prediction by Wayne D. Angell, a former Fed governor, that his old colleagues would raise the Fed's target for the Federal funds rate and the discount rate by half a percentage point each on Sept. 27. But it was unclear whether traders were reacting to Mr. Angell's remarks or Mr. Angell was simply saying out loud what Wall Street was already thinking.
The target for the Federal funds rate, which is the interest on overnight loans between banks, is 4.75 percent, up from 3 percent in February, when the Fed started raising interest rates. The discount rate, which is the rate charged on the Fed's loans to banks, is 4 percent, up from 3 percent in February.
The forecast by Mr. Angell, now an economist at Bear, Stearns & Company, hit the news services about 10 minutes before the New York Stock Exchange opened at 9:30 A.M. Bond traders, already nervous from Friday's sour bond market, immediately bid down fixed-income prices. The drop in bonds helped snuff out a small gain in the Dow and S.& P. 500, and a flat opening in Nasdaq stocks.
Bond yields are now at their highest level in more than two years and have become an even more attractive place for investors to place their money, analysts say. The benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 7.80 percent yesterday, from 7.77 percent. As bond yields near 8 percent, they are almost triple the 2.86 percent dividend yield of the S.& P. 500.
After coming tantalizingly close to exceeding their record highs last week, the leading stock indexes are now 3 to 6 percent or so away from their highs for the year. The Dow's high point for the year was 3,978.36, on Jan. 31. The S.& P. 500's high was 482, on Feb. 2, and the Nasdaq's peak was 803.93, on March 18.
The New York Stock Exchange composite index fell 1.20 points, to 254.71, with advancing stocks lagging behind declining stocks by 1,586 to 642. The American Stock Exchange market value index fell 3.38 points, to 454.77.
Of the 30 component stocks of the Dow industrials, 20 fell, led by Caterpillar, which dropped 1 1/4, to 54 1/8. Of the 500 component stocks of the S.& P. 500, 309 fell, led by General Motors, which dropped 1 1/8, to 48 5/8.
The most active stock, with 5.6 million shares traded, was Digital Equipment, which rose 1 1/8, to 29, after an analyst for Cowen & Company reiterated his reassessment to "strong buy," from "neutral."

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (66%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE (NYSE); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (89%); INFLATION (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ELECTIONS (72%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (63%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (51%); 

PERSON: RAMIREZ, ANTHONY WAYNE D ANGELL (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



490 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 457 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: CRITIC;
Former U.N. Envoy Deplores Haiti Accord

BYLINE: By CALVIN SIMS, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BUENOS AIRES, Sept. 21

 BODY:
The former United Nations envoy to Haiti, Dante Caputo, who resigned his position last week, said today that he had grave concerns over the last-minute Haitian-American accord that allows the Haitian military to remain in the Caribbean nationas United States troops arrive.
In interviews with local and international news organizations here this week, Mr. Caputo, a former Foreign Minister of Argentina, has assailed the Clinton Administration for failing to obtain written assurances that Haiti's military leaders will leave the country. 
 Without such an agreement, Mr. Caputo said, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras will not leave Haiti, and once he steps down the military leader will build a political force with Haiti's ruling class, leaving most of the country's current military and economic power base intact.
"As written, it is an unbelievable agreement, and I don't like it," Mr. Caputo said in a telephone interview from his home here. "How can you accept the idea that those guys will leave quietly without that being specified. It's so weak that the agreement could become a danger."
Under the agreement, negotiated Sunday by former President Jimmy Carter and General Cedras, the military leaders promised to resign by Oct. 15 and allow exiled President Jean-Bertrand Aristide to return to power. While the military leaders did not agree in principle to leave Haiti, Mr. Carter has said that such a departure was understood.
"Cedras will not budge," Mr. Caputo told the DYN news agency here.
As part of the United Nation's special mission charged with resolving the Haitian crisis, Mr. Caputo was the architect of the 1993 Governors Island agreement on Haiti, under which the military leaders agreed to step down last October. But they reneged.
"I'm not upset, and I don't think this is a slap in the face to the Governors Island agreement, but they got a much weaker agreement with 60 military planes in the air than we got at the negotiating table on an island," Mr. Caputo said in the telephone interview.
Mr. Caputo resigned his post at the United Nations in a letter to the United Nations Secretary General, Boutros Boutros-Ghali, that was made public on Monday. "The events of the last days show that the Haitian question has changed its nature," Mr. Caputo said in the letter.
"In effect the total absence of consultation and information from the United States Government makes me believe that this country has in fact taken the unilateral decision of acting on its own in the Haitian process," he added.
As a result, Mr. Caputo said that he felt he no longer had a role to play in the negotiations. Mr. Caputo said that Mr. Boutros-Ghali had asked him to reconsider his resignation but that he had declined.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (57%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

COMPANY: APCO ARGENTINA INC (57%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (97%); UNITED STATES (95%); ARGENTINA (92%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); INTERVIEWS (90%); RESIGNATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); POLITICS (74%); ARMED FORCES (72%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (59%); 

PERSON: CAPUTO, DANTE; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); SIMS, CALVIN JIMMY CARTER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



491 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Groark Joins Connecticut Election Fray

BYLINE: By JONATHAN RABINOVITZ, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: STAMFORD, Conn. Sept. 20

 BODY:
After sitting on the sidelines during the Republican and Democratic primary campaigns, Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark, the nominee of A Connecticut Party, took center stage today in the first debate among the five gubernatorial candidates.
While her four opponents provided examples of the state's economic malaise, Ms. Groark, who has spent the summer impatiently listening to criticism of Gov. Lowell P. Weicker's administration, dismissed it as the talk of desperate candidates willing to say anything to get elected. 
 "We are in the midst of an economic recovery, ladies and gentlemen," she told about 450 business leaders at the Sheraton Hotel in Stamford, and then rattled off a string of measures -- balanced budgets, the creation of about 13,400 new jobs in the last year and strong bond ratings from Standard & Poor's -- as proof.
She later added, "Don't listen to the easy talk you can hear from the candidates who want to be elected," and urged voters to be "careful about what they hear," referring to what she called inflated job-loss statistics in a commercial for her Republican opponent, John G. Rowland.
Her assertions about the state's economic turnaround set Ms. Groark apart from the field in a debate in which all the candidates tried to stake out positions to distinguish themselves. And in a freewheeling five-way debate with its share of backbiting, clear differences emerged on taxes, crime and school desegregation.
The 75-minute debate, sponsored by the Southwestern Area Commerce and Industry Association, included State Comptoller William E. Curry Jr., the Democratic candidate; Tom Scott, a former Republican state senator who is running on the Independence Party line; Joseph Zdonczyk of the Concerned Citizens Party; Mr. Rowland, a former Republican congressman, and Ms. Groark.
It is to be broadcast again on Saturday at 8 P.M. and Sunday at 6 P.M., as well as at 2:30 P.M. on Sunday on C-Span.
Many had expected Mr. Rowland, widely considered the front-runner in the race, to bear the brunt of the attacks in the debate, but little criticism was directed at him. Through much of the event, he appeared relaxed, without a jacket and in rolled-up sleeves, quipping that the job market was so bad that "you have five people running for the governor's job."
And Mr. Rowland, who has called for repealing the state income tax over five years, spent almost as much time talking about New Jersey and Massachusetts as Connecticut, in an attempt to place himself in the company of two other Republican Governors, Christine Todd Whitman and William Weld.
"There's been a lot of talk of cutting taxes, but most of it's been taking place outside the state of Connecticut," he said, noting that he recently met with Ms. Whitman to discuss her approach to cutting taxes, a program he said has brought 6,000 new jobs each month to that state.
In contrast, Mr. Rowland said, Connecticut has the third-highest tax burden in the nation, and spending has increased 23 percent over the last four years. "People of this state want to see what happened in Massachusetts and New Jersey," he said.
Mr. Scott, who entered the race largely because he believed Mr. Rowland was not committed enough to cutting taxes, questioned why Mr. Rowland had yet to provide a detailed tax plan. A former radio talk show host known for his conservative views, Mr. Scott was the only candidate in the debate to oppose the state's recent ban on assault weapons and also promised to fight any court order to desegregate Connecticut schools across town lines.
And he also referred to the American Civil Liberties Union as the "leading lobbying group for criminals."
Mr. Scott led the opposition to the income tax that Mr. Weicker pushed through, with Ms. Groark casting the tie-breaking vote in the State Senate. In the debate today, he accused her of "propagandizing" about the state's economy, said she had "massacred" the middle class and complained that she and Mr. Weicker had lied in the last campaign when they said they opposed an income tax.
While Mr. Curry, the Democrat, also offered his criticisms of the economy, he largely steered clear of the fray. He called for $800 million in property tax cuts and said the state should make small businesses the focus of its economic development efforts.
"There's a fundamental difference in the ideas here of what's wrong with the economy," he said. "Tom and John believe that the income tax destroyed it, and Eunice believes that it saved it." He argued that the property tax is the real problem.
After the debate, Mr. Curry said it felt as if he had "gotten the week off," as his candidacy was not the focus of the debate. Instead, he described it as a "turf battle among the three Republicans," including Ms. Groark, a former Republican, and Mr. Scott, along with Mr. Rowland.
And in a strange twist, Mr. Curry even complimented Mr. Rowland for his positions on two occasions.
Later when Mr. Curry ran out of his allotted time, Mr. Rowland remarked, "I'd be glad to give him some of my time, because he's said so many nice things about me today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: While their debating stances differed, four of the five gubernatorial candidates in Connecticut shared one thing in common at the Sheraton Hotel in Stamford yesterday -- the same luncheon table. From left were Tom Scott of the Independence Party; State Comptroller William E. Curry Jr., the Democrat; Lieut. Gov. Eunice S. Groark of A Connecticut Party, and John G. Rowland, the Republican. (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (98%); CONNECTICUT, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES; ELECTIONS; DEBATING CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); JOB CREATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (73%); BONDS (73%); EMPLOYMENT (71%); TAX RELIEF (69%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (64%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: RABINOVITZ, JONATHAN; SCOTT, TOM; CURRY, WILLIAM E JR (COMPTROLLER); ZDONCZYK, JOSEPH; GROARK, EUNICE S (LT GOV); ROWLAND, JOHN G JOHN G ROWLAND (94%); EUNICE S GROARK (92%); TOM SCOTT (84%); WILLIAM E CURRY JR (58%); LOWELL P WEICKER (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



492 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Owner of Arby's to Buy Long John Silver's Chain

BYLINE: By GLENN COLLINS 

 BODY:
In a merger of roast beef and popcorn shrimp, the Triarc Companies, the owner of Arby's Inc., will acquire Long John Silver's Restaurants Inc. for $525 million.
The deal will bring together Arby's, a chain of 2,800 outlets specializing in slow-roasted beef sandwiches, and the nation's largest fast-food fish and seafood chain, with about 1,450 units. Triarc will try to turn the acquisition into a venture that would be the most ambitious attempt at fast-food dual branding, the retailing of two separate brands from the same restaurant outlet. 
 "This will make the new combined Triarc No. 8 of the 100 largest restaurant chains, when it used to be 15th," said Ron Paul, president of Technomic Inc., a restaurant industry consulting firm in Chicago. "That's a big leap for them."
Analysts said it would be the largest merger of fast-food chains in recent years.
"It appears to be another good acquisition for Triarc," said Allan Kaplan, a securities analyst with Merrill Lynch & Company. "It gives them a bigger base, some potential synergies, economies of scale and more flexibility." Triarc, based in New York, is also the owner of the Royal Crown Cola Company.
Shares of Triarc fell 25 cents yesterday, to $15.625, on the New York Stock Exchange.
"Multiple branding is the next wave in the restaurant business," Don Pierce, chief executive of the Triarc restaurant group, said in an interview.
He noted that "two-thirds of Arby sales volume is at lunchtime and one-third at dinner, and for Long John Silver's it's the reverse." He added, "This way there will be more customers in the units all day."
Mr. Pierce said that 1,000 Arby and Long John Silver's locations could be revamped as dual-restaurant outlets during the next three years. He will oversee both chains.
The attempt to dual-brand the Triarc restaurants will be "much watched," Mr. Paul of Technomic said, "to see if the franchisees will go along with the corporate plan, and to see if the synergy is correct."
An important question is whether the holders of Arby's and Long John Silver's franchises will agree to Triarc's dual-branding plans. According to Mr. Paul, 32 percent of Long John Silver's units are franchised, while 89 percent of Arby's are owned by franchise operators. The transaction will increase the number of Triarc's company-owned fast-food restaurants to about 1,300.
Pepsico Inc. has attempted to combine its Pizza Hut, Taco Bell and KFC units in some locations, but "for whatever reason, Pepsi hasn't rolled out combinations as much as had been expected, despite the synergies involved," Mr. Paul said. "It has worked in some places, but it hasn't been a major factor as far as chain expansion has been concerned."
Food-industry analysts say that the danger in dual-branding is that the identity of one or both brands could be negatively affected by the combination, or that a well-known, high-quality brand might be combined with a lower-quality, lesser-known chain.
Triarc said the total number of Arby's and Long John Silver's locations, including both franchises and company-owned outlets, would exceed 4,200 units and generate more than $2.5 billion in annual sales. The company said that in the 12 months that ended June 30, Long John Silver's generated revenue of about $640 million and operating cash flow of approximately $88 million. In the same period, Arby's generated $210 million in revenue to Triarc and $26 million in operating cash flow.
Long John Silver's offers menu items like Fish and More, a platter of fried fish, a hush puppy and cole slaw. Although its core product is fried fish, the chain has introduced some nonfried items, like baked fish platters and sandwiches.
Mr. Pierce of Triarc said the company had tested the dual-restaurant strategy in Fogelsville, Pa., for the last four months in a restaurant that combined Arby's and Long John Silver's outlets. "Sales went up in both restaurants," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Surf and Turf" shows statistics on Long John Silver's and Arby's and shows where Triarc would rank among leading restaurant companies after the acquisition.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WEN (NASDAQ) (91%); PEP (NYSE) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (95%); NAICS722513 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (91%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (82%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (82%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (82%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (82%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (80%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (80%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (80%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (55%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: TRIARC COS; ARBY'S INC; LONG JOHN SILVER'S RESTAURANTS INC LONG JOHN SILVER'S INC (95%); ARBY'S RESTAURANT GROUP INC (94%); WENDY'S CO (91%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (82%); PEPSICO INC (80%); TRIARC RESTAURANT GROUP (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (54%); PIZZA HUT INC (50%); TACO BELL CORP (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: TRIARC COS; ARBY'S INC; LONG JOHN SILVER'S RESTAURANTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (55%); NEW YORK, USA (55%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; FAST FOOD INDUSTRY; INDUSTRY PROFILES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES RESTAURANTS (92%); FAST FOOD (91%); BRANDING (90%); MERGERS (90%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (90%); FRANCHISING (89%); FRANCHISEES (89%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); SEAFOOD (78%); MARKETING PLAN (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); FOOD INDUSTRY (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (67%); 

PERSON: COLLINS, GLENN RON PAUL (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



493 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Fall on Fear Of Fed Move

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities sagged again yesterday, after a report of higher-than-expected housing starts for August and a prediction by a former Federal Reserve official that an increase in interest rates was imminent.
Wayne D. Angell, a former Fed governor who is chief economist for Bear, Stearns & Company, predicted that the Fed would raise interest rates by 50 basis points at the meeting next week of the Federal Open Market Committee, the Fed's policy-making body. A basis point is one-hundredth of a percentage point. 
 Investors and traders are skittish not only because of Mr. Angell's knowledge of the Fed but also because if the prediction is accurate, the rate increase would come when the Treasury will be trying to sell $28.25 billion of new two- and five-year notes.
According to market analysts, a rate increase, or even the threat of one, makes it more difficult to sell the new securities and puts more downward pressure on prices.
Traders noted that economists at Goldman, Sachs & Company had said there was a better than 50-50 chance that the Fed would raise rates on Tuesday, when the open market committee is scheduled to meet.
The price of the 30-year bond dropped 11/32 , to 9617/32 , for a yield of 7.80 percent, up from 7.77 percent on Tuesday and the highest level since June 24, 1992, when it was 7.82 percent. Short-term interest rates, which would feel an increase first, rose sharply, with a three-month maturity up 18 basis points, to 4.79 percent, and a six-month issue up 10 basis points, to 5.17 percent.
Walter S. Frank, chief economist for the Money Fund Report in Ashland, Mass., said investors and traders took the path of least resistance, which was to sell. "It didn't make any difference what the news was today," he said. "Just as long as the news was not profoundly good, they sold."
Mr. Frank said the Government's housing data should have had a positive influence on bonds, because much of the gain in housing starts was influenced by a strong rise in multifamily units.
"Multifamily start numbers are a wild card and behave similarly to food and energy components, which bounce around a lot," Mr. Frank said. "The important thing is that single-family starts, which make up about 80 percent of new housing construction, dropped 2.7 percent. Permits were up, but I don't think they are great leading indicators."
The bond market should have accepted the data as good news, but instead was focused on the Fed and the next rate increase, even though there is no context for one. "All it took was for some 'authority' to tell the market that the Fed is about to raise rates, and it sold off," Mr. Frank said. "It appears that the lemmings are still running."
Marilyn Schaja, an economist at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, said she saw the housing numbers as a prelude to a moderation of housing activity.
As for another rise in rates, Mr. Frank said: "I think the Fed needs more data, and needs the employment report for September. I don't think it will act before November. All of the data up to now point to a slowing of the economy, and under those conditions the case for Fed tightening does not exist. I for one am baffled by Mr. Angell's view."
Housing starts rose 2.1 percent, to a seasonally adjusted annual rate of 1.44 million, slightly higher than the 1.4 million that was expected. Permits showed an unexpected gain of 1 percent, to 1.35 million.
The market tried briefly yesterday morning to extend Tuesday afternoon's rebound, but the selling pressure was too great. Firmer European bond markets and a stable dollar lent the market some support.
Market analysts said that with two- and five-year note auctions next week increasing supply, and with the Fed's credibility again coming into question, the upside of yesterday's market was very limited.
In when-issued trading ahead of next week's sale of new Treasury notes, the two-year issue was being offered at a price to yield 6.53 percent, while the five-year issue was being offered at a price to yield 7.23 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since June. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); BEAR STEARNS & CO INC (72%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; TREASURY DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; HOUSING; HOUSING STARTS TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); HOUSING STARTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); MONEY MARKET ACCOUNTS (70%); 

PERSON: ANGELL, WAYNE D WALTER S FRANK (74%); WAYNE D ANGELL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



494 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 386 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Stays Flat as Dealers Monitor Trade Negotiations

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The dollar was little changed yesterday as dealers took a wait-and-see attitude toward trade negotiations between the United States and Japan.
The dollar eked out a small gain against the Japanese yen, a day after falling close to its postwar low on an unexpected widening of the United States trade deficit. In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 97.75 yen, from 97.65 yen on Tuesday. 
 Currency dealers largely ignored more warnings that the United States would take punitive action against Japanese exports if the two countries failed to reach an agreement on Government contracts, part of broader trade talks.
Market participants fear a breakdown of the talks, which are seen as crucial to limiting the steady flow to Japan of dollars that must be sold for yen. That selling erodes the value of the dollar.
"All eyes are on the trade talks, but the market is becoming wary of jumping at every pronouncement out of Washington and Tokyo," said Dave Glowacki, senior trader at NBD Bank in Detroit. "We've seen enough hot air. The market wants something concrete one way or the other. Until that's resovled there aren't going to be any big movements. "
Margaret Kudarauskas, an analyst for Technical Data in Boston, said reports of dollar buying by the Bank of Japan and big United States investors may also have made dealers hesitant to push the currency to a new low.
The Japanese central bank is seeking to slow the rise of the yen, which has hurt Japan's exporters by making their products more expensive abroad and stymied the country's recovery from a protracted economic slump.
The German mark weakened broadly against other Euroepan currencies amid uncertainty about federal elections in Germany next month and a reported slowdown in German money supply growth. But that weakness failed to bolster the dollar, which fell to 1.5468 marks, from 1.5520 marks on Tuesday.
"Today was a day of pausing," said Robert Ryan, a vice president at the Bank of New York. "People are trying to figure out where the dollar is going to end up."
In other currency trading in New York yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 1.2830 Swiss francs, down from 1.2868 on Tuesday; 5.2850 French francs, down from 5.3045, and 1,563 Italian lire, up from 1,561. The British pound rose to $1.5785 from $1.5735.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (91%); 8301 (JASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (67%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (91%); BANK OF JAPAN (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (67%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (92%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); JAPANESE YEN (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); ELECTIONS (73%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); BRITISH POUND (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



495 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 16; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 796 words

HEADLINE: ON COLLEGE FOOTBALL;
At Michigan, a Return Fraught With Risk

BYLINE: By Malcolm Moran 

DATELINE: ANN ARBOR, Mich.

 BODY:
Barring unforeseen complications between now and Saturday, we can expect Tyrone Wheatley to make a dramatic entrance onto the biggest football stage of any campus in America this week. At some point during the game between Michigan and Colorado that has suddenly attracted the hot lights, the preseason favorite for the Heisman Trophy should take his rehabilitated right shoulder onto the field at Michigan Stadium and become a factor. There will be little margin for error.
When Wheatley, the Michigan tailback, made his surprising and inspiring decision last January to postpone his first check from a National Football League team, earn a degree in education and a chance at a Heisman and remain a part of the student economy, this week was a nearly inevitable part of the plan. 
 In no other college sport does the playoff process begin so soon, in this case before the leaves here turned yellow and before Wheatley turned a corner. If Chris Webber had chosen to remain with Michigan basketball's Fab Five last winter, would there have been any urgency behind a return from an injury for an early-season game against, say, Duke?
The Wolverines benefit from the support of more than 100,000 football fans every time they open the doors. They occupy a spotless complex with state-of-the-art whistles and bells. They have also inherited the legacy of a program that, for all its excellence, last won a national championship 46 years ago.
That is the spot Wheatley will walk into at some point after "The Victors" is played for the first of who-knows-how-many times. Colorado's unexpected trashing of Wisconsin last Saturday night, in part a result of a punishing defensive front, turned Wheatley's speed and power into an even more precious commodity and made his personal spotlight that much hotter. The pros, as they wait for the opportunity to poke at his shoulder and any other vulnerable joints behind closed doors next winter, will examine his response to a physical setback. The selectors of Heisman candidates du jour will determine whether to place a star next to his name or take one down.
Wheatley could have been playing against the Arizona Cardinals, for serious money. Instead, if everything goes right and Michigan goes to the Rose Bowl, Wheatley may have to deal with the Arizona Wildcats for free.
And if everything does not go right, there will be the inevitable question: Did he make the right decision?
"Right decision?" Wheatley said when the subject was raised again after practice on Tuesday. "What was wrong? I didn't do anything wrong. I'm here. I'm graduating next May. Because my shoulder's hurt, if I don't win the Heisman or any other award, does that say my career is over now? No."
His decision cannot be declared right or wrong after the fact, because the risk was understood from the start. The all-America receiver J. J. Stokes returned to U.C.L.A., bruised a quadricep, and was temporarily reduced to a nonfactor. But before the decisions of Wheatley and Stokes can be debated, Gary Moeller, the Michigan coach, asks a question: "How much would your grandfather, or my grandfather, or any older people that went to college, after they had millions of dollars, sell their last two years of college for?"
The cynical response is that the head coach of an elite-level program is hardly an appropriate spokesman for the value of a big-time player's educational future. But unlike those self-serving coaches who insist they would never play an injured athlete if he tells me he can't play, the coach of the Wolverines appears to be accepting responsibility. Moeller said he has been told Wheatley's separated shoulder has healed. He also said a positive diagnosis is not enough.
"If he says, 'I want to do it,' then I'm going to say O.K., and I'm going to watch him hang on to a football," Moeller said. "I'm going to watch him do those things. I'm going to go back to the doctors. I'm going to see how strong and how physical he is in practice. See, the thing you can't do is send a kid out there with one injury, and he protects that and gets another one. That's why you've got to know as a coach. For the team, he can't lose the ball. For him, he can't receive another injury."
For both, a rare talent and a team pointed toward Pasadena, the risks are as great as the hopes. "You really don't know until you get in there and somebody lights your tree up," Moeller said. The first of many tree-lighting ceremonies will take place Saturday afternoon. Until then, Wheatley is apparently somewhere in that football nether world, an odd, temporary stop that occurs when an injury has healed but the athlete has not yet become productive.
The immediate results of a hoped-for Heisman season are simple: No pain, no gains.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tyrone Wheatley, who has watched Michigan's 1994 season with his shoulder in a sling, will play Saturday. (Duane Burleson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN; UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (82%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); UNIVERSITY OF COLORADO (59%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; HEALTH, PERSONAL SPORTS (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (91%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS AWARDS (89%); SCHOOL SPORTS FACILITIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); SPORTS FANS (73%); BASKETBALL (72%); 

PERSON: MORAN, MALCOLM; WHEATLEY, TYRONE CHRIS WEBBER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



496 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 22, 1994

SECTION: Section C; Page 17; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: A Film Maker and the Art of the Deal

BYLINE: By BERNARD WEINRAUB, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: HOLLYWOOD, Sept. 21

 BODY:
Lawrence Bender has, without question, the smallest office of any big-time producer in Hollywood. It's a windowless and cramped space, with a rental desk and couple of movie posters tacked onto a wall. And Mr. Bender doesn't limit his frugality to the workplace. When the 36-year-old producer flies to New York, his hometown, to make a film, he sleeps on sofas in his friends' apartments.
"Someone said to me: 'Don't they put you up in a hotel? Why are you sleeping on people's couches?' " he said. "And I say: 'You don't understand. "They" is "me." ' Instead of spending $10,000 on a hotel, I could get another crew person. I can't get away from the fact that I want to put everything in the movie." 
 Mr. Bender's latest project is "Pulp Fiction," directed and written by his friend Quentin Tarantino. A violent and often comic drama inspired by the lurid crime fiction of the 1930's and 40's, it was the winner of this year's Palme d'Or at the Cannes International Film Festival. With an ensemble cast that includes John Travolta, Bruce Willis, Uma Thurman, Harvey Keitel, Christopher Walken and Samuel L. Jackson, it will open the New York Film Festival on Friday, and arrive at theaters on Oct. 14.
"Pulp Fiction" is one of three films produced this year by Mr. Bender. The others are "Fresh," an urban drama that opened last month to generally positive reviews, and "Killing Zoe," about a Paris bank heist. His first movie was the 1992 cult hit "Reservoir Dogs," also written and directed by Mr. Tarantino. The film cost $1.5 million, and has grossed $20 million worldwide. It also established Mr. Tarantino as an director of significance.
Now, as part of a new wave of film makers whose idiosyncratic tastes and sensibilities have seized the attention of the Hollywood establishment, Mr. Bender, a onetime ballet dancer and a sometime actor, and Mr. Tarantino, have been sought out by many studios.
Except for a loose arrangement with Miramax, a division of the Walt Disney Company, however, the two have steered clear of any involvement with a studio that would erode their independence.
Characteristically, Mr. Bender's next two films carry an individual stamp. One of them, "White Man's Burden," starring John Travolta and directed by Desmond Nakano, depicts a racially charged world in which blacks are a powerful majority while whites are a poor, unemployed, powerless minority. The other, "Four Rooms," involves a bellman in a Los Angeles hotel who moves from room to room and copes with four totally disparate couples. "Each couple is crazier than the next," said Mr. Bender. The film has four different directors, one of whom is Mr. Tarantino.
Mr. Bender, a casual and friendly man who speaks with an unmistakable New York accent, has an obvious talent for raising money and financing movies. But he plays it down in favor of his esthetic side.
"I hate to say I'm a creative type because it sounds so funky," he said. "But because of my background I look at movies differently than other producers. I look for things with movement and character and color."
Still, there are other personal satisfactions. "What I like about producing," he said, "is the feeling you have when you get the money and make the deal. Making the deal is like the thrill of victory. It's empowering."
How he turned into a deal maker, after years in New York as a struggling actor and dancer, amazes him. "I had, like, six call-backs for 'Cats,' " he said with a laugh. "Didn't make it."
He was born in the Bronx and brought up in New Jersey, the child of parents who were teachers and later became psychotherapists. He earned a degree in civil engineering at the University of Maine, but his heart was in dancing. He won a scholarship to the Louis Falco dance troupe and supported himself by working as a flamenco dancer. A series of injuries ended his dance career and he turned to acting.
"I was a triple threat," he said. "I was a dancer, singer and actor. But I was threatening nobody."
He moved to Los Angeles in the early 1980's to pursue his acting career, worked for three years in various film production jobs and decided the only way he would ever act was to produce a movie and put himself in it.
After meeting several friends, among them the director Scott Spiegel (who later was co-author of "The Rookie") and Boaz Yakin (who directed "Fresh"), Mr. Bender began eking out a living producing horror films that went straight to video. (One of them is the video cult favorite "The Intruder.")
In 1990 he met Mr. Tarantino, who had been struggling for years to have one of his scripts produced. Mr. Tarantino gave Mr. Bender a screenplay about a bank robbery gone awry. It was called "Reservoir Dogs."
"He had written it in three and a half weeks, and it was amazing," said Mr. Bender. "The dialogue was incredible. I told him I could raise money for this. He didn't know I'd never raised money for anything."
A Texas businessman vowed to help out. But then Mr. Bender had a stroke of luck: "My acting teacher, Lilly Parker, read the script and asked me if there was one actor in the world I'd want in this movie. I told her Harvey Keitel. And she knew him."
Within a week Mr. Keitel had phoned Mr. Bender to tell him he wanted to appear in "Reservoir Dogs." Mr. Bender said: "I had two very different feelings. One was that this was the most exciting thing in my life. I was going to make a real movie, something special. At the same time, I knew that once Harvey was in, it was going to be a bigger movie than I thought and it would somehow be impossible for me to be in it as an actor. It was complete elation and sadness. I was going to have to put off this part of myself."
The bulk of the cost of "Reservoir Dogs" was paid by Live Entertainment, a video company that a friend of Mr. Bender's, the director Monte Hellman, persuaded to back the film.
Although several top actors sought roles in "Pulp Fiction," Mr. Bender and Mr. Tarantino insisted on casting Mr. Travolta, whose career had not flourished in recent years.
"People said, 'John Travolta, you're kidding, you can get any actor in the world,' " he recalled. "We said John was the bottom line. People didn't understand why we didn't want to use a superstar. But John was the guy Quentin wanted."
Ultimately, though, in casting Mr. Travolta as well as Bruce Willis, Harvey Keitel and and Uma Thurman in "Pulp Fiction," Mr. Bender received the full cooperation of the top talent agencies in Hollywood -- Creative Artists Agency, International Creative Management and William Morris -- who are generally adverse to placing high-priced performers in risky, inexpensive movies. The film cost $8.5 million.
"Harvey Keitel said that as long as you're being fair, then actors will work for any amount of money," Mr. Bender said. "Everyone was treated the same. There was no star with one big trailer. There was no star, except the movie." Most of the actors received relatively small salaries along with a percentage of the profits.
Mr. Bender has lived for several years in an apartment in Hancock Park, a stolid Los Angeles community, with Joelle Bentolila, a French writer. He said that he was still not sure how his career would evolve, and remained uncertain whether he would remain a producer or try to return to acting, or even seek another career outside movies. But leaving the movie business seems, at this point, improbable.
"Many times people write scripts because they want to write a screenplay, not because there's anything they need to say," he said. "And I want to make movies with people who need to say something, whether it's a political statement or a pure cinematic statement. I want to make movies that come from some inner being. And those are hard to find."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Lawrence Bender, producer of the film "Pulp Fiction," on the roof terrace of his Hollywood apartment house. (Marissa Roth for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: PULP FICTION (MOVIE)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (81%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (81%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (81%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (81%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (81%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (81%); NEW YORK (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION FILM (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (89%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); DRAMA FILMS (78%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (72%); BALLET (50%); 

PERSON: WEINRAUB, BERNARD; BENDER, LAWRENCE; TARANTINO, QUENTIN BRUCE WILLIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 1994



497 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 6; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1115 words

HEADLINE: GIULIANI WEIGHING FURTHER CUTBACKS AS COSTS ESCALATE

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
Only three months after the city balanced a $31.6 billion budget with sharp spending cuts, the Giuliani administration is struggling with a further gap that city officials say will require another round of cuts that could reach $800 million.
To fill the gap, the administration has embarked on a high-gear search for spending cuts, agency consolidations and work-force reductions that could include as many as 7,000 layoffs. Administration officials said Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani wants to use severance offers as much as possible to soften new rounds of personnel reductions. 
 The full scope of the reductions will be decided by Mr. Giuliani over the next few weeks, city officials said. They would come on top of the $1.1 billion in spending cuts and 15,000 job reductions already called for in the budget, which took effect on July 1. Officials say the extent of the fiscal problems will be clearer at the end of the month, when the first-quarter tax receipts are counted.
Mr. Giuliani, in recent days, has been setting the stage for dramatic steps. He has crusaded against his own government and portrayed himself as the leader who will tame it. "The city is doing what it traditionally does," he told an audience of Wall Street bankers and lawyers on Wednesday. "The city is attempting to spend more money than we planned to spend and this is why we're making cuts."
Some of the emerging fiscal difficulties are beyond the control of city officials, most notably the Wall Street slump that suggests that tax receipts will come in below what had been anticipated.
But fiscal monitors, who warned in July of risky budget assumptions, say the budget agreement between Mr. Giuliani and the City Council was also based in large part on high hopes of how much help the state and Federal governments would provide and how efficient the city government could be.
Already, for example, there has been a surge in overtime, particularly in the uniformed services dealing with Mr. Giuliani's law-enforcement crackdown. City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi reported this week that the Correction Department had spent $7.7 million in overtime by August, 144 percent more than in the corresponding period last year.
The city had also counted on receiving $150 million from the Federal health-care initiatives that stalled in Congress. And it had assumed the State Legislature would approve two crucial pieces of legislation: one relieving the city of $45 million in costs by setting a cap on legal settlements and another allowing the city to consolidate fee collections in one agency, which had been projected to increase revenues by $25 million. The Legislature adjourned without acting on the two proposals.
"There's only one reason they're in this hole again and that is, for better or for worse, the Mayor and the Council decided to do half the problem at the time the budget was adopted and do the rest later," said Raymond D. Horton, president of the Citizens Budget Commission, a private watchdog group financed by businesses.
Mr. Giuliani's budget director, Abraham M. Lackman, yesterday stoutly defended the decision to include the aid assumptions in the budget. He noted that Mr. Giuliani had inherited a $2.3 billion deficit in January and had had to come up with a plan that was palatable to the City Council.
"We recognized that in putting together a plan like this and being able to get a political consensus that we were going to have to take some risks and we recognized that up front," he said.
He added: "We are recognizing these risks very early on. The Mayor is trying to stay ahead of the curve."
Mr. Giuliani first ordered agencies in July to recommend 2.6 percent in across-the-board budget cuts and contingency plans for further spending reductions of 2.2 percent. Administration officials now believe that the full 4.8 percent reduction, or $450 million in spending cuts, will be needed -- and possibly as much as $800 million in cuts.
Mr. Lackman and other fiscal analysts said the most troubling sign for the city was the slowdown in the financial-services industry. While city officials say Wall Street represents only 4 percent of the city's employment base, it constitutes 14 percent of the wage base and can have a broad effect on the city's tax revenues. In addition, Mr. Lackman said a falloff in profits on Wall Street could also hurt the state's tax collections. "Generally, that becomes a risk to the city," he said.
Other analysts said the national economy was starting to slow, which would be a double blow to the city, which has lagged behind the rest of the nation in coming out of the last recession.
Since last weekend city commissioners have been scrambling to find new ways to make savings. They are to report back to the Mayor this weekend.
The Human Resources Administration, which handles the city's vast array of social programs, has been told by the administration that it may have to offer severance packages to a new round of 2,700 employees and cut an additional 3,000 workers through layoffs unless it can come up with alternative savings, officials said. As of June the agency had 20,750 employees.
The agency already lost 2,500 workers through an earlier severance program offered by the city and the redeployment of some of its workers to the agency for the homeless. The staff cuts have already led to a rise in caseloads for social workers who monitor child abuse.
Mr. Giuliani said yesterday that it was premature to predict what would happen at the agency. "As we found earlier this year and as you find throughout the history of this city, some of the cuts you become concerned about don't happen and some of the cuts that do happen people are surprised about," he said. "So we might as well react to the decisions we actually make."
With the city facing multibillion-dollar deficits for several more years, and the Republican Mayor adamantly opposed to tax increases, a growing number of officials say the city must move away from across-the-board budget cuts and start determining which services it can no longer provide.
Peter J. Powers, the Deputy Mayor for Operations, said agencies had been asked to assess what their core functions are, and what are nonessential services.
Mr. Hevesi, the City Comptroller, who is a Democrat, said he was considering ways to start a public debate on city priorities.
"We've come to a point where if you consider cutting across the board, you end up providing lousy services to everybody," he said. "It may mean we have to start thinking about what our priorities are, what services we have to provide on an excellent basis and what services may have to be eliminated."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; DEPARTMENTS AND AGENCIES; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US); FEDERAL AID (US); OVERTIME LAYOFFS (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); BUDGETS (91%); CITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); OVERTIME (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LABOR FORCE (76%); PERSONNEL CHANGES (76%); CIVIL SERVICES (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (70%); LEGISLATION (67%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



498 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Companies
 Northrop Grumman will cut its work force by more than 18 percent, or 8,650 jobs, by the end of 1995, as the newly combined company seeks to adapt to a fast-consolidating arms industry. The job cut will be another hard blow to the economies of California and Long Island. [Page D1.] Few employees of Grumman, which was Long Island's biggest employer for more than five decades, were surprised by the announcement of job cuts. [D11.] 
 Walt Disney has been rocked by turmoil since its chairman, Michael D. Eisner, essentially dismissed Jeffrey Katzenberg, the head of Disney's movie studio. Production delays and breakdowns in projects and marketing have plagued the studio since the departure of Mr. Katzenberg. And the public enmity between the two former allies has embarrassed the company. [D1.]
 Disney won its first two local approvals for a plan to build a giant theme park in Virginia celebrating American history. [A28.]
 Paul B. Kazarian accused Borden of treating him unfairly in his takeover overtures. Mr. Kazarian seemed to be laying the groundwork for a suit but said litigation was not his ultimate aim. [D1.]
 Canadian Pacific offered to buy the eastern rail freight operations of its rival, Canadian National Railways, for $1 billion. [D3.]
 La Quinta Inns plans to open 22 hotels in Mexico, joining other U.S. chains trying to fill out the middle of the Mexican market. [D3.]
 American Airlines said it would contract out the work of 550 agents at 30 airports in an effort to cut costs. [D3.]
 Compuserve will invest in a spinoff of Novell that provides Internet publishing services to commercial customers. [D3.]
General Motors agreed to sell the assets of National Car Rental to an investment group for an undisclosed sum. [D3.]
 
International
 The Clinton Administration sought to increase pressure on Japan as the President warned Japan's Foreign Minister that the United States was prepared to impose trade sanctions if agreements on opening Japanese markets were not reached by Sept. 30. [D1.]
 Japan's Cabinet approved a plan to cut income taxes. Japan had long pledged to cut taxes to stimulate its economy. [D4.]

The Economy
 Computer and telecommunications companies are still looking for the on ramp to the information highway. At an annual conference of senior high-tech executives this week, there was little agreement on when and exactly how the technologies of the computer, telephone and television will converge. [D1.]
 
Markets
 Some technology stocks tumbled, dragged down by the closing of a brokerage house, D. Blech, which had been the underwriter for most of the companies. In the broader market, traders sold off stocks in advance of the Federal Reserve's policy-making meeting on Tuesday. The Dow industrials fell 14.47 points. [D1.]
 Treasury prices rose. Investors were heartened after Alan Greenspan, the Fed chief, said economic growth was slowing. [D11.]
 Frozen orange juice futures surged on worries over a drought in Brazil. Crude oil and lumber prices also gained. [D14.]
 The dollar was little changed as dealers kept a cautious watch on trade talks between the United States and Japan. [D14.]
 
Today's Columns
 Just what is Paul B. Kazarian offering Borden? His proposal has more management bromides and a lot fewer numbers than a typical takeover offer. Floyd Norris: Market Place. [D4.]
 Lois/USA plans to go public. Lois, never a quiet voice on Madison Avenue, is one of the few agencies in recent years that have sought to be heard on Wall Street. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [D15.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (84%); DIS (NYSE) (72%); GM (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (84%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (84%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (84%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (72%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (72%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (72%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (54%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); MEXICO (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (84%); WALT DISNEY CO (72%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (56%); NOVELL INC (54%); JONES MOTORCARS INC (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (94%); MEXICO (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (86%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (79%); DIVESTITURES (79%); TAKEOVERS (79%); LAYOFFS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); OUTSOURCING (78%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); AIRPORTS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); AIRLINES (71%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (70%); HOTEL CHAINS (70%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (69%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (68%); INTERNET & WWW (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (67%); RAIL FREIGHT (66%); LITIGATION (66%); HOTELS & MOTELS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (63%); STOCK INDEXES (63%); PRICE INCREASES (62%); TAX LAW (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); HISTORY (53%); INCOME TAX (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (70%); ALAN GREENSPAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



499 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 489 words

HEADLINE: Halting Cash for Cuba Is a Delicate Task

BYLINE: By KAREN DE WITT, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MIAMI, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Aida Perez looked like a Mardi Gras queen. A man's shirt draped her shoulders, her colorful skirt topped layers of other skirts. In one arm, she clutched a giant teddy bear, in the other a bag with several sausages.
To her friends and family in Cuba, she is a treasure trove. To the United States Customs officials here she is, potentially, a walking violation of the prohibition on sending cash to Cuba. 
 And since late August, when the restrictions took effect, travelers have presented customs officers with a challenge in duty and tact.
To make sure that returning Cubans -- who literally wear gifts to circumvent a 44-pound-per-person baggage limit -- do not take more than $100 in cash, the officers have had to ask some travelers to hoist their skirts or drop their pants. The extra skirts, pants, hats and teddy bears -- possible hiding places for contraband dollars -- have only complicated the procedure.
Mr. Clinton imposed the cash limit in August to punish Fidel Castro for encouraging refugees to leave Cuba, hoping to weaken an already shaky Cuban economy.
Some Cuban-Americans may circumvent the law by going to Cuba through third countries, but a spokeswoman for the Treasury Department's Foreign Assets Control Office, which oversees restrictions on travel to Cuba, said it was too early to tell how much money passes along other routes. "It is probably no more than a trickle," she said.
Meanwhile, customs officers here have had to look more closely at garments and undergarments of the Cubans returning to Cuba and the handful of Cuban-Americans still allowed to travel to the island.
This morning at 6 A.M., 152 passengers lined up for a once-a-week C & T Airlines flight to Havana, scheduled to depart at 10 o'clock. Customs officers told them they each were limited to $100 or, if they were Americans, $100 for each day they were staying in Cuba. Luggage was X-rayed and passengers were asked about the amount of money they were carrying. Any carry-on luggage was also searched. The process took five minutes for most of the passengers. C & T is one of three airlines authorized to fly charters into Cuba.
Mark Stump, who supervised the eight Customs officers, said the passengers had gotten the word about the money. Still, he noted, many were wearing several layers of clothes.
David Samora, a church musician who had been in the United States since July, stood quietly as an officer went through the dozens of small bundles of papers he had packed into one of two small suitcases. "I want to be honest," he shrugged. "I only have what is allowed."
A female officer opened up Mrs. Perez's teddy bear to reveal a stuffing of underpants and pantyhose for her children and grandchildren. Mrs. Perez was escorted to a closed room for a more thorough check. She emerged a short while later, slightly disheveled, her hat askew, apparently unperturbed. "No es nada," she said. "It's nothing."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: CUSTOMS SERVICE US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (84%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: CUSTOMS SERVICE US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (84%); US CUSTOMS & BORDER PROTECTION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; CUBA (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS EXCISE & CUSTOMS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GRANDCHILDREN (77%); BAGGAGE HANDLING (77%); AIRLINES (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (66%); 

PERSON: DE WITT, KAREN FIDEL CASTRO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



500 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: Washington Talk;
Both Parties Study the Lessons of '78

BYLINE: By DAVID E. ROSENBAUM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Politicians in both parties remember well the last time there was a midterm election with a Democrat in the White House. It was 1978. Republicans from coast to coast promised tax cuts. The Democrats did not take them seriously.
The Republicans did not do so well that year, picking up only three seats in the Senate and 11 in the House. But the tax cut idea took hold. Two years later, Ronald Reagan rode it into the White House. Republicans won control of the Senate and gained 33 seats in the House. 
 So this year, Republican strategists have hearkened back to 1978 and have broken again with the custom that off-year elections are not national plebiscites, but merely 435 separate elections for the House and 35 or so for the Senate.
On Wednesday afternoon, 16 Republicans who are running for Democratic or open Senate seats gathered on the Capitol lawn and presented a seven-point plan that they promised to put into place if the G.O.P. wins control of the Senate on Nov. 8. Republican candidates for the House plan to offer a similar list on Tuesday.
Point No. 1 on both lists is a constitutional amendment requiring a balanced budget. With seeming shamelessness, other points include tax cuts and more money for the military. Spending reductions are not specified.
But unlike 1978, Democrats this year are not sitting on their hands. Instead, they launched a pre-emptive strike this week.
At lunch on Wednesday, before any announcement from the Republicans, top White House officials met with a couple of dozen reporters and columnists to denounce the Republican plans -- which they had not yet seen in any detail -- as fiscally irresponsible.
A few hours later, the White House invited a few reporters into the Roosevelt Room to hear the plans assailed again. Reaching for the kind of snappy phrase that might be remembered by voters, Laura D'Andrea Tyson, chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers, called the Republican plans "Voodoo II," a reference to George Bush's description of Ronald Reagan's economic proposals in the 1980 Presidential primaries as "voodoo economics."
Representative Vic Fazio of California, chairman of the Democratic Congressional Campaign Committee, had a news conference at noon today on the Republican plans. They were nothing more, he said, mixing metaphors, than "generalized cotton candy without a bottom line."
Then this afternoon, at the instruction of the Democratic leader, Representative Richard A. Gephardt of Missouri, senior Democrats on the Budget Committee called yet another news conference about what the Republicans were up to. "It looks like Reagan redux to me," said Representative John M. Spratt Jr. of South Carolina.
At this point, the plan offered by the Republican candidates for the Senate consists of only three pages; the House proposal only one paragraph. But this time the Democrats swear they will not be caught by surprise.
"Unless we energize our people," said a Democratic strategist, "we'll be right back where we were in 1980."
With that in mind, Mr. Gephardt ordered a professional staff review of a proposal by Representative Dick Armey, Republican of Texas, to scrap the current income tax system, with its progressive rates and many deductions, and replace it with a flat tax of 17 percent on personal income and business profits. The proposal by Mr. Armey, who is one of the main Republican policy designers, is not part of the overall Republican plan to be offered next week. But it has, Mr. Gephardt observed, been discussed publicly by some columnists and academics.
"We can't just stand by when they come forward with such bad ideas," Mr. Gephardt said.
The staff review was somewhat inconclusive but found that under one interpretation, Mr. Armey's sketchy proposal would reduce Federal revenue by more than $200 billion a year. Mr. Armey shrugged off such a calculation as the work of a partisan staff.
What the Republicans are proposing does sound more than a little like Reaganomics -- lower taxes, higher military spending and promises of a balanced budget down the road. In the first Reagan term, as the Democrats have been pointing out over and over this week, the Federal deficit grew to well over $200 billion, from about $70 billion.
The Republicans favor a reprise nonetheless, believing that what Americans want most of all is a tax cut. And they are still convinced, despite the Reagan experience, that lower taxes will generate so much economic activity that revenue will actually rise.
Even if the Republicans win control of Congress in November, the theory cannot be tested right away, not so long as Bill Clinton is President and has a veto.
No matter. For the Republicans, 1994 is 1978; 1996 is 1980.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (91%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (91%); REPUBLICAN OF TEXAS (94%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: REPUBLICAN OF TEXAS (94%); WHITE HOUSE (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; ELECTION ISSUES ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (86%); REFERENDUMS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (66%); WRITERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (61%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, DAVID E RONALD REAGAN (89%); JOHN SPRATT (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



501 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 26; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 653 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
Clinton Links Unpopularity To Voter Fear Of Shake-Ups

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Unable so far to say that his efforts to change the Government have made him popular, President Clinton is opening a string of pre-election political speeches by arguing the opposite: that his low popularity stems from a determination to shake things up, whatever the penalties.
Speaking at a Democratic dinner here, Mr. Clinton suggested on Wednesday night that his efforts to reduce the Federal deficit, increase global trade and rewrite foreign policy had not yet restored optimism about the future -- and about his Presidency -- because their very nature is to make the future less predictable. 
 And he acknowledged that the Republican Party had done a better job of exploiting people's fears than the White House had of allaying them.
That fear of change, he said, is "not right and it is not rational," and he asserted that his party had no choice but to tackle it head on.
"What we have to do is to make this election our friend," Mr. Clinton said. "We have to go home and say: 'Look, you know, we've done a lot of stuff up there. You may not have liked it all, but we're finally getting something done.' "
Those comments recall Mr. Clinton's repeated exhortation to voters during his 1992 campaign to "make change our friend." The implication then was that Democrats would improve Americans' lives by throwing out tired old ways while Republicans clung to the status quo.
On Wednesday, he seemed to concede that whatever the changes he had wrought, voters either had not yet grasped them or had been persuaded by the Republicans that they were not in the voters' interest. It was a theme that Mr. Clinton has struck in past speeches, most recently at a convention of Baptist ministers in New Orleans this month. But he has seldom been so blunt.
The President began by stating that he had run for office with "very little illusions about how the politics at the national level in this country had become so abstract, so rhetorical and so subject to distortion, so totally divorced from the real life experience of real Americans, that change had become very difficult indeed."
As he has before, he recited a list of positive developments, from peace in the Middle East to a tax cut for the poor, which he said have been widely ignored in the public's evaluation of the state of the nation.
"I ask you," he said, "if we have a good economy; if we face the challenges of trade and crime; if we have reached out to families who are trying to keep their families together and raise their kids with the family leave bill and by giving 15 million working families tax cuts; we've put on the table a welfare reform program that is both compassionate and tough -- why would anyone think there would be any problem?"
Answering his own question, Mr. Clinton suggested that the White House had failed to communicate its successes to some voters, and that others were simply unsettled by global economic changes that might affect their standard of living. Finally, he said that Republicans had taken advantage of both factors to persuade the public that the White House's policies are either ineffective or wrongheaded.
"They are still profoundly concerned that maybe if all this happened, it won't make a difference," the President said of the electorate. "They've been told for so long that government can't do anything but mess up a one-car parade, it's hard to imagine that what we do here can make a difference."
Nevertheless, Mr. Clinton said the prevailing view of government is wrong, citing the recent passage of anti-crime legislation as one example. And he said the Democratic Party's principal task in the midterm campaign would be to convince voters that this view is wrong.
The President will take that argument to New York and three Midwestern cities this weekend, in a round of fund-raising events for Democratic candidates, before he makes a speech at the United Nations on Monday.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton is arguing that the way for Democrats to succeed this fall is to confront people's fears about the changes he has made. He used the theme on Wednesday at a dinner of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee in Washington. (Agence-France Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC SENATORIAL CAMPAIGN COMMITTEE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); FRANCE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); POLITICS (89%); FAMILY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (78%); US FAMILY & MEDICAL LEAVE ACT (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (62%); FAMILY LEAVE (60%); NATIONAL DEBT (56%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



502 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 288 words

HEADLINE: Japanese Cabinet Approves Tax Cut as Economic Spur

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Sept. 22

 BODY:
In a move sought by the United States as well as businesses here, Japan's Cabinet tonight approved a long-stalled plan to cut income taxes in a bid to stimulate its puttering economy.
The immediate income tax cut will be compensated for by an increase in the sales tax to 5 percent from the current 3 percent. The raise will take effect in April 1997. The plan is expected to be approved by Japan's Parliament this fall. 
 The announcement, made by Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama, comes as the United States and Japan near the end of negotiations to reach trade agreements under a so-called framework accord signed last year.
Japan has been promising the United States that it would cut taxes to stimulate its economy, which theoretically would encourage Japanese consumers to buy more American products.
But the Japanese Government has changed twice since the beginning of the year and was unable until today to agree to more than a one-year tax cut, because of a dispute between Japan's Ministry of Finance and the Socialist Party of Mr. Murayama.
The Finance Ministry, which fears a growing national budget deficit, has insisted on offsetting any income tax cut by raising the consumption tax, as the sales tax is called here.
The Socialist Party has resisted an increase in the sales tax, viewing it as falling heaviest on people with lower incomes. But Prime Minister Murayama convinced his party today to accede to the sales tax rise by promising to allocate some of its revenues for social programs.
Washington has worried that the increase in the sales tax will dilute the impact of the income tax cuts. Partly because of that, the Government decided to postpone an increase in the sales tax until 1997.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: FINANCE MINISTRY (78%); SOCIALIST PARTY (73%); JAPAN'S CABINET (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (78%); SOCIALIST PARTY (73%); JAPAN'S CABINET (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (95%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INCOME TAX; SALES TAX TAX LAW (92%); SALES TAX (91%); INCOME TAX (91%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX RELIEF (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (51%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW TOMICHI MURAYAMA (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



503 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Compuserve Backs Internet Leader

BYLINE: By LAURIE FLYNN 

 BODY:
Compuserve Inc., the nation's largest consumer on-line service, said yesterday that it would announce today an equity investment in a one-year-old spinoff of Novell Inc. that provides Internet publishing services to commercial customers.
The company, Network Publishing Inc. of Provo, Utah, is one of only a handful that have expertise in conducting business on the Internet. Compuserve will work with Network Publishing to help Compuserve's customers establish a presence on an area of the Internet known as the World Wide Web. Together, the companies will help Internet customers manage security, perform customer billing and handle customer support, according to James Hogan, director of product marketing at Compuserve. 
 "We share the same vision of where electronic publishing is going," Mr. Hogan said.
The Internet is a global web of more than 30,000 networks that are used by roughly 20 million people to exchange files and electronic mail. The strongest growth on the Internet is coming from exactly the kind of business that Network Publishing seeks: companies that view the Internet as a new and increasingly effective way to communicate with business partners and customers.
Officials of Compuserve, a division of H & R Block Inc. that is based in Columbus, Ohio, declined to detail the amount of the investment, which is part of Compuserve's overall strategy, announced last month, to provide a variety of Internet services to its customers. Mr. Hogan said that the investment "rounds out the spread of electronic publishing and Internet access we announced."
Compuserve already provides similar services to commercial customers that wish to maintain their own areas on Compuserve's network, Mr. Hogan said.
Given the explosive growth of the Internet, commercial on-line services like Compuserve have no choice but to change their business models or be left behind, said Mary Modahl, senior analyst of people and technology services at the Forrester Research Corporation in Cambridge, Mass. Whatever advantage they now possess will disappear within the next year and a half as the Internet becomes more commercialized and easier to use.
Network Publishing was founded last year by three former Novell executives: Richard Maw, who is president and chief executive; Richard Farr, who is vice president of development and engineering, and Michael Donahue, who is vice president of consulting services and marketing. The team had been responsible for Novell's Internet publishing activities, which included creating a presence, or "home page," for Novell on the World Wide Web.
Network Publishing, with a current staff of five, will maintain corporate independence from Compuserve. "It's the 10 guys in a garage mentality -- nimble and quick," Mr. Hogan said. "We don't want to do anything to subvert that." Compuserve will hold an unspecified number of positions on Network Publishing's board of directors.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (68%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (95%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (95%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (95%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (95%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (68%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (68%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); 

CITY: PROVO, UT, USA (73%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: COMPUSERVE INC; NOVELL INC; INTERNET; NETWORK PUBLISHING INC COMPUSERVE INTERACTIVE SERVICES INC (96%); NOVELL INC (95%); H & R BLOCK INC (68%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPUSERVE INC; NOVELL INC; INTERNET; NETWORK PUBLISHING INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); UTAH, USA (91%); OHIO, USA (77%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (75%); PROVO, UT, USA (73%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; FINANCES PUBLISHING (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (89%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (78%); EXECUTIVES (75%); ENGINEERING (74%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE JAMES HOGAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



504 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 804 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Warns Japan of Trade Sanctions

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
President Clinton bluntly warned Foreign Minister Yohei Kono of Japan today that if Tokyo did not reach agreements with the United States in the next week on opening Japanese markets, the Administration would consider imposing trade sanctions on Tokyo.
The President and the Foreign Minister met in the Oval Office for nearly an hour, accompanied by Secretary of State Warren Christopher, Vice President Al Gore and the United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor -- a gallery of power players meant to underscore to the Japanese visitor how seriously the Administration takes this issue. 
 By talking tough on Japan, the White House was probably also sending a message to Congress. Taking a hard line against Tokyo is good politics for the Clinton Administration at a time when it is desperately trying to win Congressional approval for the new global free-trade accord, the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade. Many Democrats are uneasy about voting in favor of the agreement and it is much easier for them to side with the Administration if the White House appears to be squeezing the Japanese at the same time it is asking Congress to approve another accord liberalizing trade.
Both Japanese and American officials said ideas were exchanged in talks throughout the day, but that there was still no breakthrough in the efforts to reach an agreement on opening Japan's markets in insurance, glass, autos, auto parts and government purchases of telecommunications and medical equipment.
The Clinton Administration has said it is prepared to impose economic sanctions on Japan, as provided under the Super 301 and Title VII provisions of American trade laws, if no agreement is reached by Sept. 30. Mr. Clinton reiterated that position today.
The President stressed "his firm commitment to opening Japanese markets to American goods and services," the White House said after the meeting with Foreign Minister Kono. "The President emphasized that unless agreements are reached under the framework agreement by the Sept. 30 deadline, he will have to consider remedies under U.S. trade laws," it said.
This virtually commits the President to adopt trade sanctions against Tokyo if the talks fail; otherwise, his own credibility on this issue will be shattered.
Currency speculators are monitoring the trade talks with Japan carefully for any indication of a breakthrough or a breakdown, according to market analysts. They say billions of dollars in bets are being placed in the world currency markets, with some traders expecting a breakthrough, which would strengthen the dollar, and others anticipating a breakdown, which would further weaken the American currency and strengthen the yen. Senior American officials intimately involved in the talks insist that the outcome at this point is uncertain.
This is the state of play in the talks, according to officials involved:
The two sides have ironed out virtually all the details of an agreement that would open Japan's relatively closed insurance market. They have reached substantial agreement on opening Japan's government procurement market. The Japanese have committed to the principle of a "significant" or "substantial increase" in Japanese government purchases of foreign medical equipment and telecommunications gear. But Tokyo is resisting linking that general commitment to some numerical indicators that would measure in a hard and fast way whether the Japanese are actually making substantial progress. The Americans want a specific link.
However, there is no progress on the market for automobiles and auto parts. And after signals that the Administration is preparing to impose sanctions on Japan in glass, where Japan has maintained an almost entirely closed market that freezes out all American glass makers, the Japanese side last night suddenly sent their senior glass negotiator from the Ministry of Industry and Trade in Tokyo to try to work out a deal with Washington.
A report on Japan trade was issued today by the Labor-Industry Coalition on International Trade, a coalition that brings together the A.F.L.-C.I.O., and major American steel, textile and semiconductor workers, along with the Economic Strategy Institute, an industry-financed research group that advocates more open markets with Tokyo. The report urged the Administration to stand firm in pursuing its "results oriented approach" to negotiations with Japan.
The report said the difficulties with Japan were deep-seated, structural barriers erected by Tokyo and were resistant to standard macroeconomic remedies. The coalition recommended the establishment of a task force from Congress, organized labor and industry "to review the entire United States-Japan economic relationship" in order to confront the Japan trade imbalance with a national strategy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); GENERAL AGREEMENT ON TARIFFS & TRADE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); TOKYO, JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); TRADE DISPUTES (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); CURRENCIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); INSURANCE (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); APPROVALS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (64%); JAPANESE YEN (60%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); KONO, YOHEI (MIN); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (92%); AL GORE (59%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



505 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 15; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 281 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY REPORTS;
LEHMAN BROS. HOLDINGS INC. (LEH,N)

BYLINE: Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Lehman Brothers Holdings Inc. said Wednesday that third-quarter earnings fell more than 80 percent amid a slump on Wall Street.
Earnings fell to $22 million, or 10 cents a share, from $114 million in the quarter a year earlier, when the firm was still owned by the American Express Company. The year-ago earnings included net income of $2 million from businesses that have since been sold. 
 This year's quarter ended on Aug. 31, while the quarter a year earlier ended on Sept. 30. The results exceeded the mean estimate of 3 cents a share by seven analysts surveyed by Zacks Investment Research.
"Difficult market conditions persisted throughout the quarter, as interest rate uncertainties and inflationary concerns continued to dampen the activities of both issuers and investors," Richard Fuld Jr., the firm's chairman, said.
The results were buoyed by pretax merchant banking gains of $21 million, said Steven Eisman, an analyst with Oppenheimer & Company, who took part in a conference call with Mr. Fuld for analysts on Wednesday. Lehman did not say where the gains came from, Mr. Eisman said.
At Lehman, net revenue, or gross revenues after interest, declined 19 percent, to $719 million. Investment banking revenue fell 8 percent, to $172 million. Commission revenue dropped 10 percent, to $113 million.
Lehman is in the midst of a cost-cutting effort aimed at reducing about 300 jobs, or about 3 percent of its work force. In the analysts' conference call, Lehman said it would wait to see how its business developed before making added cost cuts.
Lehman, the world's fourth-largest underwriter of stocks and bonds, was spun off from American Express in May.

GRAPHIC: Table: "LEHMAN BROS. HOLDINGS INC. (LEH,N)"

Qtr. to Aug 31	1994	1993	%Ch	Rev.	719,000,000	1,173,000,000	-38.7	Net inc.	22,000,000	114,000,000	-80.7	Sh. earn	.10	.96	 	Sh. out.	109,100,000	105,700,000	 	8m rev.	2,030,000,000	-	 	Net inc.	b67,000,000	-	 	Sh. earn	.37	-	 	Sh. out.	107,000,000	-	 	
 
b-After a charge of $13 million, or 12 cents a share, from the cumulative effect of an accounting change.
Year-ago third-quarter results ended Sept. 30 and included $280 million from businesses that were sold and net income of $2 million from those businesses.
There are no year-ago figures for the other period because the company changed to a Nov. 30 year from a calendar year.
Revenue represented net revenues.
 
Yesterday's closing price:
$14.875
Down 37.5
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Statistics

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (98%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (98%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (84%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (98%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (84%); OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (69%); ZACKS INVESTMENT RESEARCH INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: COMPANY REPORTS COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); COMPANY REVENUES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); MERCHANT BANKING (74%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%); 

PERSON: RICHARD S FULD (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



506 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 14; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Is Steady as Traders Keep Watch on Trade Talks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar was steady against the Japanese yen and other leading currencies yesterday as traders watched for progress in trade talks between the United States and Japan.
Speculation that the Federal Reserve would raise interest rates on Tuesday kept the dollar trading in a narrow range against the German mark as well. 
 In late trading in New York yesterday, the dollar was quoted at 1.5470 marks, little changed from 1.5468 marks on Wednesday. The dollar was quoted at 98.02 yen, up from 97.75 yen on Wednesday.
The dollar has been largely unchanged against the yen for much of this week, as trade negotiators met in Tokyo and Washington. Many traders expect the dollar to tumble if the talks fail to produce an agreement before a Sept. 30 deadline.
"If there is an acrimonious end to these talks, the dollar will fall," said David De Rosa, director of foreign-exchange trading at the Swiss Bank Corporation.
Without progress in the talks, there is less chance that Japan's $60 billion annual trade surplus with the United States will shrink. The surplus means that Japanese exporters have a constant supply of dollars to sell for yen when they send revenue home.
The weight of those sales and speculation that the Clinton Administration was willing to let the dollar fall against the yen to make Japan's exports more expensive helped drive the dollar to a post-World War II low of 96.60 yen in intraday trading on July 12.
In a meeting yesterday, President Clinton warned Japan's Foreign Minister, Yohei Kono, that the United States stood ready to impose sanctions if Japan did not make sufficient trade concessions by Sept. 30.
"It doesn't look good for the dollar right now," said Koichi Takenaka, assistant vice president at the Industrial Bank of Japan in New York. He said the dollar could fall as low as 93 yen if the United States imposed trade sanctions on Japan.
The dollar was steady against European currencies, as traders waited to see what the Federal Reserve and the Bundesbank would do with interest rates next week.
The South African rand, meanwhile, fell against the dollar after IBCA, a credit rating company in London, rated the country's debt as below investment grade, making it impossible for many investors to buy South African bonds. The financial rand, the special investment currency foreign investors are required to use, fell to 4.440 rand to the dollar, from 4.385 rand on Wednesday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

COMPANY: INDUSTRIAL BANK OF JAPAN LTD (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SOUTH AFRICA (91%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (58%); LONDON, ENGLAND (51%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; INTERNATIONAL MONETARY SYSTEM; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (93%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); US DOLLAR (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); GERMAN MARK (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); TRADE DISPUTES (75%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (65%); CREDIT BUREAUS (60%); WORLD WAR II (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



507 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 11; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 562 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Treasury Prices Higher On Fed Chief Comments

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Treasury prices moved higher yesterday for the first time in three days as Alan Greenspan, the Federal Reserve chairman, said that economic growth was clearly slowing.
But the gains are likely to be short-lived as more investors predict the Fed will raise interest rates next week. Some of the buying yesterday also represented traders covering short sales, which occurs when traders sell borrowed securities in hopes of buying them back at lower prices and pocketing the profit. Rising prices caused many short-sellers to take action sooner. 
 Market watchers said the scramble to cover shorts was apparently touched off by rumors that some Fed governors might not go along with a rate increase when the Fed's policy-making committee meets on Tuesday.
While many traders still expect a rate increase, Mr. Greenspan's comments yesterday helped to ease the nervousness about a tightening. Mr. Greenspan's testimony, in a regularly scheduled appearance before the Senate Banking Committee, indicated that the economy was doing well and that growth had slowed from an exuberant pace. Traders said the market reacted positively to Mr. Greenspan's testimony, even though he said nothing new.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 10/32 , to 9626/32 . Its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, fell to 7.77, from 7.80 percent on Wednesday.
Shorter-maturity bill rates were mixed. In when-issued trading ahead of next week's Treasury auction of new bills, the two-year notes were offered at a price to yield 6.50 percent, and the five-year notes were offered at a price to yield 7.20 percent. Both yields showed marked improvement from the previous day.
P. Christopher Leary, a senior vice president and portfolio manager for SunAmerica Asset Management, said trading was thin, but noted that some investors sold two- , three- and four-year maturities and bought ten-year notes and longer maturity bonds. Over all, he said, investors were positioning for an increase in interest rates of 50 basis points next week. A basis point is 1/100 of a percentage point.
"Personally, one more rate hike is sufficient since we will see more indications of a slowdown in the economy over the next few months," Mr. Leary said. "It usually takes about nine months for a tightening to work its way through the econony."
But there are investors and analysts who predict the Fed will not act next week and will instead wait until November before pushing rates up for a sixth time this year.
The bond market brushed aside a report on unemployment claims yesterday, which showed initial claims down 7,000, to 320,000, for the week ended last Saturday. The number was slightly lower than expected, but consistent with the general theme of a steadily improving labor market.
In his testimony, Mr. Greenspan said there were signs that the product and labor markets might be nearing capacity limits. He said that the rest of the world was clearly doing better and the broad global expansion was the best in some time.
Elsewhere, IBCA, Europe's leading international credit agency, announced yesterday that it had established a rating of BB for South Africa, marking the first assessment of the country by a recognized rating agency since the elections on April 27.
The agency's rating puts South Africa in the same category as Argentina, Mexico and Hungary.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" shows the average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent from June-Sept. 1994. (Source: The Bond Buyer)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD SUNAMERICA ASSET MANAGEMENT CORP (53%); 

ORGANIZATION: TREASURY DEPARTMENT; FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; PRICES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT BOND MARKETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (79%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); INTEREST RATES (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); EXECUTIVES (68%); 

PERSON: GREENSPAN, ALAN; HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



508 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 81 words

HEADLINE: Initial Jobless Claims Down

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
The Government reported a better-than-expected decline today of 7,000 in the number of Americans filing the first time for state unemployment benefits.
It was the third consecutive decline in the weekly number and the fourth in five weeks, unusual during a period when seasonal workers are normally laid off. 
 The Labor Department said the number of initial jobless claims totaled a seasonally adjusted 320,000 in the week that ended last Saturday, the lowest in seven weeks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) LABOR DEPARTMENT (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (87%); SEASONAL WORKERS (83%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



509 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 841 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Congress Sends Baseball a Strong Message

BYLINE: By CLAIRE SMITH, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Striking major league players turned into lobbyists today, blanketing Congress in their latest effort to have baseball's antitrust exemption repealed in areas of labor. But the players' fervor paled in comparison to what they found to already exist on Capitol Hill: a blanket indictment of the exemption by many legislators angered by baseball's incessant labor wars.
The indictments, as well as an explicit call for baseball and its union to act before spring training, were both loudly stated in a hearing on the exemption by members of the House judiciary subcommittee on economics and commercial law. For three and a half hours, players and owners heard members question the propriety of Congress allowing baseball to keep the immunity granted by the Supreme Court in 1922 because the sport was not deemed an interstate business. 
 The lopsided nature of the questions and the constant correlation of the existence of the exemption to baseball's eight work stoppages -- twice as many as the other three major sports combined -- was not lost on anyone, especially owners.
"The message I read is that we'd better make every attempt to seek a resolution prior to Congress's return in January," said Bill Bartholomay, the chairman of the board of the Atlanta Braves.
Even though Bartholomay said he believed such efforts were going to be made through collective bargaining anyway, "this expedited it," he said.
"We certainly got a very strong, direct message, and it was far more than encouragement to get this thing fixed," said Jerry McMorris, the owner of the Colorado Rockies. "And I'm certainly very desirous to see that happen, the sooner the better."
Jack Brooks, a Texas Democrat who is chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, encouraged such interpretations, spanking all parties, but especially the owners for what he called "the sorry spectacle" the sport had become since the strike began on Aug. 12 and the season was called off on Sept. 14.
More important, Brooks endorsed for the first time legislative initiatives that would narrowly repeal part of the game's antitrust exemption in areas of labor relations at the major league level.
However, he acknowledged that not much can be accomplished before Congress adjourns on or around Oct. 7.
"But," Brooks said, "I have come to the conclusion that legislation is now needed to restore the principles of competition and fair play to the business of baseball."
Brooks also reminded everyone that the Senate has already embarked on a path that also would limit the reaches of the antitrust immunity in areas of major league labor issues. "If, before adjournment, the Senate acts and sends it to the House, I would be very open to allowing it to proceed directly to the President," Brooks said.
This was a message that buoyed the players as much as it sobered a management team that entered the hearing on the defensive.
"I leaned over to Craig Biggio in the hearing and said, 'We're winning, aren't we?' " pitcher Bob Tewksbury of the Cardinals said after the hearing, which was attended by eight players, including Dodgers pitcher Orel Hershiser, who testified.
"It's always nice to know that you're persuading more people as time goes along," said Donald Fehr, executive director of the Players Association. "I'm the last person to judge what the entire Congress is going to do, but the temperature's going up."
Charles P. O'Connor, the general counsel for the owners' Player Relations Committee, stated the strongest arguments against such Congressional action.
"The worst thing to do, from a labor perspective, is to intervene because of a strike or a lockout," said O'Connor. "The reason we have the exemption is because, otherwise, the normal activities of the union would be violations of the antitrust laws because they are joining together to fix the cost of labor in the labor market."
However, Fehr stated time and again during his testimony and the questioning that followed that the players would take their chances in court if the exemption was rolled back. And he restated the union stance that if a bill bringing baseball labor relations under the antitrust laws passed, he would recommend the players go back to work.
One of the seven owners on hand, Bud Selig of the Milwaukee Brewers, the acting commissioner, spoke in defense of not only the exemption but also the divisive salary cap proposal. But he drew questions about the failure of owners to hire a strong commissioner, as Selig promised the same committee two years ago.
And finally, in a news conference afterward, Brooks vowed that Congress would not countenance replacement workers, an issue that came up because some owners have said they would open spring training camp on time, settlement or no settlement.
"There is a high level of frustration here," Selig acknowledged afterward. "It's merely another reason to get this done ourselves, get back to the table and establish a common ground. We've got to stop carrying on this fight everywhere but where it should be."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Brewers' owner, Bud Selig, right, trying to drive home a point during a conversation with Dodgers pitcher Orel Hershiser. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); ATLANTA BRAVES (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; STRIKES; LABOR BASEBALL (92%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); LOBBYING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (79%); SPORTS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); IMMUNITY (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STRIKES (78%); COMMERCIAL LAW (78%); INDICTMENTS (77%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (70%); SUPREME COURTS (70%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (69%); 

PERSON: SMITH, CLAIRE; SELIG, BUD; HERSHISER, OREL JACK BROOKS (85%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



510 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 15; Column 1; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: BASKETBALL;
Players Seeking Antitrust Reversal

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
The legal power struggle between the National Basketball Association and the players' union yesterday moved into a Federal appeals court, where the union sought to reverse a lower court ruling that found that the salary cap, college draft and right of first refusal signing system do not violate antitrust law.
The union contends that after the collective bargaining agreement with the league expired June 24, the three disputed policies fell out of the jurisdiction of Federal labor law and became provisions restricting the free-market opportunities of players from the day they are drafted to when they retire. 
 The league disagrees. "This is a dispute over terms and conditions of employment that is governed by Federal labor laws," Jeffrey Mishkin, a league lawyer, told a three-judge panel of the Second Circuit United States Court of Appeals. "Antitrust law should not be used to subvert Federal labor law."
In July, the union failed to persuade United States District Court Judge Kevin T. Duffy that the expiration of the agreement extinguished its collective bargaining relationship with the N.B.A. Duffy ruled that the league is protected from the antitrust laws by a nonstatutory labor exemption.
The case is part of the continuing labor upheaval in sports. Baseball players are on strike because teams want a salary cap. National Hockey League players may be locked out as they fitfully try to negotiate a new labor agreement. And National Football League players are squabbling with their union over the effects of the first year of the league's new salary cap.
Frederick A. O. Schwarz Jr., a lawyer for the National Basketball Players Association, told the court that no collective bargaining relationship exists with the league, that any unilateral change the league imposes on the players will be challenged on antitrust grounds, and that the act of unionizing under the Wagner Act should not rob players of available antitrust remedies.
Schwarz added that Duffy erred by indefinitely allowing the N.B.A. to continue the salary cap, draft and right of first refusal. Schwarz said, "It doesn't make sense for a judge to impose a term upon the parties, a term of perpetual agreement that the parties did not bargain for."
Central to the union argument is the term of the nonstatutory exemption, which was created by the United States Supreme Court. Does it last until a new agreement is signed or until an impasse? The exemption provides no specific terms.
"We say there should be a 'when,' " Schwarz said after the hearing. "We say it should be at an impasse and we're at an impasse. They say they have a perpetual Shangri-La with everlasting protection."
Mishkin said: "They can't declare the collective bargaining relationship stopped because labor laws, not the courts, govern our relationship."
To the league, this is purely a labor dispute. It says no impasse with the union exists after only the few bargaining sessions that took place before the league sued on June 17 to prevent the union from suing on antitrust grounds.
"Even if you said these provisions violated antitrust law," Mishkin told the court, the parties must still negotiate a new agreement. "The courts should stay out." Each side, he said, has labor law remedies with economic clout: the union can strike or the league can lock players out.
The union has one other option: decertify itself as a union, then attack the league in Federal court on antitrust grounds. But a court remedy can take years, and decertification is not supposed to be a collective bargaining tactic.
"We don't think the union should have to commit suicide," said Charles Grantham, the executive director of the union.
After the hearing, David Stern, the N.B.A. commissioner, said: "We expect to prevail in this case. We've told the players we have to make a deal."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 0069 (HKSE) (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA); NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS' ASSN SHANGRI-LA ASIA LTD (50%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSN (NBA); NATIONAL BASKETBALL PLAYERS' ASSN NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (94%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); DALLAS STARS (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); EDMONTON OILERS (54%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (54%); NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; DRAFT AND RECRUITMENT (SPORTS); WAGES AND SALARIES BASKETBALL (95%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LABOR DISPUTES & NEGOTIATIONS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); JUDGES (89%); SPORTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LOCKOUTS (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); STRIKES (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); BASEBALL (73%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



511 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 14; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
After 334 Receptions, Giants' Jackson Catches Pink Slip

BYLINE: By MIKE WISE 

 BODY:
Mark Jackson read it in preseason and he read it in the regular season. He read it on the field and on the depth chart. The handwriting was never on the wall; it was always directly in front of the veteran wide receiver, a conspicuous little message from his employer:
Thanks for everything, but. . . . 
 The Giants waived Jackson, a nine-year veteran, yesterday, making room for Coleman Rudolph, the former Jets defensive end whom the club claimed off waivers. They also waived Jackson -- for the second time this season -- because they simply had too many young and talented receivers in the mix.
Jackson's agent, Lamont Smith, said he has been in contact with several teams, including the Indianapolis Colts, and the man who has caught 334 professional passes is expected to make a decision on his future today or tomorrow.
"The next 24 hours is critical," the agent said. "We've got a lot on the table.
"The door is cracked open for his return," added Smith, alluding to Jackson's chances of rejoining the Giants via the practice squad. "Mark took it amazingly well. He came into the league as a sixth-round draft choice and made $2 million last year. He's grateful for the ride with Dan."
"The good news is that we were able to pick up Coleman," Giants Coach Dan Reeves said in a statement issued by the club. "The bad news is that we have to let somebody go."
Especially someone with whom Reeves shared so much success in the last nine years. Jackson spent seven years with the Denver Broncos and Reeves, and was never more brilliant than when he hauled in a 5-yard touchdown catch from John Elway to complete the Drive, a 98-yard, 15-play piece of National Football League history that came against Cleveland in 1986.
Although he started 14 of 16 games last season, his first with the Giants, and caught a career-high 58 passes, N.F.L. economics and the emergence of the club's other receivers forced the Giants to release him.
Chris Calloway, 27, replaced Jackson, 32, as the starting second wide receiver opposite Mike Sherrard before the season opener. Jackson took the news rather well but added, "I don't think I did anything not to warrant starting."
Neither Jackson nor his agent, Lamont Smith, could be reached for comment today.
Jackson sensed the club's move toward the future during the preseason, when Dave Brown beat out Kent Graham for the starting nod, partly by finding Calloway open often.
Calloway, 26, has shown a knack for not only breaking the big play, but also blocking superbly when the ball doesn't come his way. Thomas Lewis, like Calloway a solid special-teams player, is the team's first-round draft pick. His potential intrigues the Giants.
Jackson, 31, played in only two games and was made inactive against Phoenix in Week 2. He had not caught a pass.
He could be as much a casualty of the salary cap as his advancing age. Cut by the team May 6, Jackson was brought back July 18 for between $200,000 and $300,000, a pay cut of more than $1 million from last season.
"It is tough to let anyone go but especially someone who has been a big part of any success you have had for nine years," Reeves said. "Mark wants to play and hopefully he will get that opportunity."
And quickly.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (56%); COLORADO, USA (53%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK GIANTS DENVER BRONCOS FOOTBALL CLUB (53%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE PROPERTIES INC (53%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); NEW YORK GIANTS (94%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); INDIANAPOLIS COLTS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (56%); COLORADO, USA (53%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); INDIANAPOLIS, IN, USA (56%); DENVER, CO, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); ATHLETES (77%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (76%); 

PERSON: JACKSON, MARK; WISE, MIKE DAN REEVES (86%); CHRIS CALLOWAY (73%); MARK JACKSON (70%); LAMONT SMITH (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



512 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1036 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: The Reach of Democracy;
Tying Power To Diplomacy

BYLINE: By Anthony Lake; Anthony Lake is President Clinton's national security adviser. This article is adapted from remarks to the Council on Foreign Relations on Sept. 12.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
To many Americans, the cold war divisions have given way to a confusing tangle of problems that prevent us from setting clearly defined goals for our foreign policy. These problems include aggression by regional bullies, transnational dangers like overpopulation and refugees, a global economic and information free-for-all that produces fear and uncertainty, and terrible ethnic conflicts.
Beneath the surface, however, there is an enduring truth about this new world. The same idea attacked by Fascism and Communism remains under attack today. Now, as then, we are defending an idea that comes under many names -- democracy, liberty, civility, pluralism -- but has a constant face. It is the face of the tolerant society, in which leaders and governments exist not to use or abuse people but to provide them with freedom and opportunity. 
 We are at the start of a new stage in this old struggle. This is not a clash of civilizations. Rather, it is a contest that pits nations and individuals guided by openness, responsive government and moderation against those animated by isolation, repression and extremism. The enemies of the tolerant society are not some nameless, faceless force. They are extreme nationalists and tribalists, terrorists, organized criminals, coup plotters, rogue states and all those who would return newly free societies to the intolerant ways of the past.
For all its dangers, this new world presents immense opportunities to reshape and create international structures that are adapted to post-cold-war realities and designed to consolidate the victory of democracy and open markets.
We are not starry-eyed about the prospects for spreading democracy, but we know that to do so serves our interests. Democracies create free markets that offer economic opportunity, and they make for reliable trading partners. They tend not to abuse their citizens' rights or wage war on one another.
The Administration has made a good start at building security and economic institutions designed to create the conditions in which democracy can flourish. In Europe, we are deeply engaged in transforming NATO to fulfill President Clinton's vision of an integrated continent by establishing Combined Joint Task Forces for peacekeeping and crisis management and the Partnership for Peace to begin expanding security in Europe eastward.
The new global economy requires that we design structures that produce tangible benefits for our citizens and turn their fears into hope. That is why the President went to the mat for the North American Free Trade Agreement, which has dramatically accelerated the exchange of goods and ideas between the United States, Mexico and Canada. That is why he has taken the lead in setting a pro-trade agenda in the fast-growing Asian-Pacific economies. And that is why our successful completion of the GATT world trade talks was so important: it promises to make a real difference in real lives by creating jobs and raising wages.
The challenges we face also demand the patient application of diplomacy and the measured exercise of power. We use diplomacy to pursue peace. But peace is not just an end in itself. It also creates conditions necessary for democratic values to thrive. Thus, when we foster peace in the Middle East, Northern Ireland and South Africa, we are promoting the tolerant society as well.
Effective diplomacy depends not only on the skill of our diplomats but also on power. Nothing better demonstrates this proposition than our approach to Haiti. There we have relied on diplomacy backed by power -- the threat of the use of force. The regime agreed to step down because of the credible and imminent prospect of a massive U.S.-led invasion. As a result, we are accomplishing a goal that this Administration -- and its predecessor -- have pursued for three years: the restoration of democratic government. And we are doing so peacefully, with less risk to our troops -- whose presence will guarantee that the Haitian military keeps its word.
The progress we have made in Bosnia came when power was tied to diplomacy. The Sarajevo ultimatum succeeded because the threat of NATO air power was judged real. The ultimatum also sparked the agreement on a federation between the Croatians and Muslims. And it was the threat of further action by NATO, combined with our sanctions, that led Serbia to close its border with the Bosnian Serbs when they rejected the recent peace plan. Now, we are firmly committed to increasing the pressure on the Bosnian Serbs to accept the plan, partly by enforcement of the ban on heavy weapons around Sarajevo and Gorazde.
It cannot and must not be the responsibility of the international community or this nation finally to resolve all deeply rooted conflicts. But where practical, we can save lives, as in Rwanda and Somalia, and we can offer conflicting societies a breathing space in which to sort out their own affairs. Whether or not they do so must be their own responsibility.
These explosions in states are also exacerbated by transnational problems -- refugees; population growth; an endangered environment; a nefarious nexus of crime, terrorism and the weapons of mass destruction -- whose dimensions have been clearly exposed by the end of the cold war and whose challenge we must meet.
We must also contend with regional rogue states like Iran, Iraq and Libya, which seek to traffic in the weapons of mass destruction, support terrorism and are dedicated to the destruction of the tolerant society.
For that reason, President Clinton will maintain and modernize the finest military in the world so that we can deter aggression -- and counter it when the need arises. We have also developed a strategy of dual containment of Iraq and Iran. And we will uphold our commitment to South Korea even as we negotiate a solution to the nuclear issue with the North.
Because we must fight on so many fronts at once, we will make prog ress only over time, in small victories, through persistence and pragmatism. These are not evidence of indecision: they are the hallmarks of determination, of a nation engaged in the long struggle for democracy and the freedom and tolerance it brings.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HAITI (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); HAITI (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TERRORISM (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (74%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); REFUGEES (73%); JOB CREATION (72%); COUPS (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (69%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (68%); WAGES & SALARIES (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); ORGANIZED CRIME (66%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (63%); TRENDS (60%); 

PERSON: LAKE, ANTHONY BILL CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



513 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 483 words

HEADLINE: Flat Tax Is an Idea That Just Won't Go Away

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The 17 percent flat tax advocated by Chuck Haytaian, the New Jersey Republican candidate for the Senate, would do much more than simplify the Federal income tax codes that have grown into the most complex on earth since 1913. It would produce explosive United States economic growth by dramatically reducing the cost of capital. The whole country would benefit, but because New Jersey is among the states with the highest per capita incomes, the benefits would be enormous here. 
 Senator Frank Lautenberg opposes the flat tax, arguing that it would benefit millionaires. Quite the contrary, only the wealthy are able to afford the costs dealing with the complexity of the tax codes. In 1992, when former Gov. Jerry Brown of California was seeking the Democratic Presidential nomination, our company in Morristown did an evaluation of his flat tax proposal. We concluded:
"Eliminating virtually all special treatment for taxpayers in favor of a low, easily collectible tax would generate enormous benefits for the United States economy as a whole.
"First, the barriers to small business, for whom tax compliance is a substantial expense, would be reduced; because small business is the largest generator of new jobs, the economy would benefit.
"Second, the tax base would broaden, as a result of reduced incentives to avoid taxation.
"Third, the activities of the thousands of America's best-trained professionals in the legal and accounting professions would be redirected toward creating new enterprises, rather than avoiding taxation.
"As Prof. Paul Samuelson, a liberal Democrat, writes in the 13th edition of his textbook 'Economics,' the flat tax 'would put thousands of tax lawyers out of business. The economy would become more efficient as people spent less time worrying about the impact of their actions on taxes and more time worrying about production of aircraft and computers, and generation of innovation.' "
The 17 percent flat tax would not only generate sufficient Federal revenue to exempt a family of four with income less than $36,800 from any income tax. But because income is taxed only once, it would also entirely eliminate taxation of capital gains and inheritances. The increased growth this liberation of capital would invite would greatly increase state and local tax revenues.
Representative Dick Armey of Texas, chairman of the House Republican Conference and the man who designed the 17 percent flat tax, correctly dismisses arguments that it would be a revenue loser.
Mr. Armey, who earned a doctorate in economics at the University of Texas, points out that individuals and businesses now spend at least $200 billion a year to pay their taxes, most of which would be saved by tax simplification, an idea whose time is coming.
 
JUDE WANNISKI
Morristown, N.J., Sept. 19, 1994
The writer is a political and economic consultant.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FLAT TAX; INCOME TAX TAXES & TAXATION (95%); TAX LAW (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX REFORM (89%); TAX CONSULTING (89%); WRITERS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); SMALL BUSINESS (74%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); LIBERALISM (69%); CONSULTING SERVICES (68%); ACCOUNTING (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: WANNISKI, JUDE; HAYTAIAN, CHUCK (SPEAKER) FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); JERRY BROWN (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



514 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 35; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 936 words

HEADLINE: DIALOGUE: The Reach of Democracy;
Cold War Games Again

BYLINE: By Robert H. Johnson; Robert H. Johnson is a fellow at the National Planning Association, a research organization specializing in economic and social issues, and is author of "Improbable Dangers: U.S. Conceptions of Threat in the Cold War and After."

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The intervention in Haiti is most disturbing for what it says about the Administration's post-cold-war strategy as defined by Anthony Lake, President Clinton's national security adviser.
To Mr. Lake, America is involved in an extension of the struggle for democracy and against authoritarianism that began with World War II and continued in the cold war. As in those conflicts, the struggle is Manichean: the forces of evil (rogue states, terrorists, tribalists) against the forces of good (democracies, tolerant societies). 
 From this perspective, Mr. Lake argued at the Council on Foreign Relations in Washington this month that the world no longer appears chaotic and incomprehensible -- that our enemies are easily identifiable. The threat is still authoritarianism; our goal is still promoting democracy.
Stated this way, America's goal remains the one that the Truman Doctrine established at the beginning of the cold war. That doctrine provided the rationale for interventions all over the globe in defense of freedom.
Mr. Lake argues that we must be selective in our interventions, and the President says the United States cannot be the world's policeman. But a policy based on principle risks either ever-widening commitments or double standards and growing cynicism. When our commitments are challenged, the willingness to carry them out becomes a test of Presidential and national credibility.
Thus, Mr. Lake sees Haiti as a test of the U.S. commitment to the defense of democracy, and views the demonstration of U.S. resolve to reinstate democracy there as having broad international implications.
As in the cold war, defending our credibility becomes an interest and a goal in itself, partly or wholly separable from the intrinsic value of the stakes in a particular conflict.
Viewing the world through such a wide lens tends to create a sense that the fates of related nations are connected -- that a country that "goes authoritarian" will destabilize nations that are geographically or politically related, and dominoes will fall.
Mr. Lake argues that if America fails to restore democracy in Haiti, a flood of Haitian refugees could have destabilizing effects throughout the Caribbean. How or why such events might occur is not explained. Despite constant fears of dominoes throughout the cold war, there was never a case that clearly demonstrated the validity of the domino theory.
The definition of democracy, as in the past, has become too elastic: one free election in its 200-year history did not make Haiti a democracy, nor necessarily make President Jean-Bertrand Aristide a democrat. In Somalia, Bosnia and Rwanda, the principle of support for democracy provided no useful guidance for policy.
The fundamental problem with basing foreign policy on the defense of democracy through intervention is that our Government lacks the means -- and will lack the domestic political support -- to carry out such a policy. When other countries lack the political and cultural roots of democracy, it is impossible for outsiders to create them, and the use of force in support of democracy will be unavailing.
Somalia provided an early post-cold-war lesson in the difficulties of using our power to produce political change in a society we understand imperfectly and can barely influence. The goal of nation-building, which came to symbolize American hubris in Vietnam, was unexpectedly revived during the Clinton phase of U.S. involvement in Somalia. Fortunately, its impracticality was quickly recognized. But the problem of political change is even more daunting in Haiti.
The limits of our ability to act since the end of the cold war have also been demonstrated in Bosnia, where neither politicians in the former Yugoslavia nor America's allies have bent to America's will. Their resistance, and the limits imposed by U.S. public opinion, have contributed to the unsteadiness of American policy.
The lack of public support for intervention in Haiti and the strong reaction to the relatively limited U.S. casualties in Somalia suggest that Americans are now unlikely to pay a substantial price on behalf of vague causes like world order, democracy or national credibility.
The incoherence of the Administration's foreign policy arises partly from its tendency to take broad stances based on principles, like the support of democracy against authoritarianism, that frequently conflict with other interests and political reality. Backtracking, as in the case of the Clinton policy toward human rights in China, creates an appearance of uncertainty and incompetence.
Administration spokesmen have tended to hype threats, implying that if this country does not take decisive action, American or global security will be put at risk. But when it has faced the implications of its statements, it has pulled back.
Thus, Secretary of Defense William Perry called the North Korean nuclear program a threat to the "entire world" and Mr. Clinton implied the possibility of a pre-emptive attack. But the Administration ultimately decided to negotiate.
While the U.S. must remain active in the world, it needs to undertake a much less ambitious foreign policy agenda. If it seeks to lead a movement for a world order based on democracy, it will exhaust itself in the effort. Its foreign policy will become ever more incoherent as domestic and international constraints limit its capacity to achieve its rhetorical goals. And its domestic politics will be roiled by the clamor over its foreign policy failures, diverting its leaders from more essential tasks at home and abroad.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); SOMALIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); COUNCIL ON FOREIGN RELATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; SOMALIA; UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (94%); SOMALIA (92%); RWANDA (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE COLD WAR (92%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); REFUGEES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (72%); TERRORISM (56%); 

PERSON: JOHNSON, ROBERT H; LAKE, ANTHONY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



515 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 34; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Club Strike Sticks Over Givebacks

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I reply as an employee of Local 6, the union representing striking Harvard Club employees, to the Sept. 14 letter by Preston Townley, vice president of the club. Mr. Townley claims union leaders "participated grudgingly" in mediation and "walked away at the first opportunity," and that "work rules say bus persons in the dining room can't make coffee." 
 If Mr. Townley had attended a mediation session, he would know that a Harvard Club manager admitted to a Federal mediator that all employees do whatever jobs they are asked to do. And if Mr. Townley had read the union contract, he would also know bus persons do make coffee. The problem is that management's $300-an-hour lawyers are demanding the bus persons relinquish the 15-cents-an-hour "bonus" they are paid for this task.
The six-month strike has never been about union rules. It's about management's demand that employees begin co-payment for their medical coverage, give up holidays and sick days, accept wage reductions and trade in their full-time employment for part-time work.
And while Mr. Townley claims that Harvard Club employees "are paid better and receive better benefits" than workers in similar jobs at other New York City clubs, management was informed months ago that workers would readily agree to a contract similar or identical to those reached this year at other clubs.
Mr. Townley asserts the "employees are indeed valued members of the Harvard Club family." Yet he fails to mention that management sent club members letters suggesting employees were lazy and unproductive. Mr. Townley further insists employees "deserve the job security that comes from a club whose operations are economically sound."
Those are strange words from a vice president of the Harvard Club, a business whose recent economically sound operations have included prolonging a strike that has already caused the club to lose more than $1 million.
 
JOHN TURCHIANO
Long Beach, L.I., Sept. 16, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: HARVARD CLUB (NYC) HARVARD CLUB (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD CLUB (NYC) HARVARD CLUB (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: STRIKES; LABOR LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); STRIKES (78%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (77%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); HEALTH INSURANCE (72%); SICK LEAVE (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: TURCHIANO, JOHN; TOWNLEY, PRESTON PRESTON TOWNLEY (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



516 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 451 words

HEADLINE: THE AD CAMPAIGNS;
Race for Governor: Pataki

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
CANDIDATE: George E. Pataki
 
PRODUCER: Russo, Marsh & Associates, Alexandria, Va., and Sacramento, Calif.
 

VISUAL: The 30-second advertisement begins with footage of Mr. Pataki looking directly at the camera. The camera then pans to a chart depicting welfare spending increasing and the workfare population decreasing, and the advertisement ends with the camera back on Mr. Pataki, and his campaign logo.
 
SCRIPT: Mr. Pataki: "People need workfare, not welfare. Today, 1.6 million New Yorkers are on welfare. That costs taxpayers billions of tax dollars every year. We must give people the skills they need to get off welfare. But under Mario Cuomo, welfare spending always goes up, while workfare has gone down. We must do better. We need workfare, not welfare."
Announcer: "George Pataki, the new Governor New York needs. George Pataki. It's time for a change."
 
ANALYSIS: Workfare, the requirement that welfare recipients work off their grants in public sector jobs, has become a buzzword in recent years. It has strong visceral appeal to those who work hard for a living and who recoil at the thought of able-bodied adults living off the Government dole.
Yet many welfare experts question its long-term utility, saying it may be more effective in soothing public frustration than in moving welfare recipients off the rolls. The Cuomo administration has no objection to workfare as a temporary measure, and is trying to expand its programs. But it believes that only job training and other employment programs will move people permanently off the rolls.
Mr. Pataki's statistics are accurate to a point but leave much of the story untold. The percentage of home relief recipients participating in workfare has decreased since 1982, when Mr. Cuomo was first elected, from 34 percent to 14 percent, according to the Department of Social Services. But in 1982, when there were 58,000 employable home relief recipients, workfare was the only job-related program available in New York. Now, with 195,000 employable home relief recipients, there are alternative programs, including job training and education, and a total of 35 percent participate.
It is true that there are 1.6 million New Yorkers on welfare (up from 1.3 million in 1982, when Mr. Cuomo was first elected) and that billions of tax dollars are spent every year ($4.1 billion in 1993, compared to $2.2 billion in 1982). It is not quite true, however, that welfare spending always goes up. Welfare caseloads tend to track economic conditions, and welfare spending remained static for much of the 1980's, even decreasing slightly one year, before ballooning in 1990 with the start of the recession. KEVIN SACK

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); WELFARE (US); ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICAL ADVERTISING GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); POPULATION DECLINE (77%); RECESSION (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) GEORGE PATAKI (93%); MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



517 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 800 words

HEADLINE: Northrop To Cut 8,650 Positions

BYLINE: By SALLIE HOFMEISTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 22

 BODY:
In a response to the nation's shrinking military budget that will strike the economies of Long Island and California, the Northrop Grumman Corporation said today that it would reduce its work force by 8,650 jobs, or more than 18 percent, by the end of 1995.
Consultants to military contractors and Wall Street analysts viewed the development as necessary for the newly combined company to survive in a fast-consolidating industry. "This is a healthy response as defense revenues shrink and it is the only way to justify the merger -- to cut costs," Robert Paulson, head of the aerospace practice for McKinsey & Company, a management consultant firm, said. In May, the Grumman Corporation and the Northrop Corporation merged in a $2.1 billion deal. "It shows that management is getting on with the business." 
 Yet it is another blow to the economies of California and Long Island, which will bear the brunt of the layoffs. About 3,500 of the job reductions will come from operations in Long Island, including approximately 2,500 previously announced by the Grumman Corporation as part of a restructuring planned before the merger. The additional 1,000 will come next year from the closing of Grumman's corporate headquarters at Bethpage, L.I. -- the new company is based at Northrop's headquarters here -- and from streamlining the company's remaining Long Island operations.
Today's announcement had been telegraphed by both Northrop and Grumman officials in the spring when they agreed to merge, but they did not then give any precise figures. When the ax finally fell, it caught few by surprise. [Page D11.]
According to the company, Northrop Grumman will employ only 3,800 on Long Island by the end of 1995. That is down from about 9,170 at the beginning of 1994, before Grumman undertook a payroll cut on its own, 7,300 workers at the time of the merger, and 25,000 in 1986, when United States military spending peaked.
Still, the bulk of the layoffs, 4,150, will come from California, which earlier this month was jolted by news that GM Hughes Electronics would lay off 4,400 workers, mostly in Southern California, and shut a plant in Fullerton.
"The trend among defense contractors is to cut costs, and that means not doing business in high-cost states like California," said Jack Modzelewski, an aerospace analyst at Paine Webber. "The state has a significant issue on its hands."
In California, the layoffs include 2,400 workers who are assigned in Pico Rivera and Palmdale, Calif., to the B-2 stealth bomber program, whose production is winding down. Those job cuts were first announced last week. Another 1,600 positions will come from the company's Military Aircraft division in Hawthorne and El Segundo, as well as 150 from the electronics unit in Hawthorne.
About 600 of the remaining 1,000 layoffs will come from the company's Vought Aircraft unit in Dallas, with the rest from various plants around the country.
Analysts were unfazed by the layoffs, calling them a natural response to a decline in the military budget for programs like the B-2 and to a merger predicated on the cost savings and efficiencies that would derive from integrating overlapping businesses in military electronics and in commercial and military aircraft. The company's biggest programs are the B-2 bomber, the fuselage for the FA-18 jet fighter and the Joint Stars advanced surveillance program.
Some reductions will be achieved through an early retirement program extended to about 5,000 employees in the Northrop Retirement Plan. The company said a 60 percent acceptance rate would result in a one-time charge against earnings in the fourth quarter of about $300 million. The deadline to apply for the program is Nov. 15.
Analysts said this could draw down an overfunded pension plan that has contributed nearly a fifth of the company's income in the past.Wall Street analysts said that the layoffs might not be the last hit to company profits. "I'm surprised that the charge for the employment cutbacks is as large, but we'll see one more charge in the same order of magnitude for plant and equipment closings," said Mr. Modzelewski of Paine Webber. He said that despite the cost savings that would likely result from the job cuts, he had still not revised his earnings projections.
Northrop Grumman shares closed at $45.125, down 12.5 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange today. But analysts expected the stock to rebound because of the promise of savings.
Still, some analysts were reluctant to offer too much praise, saying that cutting the company's work force is only a first step. "The more important challenge is how they will restructure their overall costs to reposition them to win new contracts," said Gary Campbell of A. T. Kearney, a management consulting firm.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 1994, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day yesterday about job cuts planned by the Northrop Grumman Corporation included erroneous totals supplied by the company in some copies. The work force is to be reduced by 8,650 jobs, or 18.2 percent, not 9,000 jobs, or 20 percent. The reductions will affect 150 jobs from the electronics unit in Hawthorne, Calif., not 500.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Chipping Away at Grumman" shows the decline of Northrop Grumman's employees from '83-'94. (Sources: Northrop Grumman provided all worldwide employment data and Long Island figures back to 1986; Long Island Business News provided Long Island employment from 1983-1995.) (pg. D11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (96%); DTV (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (96%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (96%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (96%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (96%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (96%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP; GRUMMAN CORP; NORTHROP CORP NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (96%); MCKINSEY & CO INC (84%); DIRECTV (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP; GRUMMAN CORP; NORTHROP CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); CALIFORNIA; ; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES LAYOFFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); LABOR FORCE (90%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSULTING SERVICES (90%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE SPENDING (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (78%); TRENDS (78%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); 

PERSON: HOFMEISTER, SALLIE ROBERT L PAULSON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



518 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 23, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Schools Must Stress Academics

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Saying that the American educational system is failing the nation's employers, a leading business organization called today for a new emphasis on basic academic training at the expense of social goals and services.
The Committee for Economic Development, an organization of executives at about 250 large corporations, called for an end to efforts to incorporate mentally and physically handicapped children in regular classrooms, and urged educators to move away from providing social services like pregnancy counseling, AIDS information and drivers' education classes. The group also said schools should not be battlegrounds over ideological issues like abortion, homosexuality and creationism. 
 "America's public schools are being spread too thin," said Education Secretary Richard W. Riley, who appeared at a press conference at which the organization released a report, "Putting Learning First." "Nothing will be gained by tearing down public education and making the public school classroom the Bosnia of America's competing factions. When a community is divided, the children always suffer."
Reform efforts of the past decade have been sloppy, said Roy J. Bostock, the committee's chairman. As a result, school programs are "diluted, distracted and diffused from the basic mission of education" despite the seemingly endless round of hand-wringing over the quality of education.
The result is an educational system that suits parents and students "who tend to feel satisfied with their schools," but one that increasingly fails the business sector, the report concludes. Employers, the report says, "feel that a large majority of their new hires lack adequate writing and problem-solving skills."
Albert Shanker, the president of the American Federation of Teachers, who attended the press conference, said, "From now on you should not get into college just because you're breathing and you're 18." Creating an achievement standard, he said in comments supporting the group's findings, is "a radical notion that is not radical anywhere else in the world."
The committee's report proposes applying to education the basic notions that have been championed in business circles in recent years, like group merit awards to encourage teamwork, the trimming of bureaucracy and limits on "micromanagement" of classrooms.
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich, who joined Education Secretary Riley this afternoon for a tour of a model school in New York City, lauded those goals. He said he hoped to see a new link between schools and business that would combine core academic studies with job training.
"You have an economy where you have spot shortages of skilled labor, and we don't yet have a system that integrates school and work," said Mr. Reich.
Some businesses are already experimenting with new ways to make the business-education link work. Last week, the I.B.M. International Foundation, the nation's largest corporate philanthropy, announced plans to donate $25 million over five years to help 10 school districts revamp their programs. The first project will be in Charlotte, N.C., where four new public schools will be built around lessons learned in business.
The foundation's president, Stanley S. Litow, said the schools would have interactive computer facilities, grade categories only loosely structured around age limits and intensive study programs. Most other details are now being worked out.
"If we do business with someone, we constantly invite them in to show them new products and how things are changing," said Mr. Litow. "Nobody does that for schools." The economic development committee's report encourages such communication. It also makes specific recommendations.
For example, it condemns the growing practice, called "intrusion," to move mentally and physically handicapped children to standard classrooms.
"Currently, communities, states and the national government are asking those who manage our classrooms to be parent, social worker, doctor, psychologist, police officer and perhaps, if there is time, teacher," the report says. "It seems that whenever a social crisis, such as AIDS, child abuse or drunk driving is perceived, the government looks to the schools to solve it," the report concludes.
Some state mandates also are criticized. Kentucky regulations, the report notes as an example, "contain such vague statements as 'students will make sense of the variety of materials they read . . . the various things they observe . . . and the various messages to which they listen' without defining what 'make sense of' might mean," the report says.
The comments are not just aimed at the regulations but also at the regulators. School boards are criticized as "attracting individuals who are poorly versed in educational matters, are more interested in using school board membership as a stepping stone to higher political office, have an ideological ax to grind or see school board service as an opportunity for financial gain."
The report calls for holding school board votes with general elections, to involve more voters. It also calls for better training of school board members.
The National School Boards Association responded that the committee detailed problems that school boards are already grappling with. "The report reinforces NSBA's own recent efforts to enhance school governance," said Boyd Boehlje, the association's president.
 As a result, the article also referred imprecisely to the group's position on the practice. It opposes the policy of including every disabled child in standard classrooms, but favors the incorporation of less disabled students who would not interfere with other students' studies.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 24, 1994, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about a business group's study advocating a new emphasis on basic academic training misidentified the term for placing all disabled children in standard classrooms. The practice is called inclusion, not intrusion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); COMMITTEE FOR ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; CORPORATIONS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (92%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); CHILDREN (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); LABOR SHORTAGES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CORPORATE GIVING (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); CHARITIES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); ABORTION (71%); DRIVER EDUCATION (71%); TEACHER UNIONS (71%); PHILANTHROPY (60%); DISABLED PERSONS (56%); CREATIONISM (55%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; SHANKER, ALBERT; BOSTOCK, ROY J; RILEY, RICHARD W (SEC); REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) ROY J BOSTOCK (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 1994



519 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 2-6
 
PLAGUE OUTBREAK IN INDIA
As many as 200,000 people have fled an outbreak of pneumonic plague in western India, one of the most serious outbreaks of the disease in recent years. 1 

Pneumonic plague is the most deadly form of the disease. 5
 
YUGOSLAVIA SANCTIONS EASED
The United Nations Security Council voted to ease sanctions on Yugoslavia for 100 days in response to the Serbian leader's support for a peace plan, and approved measures to punish the Bosnian Serbs. 1
 
An exhibit on the war in the Balkans has drawn criticism. 6
 
U.S. ACTS TO AID HAITI
President Clinton announced a $200 million donation for an aid effort for Haiti and immediate food aid and said the United States will lift some restrictions in an effort to help the Haitian economy. 4
 
POLICE ACTION IN HAITI
American military police officers began patrols in Haiti while their commanders met with Haitian police to develop a plan to station the Americans at police stations. 4
 
NOT A POLITICAL MAN
The Haitian who was killed by police as people came out to greet American troops was not a political man, his family said, but a house painter and food vendor who worried about his children's future. 4
 
VATICAN QUANDARY
The postponement of a trip by Pope John Paul II has caused a subtle shift in the stance of the Vatican, which has always maintained that the pope must be seen as vigorous, whatever the reality. 6
 
NEW FACE OF KIGALI
The capital of Rwanda is coming back to life, but most of the new residents have been refugees outside the country for years, creating questions about what will happen if the other residents return. 3
 
United Nations will patrol a volatile Rwanda area. 3
 
Singapore executed the first Westerner under new drug laws. 5
 
Belfast Journal: When peace breaks out. 2
 
National 7-9
 
COMMUNICATIONS BILL DIES
Legislation to overhaul the nation's telecommunications laws to permit open competition between telephone and cable television companies collapsed in the Senate. The bill's chief sponsor, Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, blamed opposition from the regional Bell companies. 1
 
A PARTISAN SENATE IMPASSE
As the clock ticks down toward adjournment, Republicans are doing all they can to delay bills on which they and Democrats disagree. 1
 
Senator Mitchell finds it tough deciding the health bills' fate. 9
 
DUST ON CLINTON'S CHESS BOARD
A shuffling of White House staff intended to make the President look bold and decisive took so long it fed impressions of indecision. 9
 
NUCLEAR FUEL SHIPMENTS RESUME
A Federal court said the Energy Department could bring two boatloads of spent nuclear fuel to South Carolina, as planned. 8
 
REPORT DEPICTS AMES'S SABOTAGE
Aldrich Ames exposed nearly every major C.I.A. operation in the Soviet Union and Eastern Europe, officials familiar with a draft report on the affair say. 1
 
SIMPSON COVERAGE IS THREATENED
Escalating a conflict over coverage of the O. J. Simpson case, Judge Lance Ito threatened to bar some news media from his court. 7
 
It was unclear what kinds of coverage Judge Ito was threatening. 7
 
WHERE CASH MEETS SCIENCE
The F.D.A. proposed requiring scientists to disclose their financial stakes in drug research considered for Government approval. 7
 
VICTORIA KENNEDY TO THE FORE
In what may be his most difficult Senate race in 32 years, Edward Kennedy is pulling out the big guns. His main weapon? His wife. 8
 
IN VIRGINIA, ROBB ATTACKS NORTH
Senator Charles Robb accused his opponent, Oliver North, of intolerance and racial divisiveness. 8
 
Beliefs: Language at the International Conference on Population. 9
 
Metro Digest 21
 
GIULIANI GETS TOUGH WITH PATAKI
Using his strongest language to date, Mayor Giuliani escalated his criticism of his party's gubernatorial candidate, Senator George E. Pataki. 1
 
Business Digest 33
 
Arts/Entertainment 11-17
 
Reading upsets Beckett estate. 11
 
Film: "Exotica." 11
 
Music: "Agrippina." 11
 
Dance: An austere quest. 17
 
Sports 26-30
 
Baseball: Players receive a union pep talk from veterans. 30
 
Hockey: Messier's frustration continues to grow. 27
 
Tennis: United States leads Sweden in Davis Cup play. 27
 
Obituaries 10
 
Irving M. Felt, led the drive to build a new Madison Square Garden.
 
Leonard Feather, jazz critic.
 
Madeleine Renaud, actress.
 
Editorials/Op-Ed 18-19
 
Editorials
 
The missing messenger.
 
The North effect on the G.O.P.
 
Supermarkets for slums.
 
A poet's season.
 
Letters
 
Anna Quindlen: Don't ditch Dee Dee.
 
Russell Baker: Why are these men gloating?
 
Paul Spector: Failure, by the numbers.
 
Karen Love: Cuba's children.
 
Bridge 17
 
Chronicle 20
 
Crossword 16

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (95%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); 

STATE: WEST INDIA (92%); 

CITY: KIGALI, RWANDA (50%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (95%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); SERBIA (92%); RWANDA (92%); HOLY SEE (90%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (50%); WEST INDIA (92%); KIGALI, RWANDA (50%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (79%); REFUGEES (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); POLICE FORCES (73%); PEACE PROCESS (71%); RELIGION (70%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (61%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (60%); NUCLEAR WASTE (60%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



520 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1342 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Eases Curbs on Yugoslavia After Serbian Peace Concessions

BYLINE: By BARBARA CROSSETTE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: UNITED NATIONS, Sept. 23

 BODY:
The Security Council voted today to ease sanctions on Yugoslavia for 100 days in response to a pledge by the President of Serbia to support a peace plan for Bosnia and Herzegovina, halt the shipment of war supplies to the Bosnian Serbs and accept civilian monitoring of the Serbian-Bosnian border.
At the same time, the Council approved two additional resolutions intended to punish the Bosnian Serbs for continuing to carry out a "persistent and systematic campaign of terror" while interfering with United Nations relief and peacekeeping operations. Financial and commercial activity as well as all political talks with Bosnian Serbs would be frozen until they agree to a peace agreement reached on July 6 and backed by Russia, Europe and the United States. 
 The Security Council voted 11 to 2 with 2 abstentions on the resolution easing sanctions on the rump Yugoslav federation, comprising Serbia and Montenegro.
Quick action on the resolution was somewhat unexpected because all week there have been reports of war material being ferried into Bosnian Serb territory from Serbia, in violation of the embargo announced by the Serbian President, Slobodan Milosevic. The reports indicated that the shipments were being conducted by the Yugoslav Army.
There was additional confusion today, when Secretary of State Warren Christopher told reporters in Washington this morning that he thought a vote today would be premature. As he spoke, Madeleine K. Albright, the United States representative to the United Nations, said she had authority to vote for the resolutions.
This evening, a State Department official said Mr. Christopher decided to support the resolution after receiving assurances that it called for sufficient monitoring of the border between Bosnia and Serbia and a report certifying that the embargo would be respected.
About 135 observers have been assigned to monitor the 300-mile border, but not all are in place. Some experts think that, even at full complement, the number of observers is not adequate to the task.
Jamsheed K.A. Marker, Pakistan's delegate to the United Nations, criticized the monitoring agreement in a speech tonight, saying that "a handful of men cannot certify the uncertifiable."
Tonight, Ms. Albright defended the Clinton Administration's support for the easing of sanctions but said the United States had not made the decision lightly. "My Government continues to believe that Belgrade authorities bear primary responsibility for what has happened in the former Yugoslavia during the past three years," she said.
Djibouti and Pakistan voted against easing the sanctions, and Nigeria and Rwanda abstained. The rest of the Council members voted yes: Argentina, Brazil, Britain, China, the Czech Republic, France, New Zealand, Oman, Russia, Spain and the United States.
Reaction from a host of mostly Islamic countries was swift and sharp. Egypt's representative, Nabil A. Elaraby, told the Council before the formal vote took place that sanctions are being eased when "it is abundantly clear before world public opinion that no tangible progress has happened in the field."
Turkey's representative, Inal Batu, said, "The easing of sanctions on Serbia and Montenegro will constitute yet another wrong signal to the aggressor and undermine the peace process."
The resolution was defended by Germany's representative, Detlev Graf Zu Rantzau, speaking for the European Union and the Nordic countries. He said Serbia's willingness to cut supplies to the Bosnian Serbs should be rewarded.
Yugoslavia's representative, Dragomir Djokic, described the easing of sanctions as inadequate and merely a political maneuver. He called for the full and permanent lifting of sanctions as the best way to speed a peace agreement.
Croatia's representative called the move "a dangerous precedent."
Diplomats said the Council seemed to be propelled into action by a desire to complete work on these resolutions before heads of government and foreign ministers begin to arrive to address the General Assembly next week and the Council's work could be complicated by the reopening of debate.
The resolution easing sanctions will allow the reopening of Belgrade airport to all civilian flights and the resumption of ferry services between Bar, in Montenegro, and Bari, Italy.
Under the resolution, Yugoslavia could also resume participation in international cultural and athletic events.
But the resolution also demands the reimposition of sanctions within five days of any determination by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that Serbia had resumed shipping war material. Relief goods must be allowed to cross freely.
The move to ease sanctions on the Yugoslav federation -- couched in a resolution proposed by the United States, Britain, France, Germany and Russia -- came after President Milosevic of Serbia agreed earlier this month to allow civilian observers to be stationed along the border of Serbia, which has been the Bosnian Serbs' main supplier throughout the war.
An accompanying resolution, also sponsored by the same five-nation Security Council caucus that calls itself the "contact group" on Bosnia, puts more pressure on the Bosnian Serbs by tightening sanctions. It prohibits international travel by Bosnian Serb officials unless it is related to peace efforts. It bars trade and other economic activity with businesses or organizations owned or controlled by Bosnian Serb forces, except for relief goods. Bosnian Serb financial assets abroad are to be frozen.
No river traffic will be permitted to enter areas under the control of Bosnia Serbs. All goods destined for Bosnia will have to be inspected and cleared.
The third resolution, sponsored by a group of Council members from the developing world -- Pakistan, Nigeria, Oman, Djibouti and Rwanda -- condemns renewed evictions of Bosnian Muslims and others from Banja Luka, Bijeljina and other areas. It warns Bosnian Serbs that "ethnic cleansing" is in violation of international law and that any individual indulging in such behavior is personally accountable.
 
HIGHLIGHTS
U.N. RESOLUTIONS ON YUGOSLAVIA
 
RESOLUTION 1
 
Reopens airport at Belgrade to civilian passenger flights
 
Allows Yugoslavs to participate in sports and cultural exchanges.
 
Also allows passenger ferry service between the port of Bar in Montenegro and Bari in Italy.
 
These measures will be instituted for an initial period of 100 days following a report from Secretary-General Boutros Boutros-Ghali that Yugoslavia is implementing its decision to stop all but humanitarian goods to Bosnian areas under control of Bosnian Serb forces.
 
Sanctions will automatically be reimposes five days after any report from Boutros-Ghali that Belgrade is again shipping war materials or other proscribed goods across the Bosnian border unless the Security Council decides otherwise.
 
RESOLUTION 2
 
Calls on all governments to stop any political talks with Bosnian Serb leaders.
Prohibits travel by Bosnian Serb officials, including legislative authorities and their allies except if authorized for purposes related to the peace negotiations.
 
Prohibits trade or other economic activity with any entity owned or controlled by Bosnian Serb forces except for relief goods. Freezes financial assets held abroad.
 
Prohibits commercial river traffic from entering ports in areas of Bosnia under control of Bosnian Serb forces except if authorized by the Security Council.
 
Calls for all shipments of goods destinated to Bosnian Serb areas of Bosnia inspected and certified in advance.Neighboring states are to watch for any diversion of goods to Serb-held areas of Croatia.
 
RESOLUTION 3
 
Condemns renewed ethnic cleansing by Bosnian Serba in Banja Luka, Bijeljina and other areas and says any transfer of property under duress is null and void.
 
Demands Bosnian Serbs allow U.N. officials and international relief groups into Banja Luka, Bijeljina and other areas of concern.
 
(Source: Reuter)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: APAGF (NASDAQ) (51%); 

COUNTRY: SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); 

CITY: BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) APCO ARGENTINA INC (51%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: YUGOSLAVIA; SERBIA; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; SERBIA (99%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (98%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (92%); EGYPT (79%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); RWANDA (79%); EUROPE (79%); MONTENEGRO (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%); SPAIN (79%); CZECH REPUBLIC (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); FRANCE (71%); BELGRADE, SERBIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); APPROVALS (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (69%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (61%); RELIGION (50%); 

PERSON: CROSSETTE, BARBARA; CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); MILOSEVIC, SLOBODAN (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



521 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1187 words

HEADLINE: Criticizing Pataki, Giuliani Seeks Details on His Plans to Aid City

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani yesterday stepped up his criticism of his party's gubernatorial candidate, Senator George E. Pataki, saying that Mr. Pataki had taken positions that would hurt New York City. He vowed that he would not endorse Mr. Pataki unless the Republican candidate proposed specific fiscal policies that would benefit the city.
Mr. Giuliani has asserted before that Mr. Pataki will have to earn his endorsement by providing details about his governmental approach to New York City. But the Mayor went beyond that yesterday by attacking Mr. Pataki's legislative record. And like an opposing candidate, he did so by plucking specific votes from Mr. Pataki's Senate and Assembly career that he said showed Mr. Pataki "trying to deprive New York City." 
 "I think I'm exercising leadership by requiring the candidate to take positions that will help the people that I have the responsibility of serving," he said on his weekly WABC radio show. "So far, he hasn't done it.
"And this isn't a game," the Mayor said. "If he doesn't, my endorsement isn't there." He also continued to compliment Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, who is seeking a fourth term.
The Pataki campaign strategy makes it difficult to satisfy Mr. Giuliani's demand for details. Believing he is ahead, Mr. Pataki is trying to provide few targets for Mr. Cuomo. He does not want to offend conservative upstaters by appearing too accommodating toward New York City. But neither does he want to alienate moderate swing voters by proposing fiscal and social policies that seem too severe. [Page 24.]
Mr. Giuliani's critique marked the second time in three days that a prominent Republican had publicly attacked Mr. Pataki for failing to disclose details about his plan to revive New York's economy. Herbert London, the Republican candidate for state comptroller, expressed similar concerns in a statement released on Wednesday. He, too, has refused to say whether he will endorse Mr. Pataki.
Mr. Giuliani's brinksmanship has infuriated Pataki campaign officials. Drawing out the endorsement has brought unwelcome attention to Mr. Pataki when Republicans want to keep the focus on Mr. Cuomo's Democratic record, several Republican officials said.
Besides criticizing Mr. Pataki yesterday, the Mayor once again had kind words for the Governor. "Some people disagree with things that he has done, as I do in some cases," he said. "But in other areas Mario Cuomo has been very, very good to the city of New York and he has the interests of the city at heart."
Mr. Giuliani's comments on his radio show, which he largely repeated at a civic club luncheon, came on the same day that Deputy Mayor Peter J. Powers met with two Pataki aides -- Kieran Mahoney, a strategist, and Michael Finnegan, a campaign counsel -- to discuss the grounds for a possible endorsement. Both camps said only that there would be further talks, without indicating whether Mr. Giuliani and Mr. Pataki might meet anytime soon.
Asked yesterday about Mr. Giuliani's lack of endorsement, Mr. Pataki told reporters that he hoped to win the Mayor's support by continuing to outline his plans. He said he would detail a proposal for tax cuts in about two weeks. Mr. Pataki said that he was taking his time because he wanted to put forth a plan that would work -- a stand he repeated in an address to the Business Council of New York State, meeting in Bolton Landing, N.Y.
"I'm not going to stand up here and take a no-tax pledge," he told the council. "I don't want to release a plan that sounds great in September but you can't carry out in January. I don't want to be George Bush. I want to be Christie Whitman."
The Mayor's continuing refusal to back Mr. Pataki was in pointed contrast to the announcement that Mr. Giuliani planned to fly today to Connecticut to endorse John G. Rowland, that state's Republican gubernatorial candidate. The Mayor has also endorsed two members of Mr. Pataki's ticket, Mr. London and Dennis C. Vacco, the Republican nominee for Attorney General.
As for Mr. Giuliani's motive, many Republican leaders said they were bewildered. Some said they believed that Mr. Giuliani, who faces a new $800 million gap in his $31.6 billion budget, was simply trying to leverage as much state aid for the city as possible. Others said he wanted to indulge two of his closest political friends, David Garth, the media consultant, and Raymond Harding, the Liberal Party chairman, both of whom are working for Mr. Cuomo.
Still others said they believe that Mr. Giuliani is protecting his ability to run for Governor in 1998, which would be difficult if the incumbent is a Republican. And some see Mr. Giuliani's actions as the residue of his longtime feud with Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, who is Mr. Pataki's chief political patron.
A number of Republicans pointed out substantial risks in the Mayor's strategy. If Mr. Pataki wins, the Mayor may have poisoned his relationship with the new Governor. And if Mr. Giuliani runs for re-election in 1997, state Republican leaders may pay him back by treating him as coolly as he has treated Mr. Pataki.
Some political strategists say they believe it could be a devastating blow to Republican prospects in November if Mr. Giuliani does not eventually validate Mr. Pataki with an endorsement. Mr. Pataki remains largely unknown to the public, while Mr. Giuliani is highly popular in New York City, where just under a third of the vote is typically cast in gubernatorial elections.
But several Republican leaders predict that the net effect will be marginal because they expect Mr. Cuomo to win a heavy majority in New York City anyway.
"You don't have to be a rocket scientist to know that a pro-New York City platform is going to hurt you elsewhere around the state," said Guy V. Molinari, the Staten Island Borough President. "So what does Pataki gain? A relatively small percentage of the votes available to a Republican candidate in New York City as opposed to hemorrhaging in the rest of the state if he adopts such a program."
During his radio show, the Republican Mayor harshly criticized Mr. Pataki for being vague on issues, particularly taxation, and for his proposals on welfare, which Mr. Giuliani said were identical to those put into effect by Mr. Cuomo.
Mr. Giuliani also cited Mr. Pataki's votes in the Legislature against providing financing for the School Construction Authority. And he said that Mr. Pataki had lobbied against providing more state aid to New York City schools, which have about 37 percent of the state's students but receive only 34 percent of the aid.
"He's largely been in favor of maintaining that imbalance," Mr. Giuliani said. "Now he's a candidate for Governor. He has a right, as far as I'm concerned, to change his positions if he wants to because he's now taking over broader responsibilities than just representing his district."
Mr. Giuliani continued: "But he hasn't shown the broader understanding yet. He hasn't said that he's going to act differently than the way he voted two or three years ago that would be against the interests of New York City."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); ELECTION ISSUES POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); SACK, KEVIN RUDY GIULIANI (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



522 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 186 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Will Aid Haiti To Revive Economy And Monitor Police

 BODY:
The United States will take a series of steps to help Haiti improve its economy, including making a $200 million contribution this year to an international aid effort and increasing the amount of food it is sending to needy Haitians, Administration officials said yesterday.
Restrictions on flights to Haiti and on financial transactions will also be lifted, they said. 
 In the Haitian capital, Port-au-Prince, American military police began their first road patrols.
American military officials met with the Haitian police commander, Lieut. Col. Michel Francois, who is widely held responsible for much of the violence that the police and military, and shadowy civilian gunmen, have inflicted on the population over the last three years. The meeting was held to develop a plan to have American military police monitor Haitian police precincts.
In Washington, Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, sent a reassuring message to the White House, saying that he would reconvene his nation's Parliament so it could consider approving an amnesty for Haiti's military.
Articles, page 4.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

CITY: PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); PORT-AU-PRINCE, HAITI (58%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ARMED FORCES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (87%); 

PERSON: JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



523 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: MISSION TO HAITI: IN WASHINGTON;
U.S. Plans $200 Million in Aid for Haiti

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 23

 BODY:
Eager to revive Haiti's moribund economy, President Clinton will soon announce that the United States will contribute about $200 million this year to an international aid effort and will lift the ban on flights and financial transactions with Haiti, Administration officials said today.
And to improve living conditions immediately in the hemisphere's poorest nation, Mr. Clinton announced today that the Agency for International Development would start providing 1.3 million meals a day to needy Haitians, up from the 1 million a day it has been serving in recent weeks. 
 "All these moves should make a big difference," said a senior Administration official. "We want to begin to change the dynamics of Haiti's economy."
President Clinton sought to send a reassuring message today as some members of the House of Representatives maneuvered to set a deadline to pull out American troops. "The situation on the ground has become calmer and more peaceful," he said at a bill-signing ceremony.
At the same time, Haiti's exiled President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, told the White House that he would reconvene his nation's Parliament so it could consider approving an amnesty for Haiti's military.
Although President Clinton had accused Haiti's military of being thugs and murderers, the negotiations that averted an invasion included an amnesty for crimes by the military. Senior Administration officials applauded Father Aristide's decision because it would reduce tensions in Haiti by spurring reconciliation between the ousted President and the armed forces.
"This is another welcome indication that President Aristide is moving as quickly as possible to put in place an amnesty that will encourage the kind of reconciliation he has spoken about," a senior Administration official said.
Mr. Clinton announced today that hundreds of Haitian refugees being detained at the Guantanamo Bay Naval Station were so encouraged by recent events that they have asked to be returned to Haiti.
Michael McCurry, a State Department spokesman, said that 200 to 300 of the 14,108 Haitians at Guantanamo might be returned to their homeland as early as Sunday.
The international aid effort -- which is designed to provide $550 million over the next year and at least $1 billion over five years -- is unusually large for a country of 6.7 million people, economists said. It is designed to help Haiti across the board, including paying salaries for civil servants, improving ports and building roads, bridges and schools.
Despite the ambitious aid plans, some Administration officials and economists say Haiti has been so devastated by its repressive years of military rule and the three-year international embargo that it could take a year for the country's economy to crawl back to where it was in pre-embargo days -- to move up, in Father Aristide's words, "from misery to poverty." Per-capita income in Haiti is just $250 a year.
One move planned by the Administration is for A.I.D., to hire 50,000 Haitians in public works programs.
As the American military consolidates its control of Haiti, the Administration has focused increasingly on Haiti's desperate economic situation, recognizing that rooting democracy firmly in Haiti is closely tied to improving its economy.
The foreign aid plans were hailed by advisers to Father Aristide. Michael Barnes, his chief American adviser, said in an interview, "The aid is crucial. All of the important efforts of the last few days will be in vain unless the international community can jump-start this new Government and the economy of Haiti."
Several officials said President Clinton might announce the aid package next week, while others said he would probably wait to announce it as part of the celebrations surrounding Father Aristide's return to Haiti, expected shortly after Oct. 15.
"It's a U.S.-led international effort, and it will be time to assure it helps a peaceful transition," said a senior State Department official.
To provide Haiti with the $550 million that economists estimate it needs this year, the United States will provide about $200 million and the World Bank, Inter-American Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund will provide most of the rest, Administration officials said. In subsequent years, Washington's annual aid to Haiti will slip back to about $100 million a year, officials said.
Several senior officials said President Clinton might announce, as early as this weekend, that he would end most of the unilateral sanctions that he ordered against Haiti. These officials said that after conferring with President Aristide, the Administration would allow the resumption of flights and financial transactions between Haiti and the United States.
The Administration would also unfreeze American-based assets of many Haitians, but would continue to freeze assets belonging to the coup leaders and other top military officials. The Administration is looking into continuing to freeze the assets of the army's leader, Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, not only until he cedes power, but until he leaves the country.
Under existing United Nations resolutions, the international trade embargo is to remain on Haiti until the military leaders step down.
While the agreement that former President Jimmy Carter negotiated last Sunday with Haiti's military leaders does not call for them to leave Haiti, Secretary of State Warren Christopher continued to hold out that hope the coup leaders would leave. Appearing the NBC "Today" show, he said, "They will probably want to leave the country after President Aristide comes back, and I think that may still happen. That would be our preferred outcome."

 	 	 		--------------------	 	
 
Dominican Border Curbs Eased
 SANTO DOMINGO, Dominican Republic, Sept. 23 (Reuters) -- The Dominican authorities have eased restrictions on border crossings from Haiti for the first time in months, and Haitians have crowded into marketplaces on the Dominican side, officials said.
The Dominican military said that it had begun to permit Haitians to cross the border on Thursday to obtain food, and that they would be allowed to remain in the Dominican Republic until 6 P.M. daily.
The crackdown on crossings came in May, when the trade sanctions were imposed against Haiti.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (96%); CUBA (77%); 

COMPANY: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (AID) AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (91%); AGENCY FOR INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (96%); HAITI (96%); CUBA (77%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; AMNESTIES; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC) ; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AMNESTY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); JANUARY 2010 HAITI EARTHQUAKE (90%); REFUGEES (89%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (71%); NAVIES (68%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); GREENHOUSE, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



524 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 419 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS;
Visa Wins a Key Round in Antitrust Suit by Dean Witter

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL 

 BODY:
Visa U.S.A. won a key round in court yesterday in its effort to fend off an antitrust suit brought by Dean Witter, Discover & Company. The suit had been widely watched even beyond the banking industry because of the high damages at stake and the significant legal issues it raised.
A Federal appeals court in Denver yesterday reversed a jury verdict that Visa had violated antitrust laws by prohibiting Dean Witter from issuing Visa cards. Dean Witter said yesterday that it would appeal. 
 In 1990, Dean Witter bought a failed savings and loan in Utah that was a member of Visa from the Resolution Trust Company. It planned to issue a card called Prime Option, which would offer a low interest rate for the first two months after each purchase. The rate would then rise in the third month. Visa discovered the plan only when a plastic card manufacturer reported a large order by Dean Witter. Visa blocked the move on the ground that it violated its bylaws, prompting Dean Witter to sue.
Visa is a nonprofit association of banks that issue credit cards with its brand. Any bank can join with the exception of those owned by Dean Witter and by American Express. Visa argues that these companies are direct competitors to its brand and would have access to its systems and trade secrets.
Visa has also argued that a decision in favor of Dean Witter will imperil any joint venture between businesses, such as the alliance of American auto manufactures meant to compete with Japanese companies.
Dean Witter had contended that Visa's rule unfairly limited competition and denied consumers choice in credit cards.
The appeals court ruling yesterday, however, rejected that argument.
Dean Witter had sought $1 billion in damages to account for its lost opportunity in the credit card business. Were Visa to be forced to pay damages of that size, it could be forced to seek money from its member banks.
Last year, Mastercard International, also an association of banks, reached a settlement with Dean Witter mainly to avoid a potential damage claim. That deal allowed Dean Witter to issue Prime Option cards in conjunction with Nationsbank, which is a Mastercard member.
Analysts said that the impact of loss on Dean Witter was limited because it could still issue cards through Nationsbank and Mastercard.
"From a business point of view, it's not going to have much of an impact on Dean Witter, but they were looking for damages." said Guy Moszkowski, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: V (NYSE) (98%); MS (NYSE) (91%); AXP (NYSE) (90%); MA (NYSE) (86%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (98%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (90%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (79%); 

CITY: DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO; VISA USA INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO VISA INC (98%); MORGAN STANLEY (91%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (90%); MASTERCARD INC (86%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEAN WITTER DISCOVER & CO; VISA USA INC; AMERICAN EXPRESS CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (79%); UTAH, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT CARDS AND ACCOUNTS; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; SUITS AND LITIGATION; DECISIONS AND VERDICTS ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (94%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); CREDIT CARDS (90%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DAMAGES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); APPEALS (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); JOINT VENTURES MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS LAW (78%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (77%); SAVINGS & LOANS (72%); INTEREST RATES (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (50%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



525 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 34; Column 5; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: Dow Drops 5.38 as Market Loses Almost 102 for Week

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market declined yesterday for the fourth consecutive session, and the fifth in six days, as traders continued to worry about another interest-rate increase.
"The mood of the market leaves a lot to be desired, as bulls, bears and Fed watchers all appear to be nervous," said Alan Ackerman, executive vice president of Reich & Company. "And this is taking a toll on confidence and capital commitments." 
 Some investors expect the Federal Reserve to raise rates on Tuesday at the next meeting of its Federal Open Market Committee. If such a tightening action is taken for the sixth time this year, it could slow both the economy and corporate profits, thereby pushing down stock prices. In addition, higher interest rates could lead investors to transfer money to bonds from stocks.
By the closing bell, all three major market indicators were lower. The Dow Jones industrial average declined 5.38 points, to 3,831.75, bringing the blue-chip indicator down almost 102 points for the week. Yesterday the Standard & Poor's index of 500 stocks dropped 1.60 points and the Nasdaq composite index fell 2.98 points.
On the New York Stock Exchange, 1,274 stocks declined and only 891 advanced. Volume was slightly above the year's average, with 300.2 million shares changing hands, compared with 303 million shares on Thursday.
Among the economically sensitive stocks, auto issues were lower amid fears that consumer borrowing might slow down if interest rates are increased. General Motors fell 1 5/8, to 46 5/8; Ford Motor declined 3/8, to 26 5/8, and Chrysler dropped 1, to 43 7/8.
Many transportation stocks were also lower. AMR, the parent of American Airlines, closed at 53 1/8, down 1 1/2; UAL, which owns United Airlines, closed at 91 1/2, down 3/8, and USAir closed at 5 1/8, down 1/8.
Among the special situations, Quaker Oats fell 3 5/8, to 77, on profit taking that followed its 4 1/8 rise Thursday on takeover rumors. Digital Equipment dropped 2 7/8, to 25 7/8, after Paine Webber reduced its rating to "neutral" from "buy." Intel declined 1 1/4, to 63 1/4, as a result of a lowered earnings estimate by Montgomery Securities. And Discount Auto Parts plunged 5 1/4, to 17 3/8, after announcing fiscal first-quarter earnings below analyst estimates.
On the other hand, several small-capitalization biotechnology stocks rebounded after plunging on Thursday when D. Blech & Company, a New York brokerage firm, suspended operations. Six of 13 biotech companies for which D. Blech was the underwriter or leading market maker ended the day on the upside, including New Vision Technology, which gained 1/2, to 4 3/4. D. Blech agreed to sell its accounts and certain assets yesterday to Josephthal, Lyon & Ross.
Gold mining stocks were strong, as the price of gold flirted with $400 an ounce and reached the highest level since 1993. American Barrick was up 1/2, to 26 3/4; Homestake Mining was up 1/2, to 21 7/8, and Echo Bay Mines was up 3/8, to 13 3/4.
International Paper advanced 1 1/4, to 78 1/4, on a day that it announced plans to close four operations and consolidate its packaging product technology near Cincinnati. Union Carbide was another standout by rising 1, to 33 5/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); GM (NYSE) (54%); LCC (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (53%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); REICH & CO INC (72%); INTEL CORP (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (53%); UNITED AIR LINES INC (53%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (53%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (88%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TAKEOVERS (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); SECURITIES BROKERS (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); AIRLINES (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (60%); PERSONAL DEBT (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



526 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 21; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1465 words

HEADLINE: Working to End Landlord Role, New York Faces Hurdles

BYLINE: By SHAWN G. KENNEDY 

 BODY:
Some nights, Diane Dawson lies awake wondering if the noises she hears are drug addicts creeping into the empty apartments scattered throughout her building in Mott Haven, the Bronx. The doorless entrance is like a welcome mat to squatters; because of constant vandalism, the owner has given up trying to keep doors or locks on the building.
Brenda Crandall, who lives with her son and daughter in a seven-unit building in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, never knows if there will be water for their showers in the morning. The superintendent tells her that the aging plumbing system and boiler are almost beyond repair and that he has not been able to get money for a replacement. 
 Beyond the decrepit condition of their buildings, what these tenants share is a common landlord: the City of New York. They live in some of the nearly 3,000 buildings the city has taken over through tax foreclosures.
If Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has his way, they and other tenants will soon be someone else's responsibility. Under the latest in a series of efforts to get the city out of the landlord business, housing officials last week presented a plan to rehabilitate and sell 250 buildings with 2,500 apartments to nonprofit housing groups, local entrepreneurs and the tenants themselves. The buildings represent about 10 percent of the foreclosed residential properties the city has.
It may be be a hard sell. Unlike the big, vacant multifamily apartment buildings that the city successfully recycled in the late 1980's, the vast majority of what the city now owns is much less attractive to potential owners. Many are small buildings, which cost more to administer than larger ones because owners do not get the same economies of scale that landlords of large buildings do. In many cases, they are occupied, which makes renovations much more complicated, and many of the tenants are very poor.
A look inside New York's real-estate portfolio shows thousands of worn-out tenements, rundown brownstones and row houses that have been carved into cramped rooming houses with more tenants than their building's aging systems were built to handle. Although the city has pledged to cover the costs of rehabilitation, the new owners would do the work.
"The easiest stuff to rehabilitate has really been done," said Susan Saegert, executive director of the Housing Environments Research Group at the City University of New York Graduate Center. "What remains is really tough. It will be much harder to do in every way. The buildings are in worse shape, they are occupied, and it will cost more to renovate them."
In addition, new owners will most likely to be dealing with very poor tenants who would have trouble paying the rents new owners would need to recover their investments.
The average annual income of tenants in the buildings is less than $7,000, officials say, far smaller than the $13,000 average income of tenants in the city's housing projects. In fact, some advocates for the poor say that the only way the new landlords can make the buildings profitable is to evict the poorer tenants, who would otherwise have nowhere else to live.
But Kathy Wylde, head of the New York City Housing Partnership, the nonprofit organization that will oversee the new program, said the initiative was the best opportunity for the permanent privatization of this housing stock.
"The city has been owner and manager of some of this housing for almost 20 years," Ms. Wylde said. "Not only has it been a drain on the city but it has kept small owners from building housing markets in their neighborhoods. With our program of technical and financial support for entrepreneurs and the subsidies for tenants, neighborhoods can be revived."
The city has not always been landlord to such a vast number of dilapidated buildings. While it has long had a policy of seizing properties when owners fall seriously behind in property taxes, until the late 1970's most of what it seized was sold off immediately.
But over the years, fewer and fewer buildings were being sold, and in the city's hands, they usually deteriorated.
In the 1980's, the city decided to use foreclosed buildings to help ease the critical housing shortage among working poor families and the homeless. The plan was to make sorely needed repairs and to spend enough money so that new owners could make a profit. But poor planning, shoddy work, cost overruns, lax monitoring and improper maintenance hampered the efforts.
Each failure brought a fresh attempt at finding another way to rid the city of its property, and some programs were successful. Through complete rehabilitations of vacant buildings and partial renovations of occupied buildings, the city sold hundreds of foreclosed buildings containing more than 18,000 apartments in the last 12 years.
But most of the sales involved larger buildings, and what remains in the city's hands, 30,000 units in 3,000 buildings, are mainly very small properties in very bad shape. More than a third of the apartments are in buildings of four units or fewer, and 70 percent are in buildings with 10 units or fewer.
While almost every component of Mr. Giuliani's new program has been tried before, one aspect is new: For the first time, both occupied and vacant buildings will be clustered and sold to the same owner. The city hopes this will encourage block-by-block improvements.
Such cluster sales will allow the city to mix potentially profitable buildings with those whose rents are unlikely to cover their costs. To further assist owners in closing the gap, many of the poorest tenants, officials say, will receive rent subsidies.
Even with renovation subsidies of up to $40,000 an apartment and rent subsidies, some experts are skeptical that the city will find enough qualified buyers. Under the program, new owners must live in or have businesses in the communities where their new buildings are located and have experience in property management and housing renovation.
"Local entrepreneurs are best able to manage these buildings," said Eugene Webb, a principal of one of Harlem's largest real estate companies. "But if it's going to work, whoever takes the buildings will have to have an easier time removing some of the tenants. Some don't pay rent; some tear up apartments. You have to get better tenants."
But Deborah C. Wright, Commissioner of the City Housing Preservation Department, has pledged that no legal tenants will lose their apartments. Other experts suggested that to make the buildings viable, tenants should be more involved in running them.
"There are aspects of the new program which I see as a positive recognition of problems in the past," said Ms. Saegert of City University. "The comprehensive block-by-block strategy is an improvement. But the city is always inventing expensive new programs, churning out one after another, spending time and talent on this instead of trying to find permanent solutions. I am worried that there is not more tenant participation."
Harry DeRienzo, chairman of the Task Force on City-Owned Property, a coalition of housing groups that assists tenants in city-owned buildings, said he was pessimistic about the long-term success of the program and concerned that if it did work it would squeeze out low-income tenants.
"What happens when the city is out of the picture?" he said. "Gradually, the housing opportunities for the working poor will be lost. It is not feasible for for-profit owners to operate housing where tenants earn, on average, less than $7,000 a year. The only way that this program can work is if much of it is eventually rented at market rates."
Most tenants who were interviewed said they did not care who owned their buildings; they just wanted livable conditions.
"I would be willing to pay more rent," Ms. Crandall in Crown Heights said. "But I don't see why I should pay more rent for such a terrible place. The window in my kitchen is broken, the door to my daughter's bedroom is off and sometimes we don't have water."
She said that as far as she knew, no tenant paid more than $300 a month. Two of the seven apartments are vacant. While it is not possible to say what it costs to operate Mrs. Crandall's building, the city spends on average $400 a month in maintenance and operating costs on each foreclosed apartment in its control.
Ms. Dawson, who lives in a 20-unit building in Mott Haven where half the apartments are empty, said she would like her building to be sold to its tenants. A private landlord, she suspects, would find new tenants and raise the rents.
"Over the years, the people who live here have put up with a lot, but we stuck it out," she said. "We don't want to see the buildings turned over to landlords. We want a chance to run them ourselves."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The role of landlord is one that New York City is eager to shed. Through foreclosures, it owns nearly 3,000 buildings, many in decrepit condition. Brenda Crandall, who lives with her two children in a building in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, never knows whether there will be water for showers; The city's plans to sell many of its foreclosed properties could be a harder sell than similar efforts in the 1980's because many are smaller buildings. Brenda Crandall's building in Brooklyn has only seven units. (Photographs by Lenore Davis for The New York Times)
 
Map: "AT A GLANCE -- New York City as Landlord" Locations, concentrations and sizes of city-owned buildings. (Source: New York City Department of Housing Preservation and Development)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; REPAIR SERVICES RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (74%); FORECLOSURE (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (71%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (70%); PLUMBING SYSTEMS & FIXTURES (70%); HOME REMODELING (70%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (69%); EXECUTIVES (63%); VANDALISM (57%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); KENNEDY, SHAWN G RUDY GIULIANI (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



527 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 325 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Has Quiet Session, With Focus on Trade Talks

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The dollar was little changed against most leading currencies yesterday amid signs that negotiators from the United States and Japan had made progress in trade talks.
Progress at the bargaining table would presumably make the Clinton Administration less likely to resume calls for a strong yen, a tactic it pursued last year. A strong yen could help reduce Japan's $60 billion trade surplus with the United States by making Japan's exports more expensive. 
 After meeting with Mickey Kantor, the United States trade representative, yesterday, the Foreign Minister of Japan, Kyohei Kono, said "the talks were good" and "very detailed." Mr. Kono said there would be more talks today.
Sudhir Patel, foreign-exchange manager at Nationsbank of Texas in Houston, said, "Everyone in the currency market is waiting for results from the trade talks."
Speculation that the Federal Reserve will raise interest rates after a meeting of its policy-making committee on Tuesday is also keeping the dollar steady, traders said.
"We're being held captive by the Fed and the trade talks," said Lynn Tierney, vice president at Shawmut Bank of Boston. "A lot of people are afraid to take positions."
In late New York trading yesterday, the dollar slipped to 97.85 yen, from 98.02 yen on Thursday. The dollar edged up to 1.5486 German marks, from 1.5470 on Thursday
Analysts and traders said the dollar was weak against the yen this week in part because Japanese corporations had been selling American stocks and bonds to improve balance sheets before Sept. 30, the end of the first half of Japan's fiscal year.
"Balance sheets look better with a lot of cash on them," said Carl Weinberg, chief economist at High Frequency Economics. "In Japan, cash is king at this time of year."
Mr. Weinberg said the dollar would stand a better chance of gaining against the yen in October, when Japanese corporations will venture back into American asset markets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; JAPAN; UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY; FUTURES TRADING; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET CURRENCIES (94%); TALKS & MEETINGS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DOLLAR (78%); FUTURES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BONDS (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); INTEREST RATES (53%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



528 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Gold Touches $400.70 Mark On Fears of More Inflation

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
Gold prices surged above the key $400-an-ounce level yesterday on fears of growing inflation before the market retreated to post only a modest gain.
It was the first time gold had hit $400 since August 1993, but traders said gold's luster might be a factor that could prompt the Federal Reserve to raise interest rates, which could lure investors back to interest-bearing instruments. 
 "I don't think it's off to the races just yet," said Bernard Savaiko of Paine Webber. "We have a lot of uncertainty coming up next week."
The Fed's policy-making group, the Federal Open Market Committee, will meet on Tuesday to discuss monetary policy.
Gold for December delivery closed 60 cents higher at $399.60 an ounce, after hitting a high of $400.70. Gold has gained $10 since the beginning of the month as investors have reacted to worries about inflation. On average, commodity prices are up 30 percent this year.
The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities rose 0.64 point, to 232.73.
Among other commodities, silver and copper prices rose, oil prices were up, wheat prices posted another gain and coffee and cocoa were higher.
Silver for December delivery rose 0.5 cent, to $5.74 an ounce, and December copper gained 1.25 cents, to 118.75 cents a pound. Copper's rise has been built on solid demand from industry as global economies have strengthened.
Crude oil, one of the few commodities to have dropped in price in the last year, posted its highest close in more than five weeks.
November crude added 16 cents, to $17.83 a barrel, on the New York Mercantile Exchange; October heating oil eked out a gain of 0.01 cent, to 48.55 cents a gallon, and October gasoline dipped 0.26 cent, to 45.77 cents.
A continued lack of rain forecast for Brazil again sent coffee prices up on the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange, with the December contract 2.1 cents higher at 229.65 cents a pound. December cocoa surged $44, to $1,381 a metric ton.
Egyptian purchases of American wheat again lifted wheat prices. The Agriculture Department accepted a bid from Egypt for 300,000 metric tons of wheat, and the country immediately bid for another 550,000 metric tons.
Egypt and other buyers have turned to the United States for wheat because of drought-hit crops elsewhere, particularly in Australia. Some analysts estimated Australia's crop was about half the size of last year's 18 million metric tons.
December wheat advanced 3.5 cents, to $3.9675 a bushel, on the Chicago Board of Trade.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (85%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (53%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); AUSTRALIA (85%); 

SUBJECT: COMMODITIES; FUTURES TRADING; GOLD PRICE INCREASES (92%); GOLD MARKETS (91%); FUTURES (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); COPPER MARKETS (90%); MONETARY POLICY (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (89%); METALS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); COFFEE MARKETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (89%); COFFEE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); WHEAT MARKETS (89%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (88%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); FUEL MARKETS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); COCOA MARKETS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); BASE METALS MARKETS (78%); HEATING OIL (74%); COPPER INDUSTRY (73%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (72%); COCOA FARMING (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); DROUGHT (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



529 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 681 words

HEADLINE: Beliefs;
A language barrier at the world population conference involved much more than words.

BYLINE: By Peter Steinfels 

 BODY:
The language spoken at most sessions of the recent International Conference on Population and Development in Cairo was English. But the participants were unknowingly speaking three different languages, said William F. Vendley, executive director of the World Conference on Religion and Peace, who was an official nongovernmental representative at the meeting.
The result, he contends, was sometimes a broadening of perspectives and sometimes sheer Babel. 
 The first of these languages, he said, was the empirical language of demography, public health and international agencies, a language heavy on quantification and immediate problem-solving. It was, he said, the language in which much of the meeting's preparatory documents were drafted and initially discussed.
The second language, he said, was that of religious traditions, a language of moral norms rooted in some larger vision of the common good. It was the language of the Vatican, the imams and many other religious leaders at Cairo.
The third language was the language of specific situations, of sad instances -- rape, destitution, absent or unsafe medical care -- that seemed to challenge the applicability of the existing norms. It was the language of many feminists and religious dissenters at the meeting.
Mr. Vendley speaks from a special perspective. Last July, his organization sponsored a "multi-religious consultation" in Switzerland to look at the draft program for Cairo and explore where major religious traditions might diverge or converge.
Then, on the eve of the Cairo meeting, the group issued an impressive statement. Signed by scholars representing Hinduism, Buddhism, Islam, Bahai, Orthodox Judaism, Protestantism and Catholicism, the statement mixed strong criticism and high praise for the Cairo draft program.
It praised the draft for not framing population issues "in narrow 'demographic' terms" but in connection with the needs and rights of women. The group strongly supported "access to appropriate information and means" regarding birth control. But it no less strongly affirmed "opposition to abortion as a method of family planning."
During the Cairo meeting itself, the World Conference on Religion and Peace, a New York-based organization that promotes cooperative efforts among religions to resolve conflicts, sponsored daily open forums at which people could question panels of religious leaders.
Mr. Vendley recalled a session that illustrated his thesis about the different languages. When several distinguished Muslims presented their tradition's teachings on abortion as perfectly clear and settled, women veiled in traditional fashion ardently questioned the male leaders from the back of the room.
The women challenged the leaders to discuss situations where bearing children meant courting death or devastating shame or family ruin. He suggested that religious traditions could be enriched by these "voices refusing to allow the moral discussion to stop with the declaration of a norm."
Mr. Vendley, 46, who studied and practiced Buddhism in Japan and later taught in Catholic theology schools in the United States, said that all major faiths had developed ways of handling exceptional cases.
Many religious leaders realize this wisdom must continually evolve to encompass new circumstances, he said, but evolve in some way that "extends but does not contradict the tradition's core morality."
On the other hand, he said, deadlock is insured when critics believe that simply citing examples of suffering is enough to rebut a norm, or when religious leaders believe that simply restating the norm is an adequate reply to the suffering.
"The two forms of discourse cannot enrich one another unless people become aware that they are both legitimate but quite different," Mr. Vendley said.
He is more confident, however, that the world's religions have the language to articulate comprehensive visions of social development and the human good that can augment and correct the "somewhat impoverished language" of much economic and population planning.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (55%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CAIRO, EGYPT (89%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) INTERNATIONAL CONFERENCE BUILDING OFFICIALS (73%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); SWITZERLAND (55%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CAIRO, EGYPT (89%); 

SUBJECT: POPULATION; CONVENTIONS AND CONFERENCES RELIGION (94%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (93%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (90%); BUDDHISTS & BUDDHISM (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (89%); CHILDREN (78%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); WOMEN (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (72%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (72%); HINDUS & HINDUISM (72%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (71%); MEN (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (70%); FAMILY PLANNING (65%); ABORTION (62%); 

PERSON: VENDLEY, WILLIAM F; STEINFELS, PETER WILLIAM F VENDLEY (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



530 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 306 words

HEADLINE: Supermarkets for Slums

 BODY:
The Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a nonprofit organization created by the Ford Foundation and located in New York City, has spearheaded over the last 15 years a successful program to rebuild housing in urban slums. The organization's novel approach has been to channel private and public money into community development corporations that take responsibility for reclaiming neighborhoods, often block by block, from drug lords and delinquents.
This week L.I.S.C. launched a second assault on ghetto blight: economic development. It announced commitments by 10 major national corporations, including Prudential, Bank of America, and J. P. Morgan, to contribute $24 million to a fund that will help community development corporations around the country build retail shopping centers. The fund will cover about a third of total development costs. The balance of the money will come from other private lenders and public sources. 
 To buttress the shopping centers, each will be anchored by a major supermarket. L.I.S.C. will start in East Harlem in New York City and later will start retail projects in Philadelphia, Washington, Chicago, Los Angeles, Phoenix and up to eight other cities.
For urban neighborhoods to survive, let alone prosper, residents need more than safe, affordable housing. They need jobs. They also need adequate places to shop. Poor inner-city residents often pay 50 percent more for food and other necessities than do their suburban counterparts. What's more, the quality of what they can buy nearby can be appalling. The retail initiative aims to provide both jobs and shops.
L.I.S.C.'s strategy is to rely on neighborhood development groups. The success of that strategy in housing suggests that it might well work again even in the new and largely uncharted waters of inner-city commerce.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); FORD FOUNDATION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD FOUNDATION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD; EDITORIALS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SUPERMARKETS; AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; URBAN AREAS; SHOPPING CENTERS ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (92%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (91%); SLUM DWELLINGS (91%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); FOUNDATIONS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); SHOPPING CENTER DEVELOPMENT (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



531 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: We Need Thinkers Instead of Memorizers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
In all the arguments over what it means to get a degree from the City University of New York (letters, Sept. 15 and 20, and Op-Ed, Sept. 8), we seem to lose sight of the fact that what we really need are flexible, confident, curious and motivated people who can speak, listen, think, read, write, calculate, ask questions, analyze, imitate, work, cooperate, forget the outmoded and learn the job on the job -- very basic skills indeed, the foundation of which can be found in most children. 
 But what we have some trouble using are those passive, bored, demeaned and memorizing drones who have merely gotten through required and uninteresting courses in middle school, high school and college, Ivy or otherwise. Or as John Holt said in "How Children Fail": "The major difference between the good student and the poor one is that the poor student forgets right away while the good one is careful to wait until after the examination."
Now, 85 percent of achievement in life is a function of the socioeconomic background of the family or of success in extracurricular activities or both. But while a degree is one ticket to the credential society, we might recall the year 1900, a period of some quite impressive intellectual, social, scientific and economic progress, when 94 percent of Americans dropped out of school at one level or another.
 
ROBERT E. KAY
Paoli, Pa., Sept. 20, 1994

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (CUNY) CITY UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (78%); FAMILY (76%); CHILDREN (75%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (73%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (69%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%); 

PERSON: KAY, ROBERT E JOHN C HOLT (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



532 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 18; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: U.N. Sex Harassment Hearing Lacked Fairness;
Flawed Institution

 BODY:
To the Editor:
The kind of ordeal described in "Catherine Claxton vs. the U.N." on Sept. 15 is not limited to the United Nations Secretariat. As Women's International Network News has documented and reported for years, all United Nations agencies and international bodies, including the World Bank-International Monetary Fund, the Development Program, the Children's Fund, the World Health Organization, the Food and Agriculture Organization and the International Labor Organization, are exempt from equal-employment laws and thus immune to all sexual harassment and discrimination complaints by women. Ms. Claxton's courage to stand up against this corrupt and obsolete system of employment is to be congratulated. 
 While the United Nations personnel system has rules about "geographic balance" no rules on gender balance exist. The women from overseas and especially from developing countries who work for this system are at the mercy of their male bosses: if they don't "please" the men they are sent back to the country they came from.
The situation is even worse outside the United States, where many of the United Nations agencies, including the Development Program, World Health Organization, the Children's Fund and the Food and Agriculture Organization, maintain offices. Anything goes, as I have had occasion to observe.
While every country that finances these international institutions, especially the United States, has had equal employment laws for decades, the United Nations bureaucracy operates a medieval type of exploitation of women, who are deprived of basic employment rights and human rights as the Claxton case shows.
This situation could be changed if all governments, especially the United States, the chief financial supporter of this system of entrenched discrimination and gender abuse, attached equal employment requirements to financial contributions.
What is especially important is the immediate institution of a system of adjudicating complaints where employment discrimination and sexual harassment complaints are heard and adjudicated independent of male decision makers, who have opposed all attempts to change the system of male power and male privilege that excludes women from positions of power and influence.
Entrenched discrimination is a reason for the ineffective, often badly flawed performance of the United Nations system and its mismanaged agencies.
 
FRAN P. HOSKEN
Editor, Women's International
Network News
Lexington, Mass., Sept. 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (83%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS (94%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); UNITED NATIONS SECRETARIAT (84%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%); FOOD & AGRICULTURE ORGANIZATION OF THE UNITED NATIONS (83%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (58%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (57%); INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WOMEN; SEXUAL HARASSMENT UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (94%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); WOMEN (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (77%); GENDER EQUALITY (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (77%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT IN EMPLOYMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (72%); 

PERSON: CLAXTON, CATHERINE; HOSKEN, FRAN P CATHERINE CLAXTON (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



533 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 24, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 628 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

The Economy
 
Legislation to overhaul the nation's telecommunications laws to permit open competition between telephone and cable television companies collapsed in the Senate. The bill's chief sponsor, Senator Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, blamed opposition from the regional Bell companies. [Page 1.]
 
Detroit automotive workers are stressed out, union leaders contend, as the car makers order record overtime to meet demand for cars and trucks. The Big Three auto makers are reluctant to hire more workers, even though they are sacrificing sales. [33.]
 
The F.D.A. proposed requiring scientists to disclose whether they have a financial stake in the outcome of research on drugs being considered for Government approval. [7.]
 
 
Companies
 
Dickstein Partners will end its bid for control of Hills Stores, halting a fight between some of Wall Street's smartest investors. Dickstein, which owns 9.5 percent of Hills' stock, is also ending its demand for a $125 million stock repurchase program. [33.]
 
CBS Inc. is buying small UHF stations in Detroit and Atlanta. The purchase of inexpensive, little-watched properties with no local news reflected pressure to keep its national network intact. [33.]
 
D. Blech & Company's customer accounts and some assets are to be transferred to Josephthal Lyon & Ross, a regional brokerage firm and investment bank. David A. Blech was unable to save his biotech investment boutique from the one-two punch of a sagging market and an onslaught from short-sellers. [33.]
 
Northwest Airlines is abandoning its attempt to equip planes with interactive video because some units have been unreliable. Virgin Atlantic Airways and China Airlines also said the interactive systems on their planes were having problems. [33.]
 
Western Union Financial Services will fetch $1.193 billion from First Financial Management, an Atlanta company that won a bankruptcy auction for it, Judge Novelyn L. Winfield of Federal Bankruptcy Court in Newark ruled. [35.]
 
Borden signed a definitive agreement to be acquired by Kohlberg, Kravis, Roberts & Company for $2 billion. [35.]
 
Visa U.S.A. won a round in court, when a Federal appeals court in Denver reversed a jury verdict that Visa had violated antitrust laws by prohibiting Dean Witter, Discover & Company from issuing Visa cards. Dean Witter said it would appeal. [35.]
 
 
Markets
 
Gold prices briefly surged above the key $400-an-ounce level on fears of growing inflation, but closed at $399.60 an ounce. [44.]
 
Treasury bond prices fell, sending the yield on the long bond up to 7.79 percent. The gold price rise fueled concern that inflation would accelerate and the Fed would raise rates again. [41.]
 
The stock market declined for a fourth consecutive session, and the fifth in six days, on interest-rate worries, sending the Dow Jones industrial average down 5.38 points to 3,831.75. For the week, the loss was almost 102 points. [34.]
 
The dollar was little changed amid signs of progress in trade talks between the United States and Japan. [44.]
 
Your Money
 
Investors should never buy stocks from brokers they do not know, S.E.C. officials say. Former employees of Stratton Oakmont, which settled S.E.C. charges, are now working at other aggressive firms that the S.E.C. calls boiler rooms. [31.]
 
Bonds issued by emerging nations are being snatched up by managers of a dozen new mutual funds, who say they see great growth ahead. Investing. [31.]
 
There are no simple rules for how much life insurance to buy. The basic purpose is to be sure that if a breadwinner dies, dependents will have enough money, and family circumstances vary. [32.]

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
The chart of major financial indicators atop the Business Digest on Saturday misstated the closing level of the Dow Jones industrial average. The Dow closed on Friday at 3,831.75, not 3,381.75.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (84%); V (NYSE) (82%); CBS (NYSE) (69%); KKR (NYSE) (64%); DAL (NYSE) (54%); WU (NYSE) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (82%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (82%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (69%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (69%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (84%); VISA INC (82%); VIRGIN ATLANTIC AIRWAYS LTD (82%); CBS CORP (69%); KKR & CO LP (64%); JOSEPHTHAL LYON & ROSS INC (55%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (54%); WESTERN UNION CO (53%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DETROIT, MI, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GOLD MARKETS (89%); BONDS (88%); AIRLINES (86%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (85%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); AUCTIONS (76%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); AUTOMAKERS (76%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (75%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (75%); RETAILERS (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); WORKPLACE STRESS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); APPROVALS (70%); BOND MARKETS (69%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (68%); VERDICTS (67%); APPEALS (67%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (67%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (67%); APPEALS COURTS (67%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (67%); PRICE INCREASES (64%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (63%); JURY TRIALS (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); 

PERSON: ERNEST F HOLLINGS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 24, 1994



534 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 9; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1330 words

HEADLINE: The Decline and Fall of the Russian Empire

BYLINE: By Bill Keller; Bill Keller, previously the Moscow bureau chief of The New York Times, is now the Johannesburg bureau chief.

 BODY:

IMPERIUM
By Ryszard Kapuscinski.
Translated by Klara Glowczewska.
331 pp. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. $24. 
IT is not quite right to call Ryszard Kapuscinski a cult figure. His books are translated into 19 languages. His adoring book-jacket blurbs come from big names. His reviews are enviable. Still, he is one of those writers whose works are hard to find in chain bookstores but are objects of devotion in the home libraries of journalists and writers, who know from their own researches that his places and people are true, and who know that what he does is much harder than it looks.
For many years the pre-eminent foreign correspondent of the Polish Press Agency, Mr. Kapuscinski writes contemplative travelogues of wars, coups and societies in various states of upheaval. He is a kind of mosaicist, piecing together vignettes and encounters and trip notes and snippets of history until they add up to something rich. The book best known in the United States, "The Soccer War," is a sampler of dispatches from the third world, but even his two quasi-biographies, of the Ethiopian ruler Haile Selassie ("The Emperor") and the Shah of Iran ("Shah of Shahs"), are artful salades composees of oral history and observation rather than conventional portraits. This kind of reporting succeeds because Mr. Kapuscinski is an enchanting guide, combining boundless stamina, felicitous writing, childish curiosity and the literate authority of a true intellectual. In addition, his dispatches from Africa, Latin America and the Middle East, and especially his profiles of tyrants, were spiced by the subversive implications they contained for his own, then-sequestered society.
"Imperium," capably translated by Klara Glow czewska, compiles his journalistic travels into Russia and its colonies from 1958 until the early 1990's. The format is the same as in his earlier books -- the musings of a literate wanderer -- but the result is inevitably different.
Foreign correspondents often fantasize about going home to investigate their own countries with the distance and perspective of well-informed outsiders. It almost never works, because home is too much in us, and because the reporter knows he is now writing about his reader. For Mr. Kapuscinski and his first audience, the Poles, the Imperium, the former Soviet empire, is home, or awfully close. His opening chapter is a boyhood recollection of the Russians overrunning his hometown, Pinsk, then in eastern Poland, in 1939. He describes the boxcars of suspected wrong-thinkers singled out for deportation, the drunken Bolsheviks bombarding the city's great church with their cannon. It is a moving story, but it is also fair warning that what follows is not the detached reporting of his earlier works.
Because Mr. Kapuscinski is such a keen observer, there are treasures in this book. His visit to Vorkuta, the arctic mining and gulag city, is a triumphant combination of bleak history and black comedy. His account of feckless coal miners trying to organize themselves, but failing because only the bosses know how to run meetings, is a wonderful miniature of Russia's pratfalls in the theater of new democracy.
He mines wisdom from the excruciating dailiness of Soviet life: how the spirit of the Russian village survives in urban apartment blocks, how the art of asking questions atrophies in a totalitarian state. He renders perfectly the bedlam of the Yerevan airport; the uniquely Soviet absurdity of a mosque converted to a billiard parlor; the mutual incomprehension of the new Russian democrats and their Western counterparts. He sums up the militarized Soviet economy with a sardonic conceit: Why is it impossible to buy a hoe in Smolensk? Because the entire metallurgy industry is busy making barbed wire for the borders and concentration camps.
Perhaps because he believes Russia is inexorably mired in its history, he writes rather more of the past than the present. He tours the Stations of the Terror -- catacombs for secret prayer in Moldova, mass graves in Ukraine, gulag sites in Vorkuta and Magadan. He cites extensive passages from indigenous memoirs, all of which he seems to have read. His history is often vividly told. In Mr. Kapuscinski's version, the story of the Church of Christ the Saviour in Moscow, built by the czars in 45 years and demolished by Stalin in four months, is a chilling evocation of Bolshevik despotism. But one finishes this book feeling the author has communed more with the spirits of the dead than with the living.
About the Russians, he writes with the condescension of a European intellectual for the benighted Eastern peasants. Mr. Kapuscinski's Russians, except for a few dissident intellectuals held up as a rebuke to the nation, are willfully ignorant, joyless, expansionist in their instincts, servile in their acceptance of tyranny. Mr. Kapuscinski seems to agree with the Marquis de Custine, an earlier peripatetic in the Imperium, who wrote in 1839: "Men have adored the light, the Russians worship the eclipse: when will their eyes be opened?"
In contrast, he dotes on the colonized minorities. He is thrilled about the prospects of independent Ukraine (an optimism many Ukrainians have lost, as reflected in their recent election of a president who promises greater economic solidarity with Russia), and he waxes romantic about the historical consciousness of the Armenians -- although their virulent hatred of the Azerbaijanis finally drives him to a disclaimer on the folly of extreme nationalism. He seems to relish the prospect that Russia, having lost its outer colonies, will itself be pried to pieces by its Bashkirs, Yakuts and other minorities.
"Imperium" is full of infuriating loose ends. "Television gave to perestroika a dimension that no other event in the history of the Imperium had ever had," he observes, correctly. Then he drops the subject. He describes a journey back to his childhood home in Pinsk, now in the independent state of Belarus. After announcing his arrival, he tells us nothing about the place.
The book peters out with a chapter summing up the Gorbachev era. It is a disheartening muddle of historical synopsis, trite academic generalizations and term-paper notes -- the two theaters of perestroika, the three stages of social revolution, the three processes that "will come to predominate in Russian life." "And the future?" he writes, as the reader winces. "A difficult question." I like to think this chapter was the idea of a misguided editor who hoped to package the book as more than the sum of its parts, without realizing that a Kapuscinski book is already that.
 
 
 
'YOU HAVE TO GO OUTSIDE MOSCOW'
 Ryszard Kapuscinski is drawn to situations that repel other people: ethnic wars, the dissolution of nations, border conflicts between hostile cultures. "The border is the main problem of the end of our century," he said in a telephone interview. "Without abolishing borders we will never be able to solve the problems of our culture."
Mr. Kapuscinski is spending a year in Berlin on a cultural grant before returning to his home in Warsaw, although he is never anywhere for very long. He said he was compelled to begin the travels (of nearly 40,000 miles) that became "Imperium" when he realized that the Soviet Union was teetering and that the Western press would report on it exclusively from the capital. "To know something about the Soviet Union you have to go outside Moscow," he explained. "You must show what has happened on two levels: the level of Moscow and the level of the common Russian life. My book is all about this tension, this conflict, this contradiction."
The 62-year-old writer recognizes that something is lost when even the most repressive nations implode. "People in the West think that if the culture of Central Europe disappeared, that would be O.K. But it would be as if Venice were destroyed. You'd never be able to reconstruct it." TOBIN HARSHAW

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryszard Kapuscinski. (CZESLAW CZAPLINSKI)
 
Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: WISHING ON THE MOON (BOOK); ELLA FITZGERALD: A BIOGRAPHY OF THE FIRST LADY OF JAZZ (BOOK)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); POLAND (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); POLAND (90%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ARCTIC (53%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); LITERACY & ILLITERACY (77%); JOURNALISM (76%); HISTORY (75%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (72%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); DEPORTATION (69%); BOOKSTORES (57%); 

PERSON: DAVIS, FRANCIS; CLARKE, DONALD; NICHOLSON, STUART; HOLIDAY, BILLIE; FITZGERALD, ELLA ELLA FITZGERALD (74%); HAILE SELASSIE I (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



535 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 3; Arts & Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2584 words

HEADLINE: Martha in Present Tense

BYLINE: By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
THEY CAME FROM ALL OVER THE country in the 1930's to study and perform with a woman they knew little of, a woman whose dances were so starkly geometric that wags speculated that if she gave birth it would be to a cube. The woman was Martha Graham. The dancers were part of an early Graham company referred to simply as the Group. Together they worked long hours filled with exaltation and despair, love and anger and, most of all, the sense that something new and important was being done. Dance in America was growing and changing. Martha Graham was in the vanguard of that change with dances that were, like her, impossible to ignore.
Some of those dances will be performed in "Radical Graham," a two-week season of performances by the Martha Graham Dance Company that opens the Next Wave Festival at the Brooklyn Academy of Music on Wednesday. The event, which marks the centennial anniversary of Graham's birth, includes dances from the 1920's to 1958 and a few more recent pieces. 
 Each is the creation not only of one of the great innovators in American cultural history but also of her dancers, women like Dorothy Bird, Sophie Maslow, May O'Donnell, Jane Dudley and Yuriko, a member of the generation that carried the flame after the revolution. Now in their 70's and 80's, all five went on to marriages, families and other careers in dance. But Martha, as they called her, remains a vivid presence in their lives. Often jumping up to demonstrate choreography, they occasionally slipped into the present tense in recent conversations about Graham, as if she were still alive and working. This is what they remembered.
 
DOROTHY BIRD
(Danced with Graham from 1931 to 1937)
As a teen-ager Dorothy Bird studied dance at the Cornish School of Fine and Applied Arts, an influential experimentalist academy in Seattle. "I came from Victoria, up in Canada," she recalled. "My brother went to the Cornish School. He suggested I talk to Miss Cornish. She asked if I knew about Martha Graham. I said I never heard of her. She slipped a very severe photograph of her over to my mother. I said, 'She looks like a horse.' Then I quickly said, 'But I love horses, their velvety noses.' "
Miss Bird was enrolled in the first session of Graham's summer course at the school, taught with Louis Horst. A plump, cigar-smoking composer and influential dance theorist with a roving eye, Horst was Graham's accompanist, lover and mentor.
Even the first class was memorable. "Martha always used to make everyone wait," said
Miss Bird. "Then she walked in with great presence, with Louis behind her and Miss Cornish fluttering around her. I instantly felt comfortable with her. I had seen Pavlova. She had put her hand on my shoulder and kissed my forehead. Martha was very much like that. The same tremendous sense of power."
Graham, then in her early 30's, gathered her students around and talked about how to steal the audience by standing still on stage. But first they had to remove their ballet shoes.
"Ballet was out, finished, never to be mentioned again or thought of. Then she told us to stand with our feet three inches apart and imagine railroad tracks stretching ahead and behind us. 'You're pioneers,' she said to us.
"Martha went through every inch of our bodies. She went through percussive movement and sustained movement. She went through breathing. For each thing she had a whole way of catching your imagination, much of the time with images of animals and machinery. 'Like a train,' she'd say. 'Like a piston.' She had us shouting 'No!' then sobbing and hiding our grief.
"Then she told us that for dessert we would do laughter. She had us laughing so much that we pushed each other into somersaults and fan kicks.
" 'The Chinese think laughter is a very healthy thing,' she said. 'But we will not do it again. You have it in your muscular memory now. You will put it in muscles -- if it's in your rib cage, now you can put it in your knees -- so it's a secret. The audience will be terribly intrigued.' "
When Miss Bird returned for the second session, she found Graham sitting on the boat, coming back from a weekend in Victoria. "I got frightened. I said hello, then ran like a thief, but it was bitterly cold outside. I had to go back inside. 'Come to New York,' she told me. We would figure out how to do it. We took a cab from the boat to her apartment. 'Wait for me,' she said. 'I have something I want to give you. Keep it for three days and then return it.' " It was a magical necklace of Indian silk, and the shy young dancer fell asleep that night breathing its sweet scent.
The red-cheeked, blond young innocent soon followed Graham to New York with $20 in her pocket, which seemed a great deal of money. She got three part-time jobs in one day but failed at each. Pressed into studying choreography with Horst, she endured yet another disaster.
"I came into the class with my first prepared thing. He put his cigar aside, puffed a huge puff of smoke out and said, 'Well, are you pregnant?' "
Miss Bird wanted to dance, and she did. But new dancers eventually arrived. "I was always in the back, going up and down. I got very jealous," she admitted. "Then somebody woke me up to the fact that I was enslaved.
"I was driving Martha in her little car one day, up Fifth Avenue. And she said, 'Are you staying?' I turned my head, side to side. 'Are you leaving?' I moved my head up and down. Big tears came down her face. She got out of the car at 42d Street, into traffic. I had to drive on.
"Much later she told me, 'You know, I do work on the ones I love, and then they leave.' There were tears in her eyes. I don't think she knew she ate you up. And what you had lost its flavor."
 
SOPHIE MASLOW
(Danced with Graham from 1931 to 1944)
Sophie Maslow, who was born in New York, studied with Graham and Horst as a teen-ager at the Neighborhood Playhouse in a group that included Anna Sokolow and Jean Rosenthal, the pioneering lighting designer. "I was sold on Martha right away," Miss Maslow remembered. "I believed in what she was doing.
"True, I had sore muscles all the time. Her class was not balanced. She'd do what she was interested in at the time, to develop her technique. The reason for doing her movement was, it was valid emotionally."
Once in the Graham company, Miss Maslow started learning "Primitive Mysteries," a ritual of bracing simplicity for a Virgin-like figure and her female acolytes. Even then the masterwork had a special feeling. But it was a memorable start for another reason. "The first rehearsal I came to, Martha threw a book at Louis," said Miss Maslow.
Classes and rehearsals began early in the day and continued into the evening. "Always before a premiere, if the costumes were finished they would have to be ripped apart and remade. Mostly they were not finished. We would sit on the floor, and Martha would fit us. Jersey dresses. She would pin them on, then we would pull them off and sew them. I think that jersey was one of her contributions to costuming."
The dancers were all women until 1938, when Erick Hawkins, who married Graham 10 years later, joined the company. Graham divided the women into tall, medium and short performers. Other than that, there seemed no common denominator.
"Once a father asked Martha why his daughter had not been invited to join the company," Miss Maslow said. " 'She has no pedestal,' Martha told him.
"It was a time of unemployment, of the rise of the unions, of marches in the street and the Spanish Civil War," recalled Miss Maslow. "Martha was working on a new way of moving. I think all of those things must have been part of it. The outside world was part of her sensibility. When I see the old dances, the power and strength with which we moved reminds me of the women's movement today. 'Steps in the Street,' a section of 'Chronicle,' was to me like Picasso's 'Guernica,' " said Miss Maslow, who is helping to reconstruct "Chronicle" for the "Radical Graham" festival. "But she never did anything directly applicable to the specific situation. 'Chronicle' could apply to any war."
 
MAY O'DONNELL
(Danced with Graham from 1932 to 1938 and 1943 to 1953)
Born in Sacramento, May O'Donnell had had some dance training and performance experience when she left for New York to study the technique of the German Expressionist choreographer Mary Wigman. Disappointed in the Wigman classes, she moved on to Graham. "I was afraid of her temper, so I was cautious with her, though the New York girls didn't seem to mind," said Miss O'Donnell. "But I can understand better now in retrospect that she was in a struggle to get a foothold and carry on.
"It was a time when modern dance was beginning to definitely -- and desperately -- create its own identity in the whole wave of modernism in the arts. To make it different than ballet, modern dance was on the extreme side in that period. It had to be. Martha's technique was not too lush or decorative. It did what you had to do to move. The technique was very right for the kind of dances Martha was doing at that time, which were on the stark side and so controlled."
In 1934 an important place to exchange ideas about modern dance was created with the founding of the Bennington School of Dance at Bennington College, in Vermont, the forerunner to the American Dance Festival. During the Bennington summers, Graham came upon more experienced and better trained dancers. She began to think of working with men. Her technique developed in a new direction. "Modern dance was feeling its way, beginning to open up and move fast," said Miss O'Donnell. "It felt it had found, I think, a secure enough base. Martha's movement got a little more opulent and not quite so restrained."
By 1938 Miss O'Donnell was disgusted with the atmosphere of constant fighting. She became self-conscious around Horst after hesuddenly put his hand on her knee one night. She took off, leaving a note behind. But five years later Graham persuaded her to return to perform special parts.
"I think she had the Pioneer Woman in mind," said Miss O'Donnell of her role in "Appalachian Spring." "Everything was much fuller by then, not only in the use of the body but in the insinuation of what movement could do. There was still lots of fighting going on in the studio. But it was very easy to work with Martha. I could kind of sense what she wanted and what I was in relation to the piece. She didn't tell me anything about the Pioneer Woman. I put it together: a stable, forever thing that was always there, that could see futures, see the present."
In "Herodiade," she understood, Graham portrayed the eternal artist who animates all cultures, while she, as the Attendant, was the "earth person" who could never enter that realm. Few words were necessary. And Graham's silence conferred a peculiar privilege. "It gave me the power to keep things alive," said Miss O'Donnell.
"I remember sitting on stage as the Pioneer Woman. Martha rushed up to my little platform, turned and handed me something. It was a baby." Miss O'Donnell cradled the imaginary infant, making a first appearance in the dance. Later she teased Graham, who played the Bride. "Martha, you just got married!" she said. Graham, who confided to very few that she was unable to have children, smiled. "Oh, that was my dream baby," she said. And the baby remained.
 
JANE DUDLEY
(Danced with Graham from 1935 to 1946 and 1953 to 1970)
Though best known for her portrayal of the formidable Ancestress in "Letter to the World," Jane Dudley created the role of one of the two Bronte sisters in "Deaths and Entrances" (Miss Maslow danced the other Bronte role). The daughter of a dance teacher in Westchester, Miss Dudley had been warned by her mother and the modern dance pioneer Ruth St. Denis against becoming involved with Graham, whose work, St. Denis said, was "not beautiful." But it was not long before Miss Dudley joined the Group.
"Martha choreographed for herself. There was absolutely no doubt about her complete narcissism. We all learned by osmosis. She never taught us. But to listen to her was a very deep experience. Once, working on 'American Document' in 1938, she got up from the floor and improvised a study of about one minute for three women. We had to follow behind and pick it up from beginning to end. It was very angry, the anger and the desperation of total poverty. Martha had an amazing ability to know changes in the Zeitgeist around her," Miss Dudley said.
Miss Dudley and Miss Maslow argued over which Bronte sister each would play in "Deaths and Entrances." "But it didn't matter much because we were her sisters," said Miss Dudley. "It was a reconstruction of her family."
 
YURIKO
(Danced with Graham from 1944 to 1967)
Born in Sacramento and trained in Japan, Yuriko (who used only her first name on stage) brought a new quickness and lightness into the repertory through roles created for her, like the doomed young Princess in "Cave of the Heart."
"I came East from a relocation center in Arizona in 1943 to further my career," she said. "I had just secured a job as a seamstress. I had addresses for three studios. I was standing at 14th Street and Fifth Avenue, and Martha's studio was the closest. So I knocked on the door, and there she was.
"I still remember my first class. It was like a meditation hall, it was that quiet. Martha would get angry in class, but she was never nasty. She was poetic, in explaining. She brought in poetry, painters, music and very much philosophy, her beliefs, what she read. She was very, very stern. She was constantly walking around the class, watching each plie. You felt the presence, even if you couldn't see her. It was just amazing, her extraordinary power.
"Of course, we didn't get paid for rehearsals. For a while it was $10 a performance. But if you didn't perform, you didn't get paid."
Graham began to relinquish her roles in 1965, at the age of 71, some of them to Yuriko. She almost never came to rehearsals and gave Yuriko little help. It was a painful time in Graham's life. Drinking too much, she was slowly pulling away from the company. Sometimes she winced when she heard music she had once danced to.
"Martha was so intensely involved in her roles, though she always made her feelings into universal themes. Obviously 'Appalachian Spring' is about her and Erick. She had a question -- many, many questions -- about going into marriage, and the dance came out of the turmoil."
"Primitive Mysteries" was more abstract, and Graham at first ignored Yuriko at the single rehearsal she came to, two days before Yuriko was to dance the role of the Virgin Mary for the first time.
Yuriko picked up clues from what Graham told the women's chorus. Then suddenly Graham moved close and began to whisper to the young dancer, her voice taking on something of the character's pain and exaltation.
"You know, you're going to see your son," Graham murmured. "You don't want to go." Yuriko's hands flew up to cup her eyes as she remembered that gesture in the dance. "As adults, we never cry straight," Graham told her. "When you cry, it's a little to the left or right. The pull is to one side or the other, within oneself. Yuriko, when I saw my son, everything drained. And I swayed an infinitesimal sway. I was swaying, but no one saw me."
Was Graham truly a radical? "Martha was very practical," Yuriko said. "I don't think she thought that way."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Yuriko, left, May O'Donnell and Martha Graham in "Cave of the Heart," circa 1946. The work will be revived at the Brooklyn Academy of Music (Martha Graham Dance Company) (pg. 1); Martha's Girls: Martha Graham, above, at left, with Jane Dudley and Sophie Maslow in "Deaths and Entrances," created in 1943; Sophie Maslow today, at right, during a rehearsal of "Chronicle," and Dorothy Bird in her early years as a dancer-- Pioneers in a seminal era. (Arnold Eagle; Sara Krulwich/The New York Times; The New York Times) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (52%); 

STATE: WASHINGTON, USA (79%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GRAHAM, MARTHA, DANCE CO GRAHAM CO (96%); MARTHA GRAHAM DANCE CO (86%); CORNISH SCHOOL OF FINE&APPLIED ARTS (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: GRAHAM, MARTHA, DANCE CO CORNISH SCHOOL OF FINE&APPLIED ARTS (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (52%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING; NEXT WAVE FESTIVAL DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (78%); CHOREOGRAPHY (78%); HISTORY (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (72%); FAMILY (71%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (68%); 

PERSON: BIRD, DOROTHY; MASLOW, SOPHIE; O'DONNELL, MAY; DUDLEY, JANE; YURIKO (DANCER); GRAHAM, MARTHA (1894-1991); DUNNING, JENNIFER MARTHA GRAHAM (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



536 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 12; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 1360 words

HEADLINE: EUROPE: THE NEW SEASON;
A City of Many Stages

BYLINE: By BENEDICT NIGHTINGALE 

 BODY:
FOR the American visitor, theatergoing in London normally means trawling the commercial West End for treasure, with side trips to see the great state-subsidized troupes -- the Royal Shakespeare Company and the National Theater itself. That's fine, but it is sometimes worth extending the search by the odd mile or so. What about a visit to Islington or Notting Hill or Shepherd's Bush or Swiss Cottage or Hammersmith or Greenwich or some other place that may well sound like a subway stop in nowhere-in-particular, but actually allows you a serendipitous ramble before you see a play that may well end up on Shaftesbury Avenue or even Broadway?
More details in a moment. First, let me do the conventional thing and pick some obvious plums from the metropolitan pie. The tabloids will probably make a particular fuss over Cameron Mackintosh's big Dickensian revival of Lionel Bart's infinitely hummable "Oliver!," in which Jonathan Pryce, late of "Miss Saigon," plays the satanic Fagin; it is expected to open at the Palladium on Dec. 8. The snobbier critics, however, will be awaiting an event a month earlier, on Nov. 4: Peter Hall's first production of "Hamlet" since he directed Albert Finney in the play 20 years ago and, with it, the rechristening of one of the West End's most famous theaters. 
 The Globe opened its doors on Shaftesbury Avenue in 1906, and since then has given house room to new plays by Somerset Maugham, Noel Coward, Graham Greene, Terence Rattigan and Peter Shaffer, as well as to performances by actors from Alec Guinness to Peggy Ashcroft, Paul Scofield to Ralph Richardson to the theatrical knight who has just celebrated his 90th birthday, Sir John Gielgud. It is, in fact, that eminent nonagenarian who is now giving his name to the place. Calling the theater the Gielgud will avoid getting it confused with the replica of Shakespeare's Globe, which will be opening next August south of the Thames in what was once Elizabethan bear-baiting territory. It is also particularly apt that the retitling should coincide with "Hamlet," for back in the 1930's Sir John played what is still rated one of the century's sweetest, most sensitive princes. His counterpart in Hall's production, Stephen Dillane, made a strong impression as the AIDS victim Prior Walter in Tony Kushner's "Angels in America" at the National, but he clearly has daunting comparisons to face.
The West End's impresarios are less pessimistic than usual, thanks to an improving British economy and a larger-than-expected influx of foreign visitors this summer, and some are even managing to overcome their fear of new work and unproven dramatists. In particular, much is expected of "Neville's Island," by Tim Firth, which opens at the Apollo on Oct. 3. The play, a comedy about middle managers doggedly surviving a company-organized adventure holiday, has been a big success at the tiny theater in the seaside resort of Scarborough, which is run by a more established dramatist, Alan Ayckbourn.
Shaftesbury Avenue is, however, still dauntingly dependent on revivals. A production of William Gibson's touching if clunky celebration of the Helen Keller case, "The Miracle Worker," recently arrived at Wyndhams, and has now been joined by a lavish one of Oscar Wilde's "Lady Windermere's Fan" at the Albery and, at the Globe, a sound, solid production of Terence Rattigan's "Winslow Boy," a 1946 play about a naval cadet unjustly accused of forgery. A revival of "Arsenic and Old Lace" is expected to follow later in the fall (though the theater has yet to be announced). "The Prime of Miss Jean Brodie" will open at the Strand on Oct. 25, with Patricia Hodge playing the Edinburgh schoolmistress first brought to life by Maggie Smith.
Do you recall Dame Maggie's precious manner, prim Scottish vowels and superb comic timing, if not on the stage at least in the movie version of Muriel Spark's novel? At least one of those qualities should be offered in the West End this fall, for she is leading a strong cast in the London production of Edward Albee's "Three Tall Women" at Wyndhams, opening on Nov. 1. That play, a huge success off Broadway, should give her the opportunity to demonstrate her talent for the wan and the droll, the witty and the desolate.
The pick of the impending arrivals at the National and at the Royal Shakespeare Company's London headquarters, the Barbican, are neither revivals nor new plays. They are adaptations and, if you look no further than their titles, rather unsurprising, conventional ones. But "Alice's Adventures Under Ground," which opens at the National on Nov. 8, actually comes with the warning "Not recommended for children under 12." It is clear that the author, Christopher Hampton, will be using Lewis Carroll's writings to explore the darker side of a man whose private feelings for little girls were hardly the most wholesome.
Similarly, "A Christmas Carol" seems an unadventurous choice for the Barbican in December. (It opens Dec. 6.) Marley's ghost is to be found clanking his chains and Scrooge rasping "Humbug" on the stage of every other repertory company around that time. But the R.S.C. radically rethought another Yuletide stalwart, "Peter Pan," a few years back, and may do the same with Dickens's most hackneyed story. The adaptor, John Mortimer, is a noted wit, and the director, Ian Judge, recently transformed Shakespeare's "Comedy of Errors" into a surreal frolic that might have been created by Dali and de Chirico; so the omens are not bad.
BUT I and my fellow enthusiasts will be spending a lot of time this fall at less-exalted addresses. We will be keeping a special eye on the Royal Court in Sloane Square, for its new director is the 32-year-old Stephen Daldry, who won a Tony this year for his revival of "An Inspector Calls." He is presenting no fewer than six premieres on his main stage and in the attic theater above it, as well as a minifestival of works by untried writers. On Nov. 2 he opens his own production of "Editing Process," by the unknown Meredith Oakes, about the publishing trade.
We will also be expecting much of the little Donmar Warehouse in Covent Garden, whose fortunes are being transformed by an even younger director. Sam Mendes, still only 28, has turned the place into a theatrical pacemaker in the aging heart of the West End, thanks to work as diverse as Brian Friel's "Translations" and Stephen Sondheim's "Assassins." A revival of Sam Shepard's "True West," opening Nov. 10, with the fast-rising Mark Rylance in the lead, is sure to get plenty of attention. But so will the offerings of the Almeida, in Islington, the Bush, the Gate, Riverside Studios, Hampstead Theater, Greenwich Theater and several other seemingly obscure playhouses.
These are the places where we expect to be startled and exhilarated these days. These are the theaters where things start small and sometimes end big. No new play has received better reviews this year than a gay coming-out comedy called "Beautiful Thing," by the unknown Jonathan Harvey; it was first staged by the Bush, a pub-playhouse in Shepherd's Bush, was taken up by the Donmar and is reopening at the Duke of York's, in the West End, on Sept. 26. The Almeida, a Salvation Army citadel that became a toy factory then a theater, recently moved Euripides' "Medea" with Diana Rigg to Shaftesbury Avenue, then to Broadway. On Nov. 3, it is staging the British premiere of Brian Friel's "Molly Sweeney," a play about a resilient blind woman, which got some ecstatic reviews when it opened in Dublin in August.
In addition, with Doug Lucie's "Gaucho," a new play about a British drug baron, opening Oct. 24 at Hampstead Theater, near the Swiss Cottage Underground station; the formidable Scottish actor Brian Cox in Ibsen's "Master Builder," from Nov. 10 at Riverside, five minutes' walk from central Hammersmith; a revival opening Nov. 7 at Greenwich of "Song at Twilight," Noel Coward's rarely performed, semiautobiographical play about a homosexual thespian in old age, and intriguing oddments at the Gate, the Bush and elsewhere, I don't think I shall have too much time to be bored this fall.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A scene from Terence Rattigan's "Winslow Boy," now at the Globe. (Sue Hyman)(pg. 22); Scene from "Molly Sweeney." Brian Friel's play opens Nov. 3 at the Almeida, a toy factory turned theater. (Tom Lawlor/The Gate)(pg. 12)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

COMPANY: SHAKESPEARE CO UNITED KINGDOM (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON (ENG); GREAT BRITAIN; UNITED STATES (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (93%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL; THEATER THEATER (91%); THEATER & DRAMA (91%); THEATER COMPANIES (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); DRAMA LITERATURE (72%); WRITERS (50%); AIDS & HIV (50%); 

PERSON: NIGHTINGALE, BENEDICT LIONEL BART (56%); CAMERON MACKINTOSH (56%); ALBERT FINNEY (55%); PETER REGINALD FREDERICK HALL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



537 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 5; Page 3; Column 3; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 259 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL ADVISORY;
Survey Shows C.D.W.'s Raise Rentals 46 Percent

 BODY:
Collision damage waivers for rental cars cost an average of $11 a day in a survey of 32 cities conducted recently by the United States Public Interest Research Group. The waivers' cost increased the base price of an economy-car rental an average of 46 percent a day for a weekend rental.
Collision damage waivers are optional provisions in a car rental contract that relieve the customer from responsibility for damage or loss, if the terms of the contract are met. Because such waivers are often not mentioned when customers make reservations for car rentals on the telephone, "consumers often first hear about C.D.W. at the rental counter, when they do not have the time to research their existing coverage or compare prices with other rental companies," the report noted. 
 The survey was conducted in July and August and results were reported earlier this month by the United States P.I.R.G., the national lobbying office for state organizations, which are nonprofit consumer and environmental-advocacy groups.
Researchers called 229 rental agents at eight national car rental companies requesting information on an economy car. They first asked about the rental rate, cost of gas and mileage, then added, "Are there any other fees or taxes I should know about?" At that point, only 7 percent of the agents mentioned the waivers. That figure is, however, an improvement over a 1991 survey in which only 2 percent of agents mentioned the C.D.W. without prompting.
Illinois and New York have passed laws that eliminate the sale of C.D.W.'s.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP RESEARCH GROUP (93%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (91%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (91%); US PUBLIC INTEREST RESEARCH GROUP (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; RENTING AND LEASING; NYTRAVEL; AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE AND LIABILITY POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); AUTOMOBILE INSURANCE (79%); PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE (78%); LOBBYING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); OIL & GAS PRICES (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



538 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 5; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2657 words

HEADLINE: Meet the New Super Super Of the High-End Residence

BYLINE: By MERVYN ROTHSTEIN 

 BODY:
THE classic image of a building superintendent is the jack-of-all-trades handyman who can fix the plumbing, run the boiler and handle minor repairs -- the guy who would run down to the basement with a big wrench and twist the big bolt.
Joseph Mazzucco is an example of the new breed -- the super supers, or, as they are increasing called, resident managers -- who are taking over in the larger luxury residential buildings. 
 Mr. Mazzucco, 42, received a degree in electrical technology from City College. He set up the engineering department and started the preventive maintenance program at the Hotel Macklowe in Manhattan; worked as an engineer at Merrill Lynch's data processing center on West Street, maintaining the air-conditioning system for computer trading in a million-square-foot building, and ran the engineering department at the Brookdale Medical Center complex in Brooklyn.
Now Mr. Mazzucco is building superintendent of the Alexandria, a 202-unit luxury condominium at Broadway and 72d Street.
"Today's super tends to be far more educated than in the past because buildings have become far more complicated," said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W & M Properties and co-project manager of the Alexandria. "In the new environmental era, supers need to know more about the complexities of central air systems. Computer skills are also increasingly important. And with residents more demanding, and often owning their premises or a stake in the building, supers must be more sophisticated about human relations. The super is becoming much more of a manager, much more of a professional."
Bill Martin, resident manager at 45 East 89th Street, a 250-unit "condop" -- the residential units are co-ops, the commercial areas condominiums -- said the number of his colleagues with advanced training had increased markedly in recent years.
"The day-to-day pressures in the industry have placed more and more demands on us," said Mr. Martin, who has a Bachelor of Science degree in education from the State University of New York at Buffalo and has been a resident manager for 14 years. "In the last five years there has been an absolute need to show that we are indeed trained. Without additional education and certification, we fall behind the industry too quickly and place ourselves and the people we work for in a certain level of jeopardy.
"As the laws change we have to keep ourselves up to date and current with all our responsibilities. For instance, as of Nov. 14 anyone who handles refrigerant will have to have an additional license."
The term superintendent is being phased out in better buildings, he said; in fact, Local 32B-32J has a separate contract for resident managers, those who run Class A buildings, which are defined as co-ops, condominiums and rentals with a minimum of seven staff members. (The contract provisions are pretty much the same as those for working superintendents.)
"BUT even though my title is resident manager and I have duties that exceed those of a typical superintendent, most people in the building refer to me as a superintendent," said Mr. Martin, who has both Accredited Resident Manager and Registered Apartment Manager certification and is employed by Rose Associates. "I'm comfortable with being called a superintendent. It describes my role."
Salaries for superintendents vary greatly. At Douglas Elliman, a highly qualified superintendent, or resident manager, can earn anywhere from $50,000 to $80,000 a year. He also receives an apartment rent-free, including all utilities -- gas, electricity, telephone -- and he may also be given a free parking space and a bonus.
And then there are the cash gratuities he is likely to get from tenants in the course of performing his duties.
Vincent Sultana, asset manager of W & M Properties, said that industrywide in New York, superintendent salaries could go as high as $85,000, plus benefits.
A decade or two ago, Mr. Malkin said, supers had to "make sure the trash was taken out, make sure the building works, make sure the staff is behaving and handle any plumbing problems." But then, he said, a decade or two ago "most buildings didn't have things like heat-pump units, highly efficient and more sensitive gas systems, booster pumps instead of water tanks, swimming pools, health-club facilities and common areas for entertainment."
Then there are the relatively new and complex city laws involving asbestos, facade maintenance and access for the disabled. "You need specific training to be an asbestos monitor," he said, "to know how to deal with an asbestos emergency. And asbestos air monitoring is now quite often the super's job."
In addition, new laws require the recapture of spent refrigerant from package heating and air-conditioning units -- in the past it could just be vented into the air -- and special training is required for licensing and certification.
"The level of compliance with city laws, Buildings Department codes and landmarking has really substantially changed the management business over the last 20 years," said J. Brian Peters, a vice president at Douglas Elliman-Gibbons & Ives. "It has evolved from being a very low-tech kind of thing, wandering around buildings once a week to see if things were going all right, into a much more professionally oriented business."
And the evolution is reflected in the type of person chosen as the building superintendent.
Mr. Mazzucco oversees a staff of 14 at the Alexandria: 8 concierge or door staff people, 4 porters and 2 handymen. He is employed by the condominium -- the individual owners and the management company, Akam Associates Management -- and he attends every meeting of the condominium's board, advising the members on cost decisions.
"The recent charges of mismanagement and fraud in building management have made it all the more necessary for the owners to have someone on their side who is used to bidding out jobs, collecting proposals and making sure they're getting the best deal," he said. "If you're not familiar with these technical disciplines, you can be taken for a bath. That's why the cost of any major contract goes by me first. That's what I'm here for."
A typical workday for Mr. Mazzucco begins at 7:30 A.M. with a chat with the night shift to see if there have been any problems, major or minor: "tenant complaints, elevator smoke alarms going off, that sort of thing," Mr. Mazzucco said.
After dealing with those problems, he usually sits down in his office at about 10 A.M. to deal with the contractors and vendors -- steamfitters, plumbers, electricians, cleaning-supply salesman -- whom he sees on almost a daily basis.
This was always a key part of the job, and the management scandal has made it more so, he said.
"Because of the scandal," he said, "you have to be extra careful if you're paying a little bit more, to make sure you get something that is worth the extra money, something that will reduce labor costs, last longer or clean better. You have to figure out who has the best deal."
IN the afternoon, Mr. Mazzucco will go along with the mechanic to check on the air-conditioning and other building systems. Or he may work on other projects: improving the waterproofing system for the sky deck or finding a more economical way to supply a small volume of steam in the summer for the building's health club.
"We have had to run the eight-inch winter steam line when we could run a two-inch steam line," he said. "It would be an economy move that would use much less natural gas. And we wouldn't create excess BTU's that have to be removed by the air-conditioning systems."
The day shift ends at 4 P.M., and when the evening workers come on he may write letters, send notes to tenants, deal with any staff problems and the security issues that are involved in having 25,000 square feet of commercial space on the street floor, occupied by an HMV music store.
There are also records to be kept on the computer: of the preventive maintenance program, of other projects, of what has been done in apartments and who is responsible for costs. The official workday ends between 6 and 7 P.M.
In his spare time, he will read to keep up to date on new laws involving refrigeration (he has a certificate on the subject issued by the National Association of Power Engineers), or boiler safety, or building engineering. Or take a course to keep up to date on management techniques, accounting, asbestos air monitoring, computers or locksmithing.
"My job is to look for trouble," Mr. Mazzucco said. "That's what I like best about it. It's always changing and there's always a problem. But I think I work better under pressure. I always have."
MR. MAZZUCCO is not alone. Almost directly across Central Park is another of the new breed, Thomas D. Riordan, superintendent -- or resident manager -- at 33 East 70th Street, and past president of the Metropolitan Building Managers of New York.
Mr. Riordan's tale is somewhat different from Mr. Mazzucco's, but the end result is similar. For the last six years he has supervised a staff of 24 -- 28 in summer -- at the 12-story, 65-unit blocklong co-op building at Madison Avenue, whose commercial space includes three art galleries and three Yves St. Laurent boutiques. The staff includes two sets of doormen, because the 65-year-old building has a separate entrance on 71st Street.
Like Mr. Mazzucco, Mr. Riordan attends board meetings and is responsible for every aspect of building maintenance and renovation.
"I'm much more involved than someone would have been 20 years ago," he said. "In those days you would have supervised the staff and taken care of the boilers and that would have been it. I review the building's monthly financial statement. I review all alterations in the building. I get involved with building projects."
"When I got here," he said, "there were people upstairs doing all kinds of work in apartments and I didn't know what they were doing. I want to know everything they're doing. I want the job done correctly so that in five or six years I don't have a problem. Even if they're just moving a radiator, I want to be involved."
Mr. Riordan was a licensed electrician in his native Ireland. When he came to the United States about a decade ago he began work as a porter at a Douglas Elliman building on Sutton Place.
"I started off mopping floors," he said. "I worked as a doorman, a relief man, worked my way up to handyman and finally became a superintendent" at 33 East 70th Street, which is a Douglas Elliman-managed building.
To do so, he needed several licenses. Among them are air-pollution-control certification, the No. 6 oil-burner license, a standpipe certificate and a sprinkler certificate. Superintendent requirements in New York City vary according to the type of equipment in a building; in addition to the above, most resident managers need a city refrigeration license.
BECAUSE of the growing emphasis on administrative and management duties, Mr. Riordan sought management training, and he got it through the Registered Apartment Manager program run by the National Association of Home Builders in connection with the New York Building Managers Association.
Other organizations offering an increasing array of courses and training programs for superintendents include the Institute of Real Estate Management (which runs a similar Accredited Resident Manager program), the Associated Builders and Owners of Greater New York, the Building Owners and Managers Association, Local 32B-32J of the Service Employees International Union, Mr. Riordan's Metropolitan Building Managers of New York and several other local associations, or clubs, for resident managers.
Ronald Raab, a lawyer for Local 32B-32J, said that the union, through one of its benefit funds, ran a training school available to virtually all union members that offered myriad courses on preparing to become a superintendent. The courses, Mr. Raab said, include "air-conditioning, engineering, locksmithing -- all of the more skilled functions of building maintenance."
The New York Building Managers Association has a registered air-conditioning and refrigeration school; "its class of 40 has been full for the last four years," Mr. Riordan said. The Metropolitan Building Managers of New York runs monthly educational programs that include lectures on asbestos abatement and disposal of old refrigerants. The Manhattan Resident Managers Association holds computer courses. "Members of one group can also take courses at the others," Mr. Riordan said.
For Mr. Riordan, the key principle of building management is "public relations."
"THIS job is 90 percent public relations," he said. "It's how you present yourself to the people who live in the building, how you treat them."
Donald Trump agrees that the role of the superintendent is much different from what it was 15 years ago. And not surprisingly, Mr. Trump concurs with Mr. Riordan on the need for public relations.
"Perhaps the biggest difference is that a building manager must be better at the social graces," Mr. Trump said. "A manager must not only be good with nuts and bolts and pipes and electricity. He really has to know the social niceties, how to deal with a very high-level clientele. Everyone wears suits and ties now. I've even seen them wearing tuxedos when there's a luxury party at Trump Tower or one of my other buildings."
Bruce Mosler, president of Galbreath Riverbank, which specializes in commercial management, said that the super super had also evolved in the world of commercial real estate.
"Like everything else, people are demanding more service, more expertise and more capability, and that's what the manager of an office building has to supply," Mr. Mosler said. "The days of having someone in there who simply knew about the plumbing and the boiler in the basement are gone. You need someone who has engineering expertise and who can work with the outside vendors, someone who understands thoroughly and properly all aspects of a building's operation."
The need is financial, too.
"As markets have crumbled for commercial property and improved rental figures have diminished, there has been a tremendous focus on how to operate more efficiently," said John Wheeler, a senior managing director of Galbreath Riverbank. "You need to have people at the property who can identify ways to achieve savings and who can operate the more sophisticated systems that can be installed to obtain greater efficiency."
Those people include women as well as men. "As the position is becoming more professional, more and more women are getting involved," said Mr. Malkin of W & M Properties. "So far that's much less true in New York City, where there's a lingering perception that you have to be a tough guy to be a super. But outside of the city, in places like Chicago and St. Louis and Nashville, about 75 percent of our building managers or property managers are women."
H. Dale Hemmerdinger, president of Atco Properties and Management, a New York-based owner, manager and developer of residential and commercial property, said that there was still room for the old-fashioned super -- with one key change.
"People want the old-fashioned, wonderfully friendly attitude and the ability to fix things," Mr. Hemmerdinger said. "People don't want to give up the warmth that the old supers projected. But it has to come in a package that includes the skills -- especially management skills -- needed to run a modern building."
And some things remain the same. "What supers used to do that people remember so well is provide service," he said. "And that's what they still have to do."
Mr. Riordan agrees. "When it comes down to it, my job still involves letting somebody into their apartment when they've forgotten their keys and they're locked out at 2 o'clock in the morning," he said. "That has never changed, and it never will."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Thomas D. Riordan, in jacket at center, with some of the staff at 33 East 70th Street, shown below, a 12-story, 65-unit co-op on Madison Avenue. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)(pg. 8); Joseph Mazzucco at the Alexandria is an example of the new breed of superintendents, now called super supers or resident managers. He manages the staff and the building operations at the 202-unit luxury condominium on Broadway ay 72d Street, top, right. Part of his staff stands behind him. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MLY (LSE) (56%); MER (NYSE) (56%); 8675 (TSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (56%); NEW YORK (74%); RESIDENT MANAGER&REGISTERED APARTMENT (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (74%); RESIDENT MANAGER&REGISTERED APARTMENT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; APARTMENT HOUSES REAL ESTATE (90%); ENGINEERING (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); HVAC SYSTEMS (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (76%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (71%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (71%); 

PERSON: RIORDAN, THOMAS D; MARTIN, BILL; MAZZUCCO, JOSEPH; ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



539 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Streetscapes/The Swiss Home;
With Not Enough Old Indigents to Fill It, It's for Sale

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER GRAY 

 BODY:
ANOTHER lump in the melting pot is about to dissolve. The 1905 Swiss Home, at 35 West 67th Street, was built to house aged, indigent Swiss, but after 90 years of trying to fill it, the Swiss Benevolent Society is giving up and selling its building to concentrate on social services.
Although government now controls most charitable endeavors, mid-19th-century New York fairly bristled with improvement and self-help societies organized around religion or nationality. In 1846, upper-class New Yorkers of Swiss extraction founded the Swiss Benevolent Society, which finally bought an old rowhouse at 108 Second Avenue in 1883. 
 Prominent families like the Iselins, the de Coppets, the de Rhams and the Couderts supported the society and in 1904 it began a building from scratch on the upper West Side. It appears that the Swiss sought a site near both Central Park and an established neighborhood. They economized wisely by buying at 35 West 67th Street: their land backed up on an existing neighborhood of brownstones stretching north, but West 67th itself was then predominantly a street of light industry and stables.
The Swiss-American architect John E. Scharsmith designed the $117,000, five-story building, which "resembles somewhat the City Hall of Basel," according to the society's 1905 annual report. The report also praised the location as "in the most salubrious part" of the city.
The interiors had the plainness of sensible charity: a dining hall on the first floor and, above, rooms for up to 80 people in spaces that are, by New York standards, one notch up from a servant's room.
The opening ceremonies in December 1905 were in French, German and English, and attended by groups like the Helvetia Wheelmen and the Swiss Choral Society. They looked with pride on a building that still has the seals of the United States and Switzerland above the second floor and those of all 22 Swiss cantons in the cornice.
Histories of the Swiss Benevolent Society refer to a constant schism in the organization; apparently the French Swiss were generally better off than their German- and Italian-speaking countrymen, dominating the affairs of the society. Census records for 1910 show that almost all those living in the Swiss Home were of German extraction, like Adam Gasser, 74, a widower and retired machinist.
After the opening of the new home, the society adopted English as its official language to reduce tensions.
In 1916 a new president, Robert J. Schwarzenbach, expressed concern that the residents of the home were in danger "because of its proximity to saloons" on Columbus Avenue. He also said that, in part because the society could never more than half-fill the building with deserving poor, it was spending $400 a year per person. This was, he said, an extravagance "of which economically thinking and thrifty Swiss should not be guilty."
PERHAPS his judgment was also affected by the later development of West 67th Street, which had become a center for expensive apartment buildings, like the Hotel des Artistes.
Under Schwarzenbach's leadership, the aged occupants were moved to an estate that the society bought in 1923 for that purpose in Mount Kisco. In 1924 the Swiss Home became the Swiss Town House, a dormitory for working women; the stated purpose was to house women of Swiss extraction, but exceptions were numerous. The charge was $9 to $14 a week for room and board.
The 1925 census shows a new crop of residents, including a corset saleswoman, a child's nurse, a ladies' maid and a dental hygienist. Erma Ringh, a stenographer, 23 years old and nine months in the United States, lived in one room, and Ida Haas, a seamstress, 52 years old and 15 years in the United States, lived in another.
According to Annemarie Gilman, executive director of the Swiss Benevolent Society, in the early 1980's New York City threatened to begin charging real estate taxes on the West 67th Street house because it was no longer serving a tax-exempt function, and the society began restricting admission to students. By 1991 the building was costing it $50,000 a year and was far from its original mission. That was when the society closed the building, except for some office space.
This year Sotheby's International Realty began showing the 15,000-square-foot building to interested buyers at a price of $2.95 million. Robert Schulman, the broker handling the sale, said the building could be a small European-style hotel or be split into condominiums, although he said he saw it as "an extraordinary opportunity for a sizable private residence on one of the best blocks on the Upper West Side".
Ms. Gilman says that the society will use the proceeds from the sale to move to modest offices. From that base it will concentrate on its scholarship and social service programs. The latter functions as an "extended family" for the 1,200 aged Swiss in the metropolitan area with limited incomes, coordinating government programs and health services.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The drawing of the Swiss Benevolent Society's new building at 35 West 67th Street from the annual report of 1905 (The Swiss Benevolent Society); the entrance and lower floors recently. The Swiss group has put the building on sale. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SWISS BENEVOLENT SOCIETY 2ND AVENUE DESIGN (57%); SWISS BENEVOLENT SOCIETY (77%); 

ORGANIZATION: SWISS BENEVOLENT SOCIETY SWISS BENEVOLENT SOCIETY (77%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UPPER WEST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (94%); SWITZERLAND (92%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); BASEL, SWITZERLAND (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES REAL ESTATE (90%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (90%); ANNUAL REPORTS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CHARITIES (77%); MACHINE TOOLS (76%); HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (73%); CENSUS (67%); 

PERSON: GRAY, CHRISTOPHER

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



540 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 21; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 257 words

HEADLINE: In Defense Of Urban Renewal

 BODY:
Richard B. Greene's letter, "A Revival Plan for New Haven" (July 17) states that Mayor Richard Lee destroyed New Haven in the 50's and 60's, that entire neighborhoods were bulldozed away and ugly concrete buildings were erected in their stead.
Nothing could be further from the truth. 
 I was responsible, under Mayor Lee's direction, for the design and implementation of his highly regarded urban renewal program.
The Oak Street area, which was indeed a slum, was cleared and rebuilt. The relocation, almost entirely within the city for both businesses and families, was done with special care. (Incidentally, New Haven was the first urban renewal program in the country to establish a business relocation office.)
Far from destroying neighborhoods, urban renewal preserved them.
The local residents participated fully in the preparation of the urban renewal plans and supported them, unanimously, at public hearings. The Wooster Square and Dixwell neighborhoods were, and are, notable examples.
If more cities had followed Dick Lee's example by planning with the community, not for it, and by emphasizing rehabilitation over clearance, the urban renewal program might be alive and well today.
It is also noteworthy that New Haven was the first urban renewal city in the country to recognize the social dimensions of urban renewal by creating, with funding from the Ford Foundation, the nation's first anti-poverty program. It is shameful to see this sensitive and sensible program so misrepresented.
EDWARD J. LOGUE
Boston

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); UNITED STATES (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (91%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL URBAN DEVELOPMENT (94%); ECONOMIC NEWS (94%); SLUM DWELLINGS (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); FOUNDATIONS (65%); 

PERSON: LOGUE, EDWARD J; LEE, RICHARD RICHARD LEE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



541 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 13; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1436 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Executive Suites;
A Private-Office Illusion, With Shared Amenities

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
FROM all outward appearances, Zephyr Management, an investment advisory firm, is an old-line Wall Street outfit gone north. It has an impressive address -- 630 Fifth Avenue, Rockefeller Center's International Building on 51st Street. A soft-spoken woman answers its phones with the company name and a smiling receptionist greets its visitors.
No one would guess that the receptionist, the phone answerer, the couches in the lobby, even the steaming coffee in the kitchen, all are shared with others. Or that the company leased the space for only nine months. Or that Zephyr itself is only three months old. 
 "We can't afford the kind of infrastructure that our clients expect," said Thomas C. Barry, Zephyr's chief executive, who is paying $8,000 a month for a suite of four offices. "For us, this was perfect."
Welcome to the Business Center in Rockefeller Center, the latest entry in the growing field of executive-suite operations. It is a place where, for a monthly charge of $900 to $4,500, small companies can rent furnished offices, have their phones answered and visitors greeted and reserve space in communal conference rooms.
For a per-use charge, they can also get their letters or proposals typed, use the copiers or fax machines or otherwise draw on resources and amenities once reserved only to business big-leaguers.
"This is not the real estate business, this is a service business," said Frederic Z. Sondik, the Business Center's general manager.
Other members of that service business profess to welcome Rockefeller Center to the fray. "When competitors run good operations it reinforces the concept's credibility," said Valerie Buckwalter, director of marketing and leasing for Alliance Business Centers, which has 293 offices in four Manhattan buildings.
Even those who are less sanguine about the supply/demand relationship are unconcerned. "I do feel New York is becoming saturated, but I don't think we have anything to worry about," said Sean Keegan, who owns International Office Centers, a 76-office operation in the World Trade Center. "Those of us who understand this business will survive."
Recent history seems to prove his point. For the executive-suite companies, the recession was barely a blip.
"In bad times we get people starting businesses because they are unemployed," said Kathryn J. Donohue, president of HQ Business Centers, which has about 500 small offices for short-term rent in seven New York buildings and is opening a new center in Uniondale, L.I. in November. "In good times we get people going into business because they feel confident they can succeed."
In a sense, the recent economic downturn helped the executive-suite companies. Before the recession, landlords were often loath to rent them space, preferring to avoid ever-changing lobby directory boards and a constant flow of traffic to the floors. But increased use of electronic lobby directories has mitigated that problem. And chronic space gluts not only made many landlords less choosy, it also made them look at executive-suite tenants as prime candidates for permanent leases down the line.
"People used to think executive suites only went into troubled buildings, but now everyone is sold on them as incubators for future tenants," said S. Harold Appel, a senior vice president of CB Commercial, who helped Alliance rent space at 230 Park Avenue, the Helmsley Building on 45th Street.
Rockefeller Center will have particularly good chances to play off synergies between its 67-office executive-suite operation and its regular space by letting any executive-suite tenant cancel its lease if it moves into a permanent Rockefeller Center space.
It is marketing the short-term offices to existing tenants who may need temporary space for a visiting executive or an audit team. Since Rockefeller Center operates its own telephone company, it can do temporary hook-ups between an existing tenant's phone lines and a temporary phone at the executive-suite operation. And it can let executive suite tenants who move to permanent space keep their phone number.
TELECOMMUNICATIONS technology, in fact, has made all of the executive-suite operations more palatable to small companies wanting to look and act big. Most executive suites have intricate phone systems that allow each tenant to have a separate phone number. When the phone rings, the tenant's preferred greeting -- "Mr. Smith's office," or "ACME Publications," or whatever -- flashes on a computer screen at the telecommunications desk, and the person on phone duty answers with that greeting.
If Mr. Smith has left instructions on how to deal with specific callers, that flashes on the computer screen as well. Otherwise, the caller is connected to Mr. Smith's voice mail or leaves a message with the message center.
Some message centers even take telephone orders. "We can act as a telemarketing or fulfillment house," Ms. Buckwalter said.
The executive-suite operations keep expanding options. Alliance now offers a concierge service: For an hourly fee, staffers will order limousines, send flowers, make dinner reservations and do other personal chores. And many of the operations let companies that haven't taken offices use them as high-tech mail drops. For a few hundred dollars a month the companies can use the address and the telephone services and a couple of hours of conference room time.
The executive-suite operations have drawbacks, of course. They rarely guarantee renewal rights. They charge hefty fees for their ancillary services. And they rarely let tenants put their own logos on their doors, or otherwise shout out their identities.
Still, they clearly meet a need. Without them, many fledgling entrepreneurs or regional salespeople would have to operate out of their homes or sublet an office from a larger company that will let them use its receptionists and office equipment. Neither arrangement impresses clients.
"All too often, the potential client says, 'Call me when you've got a real business in a real office,' " said Mr. Barry of Zephyr.
Even companies with a captive client audience say the centers fill a vaccuum. CODEP Management Services exists solely to help a Belgian savings bank evaluate potential American investments. Helen Gateson, CODEP's president and only employee, first figured she didn't need an office. Wrong.
"I tried working from home," she recalled. "I ran out of file space, I ran into my two children all the time and I found that when you work at home you never leave the job."
Now, for $1,500 a month, she has a tiny windowed office at Rockefeller Center and has signed a one-year lease. Next year she hopes to graduate to regular office space.
BUT not all executive-suite tenants are in a hurry to leave. "The space is modern, the office manager handles everything, a lot of these tenants get spoiled," noted James B. Emden, a senior managing director at the real estate firm Edward S. Gordon.
Take Dana Stetson, the regional sales manager for GNP Computers, based in Monrovia, Calif., which sells computer systems. Two years ago, he took a small Alliance office in the Helmsley Building. He soon moved into a bigger one, and just took an additional office.
"I don't want to deal with conference rooms or manage secretaries," Mr. Stetson said. "I want to focus only on sales."
Mr. Stetson's wife, Mary, is a convert also: She started Home Suite Home, to find temporary quarters in private homes for people visiting Atlanta for the 1996 Olympics. She is working from home but is using Alliance's mail and phone service.
Executive-suite operations, or hybrids thereof, are likely to keep growing. The World Trade Center, for example, plans to build a small business incubator operation next year, which would provide business strategy assistance as well as short-term offices for foreign start-ups. For now, the center is paying International Office Centers to provide six months of office space to selected European and Asian start-up companies. The hope is that, with ample strategy assistance from World Trade Center people, the start-ups will graduate to regular space.
In fact, the center recently converted half a floor -- about 20,000 square feet -- in One World Trade Center to small, fully furnished offices. It has 13 tenants, and George T. Rossi, the center's assistant director, plans to prebuild several other floors.
"It's all part of a program to persuade people overseas that you don't have to commit years and hundreds of thousands of dollars to explore the possibility of running an office in New York," Mr. Rossi said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Frederic Z. Sondik, manager of Rockefeller Center Business Center, and Alexandra Smirnova, a receptionist. (Thomas Dallal for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: INTERNATIONAL OFFICE CENTERS CORP (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING; SMALL BUSINESS COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PHOTOCOPIERS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



542 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 9; Page 9; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1253 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Connecticut;
Yale Works to Break Down the Town-Gown Barrier

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
FOR 293 years Yale has been a pre-eminent institution of higher learning, in its lighter moments giving birth to the Whiffenpoofs and helping to popularize the button-down shirt.
It has also been a leading example of the condition known as "town and gown," a term that originated in England in the 17th century to describe the isolation of the universities of Oxford and Cambridge from their host cities and the frictions that flowed from the isolation. 
 For the last decade Yale has been seeking ways to repair its relationship with this city and create for itself a more socially responsible image.
Drawing on a $3.5 billion endowment, it is halfway through $50 million committed in 1987 by Benno C. Schmidt Jr., its former president. The money must be spent within 10 years in conjunction with public and private funds for the betterment of New Haven.
Initial projects added to Yale's real estate portfolio but for the most part had no effect on blighted areas and their low-income residents. A more hands-on approach, articulated by Yale's new president, Richard C. Levin, is evident in projects designed to rehabilitate districts and help small businesses and householders.
Foremost among the new projects is one that targets Broadway, a deteriorated but busy shopping street bordering the campus and plagued by traffic congestion and rampant shabbiness. It is being restored with $7.5 million from a Federal grant to the city and $1.9 million from Yale.
The project's designers, Herbert Newman, a member of Yale's architecture faculty, and Leonard Liss of the city's Department of Traffic and Parking, plan to widen cramped sidewalks, bury utility lines, reconfigure traffic lanes, work with stores to improve signs and facades and create a landscaped park.
Dozens of large, disease-resistant elm trees will be planted to shade Broadway and adjacent York Street and Tower Parkway, restoring credibility to New Haven's designation as the Elm City. Most of the elms succumbed to Dutch elm disease.
"We bought up almost all of Broadway to be sure that we had a critical mass of property to be able to redevelop the area," said Donna Dean, director of investments for Yale. Meetings were held with the retail tenants to gain their support and listen to their ideas for the project.
"We see this as good business for Yale, the merchants and the city," said Donna Hall, a city planner designated by Mayor John De Stefano Jr. to work with Yale. "Broadway has become the central downtown district, with the only movie theater and the only department store remaining in the city -- York Square Cinema and the Yale Co-op."
The decline of New Haven's economy, like those of many Northeastern cities, was accompanied by an increase in crime that spilled onto the seemingly impervious campus. Applications for enrollment plummeted in 1991 after a student was killed in a random shooting. And last month seven patrons of a local restaurant, including one of Yale's associate professors, were stabbed by a berserk city resident.
"It's come to the point where urban universities are severely challenged by conditions around them that interfere with their academic mission," said Mr. Newman. "Competing with more bucolic campuses becomes very difficult."
"CRIME was certainly a factor in our recognition that the university and the city are inextricably intertwined," said Linda Koch Lorimer, secretary of Yale. In the early 1700's, she noted, the students were notorious for conducting rampages through New Haven, creating a town-gown enmity in which the residents were the victims."By the 1780's Yale had to ban students from carrying weapons," she said.
In the Park-Howe-Dwight district, dubbed PhD for the many Yale graduate students who rent rooms there and faculty members who own handsome vintage homes, Ms. Dean, acting for Yale, and David Ornato, a local real estate operator, bought a drug-and prostitution-infested apartment house at 100 Howe Street for $600,000. Mr. Ornato evicted most of the tenants and restored the building as 83 studio apartments, renting to students and a variety of responsible townspeople for $385 a month.
On Park Street, four vacant university-owned stores are being renovated as a substation for Yale's 81-member police force and to accommodate the Yale Dramat, a student-run children's theater; a computer lab for public school and Yale students and a student publications office.
"We couldn't be more delighted with what Yale is doing," said Diana L. Mercer, a New Haven lawyer and resident of PhD. "They haven't transformed us into Litchfield, but the apartment house and the police station, and officers walking the beat have had an impact on crime."
Yale's contribution of $12.5 million to the redevelopment of Ninth Square, a $108 million retail and residential project bounded by Chapel, Church, George and State Streets, includes Mr. Newman's master plan for combining new construction and historic restoration. Construction of 335 residential units, 49,000 square feet of retail space and 850 parking spaces began in June 1993 and is expected to be complete by the end of 1996.
Apartments will range in size from 434-square-foot studios to 1,054-square-foot two-bedroom, two-bath units. Half will rent at market rates of $600 to $850; the rest, for moderate-income tenants, will rent for $503 to $625. Retail rents will be $14 to $17 a square foot, according to Beazley Company Realtors, the Ninth Square rental agent.
In a program begun last April, Yale offered to pay $2,000 a year for 10 years to any university employee who bought a home or condominium in New Haven through December 1995.
"There is no single more important thing that Yale has done than its home-buying program," said Paul Bass, associate editor of The New Haven Advocate, a 1982 Yale graduate and an outspoken critic of former university town-gown policies.
So far, 55 employes have bought residences, 31 of them in the $75,000-to-$125,000 range. "It has encouraged our union workers to buy their first homes," said Ms. Lorimer.
"We considered other towns," said Dianne Steele, a university accountant, "but when this kicked in we bought a 10-room house in New Haven. The first $2,000 payment was included in my paycheck after the closing. It will help pay the $3,600 tax bill."
"YALE is changing its attitude toward the city," said Margaret Brooks, owner of Audubon Associates Real Estate. "Yale people needed that extra push to move into New Haven -- taxes are high and the city has gotten a bad rap."
As a catalyst for encouraging outside investors, Yale has set aside $5 million as joint venture capital for biomedical and biotech companies moving to New Haven. And it has a contract to buy the mortgage on the bankrupt Chapel Square Mall and adjacent office tower, with the expectation of turning the property over to the Cordish Company of Baltimore for development.
This month Cordish bought the bankrupt 300-room Park Plaza Hotel on the opposite side of the mall at 155 Temple Street -- the only large hotel in the city. "Yale and the city made the $20 million renovation possible by getting a $10 million state grant," said David Cordish, the company president. "Yale made it feasible by committing its sizable hotel market."
The company indicated significant interest in the mall and office building as well.
"We can't cure New Haven's problems by buying huge amounts of property," said Ms. Lorimer, "but we can leverage our ability to make things happen."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Funds from Yale University and Federal Government are restoring part of Broadway in New Haven. (Carl David LaBianca for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5141 GENERAL LINE GROCERIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY CO-OP ULM KONSUMGENOSSENSCHAFT EG (50%); CO-OP CHEMICAL CO LTD (50%); CO-OP '82 UA (50%); CO-OP ATLANTIC (50%); CO-OP SERVICES CREDIT UNION (50%); CO-OP STAR RT (50%); CO-OP ZAFON HYPERSHUK MARKETING CHAINS LTD (50%); CO-OP JERUSALEM AGUDA ZARCHANIT SHITUFIT LTD (50%); CO-OP BUILDING CONSULTANTS (50%); CO-OP MORAVA SRO (50%); CO-OP GRAIN & SUPPLY CO (50%); CO-OP COUNTRY FARMERS ELEVATOR (50%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN (CONN); ENGLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS ENDOWMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); TRENDS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); MAYORS (77%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); RETAIL PROPERTY (72%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (72%); RETAILERS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (70%); GRANTS & GIFTS (69%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (67%); SMALL BUSINESS (66%); CRIME RATES (60%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (52%); THEATER (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



543 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: Under Financial Pressures, Duck Farms Dwindle

BYLINE: By REGINA MARCAZZO 

 BODY:
IN the 1950's, 120 duck farms flourished on the Island, producing products that spread the name of Long Island far and wide. Today five duck farmers remain, and two of their farms may close if the Brookhaven Town Board approves a zoning change on Bay Avenue in East Moriches.
A co-owner of one of the two farms on Bay Avenue that is up for sale, Bruce Vigliotta, said he was undecided whether he would stop raising ducks completely or move his business out of state. 
 The other owner, Roger Titmus Jr., said he would run his entire duck operation from a 10-acre farm that he owns on Barnes Road in Moriches.
"I don't want this business to fail in my hands," Mr. Titmus said. "I could keep it going without the property. I just don't want to see it die." Mr. Titmus's farm raises 150,000 ducks a year, but just his breeders are at Bay Avenue.
"We've already for the most part moved," he added. "I can't afford to pay the taxes."
Farmers fault high taxes and electricity bills and out-of-state competition for the decline of the industry.
"We don't know what we're doing," Mr. Vigliotta said. "It's getting tough on Long Island. We might move the duck business."
The Vigliottas have farmed ducks on the Island for 50 years and now raise more than 100,000 a year. The Brookhaven Town Board is considering zoning that would allow a condominium complex on their 60-acre farm. The condo plan, proposed by Bay Avenue Associates, calls for more than 200 units. Some residents oppose the size of the proposed complex.
"We're saying yes, there should be something done about the duck farms, but it should not be replaced by that type of development," a coordinator for the Citizens Campaign for the Environment, Daniel Bono, said. "You shouldn't replace one impact with another."
"I have lived here all my life," said Susan DiSario, secretary of the Moriches Bay Civic Association, who opposes the condo plan. "I have grown up with duck farms. We are not saying that we want the duck farms to stay here."
A former 56-acre duck farm in East Moriches is now the site of the 75-unit Harts Cove condominium. Mrs. DiSario said she thought that the community would accept such a density.
"I think that the duck farms are obsolete and the street has to be cleaned up," said James Brennan, who has live on Bay Avenue for 14 years and who favors the condo plan. "I think that it would be good for the town."
Most ducks in the United States today come from the Middle West, with 60 percent from one farm in Indiana, Maple Leaf Farms. Two of the Long Island farmers produce 15 percent of the national total.
Thomas Jurgielewicz, a co-owner of the Jurgielewicz Duck Farm in Moriches, which plans to stay in business, said his father did everything to try to talk him and his two brothers out of the duck industry. "It's been good to two generations," Mr. Jurgielewicz said. "Why shouldn't it be good for another two at least?"
Long Island growers have worked to make their ducks distinctive. They say their product is known for its meaty breast and unmarred skin.
The owner of the Crescent Duck Farm of Aquebogue, Douglas Corwin, said: "The only way we've survived is by trying to differentiate ourselves. The biggest thing is breeding year after year to develop better strains."
The Long Island climate is conducive to breeding, Mr. Jurgielewicz said, adding, "We've done more hands-on type breeding selection for a better product."
The executive director of the Long Island Farm Bureau, Joseph Gergela, said, "We capitalize on the tradition and the name."
Mr. Corwin said his ducks were often served at top restaurants in Manhattan. "We probably get about the best price in the country," he said.
For Mr. Jurgielewicz ducks are more than a business. He remembers chasing them and collecting eggs as a child on his grandfather's farm. His grandfather came from Poland in 1919 and opened the farm on Barnes Avenue in Moriches.
Rising grain prices , stringent environmental guidelines and declining consumption have played a part in the decline of the industry.
Eastport, which used to call itself the duck capital of the world, is now home to one duck farm. It is owned by Paul Massey and his father, Chester Massey Jr. Paul Massey said he was pleased that his two children were growing up on the farm. "I think it adds a lot to the quality of family life," Mr. Massey said.
The family tradition applies to the Corwins, as well. A drive around their farm passes a cemetery where Mr. Corwin's grandfather is buried, his gravestone marked with the etching of a duckling. "I'm going to be right there and I'm going to be watching," he told his grandson.
The 100-acre Crescent Farm slaughters 18,000 to 19,000 ducks a week, or 900,000 ducks a year, and employs more than 80 people. "I have no interest in getting any bigger," Mr. Corwin said.
The farm uses modern water treatment and is building artificial wetlands. The wetlands, which are to cost $150,000 to $200,000, will add a third layer to water treatment. A Federal grant will pay for one-third to one-half of the project's cost.
"All costs have gone up, and I haven't been able to get a penny more for ducks," said Mr. Corwin, adding that his electric bill has been as high as $33,000 a month.
Mr. Corwin said he did not believe there had been a decline in production because of the ducks' fat content, but did say that Americans were eating less meat. Mr. Corwin said that over the years he had reduced fat by genetic selection, by using ultrasound to measure fat content and new nutrition. "The fat is used by a good chef to naturally baste the duck," he said.
National production has dropped, from 24 million ducks a year to 20 million in the last six years, said Mr. Corwin, who added that his production had not decreased because he was growing larger birds.
The industry represents $20 million a year in economic activity on Long Island, Mr. Gergela said. At one time 98 percent of the national total was raised on Long Island.
Mr. Jurgielewicz runs his 50-acre farm with his two brothers. "We're nothing to sneeze at," he said. But this year "grain costs are up because of the Midwest flooding."
"It's become more profitable to raise ducks in the Midwest," said Nils Berglund, a former duck farmer and an agent at the Cornell Cooperative Extension. Mr. Berglund ceased production at his farm in Riverhead in 1988, along with about 12 other duck farmers. He had raised 125,000 ducks a year.
Many farms closed when the Long Island Packer's Plant in Eastport went out of business in 1987.
Mr. Jurgielewicz said he was concerned when he saw a duck whose label read "Farmer's Commission House" and "Eastport, Long Island" at a wholesale distributor in Philadelphia. He said he could tell from the plant-identification number on the duck that it was from Indiana.
Mr. Jurgielewicz called the compliance division of the United States Department of Agriculture. The product, he added, was taken off the market.
In 1990 local officials, including Representative George Hochbrueckner, Democrat of Centereach, and Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, informed Agriculture Secretary Clayton K. Yeutter about the mislabeling. "We'll clear them off the market," Mr. Jurgielewicz said. "The groundwork has been laid."
When the Farmer's Commission House went out of business, Mr. Massey said, he had to make a choice, to go out of business or make a deal with another processor. Mr. Massey took his ducks to the Jurgielewicz farm. He now hatches 18,000 ducks every two weeks for the Jurgielewiczes.
The Masseys also raise 50,000 ducks a year on their own. At one time they raised 250,000 a year.
Although he said he did not intend to leave the business, Mr. Massey added that he was not worried about what would happen if he could no longer farm. "You have be everything, a mechanic, a carpenter," he said. "You have to do that if you want to stay in business."
Mr. Massey said his farm enjoyed lower taxes because it was in an agricultural tax district. "You have to sign a commitment that you won't sell the land for seven or eight years," he said. "The only thing that's keeping us in business is there's still a niche market."

GRAPHIC: Photos: One duck farm remains in Eastport, which used to call itself duck capital of world. Right: Paul Massey checks daily hatching of chicks. Masseys' farm hatches 18,000 every two weeks for another farm and raise their own 50,000 a year. At one time it raised 250,000 a year. (Pg. 1) Paul Massey collecting duck eggs in Eastport. (Pg. 8) (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: MORICHES BAY CIVIC ASSOCIATION (73%); LONG ISLAND FARM BUREAU (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND FARM BUREAU (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); BROOKHAVEN (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: POULTRY; ZONING; HOUSING; TAXATION; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; RATES; DUCKS MISC POULTRY PRODUCTION (91%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); POULTRY & EGG PRODUCTION (90%); ZONING (90%); POULTRY (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (75%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (75%); APPROVALS (72%); UTILITY RATES (71%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (66%); 

PERSON: MARCAZZO, REGINA MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (82%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



544 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 4; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1035 words

HEADLINE: Ballet Theater and SUNY Team Up

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON 

DATELINE: PURCHASE

 BODY:
COMBINE spacious stages, ample rehearsal rooms and eager students with dancers of proven talent, masterful teachers and a whiff of Manhattan and the mix is irresistible. So said officials of Purchase College here and the American Ballet Theater recently as they announced with sudden fanfare that they would begin a five-year partnership this fall.
"This was one of the most delightful 'non-negotiation' negotiations we've ever had," said Christopher Beach, director of the college's Performing Arts Center. "It's a great fit for both of us." 
 Bill Lacy, president of Purchase College, said the agreement -- the specifics of which are still being worked out -- was sealed within two months of the earliest discussions. That was a relatively short time for a plan that includes performances here, educational programs, on-campus residencies and a new summer dance institute.
"We're a model for these kinds of collaborations," Mr. Lacy said, referring to another arrangement the college has with the New York Knicks. "This was what was always envisioned for this place -- the college was set up to be special."
Students in the school's dance division, who recently represented the United States at an international dance festival in China, are expected to benefit from the exposure to a professional company as it goes about the sweaty business of choreographing and rehearsing new works. Purchase students will also study with American Ballet Theater teachers and dance as supernumeraries in the company's productions here.
 
'Makes So Much Sense'
 "To have a company of their prestige affiliated with a professional training program is terribly exciting," said Carol Walker, dean of the dance division. She said the new agreement would formalize ties that the division has long had with American Ballet Theater. One of its former principal dancers, Cynthia Gregory, serves as the honorary chairwoman of Purchase College Friends of Dance, and other former Ballet Theater dancers teach at Purchase.
The dance division, a conservatory program from which 32 students graduated last May, also sponsors the Jose Limon Summer Dance Workshop and administers the Harkness Choreographers Space Grant Project, which selects professional dancers to work on campus when school is not in session. The American Ballet Theater is expected to begin its new summer institute here as early as next summer, bringing high school students from around the country to study with its faculty and live in Purchase College dormitories.
"It makes so much sense for us to join forces with Purchase," said Kevin McKenzie, artistic director of American Ballet Theater. He said that the company, which will remain based in Manhattan, has wanted to start a summer school but has "no facilities to house anyone" in the city. Also, he said, the arrangement would provide low-cost rehearsal space at the college's well-equipped theaters and studios, a luxury for a company that is "always under the gun."
The award-winning dance building, one of the first in the country to be designed exclusively for the study of dance, has 14 studios and state-of-the-art training equipment. The building also features a 270-seat theater, saunas, office and storage space and a whirlpool, which Ms. Walker said is closed because there is "no money to staff it."
 
'They're Broke and We're Broke'
 Mr. Beach said that no charge had been established for the company's use of the Performing Arts Center for a planned December run of "The Nutcracker" or for any other productions. "It's not really an economic arrangement," he said. "They're broke, and we're broke."
The Performing Arts Center, one of the most prestigious performance sites in the county, normally charges a rental fee of $3,000 to 4,000 for an orchestral concert, $4,500 and $5,500 for a dance performance. Rehearsals range from $1,500 to $2,500. Steve Grober, the center's booking manager, said the costs covered space, equipment, rent and labor.
Although these fees have driven some arts organizations to seek performance space elsewhere, Mr. Beach has maintained that the fees are necessary to keep the four-theater complex in business. The center presents its own wide range of programs, is available to students in the college's music, dance and theater divisions and can be rented by other groups on remaining dates.
At any given time, however, one or more of the theaters is dark, and Mr. Beach has sought to enliven the campus by inviting such groups as the New York City Ballet and the Bill T. Jones and Paul Taylor Dance Companies to exchange rehearsal time for residency programs. The center has also has a partnership with the Night Kitchen, a children's theater company. "My job is to be a resource for the students here and provide them with models of excellence," Mr. Beach said.
The American Ballet Theater will assume its presence here almost immediately as it prepares for "The Nutcracker," which will be presented in the center's Concert Hall from Dec. 12 through 24. The production, staged by Mr. McKenzie, follows a libretto by Wendy Wasserstein and features costumes by Theoni V. Aldredge.
 
Strong Relationships
 Students in the dance division will present their own version of "The Nutcracker" earlier in December, which somewhat worries Ms. Walker. It will be "an interesting juggling problem" to arrange rehearsal space for both productions and "to get both 'Nutcrackers' up and sold," she said. The college's production, which attracts many schoolchildren each year, uses professional dancers for some solos as well as members of the SUNY Youth Ballet a program of the division of continuing education of Purchase College.
In discussing plans for future partnerships with other groups, Mr. Lacy said talks were also proceeding well with the New York Philharmonic, which is in the market for a summer home. "We're next door to a reservoir of talent and should try to make those bridges," he said.
The president compared the current art scene, hard hit by financial cutbacks and often attacked by conservatives, to a foxhole where organizations can shelter each other. "Strong friendships are formed in foxholes under fire," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE (SUNY) AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (94%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE (SUNY) AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (94%); AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (94%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: DANCING STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); BALLET (90%); DANCERS (90%); DANCE (90%); DANCE EDUCATION (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); THEATER (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



545 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 11; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 977 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street;
Trouble for Soros-Reichmann Team

BYLINE: By Leslie Eaton 

 BODY:
WHEN George Soros and Paul Reichmann teamed up last year to run a real-estate fund, they raised some eyebrows -- and a lot of hopes. Mr. Soros, after all, was the man with the golden touch, the trader who in 1992 made more than $1 billion by betting against Europe's central banks.
Mr. Reichmann, on the other hand, was the visionary who led Olympia & York into bankruptcy, the real-estate mogul whose empire collapsed under the weight of its grandiose Canary Wharf development in London. Wits joked that next Mr. Soros would hire Michael Milken to run a bond fund. 
 But the partnership was also widely hailed as a sign that commercial real-estate might be recovering from the brutal bear market that followed the overbuilding of the 1980's. If an investor as canny as Mr. Soros was swooping in to snap up office buildings, maybe there was hope even for all those "transparent towers," glass-walled structures that have never attracted tenants.
Recently, however, there have been signs that sailing has not been smooth for the $525 million Quantum Realty Trust, named after Mr. Soros's flagship Quantum Fund. (Neither fund is open to American investors.)
Mr. Reichmann is no longer involved in Quantum Realty's daily operations, though he remains "non-executive chairman" of the fund's manager, Reichmann International, which has had three chief executives in as many months. "Everybody's buzzing about it," said one real-estate executive.
And investors may have soured on the realty fund. Its share price, which is set by a dealer in London, has tumbled more than 22 percent from its peak in early January, far more than the British stock market's 12 percent decline in the same stretch. Mr. Soros's funds are not listed on stock exchanges, but are bought and sold by a small group of friendly dealers.
Even more surprising, perhaps, is that Quantum Realty's London dealer, Edgar Astaire & Company, is bidding less for the shares than Quantum Realty says they are worth based on the value of the fund's holdings. Last week, for example, the fund's net asset value was reported as about $135 a share, but the dealer bid just $121, a 10 percent discount.
Matthew Wilson, head of finance and administration for Edgar Astaire, said that Quantum Realty was trading at a discount "because it is in real estate; most real estate companies trade at a discount to their net assets." And in fact, the Soros fund for British real estate is trading at a similar discount.
But Mr. Soros's funds are famous for trading at a steep premium to the value of their holdings; the flagship Quantum Fund itself, which takes big bets in stocks, bonds, and currencies, maintained a double-digit premium even after Mr. Soros acknowledged he lost $600 million on Feb. 14 because of a bad bet on the yen.
And until recently, Quantum Realty had followed that pattern, generally trading at a premium, sometimes a very large one (in June 1993, that premium topped 18 percent). At worst, in September 1993, the dealer's bid had briefly hovered just below net asset value. But since May, the bid has been sinking steadily, while the net asset value has remained fairly steady.
Quantum Realty's recent discount "is a significant event in the way the whole empire functions," said the head of a large money management firm. "It's the first sign of any problems."
The new head of Quantum Realty's manager, Vernon Schwartz, acknowledged that to outsiders, Reichmann International might have looked like it was in some turmoil, but said the succession of executives "was not as disorganized as it appeared." He took over on Sept. 1, replacing Evan Marks, who runs G. Soros Realty, which manages Mr. Soros's real estate holdings. Mr. Marks took over from Mr. Reichmann on July 1.
As for the rumors that Mr. Soros and Mr. Reichmann have had a falling out, Mr. Schwartz said he had head them but declined to comment. "Now, if it wasn't in the past, Reichmann International is very focused on its game plan of continuing to actively manage Quantum Realty," he said. "Hopefully the fund's trading pattern will reflect that," he said, noting that he does not consider a 10 percent discount to be steep.
Mr. Schwartz is regarded as a longtime ally of Mr. Reichmann, who called Mr. Schwartz "one of the top executives in the real-estate development field today" when he hired him in May to head the other Soros/ Reichmann joint venture, a partnership that is building several large projects in Mexico. Mr. Schwartz was previously the president of Catellus Development in California, but left earlier this year under pressure from the board of directors led by Calpers, the state pension fund. Some analysts say that the board used Mr. Schwartz as a scapegoat, when the real problem was California's economic downturn.
Some of Quantum Realty's troubles may stem from investors doubts about how fast commercial real estate will rebound. It hasn't done so yet; the fund itself values its assets at about the same level as a year ago. This suggests that there may have been some truth in the Wall Street whispers that the fund did not get much of a bargain last year when it made its main purchase, a group of commercial properties it bought from the Travelers Corporation. The properties, including office buildings, shopping centers, hotels and some rental apartment buildings, mostly in the Southeast and Midwest, cost Quantum Realty $634 million.
Mr. Soros continues to say that he prefers real assets, as opposed to financial assets like stocks and bonds. Quantum Realty still has $370 million that it plans to invest in real estate; because the fund can use leverage, its purchases could reach $1 billion, Mr. Schwartz said. "In real estate, one must always be careful not to generalize, but overall we're very bullish," he added. "Sophisticated investors can still find values."

GRAPHIC: Graph showing net asset value of Quantum Realty Trust from Jan. from Sept. (Source: Edgar Astaire & Company)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

COMPANY: QUANTUM REALTY TRUST; REICHMANN INTERNATIONAL LP CANARY WHARF GROUP PLC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUANTUM REALTY TRUST; REICHMANN INTERNATIONAL LP

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (57%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (88%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); BONDS (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); BOND FUNDS (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (73%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXECUTIVES (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (57%); 

PERSON: EATON, LESLIE; SOROS, GEORGE; REICHMANN, PAUL GEORGE SOROS (93%); MICHAEL MILKEN (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



546 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1469 words

HEADLINE: Business Diary: September 18-23

BYLINE: By Hubert B. Herring 

 BODY:

COMAPNIES
 
For Northrop Grumman Workers, the Bad News Gets Very Specific
It's no surprise, really. The country is laying down its weapons -- well, except in Haiti -- and that's putting a lot of people out of work. And when Northrop swallowed Grumman earlier this year, everyone knew that spelled more sizable job cuts. But still, when the big shoe dropped last week, the numbers were stark: Northrop Grumman, as it's now known, is reducing its work force by 8,650, or more than 18 percent, by the end of 1995. That's a "healthy response" to Pentagon cutbacks, said one consultant. But don't talk about health on, say, Long Island. In 1986, Grumman gave out 25,000 paychecks there, making it Long Island's largest private employer; those days are already history, of course, but the payroll will soon shrivel even more, to 3,800. The bulk of the latest layoffs, though, will come in California -- 4,150 of them. And that comes just after word that GM Hughes would lay off 4,400. 

A Judge With a View?
Yes, Federated is closing six stores in the New York area as a prelude to merging with Macy's (it said so last week), but let's get to the important stuff: parades and fireworks. At a recent hearing, it seems, the bankruptcy judge, Burton Lifland, put great weight on keeping the Thanksgiving parade, and the fireworks -- on, he clearly specified, the East Side. He did make a compelling case: "More of the populace of New York can view the fireworks from the East Side." But in what is surely a judicial coincidence, he also has a compelling address: It's on East 53d Street.
 
Hafts: Keeping the Courts Busy
Most people wouldn't expect to get $34 million for losing a job unfairly, but then again most people aren't named Haft -- and aren't in the Hafts' tax bracket. Last week a Federal jury awarded that sum to Robert Haft, ruling that his father, Herbert, had wrongfully dismissed him last year. It was one of the biggest such awards ever. Of course, Robert's suit was just a drop in this family's legal bucket. The Hafts surely stand alone in the amount they sue one another. "I haven't even tried to count" the suits, one lawyer said. The lawyers are adding up the family legal fees, though -- $10 million and counting. One wonders if any family pets have been sued for misbehavior.
 
Did Disney Step on a Thorn?
Michael Eisner may be discovering just how valuable Jeffrey Katzenberg was. The two men built Disney into an entertainment colossus, a success story that keeps roaring as "The Lion King" heads further into record territory. But by all accounts, things have not gone well at Disney in the weeks since Mr. Eisner declined to give Mr. Katzenberg the No. 2 job. Some projects have been delayed, others discarded. Some Hollywood types, in fact, describe the cash-cow studio as paralyzed. Did this have to happen? Did Mr. Eisner see Mr. Katzenberg as a threat? He denies it. But there are some interesting footnotes: Animators wanted to give Mr. Katzenberg a farewell party; Mr. Eisner said no. And Mr. Katzenberg is no longer welcome at the London premiere of "The Lion King."
 
Kazarian's New-Age Finance
The takeover game isn't what it used to be. Now it's more like Donald Trump meets Yoda, or Zen and the Art of the Deal. Just look: Paul Kazarian says he should take charge at Borden, not Kohlberg, Kravis, and last week he lashed out at Borden for snubbing him. But what, exactly, has he offered? He talks of a deal valuing Borden shares at $16 to $18 (vs. $14.25 in the Kohlberg, Kravis offer), but gives no clue about financing. What he offers plenty of is Quotations from Chairman Paul -- like "Wear out the soles of your shoes before the seat of your pants" and a paean to his management philosophy of "Dynamic Tension." Hmmm. Didn't the folks who ousted him from Sunbeam-Oster have slightly less printable words for it?
 
Geritol Feels Peppy (Really!)
With apologies to 'enry 'iggins, it often seems that advertisers don't care what people say about their product as long as they pronounce it properly. And as "Quiz Show" came to your local sprawliplex last week, lots of unkind things were being said about Geritol, which as sponsor of a rigged game show is portrayed as a clear co-culprit in the affair. But Geritol is still around, as a "multivitamin for a female target" (such delightful marketing-ese; it sounds like a National Rifle Association slogan). And lo and behold, Geritol -- with new ad spots and consumer surveys -- is rushing to capitalize on its newfound infamy, to "seize the opportunity." Given Geritol's vanishing act since the days of "iron-poor blood," "they'll take any mention they can get," said a marketing consultant.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
The Open Road? Not in China
In China, an irresistible force is about to crash into an immovable body -- without seat belts. That force can be defined quite simply: as the Chinese enjoy steadily higher living standards, they want the goodies the rest of the world has. Like cars. And the Government is obliging, making ambitious plans to double China's car output -- with the focus on a "people's car," a compact sedan for the masses. Now no one wants to deny the people this badge of world citizenship, but many experts -- from East and West -- are saying, Hold it! With 1.2 billion Chinese, this isn't going to work. "Insane," said one. Not enough oil. Not enough roads. China's cities are plagued by gridlock already. Air pollution. But when Mao's grandson dreams of owning a car . . .

Tough Talk on Trade
President Clinton is talking tough on trade again, vowing last week that if Japan does not agree by this Friday to pry open its markets, the United States will impose trade sanctions. But a good part of this saber-rattling was surely for a congressional audience, for the President badly wants Capitol Hill approval of a new global free-trade accord, and legislators might be more willing to give it to him if they see him standing tall against Japan.
 
THE ECONOMY
 
Trade Data Jolt the Market
Just when the stock market had relaxed somewhat about inflation -- as measured by various price reports -- a different breed of goblin gave it a scare on Tuesday. The nation's trade deficit made a surprise jump to its second-highest level ever, and this so rattled the financial markets that the dollar came perilously close to its all-time low, and the Dow industrials started sinking. Then, to top it off, a computerized "sell" program barged in and sent stocks down even further, making the day's loss 67 points.
 
A New Tally of Smoking's Toll
A report out last week paints a picture of smoking's damage even starker than what's appeared so far. Here's a sampling of the statistics from the report, an extensive study of data going back to 1950: worldwide, smoking kills three million people a year, or one every 10 seconds. By 2020, if current trends continue, that will hit 10 million a year. And about half a billion people now alive will one day die from smoking. It's "the biggest epidemic of fatal disease in the world," said Sir Richard Doll of the Imperial Cancer Research Fund, adding, "I think it is immoral" that governments don't ban tobacco advertising.
 
And Pathmarks for Some
It's long been a frustrating urban fact: The rich get Pathmarks, the poor get bodegas. Supermarket chains often say it makes no economic sense to put stores in the inner city, which means those who can afford it the least wind up paying the most for their daily bread and bananas -- often 50 percent more (add that to a middle-class grocery bill and you'd hear some screams). But last week a nonprofit community group presumed to add a variable to this economic equation. The group, called the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, got $24 million from 10 big corporations -- like Prudential and Bank of America -- to help finance a Pathmark on 125th Street in East Harlem, as well as similar stores in poor neighborhoods nationwide.
 
Penn Station: Out of Its Hole?
You'd think that if Pat Moynihan and Al D'Amato agreed on something, it would be a shoo-in on Capitol Hill. But no -- you'd be forgetting that age-old Washington sport, New York-bashing. So at first last week it seemed that the House -- shocked! shocked! that Federal money would go to a pet local project -- would block any more money for a new Penn Station in the old Eighth Avenue Post Office. The project is dear to the hearts of New York's two Senators, as well as countless others disgusted with that "hole in the ground that is now Penn Station," as Mr. Moynihan described it -- the nation's busiest station, by the way, with 75 million passengers a year. But House and Senate negotiators finally agreed to retain $40 million for the project, enough to get it going.

GRAPHIC: Photos: In "Quiz Show," Geritol is reborn. (Hollywood Pictures); Disney isn't purring these days. (Walt Disney Pictures); On 125th Street, not just bodegas. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times); Coming to the Post Office: Trains? (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NOC (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (85%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (85%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (85%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (85%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (85%); 

COUNTRY: HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

COMPANY: NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (85%); NEW YORK (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (92%); UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%); 

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); DISMISSALS (89%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); WRONGFUL TERMINATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); VERDICTS (71%); LAWYERS (71%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (71%); JUDGES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); LITIGATION (66%); JURY TRIALS (66%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (66%); DAMAGES (65%); PARADES & MARCHES (65%); THANKSGIVING (65%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (50%); 

PERSON: JEFFREY KATZENBERG (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



547 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 10; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 923 words

HEADLINE: Welcome Back to Market

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

 BODY:
SHUNNED by American politicians and consumers for almost a decade, South African exporters are trying to re-enter the United States, a market that was off-limits to many of them until sanctions began evaporating in recent years.
Now the exporters are even hoping that the label that once repelled American shoppers, "Made in South Africa," will have cachet. Last week more than 120 South African companies brought their products to New York in what the South African officials described as the biggest trade exhibition they had ever organized. 
 "South Africa is the flavor of the month," said Martin Pamensky, whose company, Stanmar International in Markham, Ontario, distributes Ceres fruit juices from South Africa. "People are willing to try us, and we want to take full advantage of that."
Businessmen like Mr. Pamensky hope that the good will generated by South Africa's political transition crowned by Nelson Mandela's election as President in April may draw American consumers to South African goods. They are also counting on curiosity among Americans about items, once forbidden, like a bottle of South African wine.
Most of the exhibitors at the trade fair in the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center were long-established white-run South African businesses. But among the handful of black South African business people who were there, some said they were counting on the goodwill they sensed among African-American importers they have dealt with.
"We're looking to Americans, especially black Americans, for help," said Hubert R. Matthews of the Macassar Small Business Forum, a cooperative venture that sells shoes and leather goods made in Macassar, a small township near Cape Town. "I'm selling not a product only, but a country."
One prospective customer, Mary Dowd, an African-American boutique owner from Durham, N.C., said she found Mr. Matthews's approach, and his products, appealing.
"I like the softness of the leather," Ms. Dowd said, as she fingered a pair of shoes on display in Mr. Matthews's booth.
With a nod to a cultural tie she feels, she added: "He's giving me more than a shoe. There's something extra."
Not everyone will have such an easy sell. South Africa's Trade Minister, Trevor Manuel, acknowledged that American investment in his country has been limited.
"After burning their fingers in the past, investors are cautious," Mr. Manuel said. "But some signals are positive. We will be attacking the U.S. market vigorously."
CERES FRUIT JUICES, for example, is expecting to go from zero to $20 million in sales in the coming year, with its guava, lichee and mango juices aimed at a niche market in Hispanic and Asian communities, Mr. Pamensky said.
Although Ceres juices were sold in the United States before sanctions took hold in the 1980's, re-entering the market is like starting over, Mr. Pamensky said, including having to meet strict new requirements set by the Food and Drug Administration. In South Africa, Ceres controls 95 percent of the domestic market for pure fruit juices.
Leather goods, jewelry and processed foods are among other exports that South African trade officials say they believe can sell well here, and help ease their country's current annual trade deficit of $350 million with the United States. American imports from South Africa reached $1.8 billion last year, and officials expect that figure to grow.
"It's very clear that there is a window of opportunity," said Wallace L. Ford II, a New York-based lawyer who advises the South African Government on attracting investment and trade. "Two years from now, it may not be the same."
Mr. Ford acknowledged that it is too early to detect any noticeable surge in South African exports to the United States. While the South African Government welcomes investment from African-Americans, he said, they do not want to limit themselves to any sector of the American market or offer better terms to any particular group.
THE South Africans are getting some support from the Federal and municipal governments here.
Secretary of Commerce Ronald H. Brown called South Africa one of ten "big emerging markets" of opportunity for American businesses, and set up a joint business council with Mr. Manuel this week in Washington to encourage investment and trade in both directions.
"We ought to play a significant role in economic development there," Mr. Brown said. "It's in our interest to do so."
In New York, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani announced the establishment of a sister-city relationship with Johannesburg on the same day the trade fair opened.
"Just as enthusiastic as they were with sanctions, just so enthusiastic are they now to help out," said Len van Zyl, chief executive of the South African Foreign Trade Organization.
But South African exporters seem well aware that consistent sales are built less on political acceptance than on more quality and value for money.
Andre van der Walt, a distributor of South African wine, wants to try to duplicate the sales his wines have won in Europe, especially in the $5- to $15-a-bottle range.
"The market is bigger here, but we're starting at ground zero," said Mr. van der Walt.
Ken Onish of Cape Ventures Company in Stamford, Conn., an importer and distributor of wine from South Africa, hopes to carve out a niche for Pinotage, a South African favorite that was made by crossing a pinot noir grape with a cinsault in the mid-1920's.
"When you're the last in, you've got to have dramatically good value to win customers," Mr. Onish said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Hubert R. Matthews showing shoes at the South African trade fair in New York. (Photographs by Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (57%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); 

CITY: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: SOUTH AFRICAN BANK OF ATHENS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN EXPRESS AIRWAYS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN STEVEDORES LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BELTING LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BIAS METALS & PLASTICS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN PETROLEUM INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN RAIL COMMUTER CORP (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FINE WORSTEDS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN MOTOR CORP LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN RESERVE BANK (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN NATIONAL LIFE ASSURANCE CO (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN INSURANCE ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CLOTHING INDUSTRIES (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN SUGAR ASSOCIATION (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN EAGLE INSURANCE CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN HOSIERY CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BANK NOTE CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRUGGISTS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN MICRO-ELECTRONIC SYSTEMS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CUT GLASS MANUFACTURING PTY LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN NYLON SPINNERS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN PRESERVING LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BROADCASTING CORP (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN DRIED FRUIT CO-OPERATIVE LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FORESTRY CO LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN TIOXIDE LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN BREWERIES LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN CAP MANUFACTURERS LTD (92%); SOUTH AFRICAN FLOCK LTD (92%); CERES FRUIT JUICES LTD (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH AFRICA; NEW YORK CITY; SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); CANADA (57%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (57%); CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DURHAM, NC, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; SANCTIONS (ECONOMIC); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS TRADE SHOWS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); POLITICS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); FRUIT & JUICE DRINKS (89%); RETAILERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



548 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: FLUSHING;
Chinese Cuisine As Smogasbord For the Intellect

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER 

 BODY:
There were burning questions about peanut oil. Should you really be using it? (yes) and how much? (enough).
There was a long debate on just how hot is hot when it comes to heating a wok. (Until it steams, it was revealed, although most cookbooks won't say so, because editors fear liability suits that could result from a kitchen that burns to the ground.) 
 These and other matters of Chinese cuisine were topics at the International Symposium on All Aspects of the Influence of the American Palate on Chinese Food, a three-day event last week at Queens College in conjunction with the colleges' Home Economic Department and Asian American Center, and the Institute for the Advancement of the Science and Art of Chinese Cuisine, which is in Manhattan.
Flushing, home to arguably the largest slice of the Asian diaspora in New York, seemed to be the natural setting for such an event, which drew anthropologists, nutritionists, chefs, sociologists and a curator who happens to have a collection of more than 1,000 Chinese takeout menus.
From Thursday to Saturday they sipped green tea, noshed on dim sum and mulled over the preparation, cultural significance and notable trends in what the symposium director, Jacqueline M. Newman, called the food that "a quarter of the world's population is eating at any given time."
Central to the symposium was the notion that American eating habits have influenced the preparation and form of Chinese food, for better (the addition of asparagus, not native to China) or worse (the chow mein sandwich). There were many and varied discussions about the American obsession with fat intake and how Chinese food rates (not as fatty as was stated in a recent study, the organizers maintained).
Some discussion topics included "Chinese-Vietnamese foods and food habits in Oregon," "MSG syndrome: realities and reason," and simply "chopsticks," a discussion of the social function of one of the oldest eating utensiles around.
One of the more popular panels was Jews and Their Passion for Chinese Food. The panelists included Prof. Harry G. Levine of Queens College, who referred to the heavily Jewish Upper West Side as Sichaun Valley. His hypothesis, he explained, was that the affinity was born on the Lower East Side, where, in the early 20th century, both Eastern European Jews and Chinese immigrants found a toehold in America.
While second- and third-generation Jews eat Chinese out, observed Norman Weinstein, another panelist, fourth- and fifth-generation Jews have taken to cooking Chinese foods. Mr. Weinstein, the program said, owns the Hot Wok in Brooklyn.
The symposium's keynote speaker, Ken Hom -- a cookbook writer, television program host and celebrated expert on Chinese food -- spoke at length about the influence of Hong Kong-style cuisine, which he described as the next global food wave.
The foods of Hong Kong, where Mr. Hom said 42,000 eating establishments thrive, are distinct in their preparations and ingredients, he said. Many rely on exotic wild game -- Anyone for bear paw? Try the left one. It's the one they lick, and is thus more tender -- imported foods, and lighter oils. And he said perceptions of Chinese food as unhealthy were due largely to those who cook with too much oil and the American passion for large portions of meat.
While Chinese restaurateurs have pleased palates from Jakarta to Jackson Heights, it was equally clear that some Chinese habits would not soon catch on in the United States: roasted goose wings won't be replacing popcorn at the movies any time soon. JENNIFER STEINHAUER

GRAPHIC: Photo: Joe Sing and Jacqueline Newman, after discussing Chinese food and American taste. (Tom McGovern for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: QUEENS COLLEGE (CUNY) QUEENS COLLEGE (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: QUEENS COLLEGE (CUNY) QUEENS COLLEGE (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FOOD HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (89%); NUTRITION (88%); WRITERS (77%); ASIAN AMERICANS (76%); SOCIOLOGY (74%); OILS & FATS (73%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (72%); TRENDS (71%); DIETITIANS & NUTRITIONISTS (70%); IMMIGRATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (60%); 

PERSON: STEINHAUER, JENNIFER NORMAN WEINSTEIN (66%); KEN HOM (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



549 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 7; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: The Executive Computer;
In the On-Line Market, the Name of the Game Is Internet

BYLINE: By Laurie Flynn 

 BODY:
AS the largest and oldest of the commercial on-line computer services, Compuserve Inc.'s Compuserve Information Service is like a staid reading room compared with a growing assortment of younger and flashier cyberspace hangouts like Prodigy Services and America Online. But with membership at 2.25 million, and growing at 80,000 a month, Compuserve, is still the place to be for many modem users.
Compuserve, founded in 1979, offers a broad range of general-interest services like news from The Associated Press, Roger Ebert's movie reviews and the deliberately misspelled Eaasy Sabre airline ticketing service. 
 But Compuserve carries many services intended for business computer users, like product-support forums by computer makers and software companies, which have become the first place many users look for advice in solving technical problems or to get the latest "bug fix." Compuserve's copious statistical databases and archives, moreover, attract serious researchers, despite the relatively high prices for accessing documents.
But like all commercial on-line services, Compuserve now faces a serious challenge from the immense popularity of the global web of networks known as the Internet. The fastest growth on the Internet appears to be coming from corporations that see it as a way to communicate with their customers and suppliers. It is the type of service that Compuserve has long provided through its Network Services Division to customers like Nike, Federal Express, Harley-Davidson and British Airways. Nike, the athletic shoe maker based in Beaverton, Ore., uses the Compuserve network to communicate with its salespeople in the field.
Given the changing landscape, the question for Compuserve is: How does one compete with the Internet, a network 10 times Compuserve's size with resources that in many cases are virtually free for the taking?
The answer appears to be, if you can't beat 'em, join 'em. Last week, Compuserve, a division of H & R Block based in Columbus, Ohio, announced it had acquired an equity stake in a tiny Utah start-up called Network Publishing Inc. as a way to help kick-start Compuserve's Internet business.
The idea behind the investment, says Compuserve's director of product marketing, James Hogan, is to provide a service for corporations that want to have a presence on the Internet but would rather not do the administrative work themselves. Compuserve intends to help these corporate clients set up shop on an easy-to-navigate portion of the Internet known as the World Wide Web.
"A lot of those companies building their own Web sites are telling us they don't want to take on the expense -- that they're more interested in outsourcing it," Mr. Hogan said.
Mary Modahl, senior analyst of people and technology strategies at Forrester Research in Cambridge, Mass., said that providing Internet services is a necessary evolution for Compuserve. "Previously, they could go to corporate clients and say they could set up a corporate application on Compuserve," Ms. Modahl said. "Now, they can set up a corporate application on the Internet. That has a certain cachet and value."
Currently, Compuserve Inc. is divided into two entities: the Compuserve Network Services Division, a network consulting and services business, and the Compuserve Information Service, the on-line service.
It could be that the Internet service business someday becomes a third division, Mr. Hogan said. Sometime next spring, Compuserve intends to begin offering Internet access to the public, as a business separate from the Compuserve on-line service. In this regard it would be competing with established Internet access providers like Netcom On-Line Communications Services of San Jose, Calif. Some observers predict that providing Internet access could eventually become Compuserve's main business, as its consumer service finds itself increasingly squeezed out by the Internet.
"I think Compuserve as a business is going to change very radically," said David Strom, a communications and networking consultant in Port Washington, N.Y. "It could be they're going to become a pipe, an access provider to the Internet, rather than a content provider."
But Compuserve, like other on-line services, says it will continue to find ways to differentiate its offerings from databases of similar information on the Internet, by providing better search tools, a more organized approach and better customer service.
Compuserve has just released a CD-ROM, to be updated bimonthly, that works with its consumer on-line service to add video clips and music to the service in a magazine-like format. In the first edition, for example, users can view a video clip from a Jimmy Buffett concert and then with a click of the mouse connect to the Compuserve on-line service where they can order the audio CD. All the on-line services are working to add multimedia.
"Compuserve has 15 years experience in organizing that data and making it easy for them to find it and grab it," Mr. Hogan said. "It's not just a user interface issue but how content is packaged."
Disclosure Inc., a publisher of financial data including documents from the Securities and Exchange Commission, is one example of a content provider trying to walk the line. Disclosure's databases are currently available on 35 commercial services including Compuserve. But Disclosure is currently testing the Internet waters and will eventually offer versions of some its products there, said William O'Connor, executive vice president of the database division at Disclosure, which is based in Bethesda, Md.
Some companies that have databases to sell are asking themselves "why don't we just skip the middle man, like Compuserve, and offer our products directly on the Internet?" But Mr. O'Connor doesn't see the private on-line services going away.
"There's going to have to be an adjustment," Mr. O'Connor said. "Just as the Internet will move more to value-added services, the rest of us will just keep moving ahead of it."
Today the Internet remains difficult to use and too slow for many operations, and for this reason many users would prefer to get their Internet connectivity through an on-line service like Compuserve that they may already be familiar with. Today, only about 10 percent of Internet users have a graphical searching tool -- a popular one is called Mosaic -- to simplify the network for them. By contrast, most of the commercial online services already sport a graphical front-end.
"The Internet is not necessarily the panacea people paint it to be," said Amanda Hixson, general manager of industry publishing for Infoworld, a computer publication in San Mateo, Calif., that publishes an electronic version on Apple Computer's E-World on-line service. "On the Internet we can put up our own server, but until everybody has access to it, it makes sense to provide Infoworld through the services that support the access people have. We need to support our readers by being where they are."
Still, Compuserve, like every on-line service, is finding it must open itself up to the Internet or risk losing customers. Already on Compuserve you can send electronic mail across the Internet (just as you can from an America Online account or from the Prodigy Service) and access the Internet bulletin boards known as Usenet newsgroups. In the coming months, Compuserve will add support for two standard Internet tools: Telnet, which allows users to log on to other computers on the Internet, and FTP,, which lets users upload and download files. Once all the pieces are in place, a customer should be able to move easily from Compuserve to the Internet and the other way around, and will even be able to use any of the Internet's graphical user interface programs like Mosaic.
While there's no question that Compuserve and the other on-line services are feeling the heat from the Internet, they'd all prefer to portray the changing market as more opportunity than threat. Yet Ms. Modahl of Forrester estimates there is only a 12-to-18 month window before most of the difficulties of delivering information on the Internet are gone, and with them much of the traditional market for today's on-line services.
A decade ago, "there was an opportunity for I.B.M. in the PC business but it certainly wasn't good for the I.B.M. mainframe," Ms. Modahl said. "The fact is, all the on-line services must change."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (58%); HRB (NYSE) (53%); FORR (NASDAQ) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (57%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%); NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (50%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); OREGON, USA (78%); 

CITY: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: COMPUSERVE INC; NETWORK PUBLISHING INC COMPUSERVE INTERACTIVE SERVICES INC (94%); AOL INC (58%); BRITISH AIRWAYS PLC (57%); H & R BLOCK INC (53%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPUSERVE INC; NETWORK PUBLISHING INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); OHIO, USA (78%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (78%); OREGON, USA (78%); COLUMBUS, OH, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC INFORMATION SYSTEMS; INTERNET (COMPUTER NETWORK); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES COMPUTER NETWORKS (90%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTER MAKERS (78%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (74%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); TICKET AGENCIES (70%); ATHLETIC FOOTWEAR MFG (69%); FOOTWEAR MFG (69%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (69%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); MOVIE REVIEWS (56%); 

PERSON: FLYNN, LAURIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



550 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 3; Page 8; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: Technology;
Shrink Wrap Goes Really Big Time

BYLINE: By MICHAEL QUINT 

 BODY:
IT is the hurricane season, when an insurance agent's fretfulness turns to thoughts of roofless houses filling with rain.
For insurance companies, protecting storm-damaged homes from rain can save billions of dollars in additional claims for walls, floors and furnishings destroyed by water. 
 It is a powerful incentive that is now pushing insurers to make new arrangements for quick, temporary covering of storm-damaged homes, and even to adopt new technology and materials.
An entrepreneur who hopes to capitalize on the impulse is Anthony Seraphin, the 49-year-old president of Global Wrap and Services, a nine-month-old company based in Chalfont, Pa.
Mr. Seraphin, it seems, is a shrink-wrap specialist, having started out in 1981 wrapping small pleasure boats for winter storage.
He moved on to building small temporary shelters for storage or protection from the elements, and wrapping larger, more irregularly shaped objects like moth-balled military aircraft and new industrial equipment that needed protection in transit.
Now, in starting Global Wrap and Services, Mr. Seraphin wants to apply his techniques to wrapping houses -- from chimneys and dormer windows down to the foundation.
Rather than soliciting individual homeowners, he is trying to reach large numbers by arranging with their insurance companies to provide his services after natural disasters.
"For a while, I was getting nowhere with the insurance companies," Mr. Seraphin said. "But now, several are talking like they are real interested."
The first big contract could come in Florida, where the state insurance department is pushing companies to cooperate with one another and make advance arrangements with contractors to handle temporary repairs of any home damaged by a hurricane, regardless of the home owner's insurance company.
"Global Wrap could be the perfect kind of partner for us and could have responsibility for handling several neighborhoods," said Marty Urra, chief executive of Smart, a Miami disaster-services company selected by Florida officials to coordinate disaster responses of insurance companies, contractors and the Federal and local governments.
Although Mr. Seraphin's techniques cost more than the standard practices of boarding up windows and covering roofs with tarpaulins, Mr. Urra said the higher protection from wrapping a house could appeal to wealthier homeowners.
Because Mr. Seraphin uses sheets of plastic seven-thousandths of an inch thick, or four times the thickness or ordinary household trash bags, it is far stronger than the thinner plastic sheets typically sold in the neighborhood hardware store.
The thick plastic, which he buys in 32-foot-wide rolls from various suppliers, does not include recycled materials, which Mr. Seraphin says makes it less likely to tear or rip. Buckles and cables are used to attach the plastic to a home, and then a hand-held flame thrower is used to shrink the plastic wrap and make it as taut as a drum.
Insurance companies have long had contigency plans for disasters, with warehouses full of cots, stepladders and cellular phones, plus emergency procedures to summon hundreds of claims adjusters to a disaster scene.
But what they have lacked is a method to quickly and economically seal-up damaged homes to protect against further destruction.
Immediately after Hurricane Andrew in August 1992, for example, homeowners lucky enough to still have a structure worth protecting were left to make their own arrangements for stop-gap temporary repairs, like boarding up windows and spreading tarpaulines over damaged roofs.
Those who were unable or unwilling to meet the often exorbitant cash demands of construction crews simply had to wait for their insurance claims adjuster.
Meanwhile, homes with relatively minor damage to roofs and windows became giant sponges, soaking up rain until the interior walls, as well as all furnishings, had to be replaced. Insurance companies say that about half of the average claim from Hurricane Andrew was caused by the days of steady rain that followed the damaging winds.
Raymond L. Stone, director of catastrophe claims at Travelers Insurance said sealing an home with plastic wrap "is an intriguing idea we are talking about" as Travelers cooperates with efforts in Florida to coordinate temporary repairs.
Mr. Seraphin said the idea of wrapping homes came to him while he listened to Pink Floyd and watched television reports of earthquake damage in Armenia in 1988.
With help from Union Carbide, a manufacturer of the material used to make the plastic sheet, Mr. Seraphin built temporary shelters in Armenia -- and again in Iran after an earthquake a few years later.
With that practical experience under his belt, Mr. Seraphin exudes confidence about the use of his wrapping techniques -- whether for disasters or any type of big wrapping job.
"If Christo and I ever got together, I would say, 'Look out.' We would be wrapping things bigger than the Pont Neuf," he said, referring to the conceptual artist Christo, who once wrapped the famous bridge in Paris, and is now planning to wrap the Reichstag in Berlin.
In the more mundane world of disaster recovery, Mr. Seraphin envisions crews of workers methodically moving down a row of homes, spreading 32-foot-wide sheets of plastic, strapping it to the building and heat-fusing seams, while leaving openings for ventilation and access to the interior.
The materials would cost about $73 a home, and a crew could finish an entire house in about an hour.
"It could be sort of like Henry Ford's assembly line," Mr. Seraphin said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Anthony Seraphin with one of his products, a shelter. (Harvey Finkle for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (92%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GLOBAL WRAP & SERVICE (CO) GLOBAL WRAP&SERVICES (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: GLOBAL WRAP & SERVICE (CO)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DISASTERS; INSURANCE; HOME REPAIRS INSURANCE (93%); WEATHER (90%); HURRICANES (89%); PLASTIC FILM SHEETS & BAGS (86%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HOMEOWNERS INSURANCE (78%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (78%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (77%); INSURANCE REGULATORY BODIES (73%); INSURANCE COMMISSIONS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (69%); RECREATIONAL WATERCRAFT (54%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (53%); 

PERSON: QUINT, MICHAEL; SERAPHIN, ANTHONY ANTHONY SERAPHIN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



551 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 3; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 378 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: EAST VILLAGE;
The New Money: Patient and Realistic

BYLINE: By RANDY KENNEDY 

 BODY:
In the late 1980's, speculation bottomed out around Tompkins Square Park, and the commercial investors that had hoped for million-dollar profits fled in droves. But Alex Lokshin saw the future.
"We believed that, no matter what, Avenue A was going to eventually become the heart of the East Village," said Mr. Lokshin, who, along with his brother and three other investors bought 10 properties near the avenue. 
 In July, the partners broke ground on their largest project to date, the $5 million East Village Gardens: 14,000 square feet of retail space in the basement and first floor, 28 luxury apartments upstairs at Third Street. It's the only new construction in the East Village.
"We looked here even in the bad days and we saw the best night life, the most action anywhere," said Mr. Lukshin, who owns a Brooklyn-based construction concern. "And we knew that people would be willing to pay a lot to live here."
Their patience is paying off, they said. The market has supported 10 percent rent increases in some of their apartments during the past four months alone, with some of their small one-bedrooms on Avenue A renting for $1,250 a month.
The Lukshins are not the only investors who have begun to open their wallets again recently on Avenue A, after a spurt of condominium development and a storefront art gallery scene died out in the late 1980's because of the economy and poor conditions on the avenue.
Pinchas Milstein and Amnon Kahati, the partners who started the Sidewalk Cafe and Bar eight years ago at Seventh Street, helped open Pisces, at Sixth Street, in May 1993, serving grilled salmon at $13.50 in a dining room with a carved-wood ceiling and linen napkins. "We thought it was about time to bring a midtown restaurant to the East Village," said Nir Adar, another partner.
Up the avenue, just south of Ninth Street, three former waiters and an interior designer started Zitella, which serves California-style Italian food, in December, joining what they now see as "gourmet ghetto."
Mark Christiansen, 30, one of the partners and an Avenue A resident for several years, said, "To tell you the truth, I don't think we would have decided to open this up here, especially right across from the park, five years ago." R.K.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (58%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: AQUANTIVE INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (90%); RESTAURANTS (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); RETAIL PROPERTY (76%); RENTAL PROPERTY (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (76%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (75%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (74%); INTERIOR DECORATING (70%); RETAILERS (70%); 

PERSON: KENNEDY, RANDY; LOKSHIN, ALEX ALEX LOKSHIN (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



552 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 9; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 160 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPDATE;
Street Rebuilding Clears Another Hump

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
Along Main Street in downtown Flushing, shiny black traffic-light posts tower over old gray ones inches away. Within weeks, the black posts will be equipped with traffic lights and the shorter ones will be felled, signaling the end of phase two in the reconstruction of the streets of downtown Flushing.
The City Economic Development Corporation, which is overseeing the repairs, expects to start repaving the street within days. 
 The $7.4 million resurfacing of Main Street, in downtown's most heavily traveled stretch between Northern Boulevard and Sanford Avenue, has created heavy traffic jams for two years in an area served by 23 bus lines.
The first phase of the reconstruction, on Prince Street, was completed in 1989 at a cost of $3 million. The city Economic Development Corporation says the third phase, Union Street between Northern Boulevard and Sanford Avenue, will cost $8 million and start in the fall of 1995. NORIMITSU ONISHI

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CITY ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORP (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; FLUSHING (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STREETS VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (90%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (88%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (52%); 

PERSON: NORIMITSU ONISHI (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



553 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13; Page 4; Column 2; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: NEW YORKERS & CO.;
The Parking Angel, Saint of Patrons

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI 

 BODY:
THE Angel peered down the street, a red forest of expired parking meters, and saw the Agent at the end of it.
It was his nemesis, a slight, smileless man who could ticket more illegally parked cars in one breathless trip than other traffic enforcement agents could all day. "He goes back to his car after every trip," the Angel said. "He doesn't have much stamina. But, boy, the damage he does in one round." 
 Fumbling for some quarters, he hurriedly slipped one in a meter as the Agent whipped out a notepad and began scribbling tickets.
"In three minutes, he got three cars," said David Sober, the Parking Angel of the Chamber of Commerce in Forest Hills, Queens. "I guess I got three, too. But he had to write down a lot of information."
Mr. Sober was recalling a war story in one business community's fight against the recent but seemingly inexorable spread in New York City of shopping strips blessed with bountiful, and often free, parking. Even as Mayor Giuliani's administration ponders zoning law changes that would let in ever more suburban-like, car-oriented mega stores and discounters, many neighborhood businesses worry that drivers will abandon stores on streets that are saddled with metered and time-limited parking.
In Forest Hills two months ago, the local business association started tackling what it believes is the biggest turnoff to shopping in the area -- parking tickets. Jack Partamian, the chamber's president and the owner of a video store, said the group had long tried to persuade the city to extend the time limit on the one-hour meter parking on Austin Street between Ascan Avenue and 69th Road, as well as at the 30-minute parking on Continental Avenue. Kathleen H. Reilly, the local community board's district manager, said the eight-block area was home to about 250 small stores, mostly longtime tenants, though a few national chains, like the Gap and Benetton, have opened branches in recent years. Since their arrival, the neighborhood has grown busier and parking scarcer.
Mr. Partamian said: "People'd come in and do some shopping and get stuck in line, and, boom, they'd be late and get a $55 ticket. Who'd want to come back here after that?"
So after persuading two local landlords to donate $600 each and adding $600 of its own, the chamber hired Mr. Sober. Every day except Sunday, between 11 A.M. and 5 P.M., the Parking Angel travels the area, dropping quarters into meters that have expired or have only a minute left. On the windshield, instead of a ticket, he leaves a note that explains the program.
"With a lot of small stores closing, you can't wait for the economy to turn around," he said the other day. "You've got to take the initiative."
The hiring of the Parking Angel may be the most quixotic attempt to hold on to shoppers with cars. But several other communities are reacting to the megastores' perceived threat, especially in Queens and Brooklyn, where they are concentrated.
The shopping district in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, along Third and Fifth Avenues and 86th Street, has always felt vulnerable because of its proximity to the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge and the pull of four sprawling malls on nearby Staten Island and in New Jersey. But the arrival of several superstores in the borough prompted merchants to lobby for free parking.
Two years ago, after obtaining the city's agreement, merchants began offering customers vouchers for free parking at a local municipal parking garage. The program's initial success has waned somewhat because weekly costs of $500 caused one of the biggest participants to pull out, said John Logue, the president of the Voice of Bay Ridge Business, a local group. Nowadays, the group is weighing other possibilities, including pressing the city to turn Third and Fifth Avenues into one-way streets to accommodate more cars.
"It's unfair that the city offers all these megastores tax abatements when it's the mom-and-pop stores that have been the backbone of the community for years," Mr. Logue said. "We used to have to worry about New Jersey and Long Island. Now we have to compete against malls that are basically city-subsidized."
The City Planning Commission argues that because of the city's density and untapped disposable income, the large retailers will not jeopardize neighborhood businesses. Officials also say that small businesses have thrived for years against superstores a highway away.
"These stores are competing against the suburbs," said Barry Dinerstein, a senior planner with the commission who specializes in retailing. "They've been competing against them for 25 years. Parking has always been an issue for merchants on commercials strips."
Allan J. Fromberg, a spokesman for the City Department of Transportation, said that the point of meters was to provide turnover, not revenue, and that the effort to make the area car-friendlier may even be illegal. Feeding a meter to park past a posted limit is against the law, he said.
Back on the street, Mr. Sober deposited another quarter, one of the 40 to 50 a day. He marked the car's tire with chalk. "God's grace is limitless," the Parking Angel said. "But ours is limited to a quarter."
Having been given so much power, so suddenly, Mr. Sober can be forgiven for pronouncing moral judgments. A few weeks ago, he said, a driver waited inside a car until the Parking Angel was nearby and then left without putting a quarter into the meter. Mr. Sober was astounded, and became more so when he saw that the car was a 1994 Cadillac Seville. "I can't be bothered with that ilk," he said. "Women stuck in beauty parlors getting their hair done, O.K. Fathers picking up their daughters from ballet class, O.K."
Mr. Sober, 49, traces his moral authority to his college major, religious studies. After dropping out in the 1960's, he held a string of jobs until he returned to Fordham University a few years ago. He said he would like to keep this job until he finds one as a counselor. (Mr. Partamian, the chamber's president, said the program will keep running unless the financing runs out.)
It was a good day for Mr. Sober. So far, he had seen only two windshields with tickets, and his nemesis was nowhere near. Instead, one of the friendlier traffic enforcement agents was making the rounds. "I don't consider him my enemy or anything," said the agent, who declined to give her name.
Even the driver who had received one of the tickets was not too displeased. Inside the Elite Nails salon on Austin Street, Dawn Durso had looked helplessly as a traffic agent ticketed her Pontiac Grand Prix. As the manicurist painted her nails scarlet, Ms. Durso griped that a pedicure and manicure took far longer than an hour. But she brightened immediately when she saw Mr. Sober, who had saved her from a similar fate a week earlier.
"I do believe in angels. I have one tattooed on my leg," she said, lifting up her right cuff and revealing a cherub wrapped around her ankle.

GRAPHIC: Photo: David Sober, the Parking Angel, plunks a quarter into an expired meter. The lucky shopper gets a cheery explanatory flier instead of a parking ticket. A chalk mark helps Mr. Sober keep the 25-cent blessings one to a customer. (Photographs by Rebecca Cooney for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BRBC (NASDAQ) (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BAY RIDGE BANCORP INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FOREST HILLS (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ROADS AND TRAFFIC; PARKING; PARKING METERS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS PARKING OFFENSES (90%); RETAILERS (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (74%); ZONING (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); 

PERSON: ONISHI, NORIMITSU; SOBER, DAVID RUDY GIULIANI (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



554 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 1; Style Desk 

LENGTH: 930 words

HEADLINE: THE NIGHT;
It's a Fix-Up, Dress-Up, Button-Down World

BYLINE: By BOB MORRIS 

DATELINE: SOUTHAMPTON, L.I.

 BODY:
Many of the guests inspecting the mirrors on exhibit at the Parrish Art Museum's design biennial, benefit and auction on Sept. 17 couldn't help inspecting themselves as well. But they did so clandestinely.
During the cocktail hour, in bouts with the vice of vanity and with the expediency of the guilty sucking on cigarettes in stairwells, they snuck glimpses to check lipstick, lapels and bald spots. "It's very amusing," said Susan Soros, a co-chairwoman of the event and the director of the Bard Graduate Center for Studies in the Decorative Arts, where recently students have been studying Greek vases depicting women looking into mirrors. "Women go up to look at the frames, and they start fixing their hair," she said. 
 Ms. Soros, who is married to the financier George Soros, said she doesn't spend much time in front of her own mirror at home. "I get dressed in the morning in five minutes," she said, as she caught a friend checking herself in a fishbowl-shaped mirror. "You're looking at yourself!"
Robert Woolley, the director of decorative arts at Sotheby's, conducted the after-dinner auction of the artist-designed mirrors. "You all have a corner that needs something," he told the prospective bidders.
But if the face is the mirror of the mind, and speech is a mirror of the soul, then an art auction is a mirror of the economy, and even handsome mirrors by names like Richard Artschwager, Michael Graves and Christian Lacroix went for modest prices.
After the auction, the guests, including Sheila and Tom Wolfe (his last mirror of New York society was a bonfire), returned to the hall of mirrors, like so many Alices to the looking glass.
"I don't know where I'm going to put these," Beth Rudin DeWoody, another co-chairwoman of the event, said of mirrors by the artists Tom Otterness and Donald Baechler that she'd just acquired. "I don't have room in either of my houses."
Diane Kaplan, a museum member, seemed more excited about her acquisition, a Sylvia Plath-inspired bell-jar mirror by the artist Robert Dash. "Don't let people touch that," she told a guard. "I don't want fingerprints on it."
The guard nodded. "She's going to need a lot of Windex," he said as she walked away.
UPTOWN -- Don't mention the G-word around Rory Kennedy, who doesn't find the cloak of glamour easy to wear. Even at her own glamorous premiere screening, Ms. Kennedy, the youngest of Robert and Ethel Kennedy's 11 children and a 1991 graduate of Brown University who majored in women's studies, was doing her best to eschew frivolity.
"Making a documentary is expensive," Ms. Kennedy said in a no-nonsense tone from a rooftop garden at the Time & Life Building on Sept. 19, before the screening of "Women of Substance," the documentary she co-produced with Robin Smith about drug-addicted mothers. "It involves a painful amount of fund-raising."
Ms. Kennedy was in a rakish suit that a friend in the fashion business helped her borrow from Paul Smith Women but that she didn't want to discuss. She spoke of educational videos as a tool for the community good while the party filled up with those who are inclined to gather around many a cause for the community good, but perhaps more quickly when a Kennedy's attached to it.
"We provide this video at a low cost to organizations to use as a lobbying tool to help change policy," said Ms. Kennedy, whose politically idealistic train of thought was interrupted by a G-word type, the beautiful young actress Uma Thurman.
"Oh, look who's here!" Ms. Kennedy said.
"I flew in to see you," Ms. Thurman said as they hugged like schoolgirls. Ms. Thurman, slumming in a ratty overcoat of the nonmaterialist with a Hollywood income, admired Ms. Kennedy's dapper suit.
"Look at you!" she said. "It's your big night and your big photo session, Rory!"
A photographer took their picture. When Ms. Kennedy began to discuss her next documentary, about legal needle-exchange programs, she was interrupted again, first by her handsome brother Bobby and then by an administrator from the March of Dimes (a sponsor of the party), who said, "Excuse me, Rory, but did you know Joanne is here?" Joanne meant Joanne Woodward, who narrated the documentary.
Ms. Kennedy, 25, who seems to be learning at a young age how a little glamour can go a long way toward a good cause (even if she won't say so), started to work the crowd.
"Give us your best glamour smile," Patti Munter, the director of the National Organization on Fetal Alcohol Syndrome, told Ms. Kennedy, who ended up wearing borrowed Moschino for other screenings that week.
"Ugh," Ms. Kennedy said.
The G-word again.

 
 
Arthur Ashe, the Patrician
 "Arthur Ashe did not hang out," Alan King, the comedian and tennis buff, said on Sept. 19, before a screening of "Arthur Ashe: Citizen of the World," an HBO documentary about the late tennis star. Mr. King prefers saying he used to "spend time" with Mr. Ashe, whom he considered a friend.
"Arthur Ashe was a patrician," Mr. King said, as a crowd flooded into the Celeste Bartos Forum of the New York Public Library. "Arthur Ashe walking into a room quietly attracted attention. Arthur had a quiet style. He was the button-down guy of button-down guys."
He sipped his drink as the fog of memory cleared to reveal the telling details one tends to forget over time. "Actually, he did have some outfits he was being paid to endorse that were pretty loud," Mr. King said. "I'd tell him, 'Arthur, that outfit!' and he'd say to me, 'Alan, at these prices . . . ' "
Sometimes outfits speaks louder than words.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (74%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

COMPANY: PARRISH ART MUSEUM (SOUTHAMPTON, NY) CHRISTIAN LACROIX SNC (54%); CHRISTIAN LACROIX SNC (54%); CHRISTIAN LACROIX JAPAN (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARRISH ART MUSEUM (SOUTHAMPTON, NY)

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHAMPTON (NY); UNITED STATES (74%); NEW YORK, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: AUCTIONS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); WOMEN (89%); EVIDENCE (78%); VISUAL ARTS (78%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (75%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (70%); 

PERSON: GEORGE SOROS (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



555 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 1; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1404 words

HEADLINE: THE GAP;
Compromise Is American, Not Haitian

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti

 BODY:
THE thousands of American troops who landed in Haiti without resistance last week stepped straight from their airplanes, ships and helicopters into a conflict that bears no resemblance to the one for which they had trained.
They have been inserted into a society that has been at war with itself from the moment it became an independent state, and this makes them combatants in a struggle more complicated and perilous than an invasion. 
 At its core, the struggle is as simple and as hard to comprehend as this: The Haitian ruling classes have always viewed their country's poor as less than human. One of the Creole slogans associated with the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the champion of the poor whom President Clinton is trying to restore to Haiti's presidency, is "Tout moun se moun," or "every person is a person." To a G.I., this may sound innocuous. But to Haitian ears it has the ring of revolution.
 
Mission Impenetrable
This is one reason it is so hard to define just what the American soldiers are here to do. Gen. Henry H. Shelton, the commander of the American force, quickly proclaimed last week that "this is not an occupation force," but few Haitians believed him. The first sight of such formidably armed and equipped troops, pledged to bring Father Aristide back, brought the poor swarming out of their slums to applaud the Americans, certain they could now resume the process of social reform interrupted three years ago this week by the overthrow of their president.
More ominously, the elite that has run Haiti for most of the country's existence retreated behind the walls of its mansions in the cool hills of Petionville, above the fetid slums of Port-au-Prince, muttering darkly about betrayals and reprisals.
Therein lies the main danger for the more than 10,000 American soldiers and marines who have arrived so far. The accord allowing their "permissive entry," negotiated last Sunday by former President Jimmy Carter after two days of talks with Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, was a product of "the peculiarly American belief that all people are reasonable and you can always find common ground if you just look for it hard enough," one Latin American diplomat here said.
"But Haiti is not like that," the diplomat warned. "There are distinct visions here that simply cannot be reconciled and differences that cannot be bridged."
The gap between the classes, and American and Haitian views of the world, was made particularly vivid when a coconut vendor was beaten to death by police Tuesday as American troops, obeying orders, stood by. Had the incident not occurred in front of foreigners armed with cameras and guns, it would have gone unremarked here.
"They treat us like so much garbage," said Jean-Baptiste Polycarpe, a 35-year-old carpenter who moved to the sprawling slum called Cite Soleil eight years ago from the countryside, hoping to improve his life. "We are men too. But they do not see us. They do not care that we are hungry, that we have no work, that our children can get no medicine."
The Clinton Administration has repeatedly said that American troops are here not as part of a long-term nation-building effort, or to change Haiti's political and social culture, but on a limited mission to assure the "maintenance of a secure environment" for the return of the country's legitimate, popularly elected Government.
Yet to many Haitians, the whole point of restoring Father Aristide to power is to enable him to address those historic inequities.
"A lot of the things you Americans take for granted, when thought here are a revolution," said Suzy Castor, co-director of the Research and Training Center for Economic and Social Development, a private Haitian group. "People here are not asking for anything extraordinary, only the things that you have enjoyed since 1789, simple things: jobs, schools, lights, health care, water. For a peasant, a glass of clean water is a big thing."
Inevitably, the arrival of the American forces after three years of brutal repression has again awakened hope that those modest goals can be achieved. "We are not afraid of the Americans, because they are here to protect us from the devils," said Abner Jean, a 45-year-old vendor of chewing gum. "We are trying to welcome them here, but the police keep hitting us."
The inability or unwillingness of American military authorities to immediately control the Haitian security forces, which include hundreds of armed civilians acting like descendants of the Tontons Macoute (the secret police of the brutal Duvalier regime), baffled many Haitians. Under an occupation that is not an occupation after an invasion that was not an invasion, the extent of American authority was not clear, as it would have been had American troops come storming in, and the Haitian military and its civilian supporters moved rapidly to exploit every opening to make it appear they are allies and partners of the American troops.
 
False Assumptions
 At first, following the tone set by Gen. Colin L. Powell and other members of the Carter delegation, American military officials said they planned to treat General Cedras and his associates with "honor" and "respect," as if they were dealing with officers who shared their values and came from an institution much like their own.
But the 7,700 members of the Haitian military have been taught to see their role differently. As a policeman used his billy club to beat several people sitting on a wall one morning last week, an American reporter who had been talking with the group asked what he was doing.
"I'm doing my job," the policeman replied.
What exactly is your job, the reporter persisted.
"To intimidate the populace," the policeman responded, as he left in search of more people to pummel.
That type of routine official violence quickly forced the United States to toughen its attitude toward General Cedras and the forces he commands. On Thursday, the Haitian army's only heavy weapons unit was disarmed, its guns and armored vehicles seized and dismantled.
Some Haitians are convinced that the United States is pursuing a Trojan Horse strategy, waiting until all 14,000 troops are here before it cracks down on the military. But others have a different worry: that the Clinton Administration will merely tinker with an organization many wanted eliminated as a political force.
"Ours is an army of occupation, not a truly national army," said a prominent intellectual who is still afraid, despite the presence of American troops, to be identified by name. "The only things it really knows how to do are repress and exploit. I'm not saying there are no good soldiers, but the institution itself carries the stain of original sin, and while it exists, no government here can sustain itself. There has to be a clean break."
The Americans seemed to be taking much the same approach, many Haitians complain, toward other fundamentally flawed institutions, like the Parliament that the military's figurehead president, Emile Jonassaint, was trying to call into session in an effort to pass an amnesty for General Cedras and his associates. Throughout Haitian history, elected officials, from the President on down, have represented the will of those who have the money and influence to buy and sell seats and votes. That system, known as "politique de doublure," or "politics by understudies," has been one of the means by which the mulatto elite has controlled its black countrymen, and has survived every attack.
The United States has been down this road before, of course. American troops occupied this country from 1915 to 1934, withdrawing in frustration at Haitian opposition and their own failure to effect meaningful change. In an attempt to determine what went wrong, a Federal panel called the Forbes Commission investigated the occupation and concluded that blame should be placed on the inability of Americans to see Haiti as it really is.
"The failure of the occupation to understand the social problems of Haiti, its brusque attempt to plant democracy there by drill and harrow, its determination to set up a middle class -- however wise and necessary it may seem to Americans -- all these explain why, in part, the high hopes of our good works in this land have not been realized," the commission's report stated. More than 60 years later, the Americans are now back, still aspiring to do good works.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A Haitian policeman, carrying a crowbar, chased a woman during disturbances last week in Port-au-Prince. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg.6); Haitian police listen to a Creole-speaking U.S. soldier instructing them in proper methods of crowd control. (Associated Press)(pg.6); A Haitian man displays a U.S. dollar as a pro-American gesture, as he watches the arrival of U.S. soldiers. (Librado Romero/The New York Times)(pg.6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; HAITI-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); HELICOPTERS (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POLITICS (69%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY BILL CLINTON (56%); JIMMY CARTER (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



556 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 934 words

HEADLINE: THE WORLD;
Who's Hot and Who's Not In the New Kremlinology

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW

 BODY:
DECIDING who's who is a cruel game, particularly in Russia. In the last Soviet-era list of the country's most prominent people, published in 1989, Raisa Gorbachev was lavishly praised as "the First Lady of the U.S.S.R." By 1992, she was introduced rather unceremoniously as "Gorbachev's wife" and her date of birth revised from 1934 to 1931. In the new 1994 edition, her birthrate reverts to 1934, but the mention of one of her greatest sources of pride, her memoir, "I Hope," is brutally abbreviated.
The 1994 Who's Who of Russia, officially titled "The Biographical Dictionary of the Former Soviet Union," is about to be released. And though it is not the first such guide to emerge since the collapse of the Soviet Union, it is the first Russian-language version. 
 "Who's Who in America" is exactly that -- a quintessentially Yankee kind of snobbism, for which subjects are encouraged to submit their own biographical material (and buy their own copies). Notability is measured not by birth and breeding, but by fortunes and advanced degrees. Until now such a reference could not have been compiled by either the Communist Party of old (anyone who was anyone was already on the list of party members) or even the anti-Communist underground, which would have viewed it as self-indulgent.
But the 1994 Russian Who's Who is a reference book for its time. There are more than 6,000 names, and the several hundred changes since 1992 are a testimony both to the dizzying pace of upheaval in post Communist Russia -- and to who is no longer who.
The earlier editions of the Russian Who's Who were published in English by the German publishing house Bowker-Saud, a division of Reed Reference Publishing, which is also the parent company of Marquis, the publishers of the American Who's Who. But unlike its blander American cousin, the Russian Who's Who does not allow participants to supply their own material. Two London-based emigres, the journalists Jeanne Vronskaya and Vladimir Chuguyev, compiled the biographies with an idiosyncratic, sometimes peppery, but always revealing take on who is noteworthy and who is not.
Dozens of former dissidents have been dropped, ("No one has heard from them in years" is how Ms. Vronskaya explained the omissions) and scores of new business leaders have been added, including the dashing Irina Khakamada, one of Russia's few female entrepreneurs and a leader of the December 12 Union, a liberal, pro-business faction in Parliament.
Mikhail S. Gorbachev, ("political figure") and Boris N. Yeltsin ("first freely elected President of Russia") received long, respectful notices in all editions. But some return figures probably wish they hadn't.
Ruslan Khazbulatov, the former speaker of Parliament who led the failed insurrection against Boris N. Yeltsin last October and briefly went to jail, had this on his Who's Who record: "according to several sources, has a weak spot for drugs."
The 1989 edition did not include Nikolai Romanovich Romanov, the head of the Romanov dynasty and heir to the Russian throne, who lives in Rome. By 1994, reflecting the growing Russian nostalgia for an air- brushed pre-revolutionary past, the authors included him, and even restored his long-lost title of Prince.
Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky is described like this: "an effective orator, accused by the press of demagoguery, but enjoys some support of the public." The authors add, "The intelligentsia despises him."
The well-known television personality Vladimir V. Pozner also received a somewhat scornful review: "In 1986 a host of his own TV show. Continued to defend the Communist positions in the period of glasnost and perestroika until about 1989. Suddenly, according to him, 'he became disillusioned with the system.' "
Ms. Vronskaya said they had resisted offers from Soviet publishers to translate and publish their earlier editions in the Soviet Union, fearing censorship. In 1992, the Russian publishing firm Terra again asked to make the reference work available here, and the authors agreed. "It's very useful in the new Russia," Ms. Vronskaya said. "Business people need to see biographical material immediately -- they cannot be expected to plow through the 51-volume Soviet encyclopedia." (The Soviet encyclopedia is being revised for a post-Communist readership, but the project is expected to take years.)
Some of the most intriguing material is buried in between editions. The painter Ilya Glazunov was described in 1989 as "one of the most famous and controversial Russian artists" and also "one of the few Russian millionaires." In those days, money-making was still rather suspect, and the authors had politely added, "but his life-style is said to be very modest." In the 1994 edition, he remains a millionaire, but the mention of a modest life-style disappears.
While some of the best-known Russian businessmen are listed, such as Konstantin N. Borovoi, one of the founders of the Moscow stock exchange and a fledgling politician, the authors did not update his entry in time to mention that earlier this year he was forced out of the stock exchange by disenchanted partners.
Organized crime figures are not included. Neither is Sergei Mavrodi, who masterminded MMM, the pyramid scheme that collapsed this summer. From his prison cell on Friday, he registered as a candidate for the lower house of Parliament. Ms. Vronskaya said such oversights would be corrected. "We are planning an entirely new reference work with 1,000 names of the entire network of security and espionage." She paused, and added excitedly, "including foreigners."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Nikolai Romanovich Romanov (Camera Press); Raisa Gorbachev (Associated Press); Vladimir V. Zhirinovsky (Agence France-Presse)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (53%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: REED REFERENCE PUBLISHING (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: RUSSIAN LANGUAGE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (90%); PUBLISHING (89%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (89%); POLITICS (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BOOK PUBLISHING (77%); WRITERS (77%); TRENDS (77%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (77%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (73%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); HOLDING COMPANIES (67%); PARENT COMPANIES (62%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); WOMEN (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: STANLEY, ALESSANDRA RAISA MAKSIMOVNA TITORENKO GORBACHEV (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



557 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International 3-19
 
A FIREFIGHT IN HAITI
At least 10 Haitians were killed in two clashes involving civilians, Haitian police and American marines, U.S. officials said. One American was reported wounded. 1
 
HAITI BEYOND ARISTIDE
Even if the exiled President of Haiti is restored to office, there will be major problems, with many institutions in ruins and the military still a potential trouble source. 16 

For Haiti's elite, improving the economy is the priority. 16
 
SYMBOLISM IN SOUTH AFRICA
South Africa is struggling with the symbols of the past, and there is conflict between those who see them as history and those who call them icons of oppression. 1
 
PLAGUE EASES BUT NOT FEARS
The number of people dying in Surat, India, from what was diagnosed as pneumonic plague appeared to decrease, but there was fear that it would spread to other cities. 18
 
POLLUTION THREAT IN CHINA
A series of environmental disasters in China is bound to be a threat to the country's future economic growth, scientists say. 3
 
WORN DOWN BY BOSNIA
The commander of United Nations forces in Bosnia vowed to get the situation under control, but the tension continues and it is unclear whether he will finish his tour. 14
 
National 22-38
 
INDUSTRY WARNS THE FED
Saying higher inflation was preferable to an economic slowdown, members of the National Association of Manufacturers argued against raising interest rates. 1
 
LOSSES ON RISKY INVESTMENTS
Local governments across the country have lost millions of dollars on new and risky investments called mortgage derivatives. Are aggressive brokers at fault? 1
 
POWELL'S POLITICAL PROSPECTS
His peacemaking exploits in Haiti have reminded Republicans that Colin Powell is a hot political property. But is he theirs? 1
 
TIGHT TEXAS RACE FOR GOVERNOR
Texas polls suggest that Governor Ann Richards, though widely popular as she nears the end of her first term, could very well lose the election to her opponent, the son of former President George Bush. 24
 
IMMIGRATION INITIATIVE ON BALLOT
California voters are poised to pass a proposition denying illegal immigrants major government services, including schooling and non-emergency health care. 24
 
LIFE AFTER DEATH ROW
An Illinois man sentenced to die for a murder he swore he did not commit was released after a woman confessed to the crime. 22
 
HANDLING OF C.I.A. SPY FAULTED
An internal Central Intelligence Agency report on the case of the spy Aldrich Ames paints a picture of incompetence and indifference at the agency. 28
 
Metro 39-47
 
CUOMO, PATAKI AND PEROT
The oratory and heckling were fierce as Governor Cuomo and Senator George E. Pataki spoke at a candidates' fair sponsored by United We Stand America, Ross Perot's political organization. 1
 
A FORTUNE DOWN THE DRAIN
It was when the trust fund checks stopped coming to the elderly daughters of Gov. W. Averell Harriman that the family began to sweat. The funds had dwindled to scarcely $3 million from $25 million. 1
 
BAD FISCAL NEWS GETS WORSE
Three months ago the Mayor and City Council Speaker were toasting a budget that curbed city spending for the first time in 16 years. But that same budget now may be $1 billion out of balance. 39
 
THE BOUNDARIES OF TOLERANCE
In a city with an erotic bakery and cable channels with all manner of sexual explicitness, the proliferation of topless bars and X-rated video stores has provoked an unusually concerted uproar. 41
 
PLANNING TO BE POOR
Thousands of middle-income elderly people, terrified that long-term health care costs could wipe out their savings, have transferred their assets to relatives to qualify for Medicaid. 39
 
Obituaries 48

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%); 

COMPANY: DEATH ROW RECORDS (52%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (96%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); ESPIONAGE (88%); IMMIGRATION (79%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MURDER (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); POLITICS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); INFLATION (76%); ADMISSIONS & CONFESSIONS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (70%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INTEREST RATES (65%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (61%); SENTENCING (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (52%); 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



558 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: In Quest for Perot Constituents, Cuomo Attacks, Pataki Parries

BYLINE: By KEVIN SACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BROOKVILLE, L.I., Sept. 24

 BODY:
Behind in the polls and facing a crowd of angry, independent voters, Gov. Mario M. Cuomo let loose a blistering attack today on Senator George E. Pataki, accusing him of raising taxes as Mayor of Peekskill, achieving nothing in the Legislature and unseating the only Republican woman in the Senate.
For his part, Mr. Pataki, appearing before the same crowd about a half hour after Mr. Cuomo left, seemed content to play the serene front-runner, and his treatment of the Governor was far more gentle than Mr. Cuomo had received from some disaffected constituents. 
 Mr. Cuomo was heckled relentlessly as he spoke to a small crowd at a candidate's fair on the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University that was sponsored by United We Stand, America, Ross Perot's political organization. But the Governor gave as good as he got. And when the heckling continued after his speech, he traded insults in a face-to-face confrontation with a pair of men who cursed him in both English and Italian.
Although the candidates never crossed paths, their exchange was about as close as they have come to a debate so far in the 1994 campaign. And the event showed the importance they attach to mining the voter discontent that won Mr. Perot 1.1 million votes, 16 percent of the total, in New York State in the 1992 Presidential election.
As arranged by his aides to avoid any sign of partisanship, Mr. Perot showed up after both candidates departed and delivered the last speech on a 10-city, two-week tour aimed at promoting interest around the country in the midterm elections. He spoke to 1,500 to 2,000 people.
Mr. Perot did not mention the New York race specifically. He said that he would begin buying time on powerful radio stations, starting with WABC-AM (770) in New York, for two-minute spots on political issues.
Immigration, the crime bill, the health care bill and the country's economic troubles were among his topics. "We're still shipping our jobs overseas at warp speed," Mr. Perot said. Full employment, he added, was needed to solve the country's deficit problems. "People making good money pay good taxes," he said.
During the Governor's speech, which was by far his strongest personal attack on Mr. Pataki, Mr. Cuomo painted the Republican gubernatorial nominee as a false prophet of change.
"You'll have some people telling you you have to change the political system," he said, his voice rising as he thumped the lectern. "Now one of them has been a candidate and a candidate and a candidate and a candidate and has served for 10 years. Never changed anything but his positions. Nothing.
"Never passed a bill that meant anything. Never got a single welfare person to work, never changed a single statute, never made an inch of progress in political reform. Spent a fortune running campaigns and never got anything done and now, suddenly, in a conversion, they're telling you they're going to change the political system."
Mr. Cuomo also referred to Mr. Pataki's defeat of Senator Mary Goodhue, who was the only Republican woman in the State Senate, in a 1992 primary. "They only had one female Republican, and the fellow who's running against me took care of her," he said.
Mr. Pataki responded calmly.
"I think it's just kind of sad that Mario Cuomo is talking about my record as Mayor of Peekskill when in fact people who know that record are very thankful for the impact that my policies had in that city," he told reporters. "I'm also very proud of my record in the Legislature and I think what this campaign is about is about the future and about the issues and how Mario Cuomo and I disagree. And we disagree fundamentally on the future of this state."
Mr. Pataki went on to accuse Mr. Cuomo of "record tax increases, record spending increases and record job losses," as well as a "failed criminal justice system."
Both Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Pataki have paid tribute to Mr. Perot's strength in New York by appearing regularly at United We Stand meetings. Last month, Mr. Cuomo spent more than three hours answering questions at a session in western New York.
The two candidates clearly believe it is vital to capture independent voters, particularly those who have demonstrated a willingness to channel their discontent into political action. But it is unclear whether those rebellious voters will form anything resembling a bloc this year. Mr. Perot's crowd today was highly amorphous, including supporters of Lenora Fulani, Lyndon LaRouche and the Right-to-Life Party's gubernatorial candidate, Robert Walsh, in addition to United We Stand regulars.
In their speeches today, both Mr. Cuomo and Mr. Pataki emphasized their pledges to cut taxes and open government, issues that were paramount to Mr. Perot in 1992.
The Governor focused on his campaign for a constitutional convention that would bypass the Legislature and change the state's political system. Mr. Cuomo said that such a convention could impose, among other changes, public financing of campaigns, campaign spending limits and stricter controls on lobbying. He said the convention also could vote on measures that he personally opposes, like casino gambling and the death penalty.
"I'm against a lot of things, but I'm for your right to vote on them," he said.
The State Constitution requires a referendum every 20 years on whether to hold a constitutional convention, which can devise proposals that are submitted directly to the voters. Nine conventions have been held, with mixed success, and the next vote must be held in 1997.
Mr. Pataki said that Mr. Cuomo's call for a constitutional convention only masked his inability to affect change.
"The Governor always has these ideas about how we can solve problems at some point after an election sometime in the future," he said. "We don't need a constitutional convention to change this state. We could have had a governor who pushed for initiative and referendum over the last 12 years when he's been governor. He doesn't support it and hasn't pushed for it. We could have had a governor over the last 12 years who fought for term limits but he hasn't because he doesn't support it."
As for the hecklers, the roughest treatment of Mr. Cuomo came from Michael Notti, 33, a payroll manager from Old Bethpage, who called Mr. Cuomo a "slob" and a "political prostitute," during a lengthy rant about the death penalty and violence in Crown Heights.
Mr. Cuomo tried to discuss those issues with Mr. Notti before giving up in frustration as Mr. Notti continued to scream. "You're so nice, Michael," Mr. Cuomo said. "You've got such style, such elegance. Do you have troubles at home, Michael?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Mario M. Cuomo was heckled at a fair sponsored by Ross Perot's political organization. State Senator George E. Pataki received gentler treatment than the Governor at the event. (Photographs by Jim Estrin/The New York Times) (pg. 1); Ross Perot greeting audience members at the candidates' fair held on the C. W. Post Campus of Long Island University. (Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. 44)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED WE STAND, AMERICA (ORGN) LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED WE STAND, AMERICA (ORGN) LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; BROOKVILLE (NY); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) VOTERS & VOTING (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (70%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (62%); IMMIGRATION (50%); 

PERSON: SACK, KEVIN; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); PEROT, ROSS MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



559 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 6; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1003 words

HEADLINE: INDUSTRY LEADERS WARN AGAINST RISE IN INTEREST RATES

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
The nation's manufacturers, declaring that their businesses are prospering and their hiring is up, urged the Federal Reserve today not to raise interest rates again this year. They said higher rates would endanger their prosperity.
In taking this position shortly before a Federal Reserve meeting to consider another rate increase, the National Association of Manufacturers directly challenged a basic tenet of the central bank's policy. While most Fed officials insist that rising inflation poses the greatest danger to the economy and should be prevented, even at the cost of an economic slowdown, the manufacturers take the opposite view. They even prefer a little inflation, which gives them leeway to raise prices. 
 The manufacturers' association passed no formal resolution at a three-day meeting here, attended by 115 chief executives of large and small companies, from giants like Boeing and the Big Three auto makers to small machine shops in Midwestern towns. But in a poll taken at the meeting, the executives opposed higher rates, and many forcefully supported that view in interviews.
The poll is part of the association's emerging effort to prevent another rate increase that might slow the economy and dampen its members' sales. Summarizing the results of the poll at the final session today, Jerry Jasinowski, the association's president, said, "The overwhelming majority believe that the Fed should hold interest rates at current levels or delay any further action until late this year or next year."
Stanley C. Gault, chairman of the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Company and a former chairman of the manufacturers' group, said: "We have to be particularly careful about what we do now. It is as hard or harder to reverse a slowdown in the economy as it is to reverse rising inflation."
The manufacturers rarely come out so publicly or bluntly against a rate increase. But this time, they said, higher interest rates would catch them just as their sales are expanding, mostly from the ripple effects of strong home construction and surging auto and truck sales. But even executives of companies removed from the auto and construction industries expressed concern about rates.
For example, Lawrence W. Clarkson, a senior vice president of the Boeing Company, said higher rates might discourage people from buying airline tickets on credit, just as air travel was rising and airlines might be ready to order more new planes. "Leisure travel is very interest-rate sensitive," he said.
In their poll, the manufacturers rejected a main argument for a rate increase intended to reduce consumer demand, and with it economic activity, by discouraging borrowing in a nation that runs on credit. The argument is that shortages of labor and of production capacity will force manufacturers to raise wages to obtain skilled workers and that the higher wages will force businesses to raise prices sharply.
"We have no strains on capacity, and there is certainly" no strong demand for wage increases, said Tracy O'Rourke, the newly elected chairman of the association. As for his own company, Varian Associates, which makes machinery for semiconductor manufacturing, among other products, he said, "Our orders for this machinery will be up 100 percent this year, but every order is a dogfight over prices."
Expectations on Wall Street of another interest rate increase -- either at a meeting of Federal Reserve policy makers on Tuesday, or at their next meeting, on Nov. 15 -- have played a role in the steady decline of stock prices in recent days, as well as the upward pressure on interest rates in the bond market. The manufacturers said that while the Federal Reserve's five rate increases since February had not been a problem, the next one could be. So they opposed any further action at either meeting.
"The issue is this: have we actually or psychologically passed the break point where people say they cannot afford things any more because interest rates are too high, or they get spooked," Mr. Gault said. "Higher rates can create uncertainty, and this can get translated into procrastination and delay in making purchases."
The manufacturers' association is a leader among Washington lobbyists. It played a big role, for example, in persuading Congress to block President Clinton's health insurance proposals. But while manufacturers account for nearly 30 percent of national economic activity, they have much less leverage with the Federal Reserve, an independent institution that is more insulated from political pressures than Congress.
Still, the manufacturers brought a powerful dissenting voice to a debate that has been dominated until now by bondholders and bankers -- a faction the Fed has traditionally sided with. In effect, this group lends out most of the nation's savings, and it is concerned that rising inflation will dilute the purchasing power of the money that is lent.
The manufacturers, by comparison, prefer growing sales and profits, which thrive on a strong economy and some inflation. The inflation gives them leeway for price increases, which a few manufacturers say they are just beginning to get three years after the recovery from the last recession began.
The differences show up in numbers. Bankers and bondholders say the annual inflation rate, now running at 2.9 percent, could spike up dangerously once it begins to rise. Similarly, bondholders argue that economic growth of more than 2.5 percent a year can be inflationary, while the manufacturers argue that 3 or 3.5 percent is the upper limit. In either case, they say, another rate increase could drive growth to less than 2.5 percent.
Actual growth in the 12 months that ended in June was 4 percent, and while the growth rate has probably slowed in the current third quarter, it is still rather healthy.
"My concern is that another rate increase could trigger a downturn prematurely," said Bernard G. Rethore, president of Phelps Dodge Industries, the manufacturing arm of a big mining company.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); GT (SWX) (66%); GT (NASDAQ) (66%); GT (BRU) (66%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); NAICS441320 TIRE DEALERS (66%); NAICS326220 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSES & BELTING MANUFACTURING (66%); NAICS326211 TIRE MANUFACTURING (EXCEPT RETREADING) (66%); SIC5531 AUTO & HOME SUPPLY STORES (66%); SIC3052 RUBBER & PLASTICS HOSE & BELTING (66%); SIC3011 TIRES & INNER TUBES (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM BOEING CO (83%); GOODYEAR TIRE & RUBBER CO (66%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN OF MANUFACTURERS; FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF MANUFACTURERS (84%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRICES; INTEREST RATES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); INFLATION (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); TIRES (76%); MACHINE SHOPS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); RUBBER & SILICONE (69%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (66%); AIRLINES (64%); LABOR SHORTAGES (62%); WAGES & SALARIES (62%); CONSTRUCTION (61%); TRAVEL TICKETS (60%); LEISURE TRAVEL (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



560 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 4; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 468 words

HEADLINE: Mexicans Sign New Accord On Economy

BYLINE: By ANTHONY DePALMA, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Sept. 24

 BODY:
A group of Mexico's most powerful business and labor leaders today renewed a pact with the Government that will control prices and wages during the coming year. But the accord does not offer the kind of economic jump-start many people expected from the winner of last month's presidential election.
The agreement also does not change the exchange-rate policy for the peso. There was speculation the peso would be allowed to depreciate more quickly in order to make Mexican exports more competitive. 
 The new pact gives the first evidence that Ernesto Zedillo Ponce de Leon, who won the election, will side with stability over economic stimulus and follow the current President, Carlos Salinas de Gortari, in fighting inflation even at the cost of workers' salaries. When the first pact was signed in 1987, inflation was 159.2 percent. Now it is under 7 percent.
The reaction of the more independent parts of unionized labor in Mexico was that workers had again been asked to bear the brunt of the stabilization program.
"It's an arrangement put together for the purpose of guaranteeing tranquillity during the process of political transformation," said Francisco Hernandez Juarez, president of the powerful telephone workers' union. "But from the point of view of salaries, we've insisted that the workers need much, much more."
But it has been the cooperation of Mexico's largest labor organization, the pro-Government Confederation of Mexican Workers, that has made the Government-business-labor pact succeed as the centerpiece of Mexico's anti-inflation policy.
Although Mr. Zedillo does not take office until Dec. 1, a senior Finance Ministry official said all the terms had to be approved by Mr. Zedillo's advisers.
The influence of Mr. Zedillo even extended to a change in the name of the agreement, which used to be the Pact for Stability, Competitiveness and Employment. The new agreement is the Pact for Well-Being, Stability and Growth, which most Mexicans would immediately associate with his campaign theme, "Well-being for your family."
The terms of the new pact tie several important indexes to a projected rate of inflation for 1995 of 4 percent. Thus prices for Government-controlled goods like gasoline, fuel and electricity will be allowed to increase by no more than 4 percent.
Increases for Mexico's low manufacturing salaries are also set at 4 percent. (The minimum wage is less than $5 a day.)
But since last year, when wages in Mexico became an issue in the debate over passage of the North American Free Trade Agreement, Mexican officials have been pressed by the United States to raise salaries. In addition to the 4 percent increase, productivity bonuses can be added to union contracts.
The exchange rate policy will remain as it has been since 1992.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

COMPANY: THUS PLC (THUSPLC) (52%); THUS PLC (THUSPLC) (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; PRICES; WAGES AND SALARIES; WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; LABOR WAGES & SALARIES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); EXCHANGE RATES (89%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (78%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (76%); GASOLINE (73%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); TRENDS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); 

PERSON: ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO; SALINAS DE GORTARI, CARLOS (PRES) ERNESTO ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON (71%); CARLOS SALINAS (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



561 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: On U.S. Visit, Yeltsin Looks For Investors

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Sept. 24

 BODY:
When Boris N. Yeltsin arrives in the United States this weekend, America will witness the return of a salesman. The Russian leader aims to do statesmanly things, of course. He will address the United Nations General Assembly. He will hold a summit meeting with President Clinton. But mostly, in business meetings in New York, Washington and Seattle, Mr. Yeltsin hopes to convince American executives that Russia is a blue-chip investment.
"His personal charm can do a lot," said Georgi A. Satarov, an aide to Mr. Yeltsin. "The American businessmen will tell him what are the necessary conditions for investment and our President will explain that such changes are already happening." 
 The Russian Government hopes that recent signs of greater economic and political stability, and particularly its success in reducing inflation to 5 percent a month, will stimulate trade and help overcome Americans' fears of doing business in Russia. That hope is shared by the United States Government, which reduced aid for Russia to $850 million this year from $2.5 billion in 1993. (Stability, however, is relative: on Thursday, the ruble dropped 5 percent against the dollar, its steepest dive in eight months, then bounced back 2 percent the next day.)
"We are encouraged by signs of stabilization and vigor in the Russian economy," said a high-ranking American official involved in preparations for the summit meeting. "We would like to use the summit to emphasize private-sector investment."
To sweeten the pot, Washington is reserving nearly $80 million of its 1994 Russian aid for programs like the Overseas Private Investment Corporation, which offers Government guarantees to American companies that invest abroad. The American official also said the Administration expected that nearly $1 billion in new American investment in Russia would be announced during the summit meeting.
Mr. Clinton will try to convince Mr. Yeltsin of the need to lower tariffs and to draft stronger commercial legislation to lure investment. And on Tuesday, to brighten the Russians' mood on the eve of the meeting, Mr. Clinton signed a declaration freeing Russia from the Jackson-Vanik amendment, a law passed 20 years ago to link the Soviet Union's trade privileges to its handling of emigration. Mr. Yeltsin considers the amendment obsolete and deeply humiliating, and has complained bitterly about it.
As if to underscore the friendship between former cold war enemies, Mr. Yeltsin and Mr. Clinton are to address the General Assembly only a few hours apart on Monday.
The occasion provides Mr. Yeltsin with a spotlight in which to define Russia's role in a world free of superpower rivalry. But it also presents him with a daunting political slalom. "The President has to find the proper balance between articulating a pro-Western orientation and putting enough emphasis on the national interests of Russia," said Andrei V. Kortunov, a senior analyst at the U.S.A. and Canada Institute, who occasionally gives foreign policy advice to the Kremlin.
Mr. Yeltsin will probably also bewatched more closely than usual in Russia after his somewhat puzzling behavior last month in Germany during the final withdrawal of Russian troops. Russian television showed Mr. Yeltsin stumbling on the steps of the Berlin City Hall after a champagne lunch and grabbing the conductor's baton for an antic try at conducting the orchestra himself. Albert Plutnik, a columnist for the newspaper Izvestia, said Mr. Yeltsin's behavior prompted feelings of "acute discomfort, if not shame."
American businessmen in Russia say that the investment climate in Russia has improved over the last four months. "I've noticed a pretty significant upswing on fact-finding missions," said Peter A. Charow, the president of the American Chamber of Commerce in Moscow, whose members have already invested a total of about $1.5 billion in Russia. "I see a psychological shift over the past three months, due to the stability of the political situation now compared to last December."
Mr. Charow cited exorbitant tax rates and constantly changing regulations as some of the major roadblocks to greater American investment, issues that are on the summit meeting's agenda.
"We see great willingness in the upper reaches of the Russian Government to make these changes," he said. "But getting it implemented is a whole other issue."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); 

CITY: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (66%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (84%); UNITED NATIONS (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); WASHINGTON, USA (92%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (88%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (58%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; TRAVEL, PERSONAL INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); COLD WAR (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); TRENDS (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



562 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: IN CALIFORNIA;
A Ballot Proposition Gives Voters the Opportunity to Influence National Immigration Policy

BYLINE: By B. DRUMMOND AYRES Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Sept. 24

 BODY:
As Election Day 1994 approaches, Californians are poised to vote on a ballot proposition that would take the far-reaching step of denying illegal immigrants most major government services, including schooling and non-emergency health care. Once again, the state's voters find themselves with the opportunity to influence the course the nation takes on a major issue.
Polls indicate that the rancorously debated measure, Proposition 187, put on the ballot by citizens groups, will win overwhelming approval from the nation's largest contingent of voters, sending to Washington a strong message of growing impatience with Federal immigration policy. 
 At the same time, passage of the measure would probably bolster the chances of Gov. Pete Wilson to win re-election in one of the most important state races in the country this year, a race whose outcome almost certainly will have an impact on the 1996 Presidential race.
Mr. Wilson supports passage of the proposition, fully embracing the argument that economically pressed California must take drastic action to stem a costly "invasion" of illegal aliens because the Federal Government either cannot or will not.
"It's the two-by-four we need to make them take notice in Washington," he said of the initiative. "We will finally force Washington to accept responsibility."
By contrast, his Democratic challenger, State Treasurer Kathleen Brown, opposes the measure on the ground that it would make a bad problem worse and eventually be declared unconstitutional.
"What we really need," she said, "is for the Federal Government to properly police our border and enforce laws already on the books."
Like many of the proposition's opponents, Ms. Brown is especially concerned about a section of the measure that would require parents of all schoolchildren, including American citizens, to prove legal residence. She calls that approach "invasive" and an affront to basic human rights.
No one disputes the far-reaching implications of the debate over Proposition 187.
"The fight over 187 is one with a lot of major legal, social and political implications, whichever side you take," said Ira Mehlman of the Federation for American Immigration Reform.
The federation, which favors passage, is one of the many national lobbying groups that have jumped into the fray alongside state lobbying organizations. Some groups are broadly concerned about immigration policy. Others are driven more specifically by economic, educational, health, police and civil rights concerns.
One main opponent of the ballot measure is a group called Taxpayers Against 187.
"Sure there's an immigration problem," said Joel Maliniak, the organization's spokesman. "But the answer is to strictly patrol the border and strictly enforce laws about hiring illegals, not throw kids out of school and their parents out of health clinics. If the Federal Government concludes 187 impinges on people's civil rights, the proposition will backfire because Washington will then cut off the $15 billion in health and school aid that it sends to the state each year."
Even the Mexican Government has become involved in the debate, saying on Wednesday in a sharply worded statement that it did not want to meddle in United States politics but nevertheless felt that discussions surrounding the proposition too often had "racist and xenophobic" overtones and unfairly blamed Mexican citizens for American problems.
The statement, issued by the Ministry of Foreign Relations, warned that the debate and its outcome could adversely affect "commercial and economic relations between our country and the state of California in this post-North American Free Trade Agreement phase."
Reliable figures on illegal immigration and its cost to Federal and state agencies are difficult to come by because of the inherently shadowy nature of the problem. But there is no real dispute that the hardest hit border state is California.
Supporters of Proposition 187 estimate that, at a minimum, there are already 1.7 million undocumented aliens living in the state, with another 125,000 slipping in annually because of the Federal Government's inadequate border patrolling.
They say California, in economic recession and already struggling to balance its budget, will be forced to spend at least $2.4 billion this year on government services for undocumented aliens, and they contend that the Federal Government should not only strengthen border patrols but should also reimburse the state for its spending on services.
Governor Wilson agrees, calling Federal immigration policy a "dismal failure." And he has repeatedly demanded, thus far without success, that President Clinton declare an "immigration emergency." He also has filed lawsuits aimed at forcing Washington to act more aggressively on the problem.
Many of his campaign advertisements stress the immigration issue, ending with scenes of aliens slipping across the border and an announcer intoning, "They keep coming."
Ms. Brown said that the Wilson advertisements were "cheap, inflammatory political scapegoating."
The United States Attorney General, Janet Reno, has come up with several plans to boost border surveillance but argues there is no immigration emergency. She has said that Mr. Wilson and the supporters of Proposition 187 are "caught up in politics." Still, last weekend she made a personal visit to the state to announce the latest increase in border patrols.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; PUBLIC OPINION; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; ELECTION ISSUES; GOVERNORS (US); ILLEGAL ALIENS; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS IMMIGRATION (94%); REFERENDUMS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); BALLOTS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); REFUGEES (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); FOREIGN LABOR (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); CHILDREN (68%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%); 

PERSON: AYRES, B DRUMMOND JR ; BROWN, KATHLEEN (TREASURER); WILSON, PETE (GOV) MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



563 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 24; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: IN TEXAS;
Rock-Star Appeal or Not, Governor Faces Tough Race in Lone Star State

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PALESTINE, Tex., Sept. 22

 BODY:
Gov. Ann W. Richards still has her rock-star appeal. She was mobbed after speaking to a conference of Methodist clergymen here in East Texas the other day, and one minister pushed his way through to plead for an autograph on his T-shirt, a Texas curio that depicts Ms. Richards in a white fringe-leather motorcycle suit, astride a Harley-Davidson emblazoned with the words "White Hot Mama."
That Ms. Richards retains all of her charm was abundantly evident a few hours later at a rally in Pittsburg, another little East Texas town, where she clutched 82-year-old D. H. Abernathy, the town's Mayor for the last 41 years. "I just love Mayor Abernathy," she said, stretching out "love" to five syllables or so and adding a wink. "You know, we've had this little thing." The crowd roared, the Mayor beamed. 
 But while the polls in Texas suggest that Ms. Richards is still widely popular near the end of her first term, they also suggest that she could lose the election on Nov. 8.
Two major polls released in recent weeks have indicated that Ms. Richards, a Democrat, is in a dead heat with George W. Bush, the son of the former President. Unlike voters elsewhere around the country, Texans are not grumbling about having to choose between the lesser of two evils -- at least not so far. Ms. Richards and Mr. Bush each enjoy a favorable rating of about 60 percent.
How could the 61-year-old Ms. Richards find herself so admired, in a state with a booming economy and a declining crime rate, and yet face the race of her life against a man who has never won elective office?
One reason is simply that the second-most-populous state has increasingly been voting Republican; last year voters here sent two G.O.P. senators to Washington for the first time since Reconstruction. Another is that Mr. Bush is benefiting from his father's popularity in Texas. A third is that Ms. Richards's friend and fellow Democrat, Bill Clinton, is definitely not in vogue here.
Ms. Richards has also had to wrestle throughout her tenure with a virtually unsolvable school-financing crisis that after tormenting state officials for 25 years has become a sort of a trap door of Texas politics, partly responsible for the fact that four of Ms. Richard's last five predecessors have been voted out of office. And while statistics indicate a drop in crime in the state during the last four years, the polls show that many people remain fearful.
Probably the most succinct analysis of the race is offered by Paul Burka, the longtime political editor of Texas Monthly magazine, who observes in the upcoming issue, "Bush is positioned better in every facet of the race except personality, and he has Barbara Bush waiting in the wings to campaign for her son."
But Mr. Burka also sees personality as giving the Governor a crucial edge, concluding, "The one area where Richards has the advantage is the one that counts the most."
As usual, Ms. Richards is playing the personality card for all it is worth. Widely regarded as one of the sharpest, quickest and most entertaining figures in American politics, she lives up to her billing.
Stopping at a Dairy Queen in Linden on her East Texas tour, Ms. Richards was greeted by an overall-clad man who drawled: "You're prettier than you are on the TV." Without missing a beat, the Governor shot back, "Oh, I bet you say that to all the girls."
Then Ms. Richards darted inside for her second chocolate-dip cone of the afternoon. The manager, Larry Bishop, broke into a huge grin as the Governor touched him on the arm and exclaimed with the gush of a fawning teen-ager, "Y'all have the best fish sandwiches and the best dip cones of anybody!"
Still, for all her charm, Ann Richards has become increasingly harsh in her attacks on Mr. Bush, the managing partner of the Texas Rangers baseball team whose only previous run for office, a 1978 bid for a West Texas Congressional seat, failed.
Ms. Richards frequently tells audiences that no one would take her opponent seriously if he were George Walker, not George Walker Bush.
Striding unannounced into another East Texas Dairy Queen, in Winnsboro, she virtually accosted James and Dorothy Holcomb, a retired couple, as they ate their hamburgers.
"Well, I have this boy," she told them, describing her 48-year-old opponent. "He's really a very nice man. Of course, if he didn't have his Daddy's name, he wouldn't amount to anything."
The theme has been repeated in a Richards radio advertisement that describes Mr. Bush as "that young Bush boy" and another that says "Daddy's friends" have helped bail out his businesses.
While such deconstructing of Mr. Bush could get her re-elected, some analysts suggest it could backfire.
"She's been condescending and demeaning, and that's a mistake," said Richard Murray, a political scientist at the University of Houston. Mr. Murray said that Ms. Richards's tone fit her last campaign, a bruising, nasty name-calling battle against an oilman, Clayton Williams, in 1990, but that it was out of line against Mr. Bush.
While Mr. Williams refused to shake Ms. Richards's hand and once threatened to "head her and hoof her and drag her through the dirt," Mr. Bush has been unfailingly respectful, even suggesting that he is among the legions of Texans who like the Governor personally.
On the other hand, Ms. Richards once described Mr. Bush as "a jerk," prompting a round of scathing newspaper editorials, one of which described Ms. Richards as "a supermegajerk" for calling Mr. Bush a jerk. The Bush campaign compiled the editorials for a recent fund-raising solicitation.
"They're fighting the last war," Mr. Murray said of the Richards campaign. "They ain't fighting Claytie anymore."
Whatever the voters wind up thinking of the candidates personally, the election is also playing out against a backdrop that in many ways favors Mr. Bush, who, paradoxically, could ride in on the same anti-incumbency wave that swept his father from the Presidency.
The dominant issues in the race are education and crime. Illegal immigration, a defining issue in states like California and Florida, has barely been a blip on the political radar screen this year in Texas, which has so clearly tied part of its future to free trade with Mexico.
On the face of things, crime should be Ms. Richards's issue. She has demonstrably toughened parole laws and is in the midst of building more prison cells than all 44 of her predecessors combined. Crime is down in virtually all major categories since she took office.
And yet polls suggest that crime remains the No. 1 concern of the voters, and Mr. Bush's television advertising pounds away at her for being soft on crime. Ms. Richards complains it is almost impossible to get her message of success out when television news broadcasts so often begin with murder reports.
Ms. Richards is challenged on another front. She may need some conservative support to win, but liberals in Texas -- and there are far more than a few -- often express disappointment with what they call the unrealized promise of her "New Texas" campaign theme four years ago. She dearly needs support from members of minority groups as well, since Mr. Bush holds a strong lead in the polls among white voters.
Mr. Bush may have spent most of his life in the state. But when he went on a dove hunt and accidentally -- and illegally -- bagged a protected Texas songbird known as the killdee, Ms. Richards's camp wasted no time in suggesting that the incident showed Mr. Bush, Connecticut-born and Yale-educated, to be a faux Texan.
While it was hardly the seminal campaign moment that Ms. Richards's supporters claimed, it clearly highlighted one of Mr. Bush's weaknesses.
And it also showed, once again, that Ms. Richards could seize on the smallest misstep with a vengeance. In fact, even weeks after the incident, she still somehow manages to draw howls of laughter from liberals and conservatives alike.
"You know," she deadpans to the audience, "guns don't kill killdee. People kill killdee."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Gov. Ann W. Richards knows charm is a big part of her appeal, and she turned it on last week in Linden, Tex. (Mark Graham for The New York Times); The family name has helped George W. Bush in his bid for governor. At a bookstore in Dallas last week, he and his mother, Barbara Bush, the former First Lady, visited with twins Mary Ellen and Michael Pipkin. (Reuters)
 
Chart: "THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: Texas"
 
GOVERNOR'S RACE
Democrat: Ann W. Richards, 61, incumbent
Republican: George W. Bush, 48, son of the former president
 
ANALYSIS
Ms. Richards is personally popular, and since she took office, economic conditions have improved in Texas while crime has declined. Yet recent polls suggest the race is a dead heat, partly because Texas has been tending toward Republicans, partly because Mr. Bush himself has a popular family name and partly because Texans have voted all but one of their Governors out of office over the last two decades.
 
REGISTERED VOTERS
9,041,906 (voters do not register by party)
 
LATEST POLL RESULTS
A Mason-Dixon Texas Poll, conducted of 801 registered voters Sept. 16-18, showed 46 percent for Ms. Richards, 45 percent for Mr. Bush, and 9 percent undecided. Margin of error: 3.5 percentage points.
 
1992 PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION RESULTS:
George Bush (father of George W.), Republican 2,496,071 -- 41 percent
Bill Clinton, Democrat, 2,281,815 -- 37 percent
Ross Perot, Independent, 1,354,781 -- 22 percent

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (99%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; UNITED STATES (99%); TEXAS, USA (99%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (US); ELECTIONS MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (79%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); POLITICS (71%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); CRIME RATES (69%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE; RICHARDS, ANN W (GOV); BUSH, GEORGE W; BUSH, GEORGE P; BUSH, BARBARA (MRS GEORGE BUSH) GEORGE W BUSH (94%); BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



564 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1246 words

HEADLINE: MISSION IN HAITI: THE OBSTACLES;
Grim Shadow of Economic Reality

BYLINE: By LARRY ROHTER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Sept. 24

 BODY:
The Haiti that awaits the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide is a country whose political institutions and economy have been devastated in the three years since he was forced from power by a military coup.
If Father Aristide is restored to office under the protection of American troops, the initial wave of jubilation at his return is likely to dissipate once he and his supporters realize the extent of the problems they face. 
 "Beyond Aristide, there is the more basic question of the governability of the country," said Suzy Castor, co-director of the Research and Training Center for Economic and Social Development, a private academic research group here. "Our situation has been aggravated during these three years, and all the institutions in the country have been destroyed."
The sole exception may be the military itself, which has been crippled by what it calls the permissive entry of 10,000 American troops but has not been wiped out, as could have been the case in a full-scale invasion. Even if Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, Haiti's military leader, leaves the country after being forced to step down, a course of action he has ruled out, he is likely to be succeeded by officers with much the same background, philosophy and attitudes.
By destroying the guns and armored vehicles of the Haitian Army's only heavy-weapons unit, American troops have made it much more difficult for the military to stage another coup. But Father Aristide's supporters remain worried about the continuing ability of the military to make mischief.
Evans Paul, the Mayor of Port-au-Prince and an ally of Father Aristide who is regarded by many here as a strong candidate to succeed him, said from hiding this week that he will only be satisfied when he sees all gunmen disarmed, including the paramilitary "attaches" who often do the Government's dirtiest work.
Democracy, he added, will not be handed to the Haitian people; it will only be won through mobilization.
"People in this country are going to rest easy only when the military has been smashed to pieces," said one diplomat here whose Government supports Father Aristide. "But it does not seem that is what the Americans want to do."
The biggest immediate losers if the military is disbanded would be the economic elite that has traditionally controlled both state and army. Their dominance has been eroded somewhat as military officers have seized the opportunity to amass fortunes and reduce their dependence on the moneyed class.
But the arrival of American troops has further weakened and divided the handful of families accustomed to treating the state as their own property. "The Haitian elites are in a state of shock," Le Nouvelliste wrote in an editorial on Thursday. "Already one accuses the other for the historic responsibility for this new occupation."
That does not mean, though, that Father Aristide's own bases of support are powerful enough to guarantee an easy time in the 16 months remaining in his term. The military has devoted most of its energies over the last three years to eradicating the Lavalas political movement that he rode to power, and he has few alternatives within what remains of Haiti's formal political structure.
Some members of the Parliament who were elected as Aristide supporters have defected to the military; others, by their own admissions, have sold their votes to the highest bidder.
Father Aristide is also likely to have difficulties finding the people he wants to run Cabinet ministries, and state-owned companies. The estimated 3,000 Haitians who have been killed since the 1991 coup include many professionals who would have been expected to do those jobs; others have fled into exile.
Indeed, the only other institution truly national in scope that could serve as a counterweight to the military is the Roman Catholic Church. As Jean-Robert Vaval, acting director of the Ecumenical Center for Human Rights, puts it, "Any place you go in Haiti, you will always find a soldier and a priest."
But the church has never been of a single mind in its attitude toward Father Aristide, and that remains the case. The exiled President has the support of many priests at the parish level, and of lay people involved in community and social programs. But he is bitterly opposed by most bishops and the rest of the Catholic hierarchy.
"We have constantly been attacked by the military, by the bishops and by Rome," said the Rev. Jean-Yves Urfie, an Aristide supporter who edits Libete, a Catholic newspaper that speaks for the church's progressive wing. "But the popular church has survived," and Father Urfie indicated it will continue to be one of the bulwarks of support for Father Aristide.
Once Father Aristide resumes office, expectations for improvement in the quality of life will be high. He has encouraged those aspirations, promising to create thousands of jobs and invest heavily in social services, but he may find it hard to deliver everything the people want.
Even before the 1991 coup, Haiti was the poorest country in the Western Hemisphere, with the average income about $250 a year. By any standard other than Haiti's, Father Aristide's goals are modest: in his words, to raise the standard of living "from misery to poverty."
But the economy has disintegrated further since the coup. Most assembly plants, which employed as many as 100,000 people, have closed or moved elsewhere. Factories that made baseballs, for example, have shut their doors and shifted production to places like Costa Rica.
"I think that investors, whether from the outside or inside, are going to wait until the next election to see whether Aristide behaves himself in his last year in office," said Kesner Pharel, a Central Bank economist and radio commentator. "The best thing Aristide can do right away is to create public works jobs for the many people who are not skilled labor."
But when Father Aristide returns, his Government "will be flat broke," an American official here said, and "will need visible, demonstrable shows of political support from us" to get the economy running again.
And an aid official here said, "We found the money to run the economy into the ground over the last three years," referring to enforcement of economic sanctions imposed on Haiti. "The real test is coming up."
The United States, which has pledged at least $1 billion in aid over the next five years, met in Paris last month with other donor countries to discuss economic reconstruction. But American officials estimate it will be three to six months before aid begins flowing again substantially, though food and medicine should begin arriving much sooner.
More fundamental questions, like how to improve the distribution of income, must be addressed eventually. In 1991, the World Bank estimates, 1 percent of the population received half the country's income, and the income received by most of the population did not surpass $125 a year. For the Caribbean as a whole, average per-capita income is $1,950 a year.
That disparity is only one example of the "200 years of institutional failure," as one American official here puts it, that Father Aristide and his American patrons will have to contend with should the agreement struck with the Haitian military leaders be carried out as scheduled.
"But for me to stand up here and say we are wiser would be folly," the official said. "I've been around the bend too many times. I'm not going to make any predictions."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Supporters of the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide demonstrated yesterday in Port-au-Prince. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CIVILIAN SUPPORT MISSION IN HAITI (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CIVILIAN SUPPORT MISSION IN HAITI (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; UNITED STATES (95%); HAITI (95%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ARMAMENT, DEFENSE AND MILITARY FORCES ARMED FORCES (91%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); ARMIES (89%); COUPS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); POLITICS (78%); EROSION (77%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (74%); TRENDS (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); 

PERSON: ROHTER, LARRY; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES); CEDRAS, RAOUL (LT GEN) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (94%); RAOUL CEDRAS (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



565 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: Reich Urges Executives To Aid Labor

BYLINE: By CATHERINE S. MANEGOLD, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
Elaborating on his theory that America's middle class is being rapidly transformed into an "anxious class" squeezed between the wealthy and chronically poor, Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich will urge business leaders in Dallas on Tuesday to develop ways to help workers increase their skills and add to their sense of security.
He calls for a broad commitment by private business to help train and educate workers and even raises a veiled threat of Federal intervention in the form of required contributions to such training if they do not do so. 
 His comments, prepared for a speech he will give before a conference of the National Alliance of Business but made public here today, describe the nation as moving rapidly ahead in a period of economic expansion, but at the expense of the workers propelling it. He illustrates that point by pointing to widening gaps in wages of educated and uneducated workers and to a tendency among many business leaders to focus their attention on competition overseas while ignoring the lives and welfare of workers at home.
"Ominous" forces in the way American labor issues are handled, he says, have physically divided the country, leaving an "overclass" in the safety of elite suburbs, an "underclass quarantined in surroundings that are unspeakably bleak, and often violent," and a new "anxious class" trapped in "the frenzy of effort it takes to preserve their standing," as more and more families try to patch together two and sometimes more paychecks to meet their basic needs.
He also points to widening income, health care and pension gaps spurring the "disintegration" of the middle class as it has historically been defined.
"Only 15 years ago," the Labor Secretary says, "a male college graduate earned 49 percent more than a man with only a high school degree. That's a sizable difference. But it's a divide small enough for both men to occupy terrain each would call middle class." Now, he says, a male worker with a college degree outearns a male high school graduate by a gap of 83 percent. Gaps in women's income are similar, but less drastic, he says in his speech.
Less-educated workers suffer not just at the bank. Their health care and retirement benefits also lag far behind those of better-educated workers, he says. Almost as many workers with college degrees have employer-based health care now as in 1976 (76 percent, as against 79 percent 18 years ago). But the percentage of high school graduates covered has dropped more sharply: about 60 percent of high school graduates are covered now, as opposed to 68 percent in 1976.
High school dropouts have suffered the most. In 1972, 52 percent of all dropouts had some health care provided by their employers. Last year, only 36 percent of them did. Retirement heightens that disparity. Two-thirds of college-educated workers have pensions. Three-fourths of all high school dropouts do not.
Mr. Reich has often spoken about the chasm that is dividing the nation's educated and uneducated workers in these times. But this speech, which is one of three he will give to elaborate on themes he first introduced on Labor Day, calls on private businesses to intervene aggressively.
"One means of committing American business to work force investment would be through a simple requirement that firms spend a small portion of their payrolls upgrading the skills of all employees," he proposes. Better approaches -- and ones certainly more palatable to the business community -- could include voluntary commitments to such expenditures, cost sharing for special training and the inclusion of employee education as a pillar of collective bargaining, he says.
The shrinking sense of security among American workers, he says, has occurred at a time when the engines of profit are turning smoothly. Noting that the nation not long ago was dismissed as "short-sighted, slow-footed and dim-witted," caught in a "cycle of inexorable decline," he points out that it now leads the list of the world's competitors.
But it is the human cost of that turnaround that he questions. "What do we mean by 'competitiveness' anyway? Rarely has a term of public discourse gone so directly from obscurity to meaninglessness without any intervening period of coherence."
His stark image of America in 1994 is filled with "conspiracy theorists," the alarmism of talk show radio hosts, distrust, dishonor and dismay. The solution, he posits, is for business to transform its vision of workers from expendable costs to ever more sophisticated assets.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESS NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESS (83%); NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESS NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESS (83%); NATIONAL ALLIANCE OF BUSINESS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: DALLAS (TEX); UNITED STATES (94%); TEXAS, USA (93%); DALLAS, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR SECONDARY SCHOOLS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (77%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (72%); WOMEN (72%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (71%); 

PERSON: MANEGOLD, CATHERINE S; REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) ROBERT B REICH (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



566 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 927 words

HEADLINE: MISSION IN HAITI: THE WEALTHY;
Haiti's Elite: Resentful but Resigned

BYLINE: By RICK BRAGG, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: PORT-AU-PRINCE, Haiti, Sept. 24

 BODY:
The art gallery has been dark for more than a year. Paintings of lush Haitian landscapes and dark voodoo ceremonies, priced as high as $20,000, are covered in dust. Mahogany sculptures, priced at $10,000, are stacked like firewood in the middle of the floor.
The gallery's owner, Johnny Saba, is one of Haiti's wealthy elite, the collection of old families and rich newcomers who backed the coup that toppled the populist President, the Rev. Jean-Bertrand Aristide, on Sept. 30, 1991. 
 As Haiti nears the third anniversary of that coup, his business, like others here, has all but died.
He cannot export the art because of the United Nations embargo, and his local customers, whose own businesses have closed down or dwindled to nothing, are not buying. When American troops landed in Haiti earlier this week to restore Father Aristide, Mr. Saba, like many others among the elite, was not so much angry as relieved.
The elite cheered when Father Aristide, whose talk of redistributing Haiti's wealth frightened them, was removed from power. But after three years of slow disintegration of the economy and the society, many rich Haitians will welcome him back if his return will breathe economic life back into the country.
"The people are tired of this situation," Mr. Saba said. "The people I talk to were happy to see the U.S. soldiers. We want them. Aristide is not the issue. Aristide is secondary to ending the embargo, and ending the situation we have lived under."
Mr. Saba and others of the elite did not go into the streets to welcome the soldiers the way poor Haitians did. But in Petionville, a wealthy suburb up the mountain from Port-au-Prince, people talked with enthusiasm about Haiti's future. "Things could not have gotten much worse," Mr. Saba said.
Not everyone is as welcoming as Mr. Saba. The richest families, many of them insulated by their huge wealth, could have ridden out an endless embargo, continuing to live in comfort behind high rock walls and armed guards.
Some older families, in particular, are insulted by the presence of the American soldiers, and they will never accept a Government headed by a man elected by the largely illiterate masses. Father Aristide, a dark-skinned man, was disregarded by many in the elite, most of whom are lighter-skinned people.
"It was a social thing," said Marie Henritte Roux, a dancer and artist. "It's a superiority complex. Some people would rather have 30,000 U.S. soldiers than one Aristide."
But others, like Jean-Max Vilmenay, from one of Haiti's oldest families, said the American occupation could save his country. The rich will just have to get used to them, even if that means Father Aristide. "The cost of the last three years," he said, "has been very high."
Although members of the elite, who financed and backed the coup, have not suffered the human rights abuses the military-backed de facto Government heaped on Father Aristide's supporters, they also suffered some of the same privations.
There is electricity only a few hours each day, and none at all in some neighborhoods. Gas stations are closed. Almost every major business and industry in Port-au-Prince has shut down, and the ones that remain have to pay bribes to highly placed officers in the military.
Little things, like ice cream shops, vanished. The beer selection in some bars dwindled to two, a toss between almost cold and room temperature. The airport closed down, and European vacations were canceled.
Many of the better restaurants closed, limited their menus or raised prices so high that even some of the wealthy refused to patronize them.
Miss Roux, whose family owns a chain of restaurants in Port-au-Prince, said business had fallen to below 10 percent and forced the layoffs of most of her employees. "Haiti was not functioning," she said. "It was dying. I can't even remember the last time my own family went out to dinner."
Many blame the United Nations embargo, but others said the Government slowly bled the weakened economy dry through its own corruption and greed. It became obvious that the military -- led by Lieut. Gen. Raoul Cedras, who orchestrated the coup -- was no longer the tool of the rich, but their master.
One wealthy Haitian businessman, who spoke on condition that his name not be used, said it would only have been a matter of time before the military started to demand bribes beyond those already paid to keep businesses open.
Some of the elite said they had no idea what they had traded for in September 1991 when they financed the coup that overthrew Father Aristide. They only started to worry, beginning to wonder if they had made a tragic mistake.
Mr. Saba's family shut down factories and laid off 400 people, and his gallery became little more than a warehouse. All of Haiti seemed to be waiting for something, anything, to end the stalemate.
When American soldiers entered Haiti without bloodshed on Monday, it was perhaps the best possible solution to an ugly situation, some members of the elite said.
"At first we were very concerned, because we thought there would be bombs," Miss Roux said.
Many of the elite find the presence of American soldiers and even Father Aristide's return more acceptable now that the United States has obliged the exiled President to grant amnesty to those who took part in the coup.
Although most in the old families took part only in the shadows, they still fear reprisals. "The people have been called on to forgive," Mr. Vilmenay said. "And that forgiveness must come from both sides."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CIVILIAN SUPPORT MISSION IN HAITI (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS INTERNATIONAL CIVILIAN SUPPORT MISSION IN HAITI (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); UNITED NATIONS (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI; HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE PAINTING (90%); ART DEALERS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); MILITARY WEAPONS (73%); POLITICS (71%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (70%); TRENDS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); DANCERS (60%); 

PERSON: BRAGG, RICK; ARISTIDE, JEAN-BERTRAND (PRES) JEAN-BERTRAND ARISTIDE (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



567 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 44; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
Gradual Loss of Support Is Cuomo's Silent Burden

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

 BODY:
Mario M. Cuomo has always liked being the underdog, whether he lost (the Democratic primary for mayor to Edward I. Koch in 1977) or won (the primary for governor over Mr. Koch in 1982). But there is a difference between being the underdog and being in the doghouse, which is where politicians agree Mr. Cuomo finds himself after 12 years in office.
New Yorkers can pick almost any index they like about their Governor this year, and the numbers will show how much they don't like him. Take his job-approval ratings (mid-30's), standing in the horse race (low 40's), even his modest majority against splintered opposition four years ago (54 percent). All bespeak a level of vulnerability that incumbents do not often overcome. 
 Add to that the magnitude of what Mr. Cuomo is asking, what only one Governor in American history has done before: win a fourth consecutive four-year term. (The first, Nelson A. Rockefeller, resigned at the end of his 15th year). Gov. Terry E. Branstad of Iowa, a Republican, is competing for the same distinction this fall. Only three other 20th century governors have managed even 14 consecutive years in office through a mixture of two- and four-year terms.
All that helps explain why a poll 10 days ago that showed Mr. Cuomo's Republican opponent, George E. Pataki, with a modest though statistically significant lead for the first time in the race -- 52 percent to 42 percent -- may be the least of the Governor's worries, the latest symptom of a more troubling, long-term trend of lost support. Even the good news -- Mr. Cuomo's continued high support among young people and minorities -- can be seen as bad, because those voters turn out on Election Day less reliably.
"He's had a negative rating for the last four years, in terms of favorable versus unfavorable," said Maureen Connelly, a political consultant who has worked for New York candidates of both parties over two decades. "He was vulnerable then, and he has been for a long time."
Polls are only snapshots, campaigns are volatile and candidates have overcome longer odds. But in recent New York State history, perhaps only one other 12-year incumbent with comparable negative ratings -- Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato, Mr. Pataki's patron -- managed to win re-election. He did so by utterly dominating the campaign and the terms of debate with his Democratic opponent, Attorney General Robert Abrams, something Mr. Cuomo has so far failed to do against Mr. Pataki.
The Governor's strategist, David Garth, has a fondness for underdogs and has made something of a specialty over the years of working for wounded incumbents. But Mr. Cuomo's posture as scrappy underdog now seems less a strategic pose than a pleading reality. He has met his enemy and it is him.
Campaign strategists say the negative readings on Mr. Cuomo are greater than the sum of their parts. If he were only behind in the polls, they say, or only in office a long time, or only lacked, by his own admission, a single overriding achievement for which he is known, beyond his eloquence, it would be bad enough. Instead, he faces all those problems.
He also faces a national mood of anti-incumbent sentiment so sour and pervasive that the old yardsticks of electoral viability have had to be lowered.
"It used to be that in the mid-80's, up until '88, if you had a re-elect score hovering somewhere in the low 50's, you were very, very worried," said Carter Eskew, a Democratic consultant in Washington, referring to a poll's reading on whether voters think a candidate deserves another term. "Now, if you have a re-elect score in the low 50's you're ecstatic, and if you're in the high 30's you're lucky."
It was by this measure, said Mr. Eskew, who worked last year for Gov. Jim Florio of New Jersey, that the Florio camp always knew it was highly vulnerable, even when public polls showed him with a lead over Christine Todd Whitman. The campaign's own polls never showed Mr. Florio surpassing 50 percent, even after poll takers, following standard technique for campaigns, led those being questioned through a series of inquiries intended to simulate the back-and-forth of Ms. Whitman's attacks and Mr. Florio's counterpunches.
Statewide polling over several terms in office has been relatively infrequent in New York so it has been hard to establish consistent trends in public opinion over the course of an incumbency as long as Mr. Cuomo's. But a Daily News poll early in June showed his re-election rating hovering around 30 percent.
Since the Governor's negative ratings seem so firmly etched, his challenge is twofold: to inspire his remaining core supporters, reminding them that he is the best defender of their interests on issues from abortion rights to gun control (polls show his supporters remain more intensely for their candidate than Mr. Pataki's for theirs), and also to chip away at the notion of Mr. Pataki as a plausible alternative.
Mr. Cuomo has pursued the first strategy on the stump, the second in his television commercials, while also suggesting a third: that he has unfinished business, and largely unspecified future plans for tax cuts and other desirable things.
"For most of this year, the only known quantity is Mario Cuomo, and it's been Cuomo against Cuomo," Mr. Garth said dryly. "In the abstract, there can be connotations that can be interpreted negatively. As the campaign proceeds, and we see who's waiting in the wings, and as the view gets closer, there may be some difference of opinion."
Mr. Pataki, a one-term State Senator and former Assemblyman, has never run a statewide campaign. He has largely avoided specific proposals, and could easily stumble or crumble under pressure of a debate or barrage of attacks. Already, his running mate for comptroller, Herbert London, has criticized him for lacking clear proposals on the economy, and Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has threatened to withhold an endorsement if Mr. Pataki does not offer more specific proposals on helping New York City.
But time is short -- only about six weeks remain to the election. Paradoxically, one of the Governor's strongest assets could be a growing public realization just how vulnerable many New York politicians from Albany to Capitol Hill believe him to be, to inspire the largest possible turnout among supporters so used to his incumbency that they may have failed to imagine he could lose.
"Energizing the base becomes absolutely critical," Mr. Eskew said. "The cliche in this business is that an Election Day get-out-the-vote operation is only worth two or three points. Well, guess what? That's what this race is going to be decided by."
All politics, politicians know, is local, and most elections turn on individual circumstances, foibles and fate. But no statistic may better sum up the odds against Mr. Cuomo than the rarity his victory would produce.
Besides Mr. Rockefeller, the only other Governor between Canada and the Caribbean to have won four consecutive four-year terms was Luis Munoz Marin of Puerto Rico, who served from 1949 to 1965, according to Samuel R. Solomon, a retired politics professor at Eastern Michigan University, who has studied the subject since he wrote his senior thesis at Syracuse University in 1930, and who recently published a study for the National Governors' Association.
If Mr. Cuomo won and served the full term, he would be the longest steadily serving Governor in the state since its first, George Clinton of Ulster County (from 1777 to 1795, and again from 1801 t0 1804). "Nobody even approaches that," Mr. Solomon said.
And it is unlikely that anyone ever will. In another sign of the way the wind is blowing, more than half of all states now limit governors to two consecutive four-year terms, or less.

GRAPHIC: Photo: State Senator George E. Pataki addressing the crowd yesterday at a rally sponsored by United We Stand, Ross Perot's organization. (Jim Estrin/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US) GOVERNORS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); TRENDS (71%); HISTORY (69%); 

PERSON: PURDUM, TODD S; CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) TERRY BRANSTAD (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



568 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1243 words

HEADLINE: A Tide of Pollution Threatens China's Prosperity

BYLINE: By PATRICK E. TYLER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BENGBU, China, Sept. 22

 BODY:
Ru Fuyang, who has been fishing carp out of the Huai River most of his 60 years, says he has not caught a fish since mid-July when the waters here turned black and putrid for nearly a week.
At the time, a deadly mix of ammonia and nitrogen compounds, potassium permanganate and highly toxic phenols swept down the river from scores of factories that had flushed their waste tanks and ponds. When it was over in mid-August, more than 26 million pounds of fish had been killed and dozens of fish farms wiped out while some factories were forced to shut down for a week or more. Economic losses were estimated at $75 million. 
 The pollution spill was one of thousands of similar incidents that occur annually in China and demonstrate, Chinese and Western scientists say, that the country is in the midst of a national environmental crisis whose cumulative effect is an immeasurable but unmistakable threat to economic growth in coming decades.
"Though lacking an immediate, galvanizing crisis, China presents ecological problems so severe that they constitute a collective crisis with global consequences and powerful implications for America," warned a report prepared for the National Committee on United States-China Relations last year.
The Communist Party leadership has mounted an energetic campaign to combat pollution, but financing for environmental protection has lagged far behind investment to expand industry.
"Some enterprises pay fines in exchange for government consent to their spoiling of the environment," Qu Geping said in a report to the National People's Congress this spring. As chairman of the environmental protection committee of Parliament, Mr. Qu estimated that environmental losses total $12 billion annually.
International aid and lending agencies like the World Bank, the United Nations Development Fund and the Asian Development Bank have financed pollution control efforts, but these are generally limited to local projects.
"People caught trafficking 50 grams or even 25 grams of heroin have been jailed -- why can't we punish people who have polluted a river and affected more people?" Xie Zhenhua, head of the National Environmental Protection Agency, asked in a recent speech.
The answer appears to be that factory owners or managers tend to be senior members of the Communist Party establishment where they live, or they have connections that make them immune from shutdown or heavy fines.
Vice Prime Minister Zhu Rongji has told party cadres that central Government intervention to stanch industrial pollution "is a job that is going to require offending people." But the central authorities have so far not been able to devise a politically acceptable way to shut down hundreds of factories that dump their toxic waste into rivers or pump them into the atmosphere.
As a result, the degradation of China's natural resources is continuing:
*Half of the rain in Guangdong Province is now acidic, a problem that has become endemic in southern China.
*China's Agriculture Ministry revealed this year that more than 100,000 people were poisoned by pesticides and fertilizers used in agriculture during 1992 and 1993. More than 14,000 of them died.
*China's National Environmental Agency said in June that heavy atmospheric pollution is increasing the number of deaths from lung cancer, which climbed 18.5 percent in the major cities from 1988 to 1993. And mercury and lead poisoning is on the rise among children.
Last year, Chinese factories discharged 35.5 billion tons of sewage and industrial wastes into the country's rivers, streams and coastal seas. That volume of waste is three-fifths the annual flow of the Yellow River. The volume can only grow as China's industrial output races forward at nearly 20 percent annual growth, twice the level of overall economic expansion here.
"This rapid growth has had a devastating effect on the environment," the United States Embassy said in a recent report. "Solid wastes piled outside of cities have leaked toxins into the ground water and the water in many rivers does not meet the standards for bathing much less drinking."
The environmental degradation of the Huai River valley, home to 150 million Chinese, is deceiving. The four-hour drive from Hefei to Bengbu traverses a broad and fertile agricultural landscape where hundreds of thousands of farmers were visible harvesting the golden fields of rice. Every village thrashing ground was a tableau of sinewy peasants tossing bundles of rice stalks into the breeze to separate the grains from the chaff.
This summer's spill came after 40 days of drought, which may have added to the concentration of pollutants when the rains returned and upstream sluice gates began to open.
"Every year since the 1970's we have had pollution disasters," Mr. Ru said, "but this summer was the worst."
As the black current began moving downstream on July 15, hundreds of villagers who took their water from the river became ill with vomiting and diarrhea.
"The water turned black like soy sauce and there was an awful smell," said Cai Shaojia, 60, a bean farmer who lives near here. "You should have seen the size of the fish that were dying," he said, "fish that had lived so many years."
Mr. Ru added: "There were more than 10,000 fish floating here during the period of the pollution. People were out in boats lifting them in."
On July 16, the large waterworks at Lizuizi was overwhelmed by the sudden inundation of waste water that tested "several dozen" times beyond minimum safety levels.
The contamination affected 250,000 people in Anhui and Jiangsu provinces and several thousand peasants as well as city dwellers were treated for dysentery, diarrhea and vomiting. Anhui Province radio stations broadcast warnings to stay away from the river and to cease using Huai River water for drinking, cooking or irrigation.
On July 20, the volume of the black tide has risen so high behind the Benbu Dam that the local authorities suddenly and without warning to downstream cities or fish farms opened the sluice gates and released 200 million cubic meters of the heavily polluted water in a plume that stretched 100 miles by Aug. 5.
Just downstream of the dam, the Liu family lives on a 60-foot river barge from which they tend a patchwork of nets staked out in the current. In the early morning of July 20, Liu Mengcheng, 24, was about to step into a small boat to tend the nets when he heard the roar of the sluice gates opening in the dam.
"The water came like a giant wave," Mr. Liu said. "The current was so fast that we could not use the small boats."
When the waters settled, Mr. Liu said it was many days before the family could use even boiled water from the river.
And the fishing business all but died. Before the flood, the Liu family nets could harvest at least 20 pounds of fish per day, but now, two months later, the family is subsisting on a meager catch of a pound or more of stunted river fish.
Senior Chinese officials from the State Council under Prime Minister Li Peng sent investigators to the river basin in July, and Mr. Li later reiterated the Government's intention to force 190 of the 1,000 factories along the river to close or relocate by 1997.
Today, officials in Anhui Province said they had ordered 63 factories described as "the main polluting sources" on the river to shut down within one year, but no details were offered on how this would be accomplished.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In one of the most stunning examples of pollution afflicting China, factories released toxic waste into the Huai River in July, killing more than 26 million pounds of fish and wiping out dozens of fish farms. Since then, Ru Fuyang, fishing above the Bengbu Dam, says he has not caught a single fish in the river. (Patrick E. Tyler/The New York Times)
 
Maps show the location of the Huai River.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ATB (ASX) (65%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (65%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (65%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: SOUTH CHINA (92%); ANHUI, CHINA (71%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (56%); 

COMPANY: ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (65%); NATIONAL COMMITTEE ON UNITED STATES-CHINA RELATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMITTEE ON UNITED STATES-CHINA RELATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); ANHUI, CHINA (71%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (56%); 

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; FINANCES WATER POLLUTION (90%); FISHES (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); POLITICS (87%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (86%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (86%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); AQUACULTURE (78%); RIVERS (78%); ANIMAL AQUACULTURE (78%); FINFISH FARMING (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (76%); TRENDS (76%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (72%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (68%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); HEROIN (50%); 

PERSON: TYLER, PATRICK E

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



569 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1119 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani's Burden

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

 BODY:
Just three months ago, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani and City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone were drinking a champagne toast to an austere budget agreement that wrenched down the size of the municipal government and curtailed the growth of city spending for the first time in 16 years.
But now, all too soon, they have received a sobering reminder of how grim the city's fiscal problems are. On Friday, mayoral aides told City Council leaders that the same budget now looks like it could be $1 billion out of balance. 
 That Mr. Giuliani faces a fiscal problem of such magnitude so soon after the $31.6 billion budget took effect in July is partly because of the scale of the problem he inherited. But his fiscal plan is also unraveling because state and Federal aid he had hoped for has not come through, because managerial problems have arisen as major agencies try to do more with fewer workers, and because economic recovery has been threatened by a slump on Wall Street.
Mr. Giuliani, New York's first Republican mayor in a generation, came into office pledging to end the city's tradition of expansive government. "New York City government is too large," he said in February. "It has grown beyond our ability to afford it."
But in preparing his first budget, he made a decision on how fast he could cut without fraying the political and social fabric of the city. And he decided that the most he could accomplish in his first budget was $1.1 billion in spending reductions, including a severance buyout of thousands of city workers.
"Agencies can manage only a certain amount of reduction in any given time period and be able to make readjustments," Mr. Giuliani said in an interview this week. "We could probably have managed more than we did but we also had to get a majority or more vote of the City Council. Otherwise, the city would have had no budget and you would have had chaos."
A result of that decision, however, was that the city had to find other ways to erase the remaining deficit, short of raising taxes, a move both Mr. Giuliani and the City Council leaders opposed. And so the budget counted on savings and sources of revenue that have not materialized, some of them reasonable assumptions and some of them less so.
The plan assumed that the city would receive $150 million in fiscal relief from the health care legislation under consideration in Washington. It counted on the State Legislature approving two measures that would have brought the city $70 million in revenue or relief from claims and judgments from lawsuits. It expected that the city would receive $75 million for renegotiating the amount of money it receives from the Port Authority for LaGuardia and Kennedy airports, and $65 million for selling the United Nations Plaza Hotel. And while overtime costs ran at $486 million last year, the budget projected overtime spending at $250 million.
Such assumptions led the state Financial Control Board to warn in July that while Mr. Giuliani had taken major strides in putting city finances in order, his budget still contained $1 billion in risky assumptions. "This much risk this early in the fiscal year is unprecedented and very worrisome," the board reported.
Budgeting is part science and part luck, and some of those risks would have become irrelevant if the economy had rebounded strongly, bringing in more tax revenues than projected. Instead, the economy has failed to perform even to the levels expected, and Wall Street has fallen into a slump. "There was a hope that things would break in the city's favor," said Thomas McMahon, the director of the City Council's finance staff. "Everything that has happened has broken the wrong way."
Mr. Giuliani has responded fast to the grim news instead of waiting until later in the year when it would become harder to make enough savings. He has cast the new gap "as an opportunity to accomplish what the city has to accomplish anyway," such as cutting the municipal work force still further and looking for ways to consolidate agency functions and shed nonessential services.
But as his aides consider reductions in financing for schools, ways to cut the costs of welfare for single adults, increasing the numbers of prisoners held in the city's jail dormitories to avoid opening new facilities, and vast new staffing cuts in the social service agencies, other officials were quietly starting to ask how long the city can keep making across-the-board reductions without resorting to raising revenues or taking more fundamental steps to solve its problems.
Over the years, academics and analysts have said that unless there is an economic boom, the city's chronic problems will only be solved by sweeping changes, such as the state's assumption of the total cost of Medicaid, a change in the city's tax structure so that the city relies more on the property tax and less on more volatile income and business taxes, which are highly sensitive to economic downturn, or fundamental and controversial decisions to scale back its services.
A panel that studied the budget deficit for former Mayor David N. Dinkins, for example, suggested such moves as eliminating city subsidies for day care and private bus routes and charging fees for residential garbage collection.
Mr. Giuliani is to unveil his new budget proposals at the beginning of October. Although the cutbacks will be submitted to the Democratic-run City Council, modifications of the budget can go into effect automatically if the Council doesn't vote within 30 days, which gives Council leaders the option of letting the Mayor carry out his plan alone if it looks like a majority of members would rebel against further austerity.
Some Council members said they were dismayed that they were facing deeper cuts in the government so soon. "What I wonder is whether we can run government this way," said Councilman Stephen DiBrienza, the Brooklyn Democrat who heads the general welfare committee. "We need to spend some more time on what the service impacts are and if it's a matter of raising revenue in some way."
And even Mr. Giuliani gave one indication that he knew he faced a precarious balancing act when he warned Friday that he wanted to know where George E. Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor, stands on aid to New York City, and how he would carry out his tax-cut proposals.
"There are ways to reduce taxes that would help the city and ways to reduce taxes that would be catastrophic for the city," Mr. Giuliani said during his weekly radio show. "If you reduce taxes but continue to keep mandates in effect that required the city to spend money that the state doesn't fund, then the city would have to raise taxes."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS PLAZA HOTEL (50%); CITY COUNCIL (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING CITY GOVERNMENT (95%); CITIES (93%); BUDGETS (92%); BUDGET CUTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); LEGISLATION (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (68%); PORT AUTHORITIES (68%); OVERTIME (67%); LITIGATION (65%); INTERVIEWS (63%); AIRPORTS (60%); SUITS & CLAIMS (60%); HEALTH CARE LAW (50%); SEVERANCE PAY (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



570 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1771 words

HEADLINE: Welfare for Middle-Class Elderly?;
In Final Years, Many Transfer Assets to Qualify for Medicaid

BYLINE: By ESTHER B. FEIN 

 BODY:
On a sunny floor in a New Jersey nursing home, two elderly women share a room, news about their grandchildren and a plight ever more common among their aging and ailing peers: both are poor, and their bills are paid by Medicaid.
But while one depleted her life savings in the first two months she spent at the nursing home, the other, a widowed homemaker debilitated by Parkinson's disease, intentionally reduced herself to poverty to qualify for Medicaid. Several years ago, she paid a lawyer to transfer $50,000 worth of stocks, bonds and cash to her sons and grandchildren. 
 For the last several years, thousands of middle-income elderly people, terrified that long-term health care costs could wipe out their savings, have transferred their assets to relatives to qualify for Medicaid.
The practice has created a swelling corps of lawyers who help people to pauperize themselves legally and has prompted an intense ethical debate over whether people with money should benefit from a medical program intended for the poor.
"It's a growing subterranean economy done with professional help," said Mildred Shapiro, associate commissioner of Health and Long Term Care in New York State's Department of Social Services.
Although the money is no longer in their names, the older people depend on a tacit agreement that those who control the assets will use some of the money to care for them. More importantly to many older people, such planning allows them to leave money to their heirs that would otherwise be depleted for health care.
But critics say that those who qualify for Medicaid through such financial preparations are getting middle-class welfare. They say that soaring Medicaid costs, which are paid through a combination of Federal, state and, in some cases, local dollars, are straining government budgets and that recipients should be limited to the truly needy.
"I don't believe the Medicaid system can sustain itself and serve the people it was intended to if it's being used this way by upper- and middle-income people," said Carl S. Young, president of the New York Association of Homes and Services for the Aged in Albany. "It's perfectly legal, and it's happening in the absence of any coherent public policy on how we're going to pay for long-term care."
The issue of such transfers has become so pervasive that both Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, and his Republican challenger, George E. Pataki, have had to answer questions about arrangements they made for their parents' long-term care.
In response to the criticism, Congress tightened some Medicaid rules last year to make it harder for wealthy and middle-income elderly people to qualify.
Supporters stress that the methods are legal and necessary, and not unlike tax planning that other lawyers perform. They say that while Medicare covers acute illnesses like heart attacks and cancer, it does not cover prolonged stays in nursing homes and largely neglects care for chronic, degenerative diseases like Alzheimer's or Parkinson's, forcing people to seek Medicaid's security.
"The real problem is that no one is forming a sound, workable policy for long-term health care at a time when demand for it is growing so quickly, so Medicaid becomes the answer," said Jane Gould, director of New York State's Office for the Aging.
Most Medicaid estate planning, as the practice is called, is being done with the help of a new cadre of lawyers who specialize in issues affecting the elderly. The Academy of Elder Law Attorneys, a professional society in Tucson, lists 4,000 members nationwide; 10 years ago, the group did not exist.
In the last few years, most state bar associations have started sections or committees on elder law, and law schools are beginning to offer courses on the subject.
"Our numbers are growing because health care costs are growing, the aging population is growing and nursing home costs are growing," said Peter J. Strauss, an elder law specialist with the New York firm Epstein Becker & Green. "People are afraid of becoming destitute."
Nationally, the cost of a nursing home, for example, is about $36,000 a year, and experts say that most people enter one after they have already had severe medical problems that have eaten away at their savings.
Private long-term care insurance is available, but its use remains limited, experts say. Although such insurance costs only a few hundred dollars a year for healthy people who sign up before they turn 60, it is unavailable to those who are already infirm, and the policies are often only good for a limited period.
The woman in the New Jersey nursing home who spent her savings paying for her own care, said it pained her to have worked her entire life as a seamstress, to have carefully set aside money for her grandchild only to lose it to poor health.
"I wanted to give my granddaughter a leg up," said the woman, who is 84 and partly paralyzed by a stroke. "Not to be able to leave her anything hurts." Like several other elderly people interviewed, she preferred to speak of her finances anonymously.
To be sure, many older people choose not to transfer their assets. Some feel degraded by accepting public assistance intended for the poor. Others are reluctant to cede control of their finances and worry that if relationships sour, their money will be jeopardized.
"Even those who think their money is safe find sometimes that it was used to pay for college or because some lazy son decided not to work for two years and to live off of it," said Rona Bartelstone, a geriatric care manager in Florida. "And the risk is not just losing the money, but losing the relationship when the older person realizes they've been swindled by someone they trusted."
But fear of poverty, experts say, is motivating a growing number of middle-income elderly people to shed their assets and assure their Medicaid eligibility.
"They're scared of being caught in a crunch," said Ruth Sabatini, a care planner with Loretto Senior Choices, a nonprofit social service organization in Syracuse. "They all want to know, 'How am I going to be cared for?' It's not necessarily verbalized, but it's what most of our conversations consist of."
To curb the growth of Medicaid estate planning, Congress approved legislation last year to limit the transfers.
For example, the Government can now check on any asset transfers made within 36 months of a person's application for Medicaid and penalize an applicant for resources transferred within that period. They may not, however, confiscate the transferred assets. The so-called look-back period used to be 30 months.
States are also required to recoup expenses from the estates of Medicaid recipients after they die. Since Medicaid rules allow people to keep their homes, personal property, a car and limited cash, there are often assets that can be sold to pay back the Government, although officials said enforcement of this was spotty.
Still, the Government's ability to take and sell these assets provides yet another impetus for older people to transfer them to their relatives.
The laws governing qualification for Medicaid are federally mandated, but they give states leeway in setting their own standards. New York, for example, has the most generous allowances for holding on to assets. Single people can keep $3,200, as well as property and limited money for funeral expenses.
In addition, the Government allows husbands and wives of Medicaid beneficiaries to keep money and other liquid assets without jeopardizing their eligibility. The amount varies by state, with New York, allowing about $73,000 per spouse. The intent is to keep spouses from becoming destitute in caring for their partners and to discourage people from hiding their wealth.
"But, there are still ways that you can get around the rules," said Sally Richardson, the director of the Medicaid Bureau in the Health Care Financing Administration, "and people are taking advantage of them."
Much of the growth of Medicaid estate planning, officials said, is because of more aggressive marketing and advertising by elder law specialists. Lawyers across the country regularly offer free seminars to urge older people to plan their financial futures and Medicaid eligibility.
Nursing home administrators say that lawyers increasingly prepare patients' applications to the homes and take care of filing the necessary forms with local Medicaid offices.
Many administrators have criticized the practice for creating a growing clientele of Medicaid patients in nursing homes. They say that since Medicaid reimbursement does not cover their costs, they depend on private-paying customers. The more Medicaid patients they have, the administrators say, the higher costs are for other patients.
"It's especially galling when Mother's Day rolls around and the kids come to visit mom who is on Medicaid in their chauffeur-driven limousines and B.M.W.'s," said the head of one Manhattan nursing home. Like most of his colleagues, he spoke anonymously because, he said, people tend to think that nursing homes gouge their clients.
Although there is some public perception that wealthy people are manipulating the system, government officials, lawyers and nursing home administrators say most people are trying to shelter modest amounts of money, from as little as a few thousand dollars to as much as a few hundred thousand dollars, with most around $50,000.
"You know who tends to come to me?" said Dean Bress, an elder law specialist in White Plains. "A middle-income person who sees a neighbor facing staggering costs because her husband is in a nursing home. Or one of the couple gets sick with the wrong disease and the other panics. Why should someone with a heart condition be covered and treated better than someone with Alzheimer's? They're afraid of getting stuck."
A retired teacher from Queens said she was embarrassed, but relieved, that she and her husband, who has Alzheimer's disease, had transferred almost all their liquid assets, about $60,000, to their two sons over the last decade, anticipating that her husband would soon need nursing home care they would be hard pressed to afford.
"I felt devious doing it, even though it was all technically legal," the woman said. "You think of yourself as comfortable, middle-class. You can afford a trip to Atlantic City when you want. A nice dinner in the city sometimes. Welfare, Medicaid, food stamps. That's for other people. For poor people. But then you look and realize, without this money, I am poor and this money will be devoured in a flash. I don't feel like I had a choice."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "They all want to know, 'How am I going to be cared for?' " Ruth Sabatini, a care planner with Loretto Senior Choices in Syracuse, said of middle-income elderly people who fear poverty. She spoke with Roy Bernardi, a Loretto employee. (Mike Greenlar for The New York Times) (pg. 39); "People are afraid of becoming destitute," Peter J. Strauss, a specialist in elder law, said of the large numbers of middle-income elderly who have transferred their assets to relatives to qualify for Medicaid. (William E. Sauro/The New York Times) (pg. 47)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ASSOCIATION (60%); MEDICAID (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (70%); SYRACUSE, NY, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; AGED; MEDICAID; ETHICS MEDICAID (93%); SENIOR CITIZENS (92%); GRANDCHILDREN (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); AGING (90%); CHILDREN (90%); LONG TERM HEALTH CARE (90%); NURSING HOMES (90%); NURSING & RESIDENTIAL CARE FACILITIES (89%); LAWYERS (88%); ETHICS (88%); MEDICARE (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (77%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BONDS (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); 

PERSON: FEIN, ESTHER B MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



571 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: Company to Halt Improper Clinic Referrals

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 24

 BODY:
After a two-year grand jury investigation, the Government said today that a major health care company had agreed to pay $500,000 and halt "improper practices" involving doctors who send Medicare patients to clinics in which the doctors have invested.
Under a settlement to be announced on Monday, the company, T2 Medical of Alpharetta, Ga., near Atlanta, says it will change the way it does business to guarantee that doctors are not paid for referring Medicare or Medicaid patients to such clinics. 
 The action is the latest effort by Federal authorities to curb conflicts of interest and control health costs by prohibiting physicians from referring patients to medical enterprises in which the doctors have financial interests.
T2 Medical provides home infusion therapy, supplying medication and nutrition, either intravenously or through feeding tubes, to patients in their homes. The patients have cancer, AIDS or other serious illnesses.
June Gibbs Brown, the inspector general of the Department of Health and Human Services, who supervised the investigation, said, "T2 paid physicians remuneration in order to induce the physicians to refer patients to T2 infusion centers."
The company, which was recently merged into a new corporation, Coram Healthcare, did not admit any wrongdoing. But Ms. Brown and the Justice Department said the company's business arrangements violated a Federal law that prohibits payment of kickbacks under Medicare and Medicaid. They asserted that some claims submitted to the Government by T2 were false and fraudulent because of the kickbacks. The Government did not specify the amount of money involved.
Reached today at his home in Georgia, Thomas E. Haire, who was a founder of T2 Medical in 1984 and served as chairman until he retired this summer, said of the investigation: "I'm glad it's over. It's been a hassle for us to deal with. We never broke any laws."
In a letter being sent to doctor-investors, the company says it will inform patients at centers owned by T2 Medical that "the doctors treating them may hold a financial interest in T2, and that they are free to seek care elsewhere."
Moreover, the letter says that the company will, "within the next six months, cease to be in the business of managing doctor-owned home infusion centers." The letter also says the company will pay $500,000 to the Federal Government. Federal officials said that the money, received this week, reimburses the Government for unnecessary payments by Medicare and for the costs of the investigation.
T2 (the name is pronounced "tee squared") was once a darling of Wall Street, but its stock plummeted from a high of $67 a share in early 1992 to about $8 this year as the company was hurt by internal turmoil, stiff competition and other problems. Congress, state legislators, even the American Medical Association have suggested that it is unethical for doctors to send patients to businesses in which the doctors have financial interests.
Nonetheless, T2 Medical was built on just such arrangements. Typically, T2 Medical helped doctors establish an infusion center. The doctors often referred patients to the center, and T2 managed the center for a fee. After a profitable referral pattern was established, T2 bought the center from the doctors, paying them with a special class of T2 stock.
In most cases, the doctors were not allowed to sell the stock for two years, so their economic fortunes were tied to the company's profits, which in turn depended on the continued referral of patients by the doctors, Federal officials said.
A Federal grand jury in Atlanta has been investigating T2 Medical for more than two years.
Kent B. Alexander, the United States Attorney in Atlanta, and Ms. Brown said the statute forbidding kickbacks must be aggressively enforced to curtail waste and fraud in Medicare and Medicaid and to reduce the economic incentives for doctors to order excessive services.
Numerous studies have found that doctors order more tests and procedures when they have a financial interest in the equipment and clinics used to perform such services. In Florida, for example, a state agency said that doctors' ownership of laboratories and diagnostic imaging centers tended to increase the use and cost of those services without improving access to care.
President Clinton's health care plan and other health bills considered in Congress this year sought to impose more stringent limits on doctors' ability to profit from the referral of patients. But the proposals appear to have died along with most other health legislation.
T2 Medical merged with three other health care companies in July. The resulting entity, the Coram Healthcare Corporation, is the nation's second-largest infusion therapy concern. With the merger, the corporation will not be dependent on the referral of patients by doctor-investors; instead, it can use the sales force of the combined companies to generate new business.
A top executive of T2 Medical resigned in August 1993, and the company said then that it had overstated its earnings for six months in 1992 and 1993 because of accounting irregularities and errors.
When home infusion therapy began, insurers encouraged its use because it was cheaper than hospital care. But in recent years, the industry has become highly competitive, and insurers have set strict limits on reimbursements, reducing profits for some infusion companies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TSQ (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC8082 HOME HEALTH CARE SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: T2 MEDICAL INC; CORAM HEALTHCARE CORP T2 MEDICAL INC (85%); MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: T2 MEDICAL INC; CORAM HEALTHCARE CORP MEDICARE (94%); MEDICAID (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GEORGIA, USA (93%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINES (PENALTIES); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; ETHICS; MEDICARE; MEDICAID MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (89%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); GRAND JURY (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ETHICS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); AIDS & HIV (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (72%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (72%); MEDICAID (58%); HOME HEALTH CARE (55%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT JUNE GIBBS BROWN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



572 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 41; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo;
A Switch in Bastion of Liberalism: Not Many Protesting Sex Zoning

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
For better or worse, New York City has always had a reputation as one of America's most permissive cities when it came to matters of free speech -- even when the freest speakers wore no clothes. Now, it seems, the city's tolerance, or at least its grudging acceptance, has reached a limit.
In a city where there are such things as an erotic bakery and cable channels with all manners of sexual explicitness, the proliferation of topless bars, X-rated video stores and other "adult" businesses has provoked an unusually concerted uproar, particularly in residential neighborhoods where they had rarely ventured before. 
 Now, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani has proposed zoning changes that would restrict sex-related establishments to a few nonresidential neighborhoods. Not to be outdone, the City Council has scrambled to move ahead with its own zoning changes. Even one of the city's most prominent liberal officials, Ruth W. Messinger, the Borough President of Manhattan, has offered a set of restrictions, although far less sweeping.
What is remarkable is how far the Mayor's restrictions would go. The neon lights flashing "Live Nude Girls," the provocatively obscured windows of video stores and the tawdry, taunting placards -- in recent years as much a part of New York's image as the Empire State Building -- would be shunted to isolated industrial areas. The Mayor would even bar peep shows and topless-a-go-go's from Times Square, and that, regardless of one's point of view, is almost impossible to conceive.
But what is even more remarkable is how few elected officials in a city renowned for its liberalism have stepped forward with objections to the proposals, which are now subject to the city's planning process. When a City Council committee voted to initiate its zoning proposal last week, no one voted against the idea. The one member who abstained, Thomas K. Duane, the liberal Democrat, cited the First Amendment but said he also worried that under the restrictions, most of the X-rated businesses still allowed in Manhattan would be in his district, along the industrial stretches of Chelsea beside the Hudson River.
What's happened? Has America's most tolerant city suddenly turned Victorian? Not exactly, according to elected officials and others who support the restrictions.
The intent, they say, is neither to censor nor curtail businesses legally protected under the First Amendment, but rather to remove the spillover impacts of X-rated businesses from residential neighborhoods -- far away, as the political science goes, from the children of middle-class voters. To put it another way, "free speech" has nowadays become much less of a political rallying cry in New York City than "quality of life."
"I don't think the goal is to get into what's obscene," said City Councilwoman Joan Griffin McCabe, a Democrat whose avowed liberalism on First Amendment matters has run into the abrupt growth of X-rated video stores in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. "People just don't want it on their corner. They don't want it shoved in their face."
Hers is a sentiment heard more and more around the city -- and not just toward topless bars and X-rated video stores.
From liberal neighborhoods in Manhattan to more conservative ones in Queens, New Yorkers seem less willing to turn an accepting or resigned eye to the myriad annoyances of urban life: from aggressive panhandlers on the Upper West Side, to men wielding squeegees at Queens Plaza in Queens to young louts urinating on the streets of Greenwich Village.
"Not long ago there was a sense of allowing all people to do all things at all times," said City Councilman Charles Millard, the Republican who has campaigned against the opening of X-rated video stores in his district on the Upper East Side. "Suddenly people are realizing that they don't have to feel guilty saying 'I don't want somebody urinating on my building.' "
It is this frustration among residents in the city's middle-class neighborhoods that Mr. Giuliani, the first Republican Mayor in a generation, has tapped by proposing the restrictions on X-rated establishments. Raymond B. Harding, the leader of the state's Liberal Party and an important backer of Mr. Giuliani's, said that Mr. Giuliani was a result of that frustration.
"I think over a number of years there was a sort of breakdown of the social contract in New York City," Mr. Harding said. "In making the decision between David Dinkins and Rudy Giuliani, New Yorkers were sending a signal that they too wanted to restore the social order."
Of course, when it comes to matters of sexuality, the city's political moods, and social mores, have swung like a pendulum.
At the turn of the century, when Times Square was still called Long acre, prostitution and sexually explicit entertainment flourished, until the authorities responded to moral indignation. Then in the 1920's, burlesque revues grew wildly popular until the city's temperance changed again and the bawdiest of them shut down, a pattern that would be repeated over the decades.
"The alleged obscenity of the burlesque shows is exceeded by their external frowsiness," The New York Times wrote. "The neighborhood of such theaters takes on the character of a slum."
That was in 1933. But the same concern about X-rated businesses -- that the effects are spilling over some invisible line of acceptance -- still echoes around the city's residential neighborhoods today.
"The city is tolerant so long as it's not in their backyard,"' said Richard C. Wade, distinguished professor of urban history at the City University of New York's Graduate Center. "In a city as large as this, there have always been pockets of these things. The difference now is the ubiquity of them."
While few elected officials have openly opposed the restrictions, the new zoning proposals still face opposition that could scuttle them, which was the fate of proposed zoning restrictions in the 1970's, when the number of X-rated establishments grew from from 9 in 1965 to 151 in 1976. This is nearly the level today.
Some officials have expressed misgivings that the proposals may go too far to pass muster in court, including planners who presented Mr. Giuliani with less restrictive proposals only to be told, one official said, to go all the way. Norman Siegel, the executive director of the New York Civil Liberties Union, said that court was exactly where the restrictions would be decided.
Supporters of the zoning restrictions say the Mayor's proposals go no further than restrictions imposed by other cities, including Detroit and Los Angeles. But New York, the opponents counter, is New York.
Councilwoman Ronnie S. Eldridge, the Democrat from the Upper West Side, said that the anger over quality-of-life issues had caused many people to forget the city's tradition of tolerance. She expressed hope that a more sensible solution would be found to quell the anger.
"The liberal voice -- it seems to have disappeared in the city," Ms. Eldridge said, noting that few people were picketing bars or Off-Track Betting parlors that create the sort of nuisances regularly attributed to X-rated businesses. "Maybe we're just being quiet for a while."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "Several Perspectives On Sex-Zoning Plan"
 
Richard C. Wade
Professor of urban affairs at the Graduate Center of the City University of New York
History is replete with cycles of high tolerance, followed by restraints and reform. Usually cities, either by law or custom, accept a measure of what they thought aberrant behavior by permitting it in certain areas. What is new now is the ubiquity of adult entertainment establishments. Partially this is due to a more relaxed attitude toward them, the cheapness of videos and the small amount of capital required to get in the business. Containing their spread has always been a delicate balancing act, and solutions have seldom been satisfactory or lasting.

Joseph B. Rose
Director of the Department of City Planning, which is drafting the Mayor's new zoning restrictions
New York City's residential neighborhoods deserve as much protection from negative impacts of adult entertainment uses as are available to other communities around the country. Our studies have shown conclusively that negative secondary impacts -- such as declining property values, increased crime and diminished quality of life -- provide a constitutional basis for broad zoning restrictions. The materials sold in the kind of establishments we propose to regulate are now more widely available than ever before. This is not about limiting access to the content of the materials. It's about protecting the quality of life in New York's neighborhoods.

Stephen J. Morello
President of the New York City Convention and Visitors Bureau
From our point of view, people do not come to New York for business or pleasure for these businesses like the ones the Mayor is referring to. There are a significant number who could do without this kind of entertainment. It gets in some people's way when they are here to do and see other things. Our sense is that whatever measures are taken to improve the quality of life for the benefit of residents also contributes to the benefit of visitors and the travel and tourism economy.

 Gretchen Dykstra
President of the Times Square Business Improvement District
Times Square is home to theaters, publishers, record companies and the American Civil Liberties Union. Many have benefited from First Amendment protections. Our concern is the sheer number, not the fact of these places. Everything that has driven our work concerning limiting adult entertainment has to do with concentration of pornography. People understand that you cannot sacrifice a commercially vital neighborhood like Times Square and write it off as a red light district. It did not work in Boston.

 Madeline D'Anthony
Owner of the Harmony Theaters in TriBeCa and Chelsea, and a founder of the Adult Industry Trade Association, formed earlier this year to fight restrictions
Everybody wants to point the finger at society's woes. They need something or someone to blame, and they've chosen the adult industry. It doesn't make sense. How does a man who walks into a store to buy an adult video emerge from the store as a criminal? How is it that he's destroying quality of life?
We're an easy target. The problems are still going to be here when they move the X-rated stores. They wouldn't be there if there wasn't business. I think the only concerns are the signs. While we don't believe in restrictions, we believe the signs can be a problem. It should be a self-regulation that we impose on ourselves to keep peace with the communities.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE BUILDING CO (54%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%); AMERICAN CIVIL LIBERTIES UNION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; ZONING; LAW AND LEGISLATION; NUDISM AND NUDITY; ELECTION ISSUES ZONING (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); LIBERALISM (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (88%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (87%); NATURISTS & NATURISM (77%); CENSORSHIP (76%); PORNOGRAPHY (76%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); CITY LIFE (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); POLITICS (72%); LEGISLATION (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (66%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (60%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MYERS, STEVEN LEE RUDY GIULIANI (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



573 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 1; Page 57; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: CUTTINGS;
What's a Flying Female Gypsy Moth? It's Trouble

BYLINE: By Anne Raver 

 BODY:
ONE day last July, Donna Moramarco, a Cornell Cooperative Extension agent in Plainview, L.I., was working in the insect lab when she noticed a huge gypsy moth laying eggs on an alcohol bottle.
Then she noticed it flying around the room. 
 Wait a minute. Flying? The female North American gypsy moth can't fly.
Ms. Moramarco suspected the female was an Asian gypsy moth -- which can fly as far as 30 miles to lay her eggs and which has not been seen before in the Northeast. After a round of scientific telephone tag in New England, Dr. William Wallner, a entomologist at the United States Agriculture Department's Center for Forest Health in Hamden, Conn., and a few Federal officials began investigating some wooded areas on the North Shore.
The possibility of the Asian moth's entry into New York does not bode well for trees, because the insect appears to be an even more voracious leaf eater than its North American cousin. And because of the female Asian moth's ability to fly, the population can spread about three times as fast, Dr. Wallner said.
Egg samples are now being genetically analyzed at the department's Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service in Falmouth, Mass., but whether or not the moths are Asian or a strain from Germany -- a close relative -- or North American is not yet clear.
In 1981, North American gypsy moths ate through 12 million acres of forest in 17 Northeastern states and Washington, D.C., causing millions of dollars' worth of damage.
"We anticipate that the Asian gypsy moth will be far more destructive than the North American, because its host range is broader," Dr. Wallner said. The Asian moth feeds not only on oak and birch but also on conifers like larch and Douglas fir, which are important economically to the Northwest. It is also fond of the red alder, which grows along riverbanks and is crucial to the health of riparian ecosystems.
It may also eat more plants in gardeners' yards, said Dr. Wallman, who was not big on home remedies. Even if you scrape off any egg masses you see and destroy them, there are many more that you will never see.
The most common treatment is the use of Bacillus thuringiensis, or Bt, a bacterium that paralyzes the gut of the insect and kills it, without harming its natural predators or leaving a poisonous residue.
Dr. Wallner has traveled about 40,000 miles throughout China and Russia studying the ecology and life cycle of the Asian gypsy moth. At Planting Fields Arboretum in Oyster Bay, L.I., he collected a number of egg masses that looked much like those he had seen in Asia and in the Rhine Valley, where forests have recently been defoliated. Interestingly, a number of egg masses on Long Island were stuck not only on tree trunks but also on leaves.
"That's very indicative of what I saw in the Russian Far East," Dr. Wallner said. "If eggs are laid on the sides of buildings or trees in Siberia, they'll die from exposure. But if they're laid on foliage, the leaves will drop and be insulated by snow."
The first sighting of the Asian gypsy moth was in 1981, Dr. Wallner said, when egg masses were found on Russian ships loading grain in Vancouver, British Columbia. In 1991, many more egg masses were found on Russian ships docked in the Northwest, coinciding with increased outbreaks in Asia.
Traps baited with a chemical that mimics the female moth's sex pheromones were set around Portland, Ore., and Tacoma, Wash., and after male Asian gypsy moths were positively identified, the area was sprayed with Bt.
The latest confirmed sighting was July 3, 1993, in Wilmington, N.C., as moths flew out of the hold of a military ship bringing troops and weapons back from Germany.
Dr. Wallner sees a direct connection between the opening up of the Russian border, as well as relaxed trade barriers, and the increased sightings of the Asian moth.
"As things move more freely the question becomes, How do we handle nonindigenous species -- I call them biological pollutants -- that are not normally found in the environment?" he said.
The gypsy moth is believed to have originated in Asia thousands of years ago, and to have spread to Europe, where it lost its ability to fly.
On the barren steppes of Russia, where trees are sparse and widely scattered, the farther a female moth could fly, the better chance she had of laying her eggs in a forest -- where her progeny could feast on leaves. They, in turn, flew on to the forests of Germany and France, where their cushy lifestyle apparently resulted in the loss of their piloting abilities. So it goes in evolution.
The gypsy moth was unknown to America until 1868, when Leopold Trouvelot, a French naturalist and entrepreneur, brought some to Medford, Mass., in an attempt to breed a disease-resistant silkworm, and some moths escaped. Twenty years later, when caterpillars skeletonized the trees of Medford, they were sprayed with Paris green, a compound of copper and arsenic. Another outbreak in 1923 prompted spraying with DDT from Long Island Sound to the Canadian border.
Though a lot of robins dropped dead, the caterpillars marched on. Since DDT was banned, carbaryl, which kills honeybees, and Bt, which is more environmentally benign, have been widely used. But the gypsy moth has continued to spread at a rate of about 12 miles a year, to Ohio and Michigan and into Virgina and West Virginia.
 
THIS WEEK
Move Things to Their Winter Homes
 Waste no more time planting small spring bulbs and daffodils. Hold off on the tulips and garlic until mid-October.
Make cuttings of geraniums, especially the fragrant ones, to be potted up for indoor plants this winter.
Fall is a great time to prepare new beds for next year and to move plants around the garden. I plan to double-dig the old rose beds, add plenty of manure and compost and replant only the most disease-resistant and fragrant bloomers. They'll have plenty of time to establish new root systems before the freeze.
Dig up parsley, taking care not to damage the tap roots, and put it in a big pot for indoor growing. Set it in your sunniest window, in a chilly room. Some people have luck with rosemary, too, but mine always limps along, just barely, until spring.
If you started perennials from seed in midsummer, the plants should be sturdy enough to move to their permanent spots in the garden. Mulch them well after the first frost.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The female Asian gypsy moth, left, has a bigger appetite for leaves than its North American cousin, right. ( Department of Agriculture)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); GERMANY (54%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: INTECHNOLOGY PLC (51%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); ANIMAL & PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (83%); ANIMAL & PLANT HEALTH INSPECTION SERVICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); NORTH AMERICA (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); GERMANY (54%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: TREES AND SHRUBS; GYPSY MOTHS INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (91%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (88%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (78%); ENTOMOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); BIOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (77%); BOTANICAL GARDENS (74%); SUSTAINABLE FORESTRY (74%); FORESTRY & ENVIRONMENT (74%); SALTWATER ECOSYSTEMS (72%); BACTERIA (70%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (69%); RIVERS (61%); 

PERSON: RAVER, ANNE WILLIAM WALLNER (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



574 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: New York's High Taxes

 BODY:
George Pataki, the Republican candidate for governor, looked at a report on state taxes last week and declared that New York taxes "are out of control" -- a condition he attributes in part to alleged spendthrift policies over the past 11 years by his opponent, Gov. Mario Cuomo. Mr. Pataki's remedy is to cut a bevy of personal and corporate taxes, though he conveniently sidesteps telling anyone by how much or how he intends to pay for this beneficence. Never one to miss an election-year trick, Governor Cuomo chimed in with his own tax-cut package. He too put off telling voters whose programs will be gored.
The candidates are right that New York taxes are sky high. Last week's report by the State Business Council confirms what many other studies also show: state and local taxes, measured as a percentage of personal income, are 40 percent higher in New York than the national average. Only Alaska is higher and Hawaii close behind. But oil companies pay over 85 percent of Alaska's taxes; tourists pay a large share of Hawaii's. In New York, New Yorkers pay most of the taxes. 
 But before taxpayers salivate over the prospect of lower taxes, they should note that the next governor will be hard pressed to deliver on his promise. A careful study by Frank Mauro of the labor-backed Fiscal Policy Institute estimates that the state budget will have a $3.5 billion deficit by 1997. If the next governor is to cut taxes, he will have to muscle large, unpopular spending cuts through the Legislature.
The obvious question is whether the state and local taxes are strangling the economy. The evidence is mixed. But as Steven Gold of the State University of New York at Albany points out, New York businesses operate in a climate of high wages, high energy costs, expensive regulations and slow regional growth. To add high state and local taxes to this anti-business cauldron is worrisome.
Even more worrisome are New York City taxes. They are higher than elsewhere in the state and a whopping 100 percent above the national average. A large part of the problem is state policy that forces the city to pick up large shares of Medicaid costs, welfare outlays and school expenditures. New York City is saddled with responsibilities unlike those of any other city in the U.S.
Mr. Pataki is trying hard to tarnish Mr. Cuomo with the state's high taxes. But when Mr. Cuomo took office in 1983, state and local taxes were slightly less than 40 percent above the national average. They remain so today. In between, he signed into law several tax hikes. He also signed several tax cuts. The truth is New York has been a high-tax state since Gov. Nelson Rockefeller reigned. It will remain so as long as New York provides a low-tuition university system, generous welfare benefits and costly local school systems (which on average provide higher teacher-student ratios than those in all but two other states).
Mr. Cuomo defends his record by pointing out the true, but irrelevant, fact that state taxes in New York are not high by national standards. That is because Albany increasingly legislates new public services by telling local governments to foot the bill. The only sensible way to discuss taxation in New York is to look at state and local taxes combined.
Taxes have a benefit, of course: they pay for services that many citizens prize. Indeed, Albany would need to cut public programs drastically, and therefore foolishly, in order to bring taxes way down to the national average. But there is good reason for the next governor to adopt a long-term plan to bring taxes back toward the levels in states with which New York competes for business. A sensible policy would be to target a modest tax cut where it is needed the most, New York City.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

INDUSTRY: NAICS 213112 OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); HAWAII, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); HAWAII, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; ELECTION ISSUES; FINANCES; EDITORIALS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING TAXES & TAXATION (93%); GOVERNORS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX INCREASES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); INCOME TAX (75%); MEDICAID (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (69%); LEGISLATION (50%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (SEN); CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) GEORGE PATAKI (92%); MARIO MATTHEW CUOMO (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



575 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 4; Page 16; Column 3; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: Justice Shines on the Baseball Players

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 When baseball's acting commissioner, Bud Selig, announced the end of the 1994 season, I was surprised at how many fans and even sportswriters blamed the players.
 
 Unlike other professionals, baseball players have a limited number of productive years. By the time they hit 40, they are history.
 A vicious line drive finished the careers of the pitchers Herb Score and Dizzy Dean when they were still very young. Pete Reiser was never the same after he crashed into the center-field wall at Ebbets Field.
 We should also remember how the ballplayers were paid in the years before players union, free agency and arbitration. While other top show business performers were raking in millions, superstars like Babe Ruth, Joe DiMaggio and Ted Williams had to beg for a pay increase.
 With players facing unemployment because of age and injury, the owners are asking them to risk their jobs and financial well-being by accepting a salary cap. When George Steinbrenner, owner of the Yankees, said he wanted his payroll down to $45 million, wasn't he setting a salary cap? A ballplayer, like any other employee in any other industry, should be free to seek the salary he thinks he deserves.
 The rebuttal to this argument is that the weak-market teams cannot afford to pay these players what they deserve and will lose them to another team. If so, for once Mr. Steinbrenner is right: these teams should close shop or move.
 By striking, the players sacrifice huge amounts of money they will never recover so that the young players coming up from the minors will have a better opportunity. They should not be criticized for this, but applauded.
 
ELLIOTT S. KANBAR
New York, Sept. 19, 1994

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE PLAYERS ASSN

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; STRIKES BASEBALL (95%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); ATHLETES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: BUD SELIG (74%); GEORGE STEINBRENNER (69%); JOSEPH PAUL 'JOE' DIMAGGIO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



576 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 2230 words

HEADLINE: Local Governments Lose Millions In Complex and Risky Securities

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE 

 BODY:
In 1990, Virgil Swartzlander, the treasurer of Sandusky County, Ohio, for more than 30 years, began investing in a new type of highly speculative security cooked up by Wall Street. So did his friend, Maurice Kline, treasurer of nearby Portage County. Now, after $10 million in losses of taxpayer money, they say they did not fully understand what they were buying.
These men, along with dozens of other officials of towns, colleges and at least one Indian tribe across the country, thought they could get higher returns from new and risky investments called mortgage derivatives. But as interest rates have risen, these investments have dropped sharply in value, and taxpayers now face multimillion-dollar losses. 
 In Ohio alone, municipalities lost at least $13 million. In Texas, Odessa Junior College has $22 million in investments that cannot be sold. The City Colleges of Chicago have $96 million in highly questionable investments. And the Shoshone Indian tribe in Wyoming has lost about $5 million -- leaving it without money to buy clothes and food for needy children or provide financial assistance to adults.
Now that these investments have gone awry, many local officials say they were pushed into unsuitable choices by aggressive brokers. But others say there was greed on both sides -- the brokers seeking large commissions and the local officials gambling for big returns that would make them look good, rather than placing public money into conservative investments like certificates of deposit that offered modest returns but virtually no risk.
"The profits to brokers for selling these derivatives have been fat and a lot of local officials wanted to stretch for higher yield," said Richard Y. Roberts, a member of the Securities and Exchange Commission and a specialist in municipal finance. "Unfortunately, a lot of these officials were investing in something they shouldn't have been."
Mortgage derivatives are highly risky bets on the direction of interest rates. They get their name because they are derived from pools of home mortgages that are lumped together by investment houses and then re sliced to create different investments: some from just the interest portion of these mortgages and others from the principal only. About $125 billion of such mortgage derivatives are outstanding, mostly owned by banks and insurance companies that are seeking above-average returns and that are able to understand the risk.
Just how many have filtered into the hands of municipal treasurers is still anyone's guess, experts in municipal finance say.
Lawsuits and investigations in many of these cases have uncovered a common pattern: local officials, assured by brokers that these investments were safe, took public money and put it in mortgage derivatives. For the most part, these investors lost, because when interest rates fell in 1993, many people refinanced their mortgages and paid off the original loans. Because the original mortgages propped up these derivatives, once they were paid off and retired the derivatives fell in value.
Rosalie Townsend, treasurer of the Vermilion, Ohio, school district, was among the losers. In late 1992, she put $200,000 of the district's money in a mortgage derivative. "I was out-and-out lied to," Ms. Townsend said of her dealings with a broker from Hart Securities of Houston.
She said she had told the broker that "we were only interested in safe investments that wouldn't risk our principal," and added: "The broker ripped off the pages from the prospectus that said this was risky. He didn't give me the information to ever guess we could lose money."
After the investment plummeted in value, it was finally sold for $16,000.
Lawyers for the brokerage firm that sold the derivative, Hart Securities, which is the subject of complaints from four other Ohio municipalities, said the firm did nothing wrong.
"They are just looking for a scapegoat," said Paul S. Francis, a Houston lawyer representing Hart. "We never represented these investments as risk-free and they made these investments knowing that. Now they have selective memory."
Richard C. Yount Jr., a partner of Mr. Francis, said: "A lot of these treasurers characterize themselves as unsophisticated rubes. But a lot of them are very sophisticated."
 
 
Financial Crisis For an Indian Tribe
 Among the other losers on mortgage derivatives was the Shoshone tribe, which resides on the Wind River Reservation in southwest Wyoming. It invested $5 million in the derivatives in 1993 and lost nearly all of it. This wiped out a third of the tribe's $15 million operating budget and has created a financial crisis for the 3,000-member tribe, which has 70 percent unemployment.
"We are either going to have to cut services, or our entire budget will be depleted by 1997," said Robert Murray, a member of the tribe and its lawyer. Mr. Murray said tribal officials were approached by a broker who aggressively courted them for four years before convincing them in 1993 to buy derivatives.
"None of the six members of the tribe's business council are educated in finance or securities," Mr. Murray said. "And our financial officer is a tribal member who just graduated from college.
"The broker said these investments were 100 percent Government-guaranteed, that we could make money and that they were not as risky as buying stocks."
The broker, Tracy A. McKnight, and his firm, MGSI Securities in Houston, declined to comment on this case, which is now before the National Association of Securities Dealers, the brokerage industry's self-regulatory body.
The tribe's investment encompassed a variety of derivatives, none guaranteed by the Government. The tribe bought interest-only strip derivatives, which provide the buyer with the interest from mortgage pools, and which fall in value when home mortgages are refinanced. It also bought principal-only strip derivatives, which provide returns from the principal part of mortgages, and which decrease in value when interest rates rise. The tribe also bought inverse floater derivatives, which are intended to move in the opposite direction of interest rates and which float in value. These, too, declined in value.
 
Staff and Team Cuts At a Junior College
 The same firm, MGSI Securities, is one of six that sold Odessa Junior College in Odessa, Tex., more than $22 million of mortgage derivatives that are now almost impossible to sell. Among those six firms are two other Houston-based concerns that have caused problems elsewhere: the Government Securities Corporation of Texas was a big seller to many of the Ohio buyers and Westcap Government Securities sold most of the $96 million in illiquid mortgage derivatives to the City Colleges of Chicago, a group of seven community colleges.
At Odessa Junior College, the problems came to light in March, when the school's treasurer, who has since resigned, disclosed that he had invested the school's entire $22 million portfolio in mortgage derivatives, mostly the same ones sold to the Shoshone tribe. At first, these investments were profitable. But rising interest rates changed that. The school has sold about $6 million of these at a loss, and the remainder are considered illiquid, with no potential buyers.
As a result, the 5,000-student college has had to borrow $12 million from local banks to cover current costs. Its bond rating has fallen to the lowest possible level, which will increase the cost of borrowing in the future. Local taxpayers faced a 7 percent property tax increase and the Texas auditor's office is investigating. The college president is working without pay, athletic teams have been eliminated and the staff has been cut 10 percent.
"The problem was that none of us, neither I nor the board, understood what it was to be in derivatives," said Dr. Philip Speegle, the college's president. "None of us ever imagined the magnitude of the fluctuations possible."
At the City Colleges of Chicago, the entire $96 million investment portfolio was put into the same array of mortgage derivatives that have sharply fallen in value. In a lawsuit, the college asserts that Westcap misrepresented these derivatives as safe and that it gave no indication that they were volatile or that no buyers existed for them. Westcap declined to comment.
"Our treasurer came to us and said, 'I made a major mistake,' " said Jacqueline Woods, a spokeswoman for the colleges, whose operations have not been impaired by these problems so far. The treasurer bought the securities in 1993 and was dismissed in February after reporting the problems.
 And in Charles County, Md., outside Washington, $1.3 million was lost in derivatives. The county treasurer who made the investments has been dismissed.
 
 
Wall St.'s Siren Song Lures Ohio Officials
 A particular hotbed of investing was Ohio, where two brokers moved in like the Music Man and sang the praises of derivatives to 16 local governments, all of which now face losses. They include small towns like Jackson, population 6,000, which lost $380,000, and the counties of Sandusky and Portage, which have the biggest losses, a combined $10 million.
Among the busiest derivatives brokers in Ohio was James Winter, who has had a checkered history in the industry. He worked for the Government Securities Corporation of Texas, based in Houston, which is known in the industry as G.S.C. The firm has agreed to reimburse $5.5 million to Sandusky County and is in litigation with Portage County, which is claiming losses of about $5 million. Also prominent in the sale of derivatives in Ohio was Kenneth J. Schulte, a broker for Hart Securities, who sold derivatives to Vermilion and others.
Mr. Winter, whose lawyers would not allow him to comment, was popular in Ohio. He attended the state convention for local treasurers, met frequently with local officials, and sometimes stayed in their homes. For 10 years, he had been selling investments to Portage and Sandusky counties.
"Mr. Winter had a good reputation with us," said Virgil Swartzlander, 74, who has been re-elected Sandusky County treasurer 10 times. "We trusted him. We had invested in small business loans with him and made a profit. He was a pretty nice fellow. And he represented these as very safe."
Mr. Swartzlander and other local treasurers did not know that Mr. Winter, 56, had run afoul of securities laws before. In 1970 he was convicted in Arkansas for a "hot check," as the law there calls a fraudulent check; he was fined by the National Association of Securities Dealers in 1979, and he had his broker-dealer license temporarily suspended in 1981. Among the charges against him were that he bought securities without customers' consent and made unauthorized transactions of Federal Government securities. In 1987, he was also convicted of drunken driving in Texas.
When Mr. Winter sat down with the treasurers, both sides saw money to be made. Mr. Swartzlander anticipated yields that he said could be two to three percentage points above those of other securities. Mr. Winter and other brokers liked derivatives because of the fat commissions they paid -- The Cleveland Plain Dealer said Mr. Winter received commissions of up to 4 percent, an amount other brokers have said was not uncommon. This compares with commissions of one-quarter to three-tenths of a percent for most government bond transactions. G.S.C. would not comment on its commissions.
 
Officials Are Burned, Then Scalded Again
 In 1990 and 1991 Mr. Swartrzlander began buying interest-only mortgage derivatives. So did his friend, Maurice Kline, the 74-year-old Portage County treasurer. As interest rates fell in early 1992, and homeowners prepaid their mortgages, the value of these securities dropped. "People refinanced and these things went kaflooey," Mr. Kline said.
Concerned, the two men called Mr. Winter, who assured them that these securities would "come back," they said. And to offset these losses, Mr. Winter persuaded them to buy another uncommon investment, inverse floaters, as a hedge. Mr. Winter said the yield of these floaters would rise as interest rates fell, the treasurers said.
From April 1992 to October 1993, Mr. Kline bought four inverse floaters for $4.2 million and Mr. Swartzlander bought $6.5 million worth between June 1992 and March 1993. These investments also lost money; the lawsuits began after an Ohio state auditor's report uncovered the losses.
Part of the problem is that neither Mr. Swartzlander nor Mr. Kline, like many municipal finance officers, are schooled in finance or receive much help. "I've got no investment committee, no computers, nothing," said Mr. Kline, who manages a $20 million budget. "I do it all handwritten."
Ronald Mayle, the assistant prosecutor of Sandusky County, said, "Except for the things from G.S.C., the biggest decision Mr. Swartzlander had to make is which bank to buy C.D.'s for the county."
Representatives of G.S.C. dispute this characterization. "Lots of folks who invested in derivatives enjoyed attractive profits for several years," Frank Klaus, an executive vice president, said. "They understood them perfectly then. Then the market became less attractive and now they don't understand them."
 The article also misstated the location of Portage County, Ohio, in some copies. It is east of Akron, not near Toledo.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 26, 1994, Monday

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article yesterday about investments by towns and colleges in highly speculative Wall Street offerings referred incorrectly in some copies to the amount of public money that the treasurer of Sandusky County, Ohio, placed in an interest-rate investment known as an inverse floater. It was $6.5 million, not $6.5 billion.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "HOW IT WORKS: In Search of Higher Returns" describes how a mortgage becomes part of a derivative. (pg. 26)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

COMPANY: HART SECURITIES (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); OHIO, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (53%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; INSTITUTIONAL INVESTORS; DERIVATIVES (FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS); MORTGAGES; INTEREST RATES; BROKERS AND BROKERAGE FIRMS REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BONDS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (70%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); INSURANCE (66%); MORTGAGE LOANS (55%); FOOD CHARITIES (52%); SUITS & CLAIMS (50%); 

PERSON: WAYNE, LESLIE MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



577 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 25; Column 1; Travel Desk

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Q and A

BYLINE: By Terence Neilan

 BODY:

Tours of Japan
 Q. Do you know of any firms that offer small group tours to Japan to historic, artistic and cultural sites? -- Jack Economou, Poughkeepsie, N.Y. 
 A. Organizing small group tours to Japan is a specialized field with only a relative handful of full-time practitioners and a correspondingly small number of programs. A tour, say, to tea-ceremony centers might take two years to set up and yet because of its generally limited appeal might be repeated only every five years.
The following companies have wide experience in the field:
The North Group, 2250 Broadway, No. 20B, New York, N.Y. 10024, telephone (212) 875-8423, has organized and co-sponsored small, selective tours for the Japan Society for the past three years. Next year's trip, called "Journey to the Heart of Japan," will explore the Japanese esthetic "as it is expressed through ceramics and food and their presentation." The tour, from Oct. 6 to 23, will visit the homes and studios of ceramic artists, chefs, tea masters, calligraphers, textile artisans, gallery owners and collectors and will be limited to 12 or 13 people and three guides. It will be led by Jeff Shapiro, of Accord, N.Y., a ceramic artist who lived and worked in Japan for 10 years. Despite the $7,950-a-person price tag in double occupancy ($9,250 for a single), the organizers say the tour is selling fast. The price includes a $500 donation to the Japan Society, 6 breakfasts, 11 lunches and 9 dinners, but it does not include air fare to and from Japan.
Journeys East, 2443 Fillmore Street, No. 289, San Francisco, Calif. 94115, (510) 601-1677, organizes more frequent trips -- a total of 10 this year, the 10th year of what it calls "taking travelers on back country adventures in Japan." Its small groups are each accompanied by two leaders. This year's tours were designed under the headings of "Mountains, Temples and Hamlets," "Brushes With Inner Japan," "From Farmhouse to Teahouse" and "Arts and Crafts: Past and Present." "Mountains" concentrated on temples, gardens, villas and palaces as well as villages and the Japanese countryside; "Inner Japan" combined flower arranging, the opportunity for Zen meditation, an overnight stay at a Shinto temple and visits to arts and crafts museums and shops. Similar tours will be held next year but not all schedules and prices have been finalized. The "Farmhouse" tour will run from May 13 to 27 and cost $3,685 a person in double occupancy; the "Inner Japan" tour will be held from Oct. 28 to Nov. 11 and cost $3,785 a person. Round-trip air fare from the West Coast is available at $1,090 and from the East Coast at $1,390.
TBI Tours, 787 Seventh Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019, (212) 489-1834, sells all the standard packages (among them: nine days in Tokyo, Hakone and Kyoto, or four days in Tokyo and three in Kyoto), but it also has tours designed to attract the second-time visitor that would tend to attract smaller groups. An example is "Imperial Japan A," 11 days spent visiting Tokyo, Hakone, Matumoto, Takayama, Kanazawa, Ama-no-hashidate and Kyoto. Its highlights include visits to a number of temples and religious shrines as well as castles and museums. This year's prices ranged from $3,475 to $3,580 a person in double occupancy, including air fare from New York or Chicago.
Although it does not act as an official clearinghouse for groups with special interests, the Japan National Tourist Organization, 630 Fifth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10111, (212) 757-5640, sometimes has information about trips being put together that might fit other people's plans. The organization can also help with general questions about travel to Japan.
 
From Turkey to Greece
 Q. I plan to travel to Greece in November, with a side trip to Istanbul. Will, as I have read, have any trouble getting back into Greece with a Turkish stamp in my passport? Should I have the Turkish stamp put on a separate piece of paper? -- Nancy J. Becker, Seattle
A. Travelers with a Turkish stamp in their passport have no problem gaining entry to Greece, according to the Greek National Tourist Office and the Greek Consulate in New York. The tourist office said it had had a number of inquiries recently about a potential problem in that area, prompting it to wonder "who it is who starts these kinds of rumors."
According to the Embassy of Cyprus in Washington, a Turkish stamp would also cause no problem for any visitor arriving on the Mediterranean island, which was invaded by Turkish troops in July 1974. Turkey later set up what it called the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus in the occupied area of the island, and a Cypriot spokeswoman said a stamp from that area would not be recognized and its carrier denied entry to the Greek Cypriot part of the island.
 
Down-Under Weather
 Q. I expect to be in the Sydney area of Australia for two or three months starting in November. What kind of weather can I expect? And how can I obtain a list of culturual progams and entertainment activities for that period? -- Irving Jacks, New York, N.Y.
A. The climate of the southeastern area of Australia, of which Sydney is a part, is best described as warm-temperate with no real cold season, warm to hot summers and rain well distributed throughout the year.
And as the seasons are reversed in the Southern Hemisphere, it happens that you have picked the summer to be there.
Average maximum highs in Sydney in November are 93 degrees, with lows at 63. Average monthly precipitation is 1.2 inches.
In December it heats up a little, with the average highs at 97 degrees and lows at 67. The precipitation level increases, too, to 1.4 inches.
January is usually the hottest month of the year, with average highs at 99 degrees (125 degrees was the hottest ever recorded there) and lows at a balmly 70 degrees. Precipitation remains at 1.4 inches.
For information on cultural events and other programs, write to the Australian Tourist Commission, Suite 1200, Avenue of the Stars, Los Angeles, Calif. 90067. The commission's theme for 1995 is "Celebrate Australian Art and Culture," which is also the name of a brochure highlighting what the country has to offer. The commission has also produced a "Directory of Events and Contacts." Both can be obtained from the commission or by calling (708) 296-4900 to speak to a travel counselor.
 
Mecano in Concert
 Q. My husband and I are fans of the Spanish rock group Mecano. We would like to plan a trip to Spain this fall around the group's concert appearances. Can you tell us how to get tickets? -- J. Martin, Providence, R.I.
A. You're out of luck, it seems. The group's manager, Rosa Legarrie, said the band had not made any records or given any concerts for the past two years because of disagreements among its members. And they have no plans to get back together in the near future, she added.
 TERENCE NEILAN

CORRECTION-DATE: October 9, 1994, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An answer in the Q & A column on Sept. 25 about the weather in Sydney in November, December and January misstated average temperatures and precipitation levels. The figures were for Bourke, New South Wales. The average high in Sydney in November is 74 degrees, the low 60 and the precipitation 2.9 inches. The corresponding figures for December are 77, 63 and 2.9; for January they are 78, 65 and 3.5.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Question

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (53%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NORTH GROUP LTD (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WEST USA (53%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); VISUAL ARTS (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MEDITATION (77%); TEA (76%); RESTAURANTS (72%); AIR FARES (68%); RELIGION (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



578 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: A Boy's Dream of Great Things Leads to a Publishing House

BYLINE: By DIANA LASSETER 

DATELINE: LAWRENCEVILLE

 BODY:
AS a boy growing up in the Eritrea region of Ethiopia, Kassahun Checole was always pouring his energy into creative endeavors. In high school he organized a music group called the Harambe, a Swahili word meaning "pull together." The Harambe traveled the community, celebrating the harmony of life through song.
Mr. Checole's other great love in those days was publishing the high school's first newspaper. As he strained to recall its name in his Lawrenceville office recently, he smiled and he clasped his hands together. Brightly colored books lined the shelf above his head. 
 "I was a poet in those early days," he said. "I would write silly poetry about love and humanity. Those were idealistic times. When you are youthful, you think great things."
Mr. Checole, 47, a poet turned businessman, has never lost that idealism, nor has he stopped pursuing harmony. That philosophy has helped propel the success of his company, the Africa World Press, and its distribution arm, the Red Sea Press. The Africa World Press publishes books on Africa and African-American affairs, mostly nonfiction works on history, sociology, politics and economic issues.
Children's books, though, like the recently published "A Is for Africa," by Ife Nii Owoo, are a fast-growing segment of the business. The catalogue of the Africa World Press includes such noted works as Sonia Sanchez's "Under a Soprano Sky" and "Afrocentricity," by Molefi Asante.
The Africa World Press has been growing at 17 percent a year, enough to enable Mr. Checole and his 12 full-time employees to move from their 5,500-square-foot warehouse in Ewing late last year to a 15,000-square-foot office and warehouse in Lawrenceville. The maroon leather chairs and teal green carpeting in Mr. Checole's office suggest prosperity, but the gleam in his eyes and the enthusiasm in his voice speak of a venture that has survived the unpredictable publishing industry to find success.
Mr. Checole, who has long resisted the label of businessman, is beginning to recognize what he calls the "humane, responsible and venturesome" dimensions of the corporate world. That recognition did not come easy for a socially conscious individual who has thrived on bucking the system.
While attending Haile Selassie University in Ethiopia, Mr. Checole became an anti-monarchist who fought, with other students, for democracy in Ethiopia. His radical ideas culminated in a bloody demonstration in 1969 at the university, during which the army killed many students and arrested many more. After spending two and a half years at Haile Selassie, Mr. Checole left school and worked for a year at a clearinghouse in the port city of Massawa.
In August 1971, Mr. Checole, eager to further his education, set out for the State University of New York at Binghamton, where he had friends.
"I got a lot of support at Binghamton from people who were excited about who I was," Mr. Checole said. "I had an adventurous spirit, and I worked hard."
In the early 1970's, when the struggle for independence in Eritrea escalated into war, Mr. Checole supported the revolution from upstate New York, speaking to churches and organizations on the upheavals in his native land. Drawing from his early school years, he began Third World Review, a monthly newspaper in Binghamton.
 
Taught at Rutgers
 Three years after his arrival in the United States, Mr. Checole's undergraduate degree in political science and African-American studies and his master's in sociology led to a position as a professor of sociology and African studies at Rutgers University in New Brunswick. He moved to Trenton with his wife, Ayo, and their baby to start the next chapter, which would prove to be the most crucial.
Early in his teaching career, Mr. Checole was repeatedly frustrated by the small supply of books on Africa and African-American issues. The written material that was available was all too soon out of print.
"Publishers saw books on African issues as not commercially viable," he said. "They also had the notion that black people didn't read. These publishers simply did not know where the market was. They were publishing books and putting them in Barnes & Noble. Black people don't go to those places. You have to put the books where the people are."
Mr. Checole set out to do just that. He began printing a handful of books from the third floor of his home in 1984. One of the first was "The Barrel of a Pen," a collection of literary criticism by an African literary figure, Ngugi Wa Thiongo. What started as a side endeavor, however, soon blossomed into a challenge that demanded all Mr. Checole's time.
 
'No One Doing What I Was'
 "There was no one doing what I was at the time," Mr. Checole said. "Traditional black publishers like Third World Press in Boston were very focused. My goal was more ambitious and perhaps foolish. I wanted to reach the widest spectrum of people I could."
His biggest obstacle was distribution. Traditional distributors resisted carrying books by the Africa World Press because they felt there was no market. So in 1985 Mr. Checole founded the Red Sea Press to distribute the books he published.
These days Mr. Checole's mail includes several manuscripts a day from as far as Australia and as near as Princeton. The Africa World Press publishes 80 books a year. Paul Coates, president of the Black Classic Press in Baltimore, said the Africa World Press is the country's most active black publisher.
"Kassahun continues to amaze me," Mr. Coates said. "I don't understand how he does it. When he first started, there were a few black publishers, but no distributors. He has made his mark in both areas. He is an entrepreneur who is not afraid to take risks. He dreams, and then he executes."
Mr. Coates is chairman of the National Association of Black Book Publishers, a group founded by Mr. Checole in 1993.
 
Goes by Gut Feeling
 Reflecting on the last 10 years, Mr. Checole is quick to admit it has not been easy. But he has developed a shrewd business sense and what he describes as a smell for a manuscript. "I go with what's in my heart," he said. "If it tells me something, maybe it can tell the rest of the world too."
He is working toward strengthening the Africa World Press's distribution and international presence. The company will have a London office by the end of the year.
With the recent opening of an Africa World Press office in Eritrea, Mr. Checole travels there once a month to monitor its progress. He says he is excited to be a part of the recent rebirth in his native Eritrea, which gained independence from Ethiopia in May 1993. Returning so often to his home, Mr. Checole recalls the image of that idealistic boy singing of the harmony of life, an idealism inherent in the Africa World Press.
"We are still young," he said of his company. "It takes a long, long time to establish a publishing company. We are in our teen-age years with a lot of energy. People say you can't be trusted when you reach 40. We can still be trusted because we're still dreaming."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Lawrenceville publisher, Kassahun Checole, says he goes with "what's in my heart" when he chooses which manuscripts to print. (Lenore Davis for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: ETHIOPIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); ERITREA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); 

CITY: BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: AFRICA WORLD PRESS CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: AFRICA WORLD PRESS

GEOGRAPHIC: ETHIOPIA (94%); AFRICA (94%); ERITREA (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (70%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; BLACKS (IN US) PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); WRITERS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); POETRY (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); LITERATURE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (72%); SOCIOLOGY (72%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (70%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (66%); 

PERSON: LASSETER, DIANA; CHECOLE, KASSAHUN

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



579 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 6; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1554 words

HEADLINE: In Teacher Contracts, Money's the Word

BYLINE: By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
WITH mixed emotions in Mount Vernon earlier this month, 900 teachers returned to work after a one-day walkout, having agreed to an 8.5 percent salary increase over four years -- far less than they had hoped for.
"It's no great contract, and there are no big dollars involved," said Geraldine J. Hegwood, president of the Mount Vernon Federation of Teachers, "but realistically, this is a hard time for teachers." 
 In Yonkers, teachers "haven't used the 'S' word yet," but they are poised for a strike, said Walter Tice, president of the 2,100-member Federation of Teachers there. The most recent teachers' contract in Yonkers expired at the end of June, and Mr. Tice, a social studies teacher, said the proposed school board budget had "no money in it for negotiations and no money for raises."
He said the union was worried that a wage freeze under consideration would push the median for teachers' salaries in Yonkers to one of the lowest levels in Westchester, which would be unacceptable to the union.
Similar issues were worrying teachers in Yorktown, where two contracts involving teachers, clerical workers and aides expired more than a year ago. "Along with some conditions, the sticking point here is money," said John F. Roden, president of the 450-member Yorktown Congress of Teachers.
Teachers in Yorktown, a rural northern community, are seeking salaries competitive with those in other school districts in Westchester, but they are also balking at class sizes in excess of 30 students in some cases, which Mr. Roden said was "more what you'd expect in a big city."
Edward M. Cocoran, regional staff director for the New York State United Teachers, which represents teacher unions statewide, reported that there were 35 unsettled teacher contracts in the four-county district encompassing Westchester, Rockland, Orange and Putnam.
"It's the most open contracts ever, the worst-ever situation of its kind in the region," he said.
Citing the competing interests of taxpayers and teachers, Mr. Cocoran said, "We have lost many, many school budgets throughout the region, and unrest becomes very real when boards don't have money for the bargaining table."
Alan B. Lubin, executive vice president of the 350,000-member New York State United Teachers, reported that 350 of 800 school districts in the state, have outstanding contracts. "Education is not in very good shape," he said.
Mr. Lubin, as head of the statewide union's office of legislative affairs, said he was lobbying for implementation of what is known as the Maintenance-of-Effort Bill. The measure -- which was passed earlier this year by both the Assembly and Senate but has not been sent to Gov. Mario M. Cuomo for his signature -- would force New York's five big cities to give state aid money allocated for education to the school districts. It would not allow the aid to be put in the city's general fund.
"This bill says to the cities that they have to maintain their fair share for education," Mr. Lubin said, "and in Yonkers, for one, it would resolve the current situation."
Mr. Tice, the union leader for Yonkers teachers, said the Maintenance-of-Effort Bill could mean as much as an additional $5 million for the current education budget, which is now at $224 million, up from last year's budget of $211 million. Reginald F. Marra, Superintendent of Schools in Yonkers, said he had originally earmarked $2 million for teacher raises before the city cut his budget.
But Mayor Terence Zaleski of Yonkers denied that the city was holding back state aid funds from the school district, and he said that the amount of money provided by the municipality at least matched and possibly exceeded what the Maintenance-of-Effort Bill would require. He said that more than half of the city's budget went to the Board of Education and that members of the school board needed to become better managers.
He also said, "I'm confident the dollars are there for the teachers."
 
Allegations Called Unfounded
 The Maintenance-of-Effort Bill was drafted by Senator Frank Padavan, a Republican from Queens, to deal with complaints that big city mayors use state aid for schools to close budget gaps or reduce local tax rates. Several union leaders expressed concern that the bill was languishing because it would open a $70 million budget gap in New York City and create a politically sensitive situation for Mr. Cuomo in an election year when he is courting the favor of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
Cecily Bailey, a spokeswoman for the Governor's office, said Mr. Cuomo had "not impeded the bill in any way." She said the allegations that Mr. Cuomo was delaying signing the bill were unfounded, and it was simply a case of the State Legislature's failing to send the bill along.
Meanwhile, union leaders have continued their push for raises to help teachers meet cost-of-living increases. And Mr. Cocoran, the regional staff director for the state teachers' union, said he was continuing to remind opponents that "teachers are not trying to get rich teaching."
"Just look at the Fords and Chevys in their parking lot, compared to the sports cars in the students' lot," Mr. Cocoran said.
But taxpayer groups and city administrators were of a different mind. John D. Williams, a member of the board of directors of the Taypayers' Alliance, a statewide umbrella organization based in Westchester, said teachers should refrain from demanding more money during difficult economic times.
 
Percentages in Decline
 Mr. Williams criticized Mount Vernon teachers for striking on the first day of classes this fall and not considering the needs of students returning to the classroom. And he said that teachers in many districts were being greedy, because they were "already making a bundle" of money.
But at the Washington offices of the American Federation of Teachers, which represents 860,000 public employees, Jewell C. Gould, director of research, said, "There's a perception that taxes are too high and there's a need to cut back, but times are really getting much better."
Mr. Gould also mentioned the following statistics supplied by the union: in 1964, the share of school budgets that went for teacher salaries in kindergarten through 12th grade was 51.7 percent nationally; by 1984, that figure had dropped to 41.3 percent, and by this year it was down to 39.1 percent.
"If teacher salaries had kept pace with total school spending, the average salary nationally would be close to $80,000," Mr. Gould said, "not the $32,000 or so that it is today."
In Westchester, a major concern among union leaders was that the salaries in their school districts compared favorably with those in other areas.
 
Tax Error in Yorktown
 In Yonkers four years ago, teachers struck for two days because their salaries were at the lowest level for the county, and Mr. Tice said the city was "hemorrhaging teachers to other districts." Their 1990 work stoppage won them a 4.5 percent retroactive raise for the previous year and 9 percent raises for the four ensuing years, "which closed the gap," Mr. Tice said.
The median teacher salary in Yonkers is currently $61,092, compared with the median overall for the county, which is $63,316. Hastings-on-Hudson has one of the lowest median teacher salaries in the county at $57,152, and Bedford has one of the highest at $71,503.
In Yorktown, where the median salary for teachers is $62,260, Mr. Roden said his union had considered a strike but put the idea on hold recently while the Board of Education resolved a $1 million tax error on its books. The error has resulted in tax increases for residents of as much as 16.5 percent, he said. Teachers in the Yorktown School District went on strike for a month in 1973, and 22 teachers, including Mr. Roden, were jailed for contempt of court.
The issue 21 years ago was also salaries and class sizes, but Mr. Roden said the union was now attempting negotiation rather than taking stronger measures.
 
Parents Mobilized
 In Mount Vernon, where teachers had been without a contract since June 30 last year, Ms. Hegwood, the union leader, said that senior citizens and young homeowners without children had objected to teacher raises and had expressed their views at Board of Education budget meetings even though the median teacher salary in Mount Vernon -- $60,909 -- is near the bottom of the scale for Westchester.
During the strike, teachers mobilized parents of school-age children and had them speak in favor of the teachers' demands at a Board of Education meeting. Ms. Hegwood said many of the parents were recent immigrants who were hesitant to attend school board meetings because they do not speak English well. The union provided interpreters for those parents.
Larry Rubin, a communications specialist for the National Education Association in Washington, which represents 2.2 million employees in public education, said there have been far fewer teacher strikes in recent years, a time in which teachers and schools "were being called on to do a lot more."
"Kids are coming to school with greater needs these days, with emotional and nutritional needs, for example, and it is a constant struggle for resources," he said. "Still, the big picture is that things are relatively quiet, even though there are these strains."

GRAPHIC: Photos: During a one-day walkout by 900 Mount Vernon teachers, Vivian Miceli, on the picket line, talks to Anthony DaGostini, an upset first grader. (Pg. 1); Mount Vernon high school students on Sept. 12, first day of school after a teacher walkout. (Pg. 21) (Susan Harris for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); NEW YORK STATE UNITED TEACHERS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; WAGES AND SALARIES; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; CONTRACTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATE AND LOCAL AID (US) TEACHING & TEACHERS (95%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (91%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); TEACHER UNIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (78%); EMPLOYMENT CONTRACTS (78%); RURAL SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (73%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (73%); LOBBYING (72%); EXECUTIVES (71%); LEGISLATION (69%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (69%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV) MARIO M CUOMO (65%); WALTER TICE (59%); ALAN B LUBIN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



580 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 6; Page 36; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 10082 words

HEADLINE: Justice Souter Emerges

BYLINE: By David J. Garrow; David J. Garrow, the author of "Liberty and Sexuality: The Right to Privacy and the Making of Roe v. Wade," won a 1987 Pulitzer Prize for "Bearing the Cross."

 BODY:
NO PUBLIC DOCUMENT -- AND PROBABLY only a single very private one -- marks April 23, 1992, as one of the more momentous days in recent Supreme Court history. Nothing of apparent note transpired at the Court that Thursday; oral arguments had taken place the day before and the Justices' weekly private conference, where they vote on cases, would not begin until Friday morning.
In his chambers on the far southeastern corner of the main floor, the Court's then-second-newest Justice spent the day in contemplation, pondering one of Wednesday's cases. A large portrait of Harlan Fiske Stone, a New Hampshire-born Republican Justice later named Chief Justice by a Democratic President, dominated the room. Many visitors would note that the office, unlike those of other Justices, had no computer terminal; only a few -- particularly those visiting toward dusk -- would realize that the office also had not a single electric desk lamp.
Only late in the day did the Justice reach a firm conclusion. Even though this was the case of the year, and perhaps of the decade, as of the day before, he had not -- just as he had told the United States Senate and the American people almost two years earlier -- decided what he would do. On Wednesday, during oral argument of the case, Planned Parenthood of Southeastern Pennsylvania v. Casey, he had listened intently from his seat on the bench as Planned Parenthood's attorney, Kathryn Kolbert, began her argument:
"Whether our Constitution endows government with the power to force a woman to continue or to end a pregnancy against her will is the central question in this case.
"Since this Court's decision in Roe v. Wade, a generation of American women have come of age secure in the knowledge that the Constitution provides the highest level of protection for their childbearing decisions.
"This landmark decision, which necessarily and logically flows from a century of this Court's jurisprudence, not only protects rights of bodily integrity and autonomy but has enabled millions of women to participate fully and equally in society."
But now Roe's survival was very much in doubt, as was starkly revealed by the Pennsylvania anti-abortion regulations under review in Casey. Three years earlier, Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Justices Byron R. White, Antonin Scalia and Anthony M. Kennedy had signaled their desire to overrule Roe at the first available opportunity, and few observers doubted that the Court's newest and most controversial member, Clarence Thomas, was eager to join them as the fifth and decisive vote.
Justice Sandra Day O'Connor, who three years earlier had infuriated Scalia by refusing to provide a fifth vote to jettison Roe, interrupted Kolbert with the hour's first question, and she was soon followed by Scalia, Kennedy and Rehnquist.
Pennsylvania's attorney general, Ernest D. Preate Jr., representing Gov. Robert P. Casey, followed Kolbert to the lecturn, but almost before he could begin, Justice Harry A. Blackmun, the 82-year-old author of the Court's landmark 1973 abortion decision, asked whether Preate had even read Roe. Then O'Connor peppered Preate with a series of skeptical questions, followed by John Paul Stevens, a firm supporter of Roe, and even by Anthony Kennedy, before Scalia jumped in to provide some cover.
Only as Preate's time was about to expire did the 52-year-old David Hackett Souter speak up to ask Preate a statistical question about the Pennsylvania provision that would require married women facing unwanted pregnancies to notify their husbands, even if they were separated or estranged, before seeking an abortion. Then, after United States Solicitor General Kenneth W. Starr, representing the anti-abortion views of the Bush Administration, succeeded Preate to second the attack on Roe, Souter pressed Starr to concede that if his position prevailed, states could outlaw all abortions except perhaps those where a pregnancy directly threatened a woman's life.
None of Souter's comments had telegraphed a clear position on either Casey or Roe. Had any abortion-rights activists been inclined to interpret his exchange with Starr as promising, they had only to remember how Souter's encouraging comments from the bench 18 months earlier in the abortion "gag rule" case of Rust v. Sullivan had proved utterly misleading. Souter had joined Rehnquist, White, Scalia and Kennedy in a 5-4 decision upholding statutory restrictions on what doctors in federally financed clinics could say to female patients.
Not for many years will any outsiders likely see any notes that may have been taken that following Friday morning when the Justices met to vote on Planned Parenthood v. Casey. But while seven Justices indicated that they would uphold most of the Pennsylvania restrictions, only four -- Rehnquist, White, Scalia and Thomas -- wanted to explicitly vitiate Roe. O'Connor, Kennedy and Souter, however, all believed the restrictions could be upheld at the same time that Roe was left standing. While Rehnquist himself undertook the drafting of Casey's apparent majority opinion, Kennedy's surprising stance gave Souter and O'Connor the opening toward an intermediate outcome for which they had been hoping.
Well before Rehnquist's opinion was circulated to other Justices in late May, Kennedy privately joined Souter and O'Connor in preparing an extensive separate statement. Sometimes all three Justices, sitting on the couch in Souter's office, would jointly review their progress, and their cooperation led to a stunningly unexpected result: Rather than Rehnquist and Scalia having five votes to void Roe, there were five votes -- Souter, O'Connor and Kennedy, plus Blackmun and Stevens, to uphold Roe.
In early June, Souter, O'Connor and Kennedy distributed to their colleagues initial copies of their joint opinion. As David Savage later wrote in The Los Angeles Times: "Rehnquist and Scalia were stunned. So, too, was Blackmun." And so, on Monday morning, June 29, 1992, the final day of the term, commentators were unprepared for the result in Planned Parenthood v. Casey. Not since the famous 1958 Little Rock school desegregation case of Cooper v. Aaron, when all nine Justices signed a ringing reaffirmation of Brown v. Board of Education, had any Supreme Court opinion been presented to the American people as formally authored by more than one Justice. But now, symbolically invoking the powerful precedent of Cooper, Justices O'Connor, Kennedy and Souter issued their plurality decision in Casey as an explicit trio opinion.
"[ T ]he essential holding of Roe v. Wade should be retained and once again affirmed," they wrote in language that also spoke for Blackmun and Stevens.
"Roe's essential holding, the holding we reaffirm, has three parts. First is a recognition of the right of the woman to choose to have an abortion before viability and to obtain it without undue interference from the State. . . . Second is a confirmation of the State's power to restrict abortions after fetal viability, if the law contains exceptions for pregnancies which endanger a woman's life or health. And third is the principle that the State has legitimate interests from the outset of the pregnancy in protecting the health of the woman and the life of the fetus that may become a child. These principles do not contradict one another; and we adhere to each."
When announcing decisions from the bench, Justices usually offer a summary or read brief excerpts. On this morning, however, each of the three -- first O'Connor, then Kennedy and finally Souter -- orally delivered major portions of the trio opinion. Journalists quickly realized they were witnessing an unprecedented event.
The most eloquent section of the opinion was the discussion of Roe and the principle of stare decisis -- Latin for judicial respect of existing precedent -- that had been crafted principally by David Souter. Souter's words in Casey spoke not only for the Court, but also for the essence of America's judicial heritage and for the very core of Souter's own judicial background. That background had not been fully understood by the commentators and Senators who had debated what his 1990 nomination meant for the future of Roe and other fundamental rights. If they had, what was now happening in Casey would not have come as a surprise.
Souter's analysis reflected a realism not always found in high court pronouncements:
"For two decades of economic and social developments, people have organized intimate relationships and made choices that define their views of themselves and their places in society, in reliance on the availability of abortion in the event that contraception should fail. The ability of women to participate equally in the economic and social life of the Nation has been facilitated by their ability to control their reproductive lives."
Then Souter moved to the core of his argument, two paragraphs that rank among the most memorable lines ever authored by an American jurist:
"Where, in the performance of its judicial duties, the Court decides a case in such a way as to resolve the sort of intensely divisive controversy reflected in Roe and those rare, comparable cases, its decision has a dimension that the resolution of the normal case does not carry. It is the dimension present whenever the Court's interpretation of the Constitution calls the contending sides of a national controversy to end their national division by accepting a common mandate rooted in the Constitution.
"The Court is not asked to do this very often, having thus addressed the Nation only twice in our lifetime, in the decisions of Brown and Roe. But when the Court does act in this way, its decision requires an equally rare precedential force to counter the inevitable efforts to overturn it and to thwart its implementation. Some of those efforts may be mere unprincipled emotional reactions; others may proceed from principles worthy of profound respect. But whatever the premises of opposition may be, only the most convincing justification under accepted standards of precedent could suffice to demonstrate that a later decision overruling the first was anything but a surrender to political pressure, and an unjustified repudiation of the principle on which the Court staked its authority in the first instance. So to overrule under fire in the absence of the most compelling reason to re-examine a watershed decision would subvert the Court's legitimacy beyond any serious question."
Souter closed by reiterating that Casey, and Roe, were about far more than simply abortion: "A decision to overrule Roe's essential holding under the existing circumstances would address error, if error there was, at the cost of both profound and unnecessary damage to the Court's legitimacy, and to the Nation's commitment to the rule of law. It is therefore imperative to adhere to the essence of Roe's original decision, and we do so today."
Harry Blackmun's concurrence accurately termed the Souter-O'Connor-Kennedy joint opinion "an act of personal courage and constitutional principle," and Blackmun added that "what has happened today should serve as a model for future Justices and a warning to all who have tried to turn this Court into yet another political branch."
Casey was a watershed event in American history, the most institutionally significant decision for the Court since Brown. Although some abortion-rights activists failed to acknowledge their victory, expert observers like Laurence H. Tribe, the Harvard law professor, emphasized that the trio opinion "puts the right to abortion on a firmer jurisprudential foundation than ever before."
But the significance of Casey lay not just in its constitutional resolution of the 20-year battle over Roe, nor in its long-term importance to the Court's own institutional reputation; Casey also signaled the unexpected failure of the right-wing judicial counterrevolution that the Reagan and Bush Administrations had hoped to bring about by naming staunch conservatives to the Federal bench.
After Casey, hard-right commentators like the columnist Robert Novak unleashed vituperative assaults on the trio of Republican Justices who had redeemed Roe, particularly the Roman Catholic Justice Kennedy. Gary L. McDowell, a Reagan Justice Department aide who had helped former Attorney General Edwin Meese articulate his harsh denunciations of Federal judges, lamented how "all that had been so vigorously fought for by Reagan and Bush, all that had been achieved, was suddenly lost."
But there is one other remarkable thing about Casey, both in the context of today's uncertainty about where the Court is heading and in the context of 1990's debate over how "stealth nominee" David Souter would vote on Roe: namely that it is impossible to find anyone who has long known Souter who was surprised by his resolution of Casey. How could something so obvious to those who know Souter best have eluded 1990's army of politicians and prognosticators? In that seeming puzzle lies the rich story of a humble yet utterly self-confident man who, far from being an odd recluse from another age, possesses both exceptional intelligence and a warm circle of friends.
DAVID HACKETT SOUTER, THE ONLY CHILD OF a quiet bank officer and an equally reserved homemaker, was born in Melrose, Mass., on Sept. 17, 1939; in 1950, the Souters moved to an old family homestead in the rural village of East Weare, N.H., a few miles west of Concord. Souter's father worked at a Concord bank. Weare was too small to have its own secondary school so David commuted to Concord High School, from which he graduated in 1957 and won admission to Harvard.
Following Harvard, Souter received a two-year Rhodes scholarship to Magdalen College at Oxford, where he completed a bachelor's degree in jurisprudence before entering Harvard Law School in 1963. Upon graduation in 1966, he happily returned home to New Hampshire to take an entry-level position with the well-respected Concord firm of Orr & Reno.
Law-office work gave Souter few opportunities for courtroom experience, and in late 1968 he eagerly enlisted as one of about 20 state assistant attorneys general. His first few years in the Attorney General's office were devoted more to criminal than to civil cases, but the most important development in Souter's young career came in 1970 when Gov. Walter Peterson of New Hampshire named Warren Rudman, previously his own legal counsel, to a five-year term as the state's new Attorney General.
Rudman quickly came to appreciate Souter as a "lawyer's lawyer" and within a few months named Souter his deputy. A gregarious politician, Rudman delegated much of the running of the office to Souter. Rudman's own mentor, Governor Peterson, was defeated for re-election in the 1972 Republican primary by Meldrim Thomson, an unpredictable conservative. Thomson's victory set off a decade-long ideological battle among New Hampshire Republicans, and although Rudman and Thomson quickly reached a grudging accommodation, one of Souter's main responsibilities was to insure the utmost professionalism in the office. As Souter explained to one young lawyer joining the staff: "We don't win cases. We don't lose cases. We try cases."
In 1976, with Rudman's term as Attorney General expiring, Rudman convinced Thomson to name Souter as his successor. Souter responded to the appointment by stressing that "the legal issues I feel most strongly about are not political ones." When reporters asked if he viewed the Attorney General's job as a steppingstone to a judgeship, Souter replied, "I'd have to decide if I were temperamentally suited to it."
As Attorney General, Souter named another Rudman protege, Thomas D. Rath, as his own deputy. The new post gave the 36-year-old Souter some public visibility; asked to deliver the commencement address at a small college, he reminded the graduates that "our whole constitutional history is a history of restraining power." However, when the idea was raised that the Attorney General's post be made elective rather than appointive, Souter termed the suggestion so "abominable" that "it sounds like something proposed by John Mitchell," Richard Nixon's convicted former campaign chairman and Attorney General.
Souter maintained a polite distance from Governor Thomson but, as the state's top law enforcement official, nonetheless was drawn into various controversies. When antinuclear demonstrators descended upon a partly constructed power plant at Seabrook on the New Hampshire coast, Souter took the lead in overseeing their arrests and prosecution. When legalized casino gambling was proposed for New Hampshire, Souter spoke out forcefully in opposition and later termed his successful effort "my greatest crusade."
Souter was popular with his staff, both because of the glowing professional reputation his and Rudman's appointments had won for the office and because of his friendly humility and wry humor. Outside the office, Souter -- who was living with his now-widowed mother in Weare -- pursued hiking and mountain climbing. His long walks around Weare expanded to serious treks up New Hampshire's Presidential peaks.
Early in 1978, Governor Thomson sought to fill a vacancy on the five-member New Hampshire Supreme Court with former Congressman Louis C. Wyman, but the Executive Council, the Colonial-era body charged with ratifying judicial nominations, declined to approve Wyman and several councilors suggested naming Souter to the seat. Thomson resisted and, seeking to eliminate Souter as an alternative to Wyman, offered instead to nominate Souter to a newly authorized judgeship on the Superior Court trial bench.
Faced with the choice, Souter hesitated. Thomson was not going to name him to the high court, and under longtime New Hampshire norms, almost every Justice appointed to the Supreme Court had been promoted from Superior Court. Souter could remain Attorney General for another two and a half years, but there was no reason to believe that whoever might be governor in 1980 would offer him a judgeship. With some ambivalence about becoming a trial judge simply as a steppingstone to an appellate post, Souter accepted Thomson's offer to nominate him and name his close friend Tom Rath his successor.
Souter's ascension to Superior Court also marked other milestones. First, his departure as Attorney General allowed him to begin dating a female lawyer in the office, Ann Cagwin. His romantic interest in Cagwin, his closest friends attest, was the most serious attachment of his life. No American is more discreet about his private life than David Souter, but when his relationship ended with Cagwin, who is now married and living in Maine, its demise left Souter emotionally crushed.
Second, Souter's less burdensome workload as a judge allowed him to become the unpaid president of Concord Hospital's board of trustees. Before long, Souter was scheduling his Superior Court vacations so he could handle hospital affairs. For five years, the board presidency was "virtually a second job" and Souter later confessed that "at times the hospital's regulatory problems seemed to consume all of my time not otherwise spent on the bench or asleep."
Souter enjoyed the personal interactions his judgeship offered, particularly those with citizens serving as jurors. As a jurist, however, Souter was hard-nosed. For instance, he rejected a plea bargain that would have released on probation a young woman who had stolen a .357 Magnum revolver and instead sentenced her to nine months' imprisonment. He also was decidedly more rule-oriented than was generally the case under New Hampshire's informal courtroom customs. Word spread quickly, one lawyer recalls, that "you really had to know what you were talking about" when you appeared before Souter.
Even in Superior Court, that lawyer explained, Souter "was really an appellate judge sitting as a trial judge" and Souter filed many extensive though never publicly printed written decisions. The most significant of these was a 1981 ruling in State v. Barney Siel, in which Souter quashed several subpoenas issued to reporters by a local court acting at the behest of a criminal defendant. The New Hampshire Supreme Court later unanimously affirmed Souter's decision, commenting that "we adopt the well-reasoned position that the trial judge developed at length in his rulings."
But perhaps the best insights into David Souter's early years as a judge come from a posthumous appreciation he wrote concerning Laurence I. Duncan, a former New Hampshire justice. Duncan was a solitary, almost withdrawn man, with few close friends beyond his immediate family. But to Souter, Duncan's judicial record was that of "a consummate master craftsman of the law." Although Duncan was "the most private of men," Souter wrote in the July 1983 New Hampshire Bar Journal, "he would spend a lifetime quietly serving cultural and philanthropic organizations and the collegiate interests of his court." Souter added that Duncan thought "the world had a fair claim to the highest use of his power to bring order to human thought, for the sake of liberty and the common good. He satisfied the claim in full and saved the rest of his living for . . . his family and a very few others." Souter's conclusion was personally poignant: "He was my kind of judge. . . . He was an intellectual hero of mine, and he always will be." More than a decade later, a close Souter friend quietly stressed that "he's writing about himself."
Throughout Souter's years on the trial bench, Warren Rudman remained among his closest friends. Rudman won election to the United States Senate in 1980 after defeating a fellow Republican, John Sununu, in a hard-fought primary. After Sununu supported Rudman in the general election, Rudman returned the favor two years later in Sununu's successful gubernatorial campaign. Rudman never concealed his opinion that Souter was "the finest constitutional lawyer I've ever known," and when New Hampshire Supreme Court Justice Maurice P. Bois retired in mid-1983, Rudman immediately told Sununu that David Souter should be elevated to that court.
Sununu interviewed Souter and two other candidates before sending Souter's name to the Executive Council, which unanimously approved the nomination. Souter told reporters that the past five years had been "a very happy time," and later he would view his trial court tenure as the best experience of his professional life. But the promotion was exactly what he had long aspired to. A few days before his 44th birthday, David Souter was sworn in as the junior member of the New Hampshire Supreme Court.
The court that Souter joined in September 1983 contained two relatively young Thomson appointees, Charles G. Douglas and David Brock, and two older, less conservative men, the former Democratic Gov. John W. King and the political independent William F. Batchelder, who both had been named to the bench by Thomson's Democratic successor, Hugh Gallen. While Brock was not especially conservative, Douglas's far more pronounced ideology nonetheless featured a libertarian streak that in some criminal cases made the youthful senior justice paradoxically appear to be the court's most liberal member.
THE COURT WAS LOCATED IN A MODERN BUT somewhat isolated building across the Merrimack River from downtown Concord. At the end of each week in which cases had been heard, the justices would convene and take "straw votes" on each one. Then, in keeping with court tradition, the justices would draw lots from an antique silver pitcher in which the cases' docket numbers had been placed. If a justice drew a case in which he anticipated dissenting, the number would be returned to the pitcher and he would draw again, but otherwise each justice was responsible for writing the court's opinion in whichever cases he drew, irrespective of their subject matter or his preferences.
The court's egalitarian case assignment method obviated any battling over opinion-writing duties and forced justices to be generalists rather than specialists. Unanimity was the norm, and when written dissents were filed, no angry words ever appeared. In part, the justices' collegiality stemmed from the justices' regular interactions with one another; each working day the five would lunch together at the court.
The relative infrequency of dissent was also a product of the court's docket. Zoning disputes, commercial conflicts, utility rate increases and scores of routine criminal appeals -- many involving family and/or sexual violence -- constituted the regular staples of the New Hampshire court.
Souter quickly settled into the appellate routine. Reading the briefs in each case the week before oral argument, he would scribble questions on the covers. Prior to Souter's arrival, Chuck Douglas had been the most vocal member of the bench, but Souter soon equaled and then exceeded Douglas. Some lawyers, especially those representing criminal defendants, came to resent the persistent grilling they often received from the junior justice. James Duggan, the state appellate defender who appeared before the court more regularly than any other attorney, emphasizes that while Souter "would really hammer people," he nonetheless "was a pleasure to argue in front of" because his questions always focused on each case's toughest issues.
Especially in Souter's first year, he was slow to circulate drafts of opinions, in part because he, unlike most judges, did all his own writing rather than relying upon his two clerks. In one 1984 case, State v. Meister, in which the justices unanimously applied a 1981 precedent, Souter (whose own ruling as a trial judge had been reversed in the 1981 case by a 3-2 vote) filed a concurrence explaining that although he still agreed with the 1981 dissenters, "the consequences of what I believe was an unsound conclusion in that case are not serious enough to outweigh the value of stare decisis."
Souter's strong preference for judicial restraint, even in instances where his four colleagues felt differently, emerged most dramatically in two cases that raised the court's most hard-fought issue. The first, State v. Forrest Ball, had been argued before Souter's arrival. Following a new trend being championed by several other state supreme courts, Chuck Douglas used Ball -- an appeal of a drug possession conviction where the defendant alleged that the police had not had "probable cause" to stop him -- to rule that the New Hampshire court "has the power to interpret the New Hampshire Constitution as more protective of individual rights than the parallel provisions of the United States Constitution." The court would examine such independent state grounds as its first priority in every case where the issue appeared.
Souter believed that Ball's call for an expansive application of the New Hampshire Constitution could not be pursued without doing significant damage to the state constitution's text and traditions. In 1985, the Ball issue arose again in a case that highlighted Souter and his colleagues' differing perspectives on law enforcement. Donald Koppel and Norman Forest were 2 of 18 drivers whom the Concord Police Department had arrested for drunken driving during a six-month series of roadblocks that had stopped some 1,700 motorists. Both men appealed their convictions, arguing that the wholesale roadblocks -- in which all drivers, not just erratic ones, were pulled over and questioned -- violated the prohibitions against unreasonable searches and seizures contained in both the New Hampshire Constitution and the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution. All four of Souter's colleagues found that contention persuasive and concluded, in an opinion authored by David Brock, that "the State has failed to show that drunk-driving roadblocks produce sufficient public benefit to outweigh their intrusion on individual rights." Following Ball, they insulated their ruling from any United States Supreme Court review by declaring that "our holding rests solely on our interpretation of the New Hampshire Constitution."
Souter's dissent reflected considerable exasperation. Noting that the roadblocks delayed the average driver only some two minutes, Souter concluded that "the value of the roadblocks . . . significantly outweigh[s] the minimal disadvantage to the delayed drivers." There was no gainsaying that Souter had lost the analytical war over Ball, but a few years later his defense of D.W.I. roadblocks was vindicated by the United States Supreme Court in a case from Michigan.
Souter's colleagues and attentive lawyers appreciated his intellectual precision, but Chuck Douglas was not alone in viewing Souter as less inclined to favor individual rights claims than his colleagues. The state's appellate defender, James Duggan, and his then-deputy, Joanne Green, lost far more appeals than they won, and Green rues how Souter's opinions impressed her even when the outcomes were unwelcome: "I hated the fact that I agreed with his logic."
Nowadays, Chuck Douglas characterizes the David Souter of the mid-1980's as a "status quo, stare decisis conservative." At the time, Souter would not have quarreled with the characterization; a photo he gave one clerk was inscribed to "the conscience of a conservative these past two years, with gratitude from David, still the conservative." Some attorneys perceived more than a little competition between Douglas and Souter during oral arguments, and one court insider emphasizes that there was "no love lost between the two of them." Suddenly, however, in mid-1985, what promised to be a growing tussle for intellectual leadership of the court ended unexpectedly when Douglas returned to private practice, saying that the justices' $54,896 annual salary was too low.
Douglas's departure left Souter as the court's most powerful intellect. "He is by his nature a force at the table," one colleague explains. "When he came to the table, he had done his homework and knew his position." Souter's fellow justices, realizing Souter's "wonderful sense of humor," sometimes would tease him about the almost superstitious regularity of his behavior. Souter's habit of eating yogurt or cottage cheese and an entire apple, core and all, for lunch provided one splendid opportunity when someone brought in an article highlighting how apple seeds were potentially poisonous. As two still-sitting members of the court tell the story, from that day forward David Souter swallowed no more apple seeds.
Even a decade later, Souter is known to challenge the apple seed story in precise but good-natured detail: the article wasn't a news clipping brought in by another justice; it was a Dartmouth Medical School item Souter himself saw. The trace poison on the seeds was cyanide, not arsenic. Most important, since the article said seeds were harmful only in large quantities, he did not change his apple-eating habits, which continue to this day.
Souter's politely formal playfulness could manifest itself in thank-you notes handwritten in Latin or a bar of soap left on a clerk's desk the day after she had uttered a four-letter word.
IN MID-1986, CHIEF JUSTICE KING RETIRED, opening the door for what threatened to be the emotional climax of Souter's professional life. Brock, as the senior associate justice, was widely expected to be Governor Sununu's choice, given the controversy that had marked King's 1981 promotion over a more senior colleague in violation of unwritten tradition. Senator Rudman, however, mounted what one participant called "quite an effort" on Souter's behalf, and inside the court no one doubted that Souter was very interested in the center chair. One equally desirous colleague says the Chief Justiceship was Souter's "life ambition" and that Souter wanted it "in the worst way." A second justice agrees that "David wanted to be Chief Justice," but adds that "everyone wanted to become Chief Justice."
Sununu held 45-minute interviews with both Brock and Souter and then, in advance of the announcement, called Souter to say he was choosing Brock. Publicly, Souter suffered no embarrassment, for he had not been named as a possible choice, and news reports simply noted how "Brock Nomination Signals Return to Tradition of Seniority." Privately, however, Souter was deeply disappointed, and perhaps acutely wounded. One close observer called it "something of a slap," since Souter already was "intellectually the leader," and another court insider thought Souter "deeply resented" Brock's selection. But Souter was inclined to think that things always happen for the best, and in the wake of his greatest professional disappointment, he began to ponder whether there might be life after the New Hampshire Supreme Court.
Few cases on the court's docket offered scintillating fare, but in one energetic 1987 dissent from his colleagues' unwillingness to follow a 1973 precedent, Souter emphasized that "only the weightiest of reasons could justify a refusal to honor the expectations" of those who "should be entitled to rely on the 1973 decision of this court."
Such opinions aside, however, for Souter the late 1980's was a time of increased introspection. One colleague thought he was "very unhappy" on the New Hampshire court, and not so much with mundane cases as with being "doomed to be an associate under David Brock." By 1989, close friends were certain that Souter was "ready for a new challenge." Privately, Souter admitted to friends that he was toying with ideas for a second career or extensive world travels, but Warren Rudman focused on a possibility much closer to home: New Hampshire's one judge on the Federal First CircuitCourt of Appeals, Hugh Bownes, was old enough to move to semiretired "senior status." When he did, Rudman, as New Hampshire's most influential Republican senator, would effectively control the Bush Administration's selection of his successor. Some intimates believe Souter initially was ambivalent about the Federal judgeship, but by the time that Bownes did "go senior" in the winter of 1989-90, any hesitation had disappeared. The First Circuit would offer a greater variety of cases than New Hampshire, and Boston -- the First Circuit's home city -- featured cultural attractions and was a manageable drive from Weare. A brief, almost pro forma hearing before the Senate Judiciary Committee was soon followed by unanimous Senate confirmation, and on May 25, 1990, David Souter was sworn into office by First Circuit Chief Judge Stephen Breyer.
SOUTER SPENT THE EARLY summer setting up his new office in Concord's Federal building and in June he traveled to Boston for his first sitting as a circuit judge. Then, early one Sunday afternoon in late July, a telephone call interrupted him at his Concord office: C. Boyden Gray, George Bush's White House counsel, explained that the President wanted to see Souter on Monday and Souter should fly to Washington that evening.
Souter had heard Friday's news of the retirement of Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan and he knew that three years earlier Rudman had placed his name on the Reagan White House's list of Court prospects prior to the nomination of Justice Anthony Kennedy. Gray's call, however, was totally unexpected, as was the prospect of a face-to-face Presidential interview the next day. Souter's first reaction was to phone Rudman: "What have you done to me now?" he asked his longtime patron. Rudman gave him a pep talk and explained how Gray had called on Saturday to request a recommendation letter; Souter was on a Presidential short list of just four names. Then, a few minutes later, Souter called Rudman back: was it possible to fly directly from Manchester to Washington? Yes, Rudman said. Finally, after some reflection, Souter called for a third time: the White House ought to know that he would not discuss how he might rule in future cases. Rudman assured him no such questions would be posed and told Souter he'd take him to the airport for his 6 P.M. flight.
An aide to Attorney General Dick Thornburgh met Souter's plane and took him to another staff member's home to have dinner and spend the night. The next morning, Thornburgh's aide took Souter to the White House, where Boyden Gray asked him personal background questions aimed at exposing any skeletons. Unbeknown to Souter, Federal appellate Judge Edith H. Jones of Texas was also in the White House, undergoing similar scrutiny; over the weekend George Bush had narrowed his short list to two by deleting Federal appellate Judges Clarence Thomas and Laurence Silberman, both of Washington.
At 1:30 P.M., Souter was ushered into the Oval Office for a 45-minute meeting with Bush, Thornburgh, Gray and the White House chief of staff, John Sununu, who as New Hampshire Governor had named him to the state Supreme Court but had also preferred David Brock for Chief Justice. Bush and his aides had already interviewed Jones, and at the conclusion of the Souter meeting, those four, joined by Vice President Dan Quayle, spent an hour debating the pros and cons of each finalist, with Bush asking Quayle and Sununu to make the case for Jones and Thornburgh and Gray for Souter. Jones had a more conservative reputation than Souter, but Bush's aides feared that her ideological renown would hamper confirmation and the President had been highly impressed by Souter's intellectual seriousness. Bush spent almost an hour pondering the choice privately before deciding, and at 4:15 P.M. Souter was summoned back to the Oval Office to be offered the nomination. At 5 P.M., with a visibly stunned David Souter at his side, George Bush announced the selection in the White House press room.
Souter's transformation from obscurity to national celebrity was the greatest emotional shock he had ever experienced. That evening, Warren Rudman took his dazed friend to dinner before Souter turned in on a cot in Rudman's Southwest Washington apartment. Having anticipated only a one-day visit to Washington, Souter had just the suit he'd worn on Monday, plus a second tie, to carry him through the following three days of senatorial courtesy calls. Only on Friday did a shellshocked David Souter return home.
After a visit to his mother, who now lived in a Concord retirement community, Souter spent one night in Weare before heading to Tom Rath's lake-front summer home to escape the journalists descending upon Concord. Reporters failed to distill any clear ideological messages from Souter's New Hampshire Supreme Court opinions, but some seemed unable to grasp even the vast political difference between being a protege of Warren Rudman rather than of Meldrim Thomson or John Sununu. Rudman proclaimed that "history will prove this to be one of the greatest nominations of all time," but he admitted that Souter led "an almost monastic life." Rudman emphasized that if Souter "has any fault . . . it's that he's worked too hard all his life." Some journalists were more interested in Souter's personal life than in his professional record, andSouter's closest friends soon became intensely angry at several reporters' preoccupation with Souter's "bachelor" status.
Souter found the intrusive media scrutiny traumatic. "This is the biggest mistake I've made in my life," he told one friend, and to another he confessed that "this has been the worst week of my life." By early August, with Senate Judiciary Committee confirmation hearings scheduled for mid-September, more and more speculation focused upon Souter's position on Roe v. Wade. New Hampshire's other United States Senator, Gordon Humphrey, an extreme conservative who barely knew Souter, anticipated that he would vote to overturn Roe. But the more astute James Duggan observed that even if Souter disagreed with Roe, "Whether he would be willing to overturn the decision . . . is a different proposition entirely." Liberal publications trumpeted the news that the conservative Free Congress Foundation had distributed a memo quoting John Sununu as telling one of its leaders that Souter's nomination was "a home run" for conservatives. Privately, as Sununu recently told this author, his belief that Souter would not uphold Roe was based upon "very detailed" confidential assurances from W. Stephen Thayer 3d, Souter's conservative junior colleague on the New Hampshire Supreme Court.
When the Senate Judiciary Committee hearing began on Thursday, Sept. 13, Senators and reporters quickly realized that Souter was an impressively erudite nominee. Souter spent three full days in front of the 14-member committee, and amid all the concepts and issues he was asked to address, two, in retrospect, stand out as most revealing: liberty and precedent. Most specifically, Souter stressed that in the due process clause language of the 5th and 14th Amendments, "the concept of liberty is not limited by the specific subjects" listed in the Bill of Rights. In protecting personal liberty, Justices had to search for "principles that may be elucidated by the history and tradition of the United States. And ultimately the kind of search that we are making is a search for the limits of governmental power."
More generally, Souter explained that in reading the Constitution, "my interpretive position is not one that original intent is controlling, but that original meaning is controlling," in that Justices ought to identify the "principle that was intended to be established as opposed simply to the specific application that that particular provision was meant to have by, and that was in the minds of those who proposed and framed and adopted that provision in the first place." He summed up his perspective in one memorable sentence: "Principles don't change but our perceptions of the world around us and the need for those principles do."
Souter's comments about precedent were potentially inseparable from the looming issue of Roe. He highlighted the concept of reliance: "Who has relied upon that precedent and what does that reliance count for today?" If a court reconsidered a precedent, it was important for judges to ask "whether private citizens in their lives have relied upon it in their own planning to such a degree that, in fact, there would be a great hardship to overruling it now."
In his second day of testimony, Souter addressed Roe directly. "I have not got any agenda on what should be done with Roe v. Wade if that case were brought before me. I will listen to both sides of that case. I have not made up my mind." He added, however, that when an existing case was attacked, any reconsideration involved not only the correctness of the earlier decision but also "extremely significant issues of precedent." But regarding abortion itself, he emphasized that "whether I do or do not find it moral or immoral will play absolutely no role in any decision which I make, if I am asked to make it, on the question of what weight should or legitimately may be given to the interest which is represented by the abortion decision."
Legal observers reacted favorably to Souter's testimony, with Walter Dellinger, then a Duke University law professor, commenting that Souter was "the most intellectually impressive nominee I've ever seen." Most Senators agreed, and in late September the Judiciary Committee ratified Souter's nomination by a vote of 13-1. On Oct. 2, the full Senate followed suit by a margin of 90 to 9, and on Oct. 8, 1990, David Hackett Souter was sworn in as an Associate Justice of the United States Supreme Court.
Unfortunately for Souter, the Court was already one week into its 1990-91 term, and from the first day he arrived, Souter found himself playing an unwinnable game of catch-up. There was a huge volume of petitions to review and briefs to read, and Souter's relative unfamiliarity with Federal statutory issues made the process all the more difficult. He soon realized he was facing the most difficult professional challenge of his life.
Throughout the fall, Souter continued to room with Rudman before taking his own apartment at the same complex, but he spent almost all of his waking hours, on weekends as well as weekdays, at the Court. Asked about his Washington social plans by a New Hampshire magazine, Souter acknowledged that "I'm not a very sociable individual except among a fairly close circle of friends," most of whom lived in New Hampshire. And, he added, "I'm not going to change my personality as a result of getting a new job."
Souter's friends appreciated that the transition to Washington was more difficult than he had anticipated. Given Souter's "reverence" for the Court, Tom Rath explained, Souter was not only "in awe of the challenge" but also felt that "his first test was to satisfy himself that he was worthy" of the job. Those who saw him thought he looked more exhausted than ever before; those who phoned him could sense he was worried about keeping up with the caseload. Rath identified the stress succinctly: "David Souter's harshest critic is David Souter."
By the spring of 1991, journalists were wondering if Souter was foundering; prior to late May, only one case in which he had written an opinion had been decided, and as of mid-June, he had issued only five more opinions. Finally, in the last week of the term, another half-dozen Souter opinions appeared.
At the end of the term, a spent David Souter headed home to New Hampshire, grateful for a three-month respite from Washington. When he returned in September to begin the new term, he was fully prepared. The difference quickly showed in the pace and scale of Souter's output, and by the time Casey was argued in late April 1992, Souter had found his equilibrium. Even though he missed New Hampshire, he loved the Court and was a well-liked figure within the Court building.
Casey was the most important case of the 1991-92 term, but there were other impressive Souter successes. He, Kennedy and O'Connor also came together, again joined by Blackmun and Stevens, in a crucial establishment clause case, Lee v. Weisman, where they struck down the recital of religious prayers at public-school graduation ceremonies. Souter also stepped to the fore in humorously taking on the rhetorical excesses and interpretive shortcomings of Antonin Scalia, the intellectual leader of the Court's right wing. Indeed, of the term's 108 cases, Souter dissented in only 8. But Casey was the highlight of many a year, and both before the decision came down, as well as after, David Souter did not for a moment doubt the correctness or the importance of the trio's achievement.
IN THE IMMEDIATE aftermath of Casey, no one who knew David Souter well, irrespective of their position on abortion, was surprised by what Souter and his two allies had said and done. From Chuck Douglas ("I was not surprised by the Casey decision") to James Duggan ("It should not be a surprise to anyone that David Souter is not voting to overturn precedent") to all of Souter's close friends, the reactions were virtually identical.
What Casey boiled down to, Tom Rath said, was "how the judiciary can bind a society together." David Souter, he told one questioner, "has a vision of the Court as a moderating influence," as "a conciliator and legitimizer," and that perspective repre-sented "the essence of David Souter. That's the David Souter I've heard many a night on porches."
Another close friend, echoing how Casey "wasn't a surprise," especially given "David's respect for precedent," stressed that people did not appreciate how "David's a judicial conservative, not a political conservative." Jane Cetlin Pickrell -- the former clerk who had received the thank-you note in Latin, and the bar of soap -- felt similarly. He "may have had doubts about Roe," because "we debated that at some point," but "I knew what he would do with Roe v. Wade," and Casey had proved her correct.
David Souter was happy to have the constitutional battle over abortion behind him. The 1991-92 term had been vastly different from 1990-91, and in Casey the Court had triumphantly passed a crucial test. Given the workload, there was no way around having his clerks do some opinion drafting, but the amount of ink he added to almost every line of their drafts left the clerks with no doubts whose opinions they really were.
Neither the 1992-93 or 1993-94 terms would prove as significant as 1991-92. The most striking statistic of 1991-92, as Casey exemplified, was the degree to which Anthony Kennedy had shifted away from Rehnquist and toward Souter and O'Connor. But in the following year, as Kennedy reverted to greater agreement with the Chief Justice, Souter found himself on the minority side of far more split decisions.
In New Hampshire, some defense attorneys were pleasantly stunned by Souter's majority opinion in a Miranda-related criminal case, Withrow v. Williams. But Souter's most important opinion of 1992-93 was a concurrence in Church of the Lukumi Babalu Aye Inc. v. City of Hialeah, a free-exercise clause challenge to a municipal prohibition of animal sacrifices that was targeted against Santeria religionists. Souter's long concurrence in Lee v. Weisman a year earlier had signaled his special interest in the First Amendment's separation of church and state, but Souter's Lukumi Babalu concurrence was striking in how it explicitly called for the Court to reconsider its reigning free-exercise clause precedent, a 1990 decision entitled Employment Division v. Smith.
At his confirmation hearing, Souter had said only that "my own religion is a religion which I wish to exercise in private and with as little . . . expression in the political arena as is possible," but he now made it clear that Smith insufficiently protected religion from government intrusion. Since earlier cases contained "a free-exercise rule fundamentally at odds with the rule Smith declared," there now existed "an intolerable tension in free-exercise law." Quoting Felix Frankfurter's reminder that stare decisis "is a principle of policy and not a mechanical formula," Souter's message was obvious -- Casey's affirmation of Roe notwithstanding -- that Smith was a disposable precedent.
The 1992-93 decline of the Souter-O'Connor-Kennedy trio led some observers to highlight how Kennedy had moved back rightward, but Paul Barrett of The Wall Street Journal contended that actually the "most striking development" was Souter's "emerging liberal streak."
Once the 1993-94 term got under way, evidence seemed to mount that Barrett's characterization was no overstatement. James Duggan believed a Souter concurrence concerning the use of uncounseled convictions for cumulative sentencing in Nichols v. U.S. was almost "180 degrees different" from a 1984 Souter opinion, State v. Cook. A few weeks later, one New Hampshire Supreme Court insider, reacting joyously to a Souter concurrence on behalf of fellow Justices Blackmun, Stevens and Ruth Bader Ginsburg in a Miranda-oriented military murder case, Davis v. U.S., vehemently exclaimed that "that was not the David Souter that sat on this bench!"
But the most dramatic 1993-94 evidence of Souter's increasingly influential intellectual leadership of the Court's six mainstream members was the growing number of combative references that Antonin Scalia was directing to him in multiple opinions. Supreme Court insiders emphasize that in person, the two justices "like each other" and "kid around," but based upon the written record, there is little doubt that Scalia now realizes -- much as Felix Frankfurter did after the advent of Earl Warren and William Brennan -- that he has decisively lost the struggle for intellectual leadership of the Court to someone who was not supposed to be a major player.
In one late June habeas corpus ruling, Heck v. Humphrey, three contentious Scalia footnotes criticized Souter by name; three days later, in one of the term's leading cases, Board of Education of Kiryas Joel Village School District v. Grumet, Scalia in angry dissent dismissed Souter's majority opinion as "facile" and petulantly invoked Souter's name again and again in criticizing the outcome. Seemingly both provoked and bemused, Souter responded that "Justice Scalia's dissent is certainly the work of a gladiator, but he thrusts at lions of his own imagining."
The 1993-94 term witnessed Souter's highest output of his four years on the Court -- 25 opinions (8 majority, 12 concurrences and 5 dissents), more than double the number he wrote his first year. In part, Souter's increased productivity reflected what he told friends was a lesson he had learned in each of his three judgeships: only after three years does one get fully up to speed.
But even though Souter was now completely at ease, the results of the 1993-94 term showed that he and his three most regular allies -- Blackmun, Stevens and Ginsburg, who had been together in 11 of the year's 14 5-4 cases -- had been the losing foursome in 8 of those 11, prevailing only in 3 criminal cases where they were joined by Kennedy. And if one looked at the 35 cases where Blackmun and Rehnquist had come out on opposite sides, perhaps Souter's "emerging liberal streak" was no exaggeration at all: While Ginsburg had sided 19 times with Blackmun and 16 with Rehnquist (and O'Connor only 7 with Blackmun and 27 with Rehnquist), Souter had been with Blackmun in 24 of the cases and with Rehnquist in only 11.
Right-wing Court watchers rued Souter's evolution. Thomas Jipping of the Free Congress Foundation, reminding the conservative Washington Times that "John Sununu told me directly that Souter would be a 'home run' for conservatives," offered a sarcastically dismissive metaphor: "The first term, I thought he might be a blooper single. After last year, I thought he was a foul ball. Now I think he's a strikeout."
But Linda Greenhouse of The New York Times saw it differently: "Souter's brand of moderate pragmatism and his willingness to engage Justice Scalia in direct intellectual combat is probably as responsible as any single factor for the failure of the conservative revolution."
A CHAGRINED JOHN Sununu readily concedes that he is "very surprised" -- and deeply disappointed -- by David Souter's evolution. In sharp contrast, however, former President Bush tells this author that he is proud of Souter's "outstanding" service and "outstanding intellect." Some antagonists, Bush recalls, greeted the nomination by dismissing Souter as "a predictable, extreme right-winger." Now Bush quietly exults over "how wrong his critics were. This quiet decent man will serve for years on the Court, and he will serve with honor always and with brilliance."
The arrival of new Justice Stephen Breyer will make for few changes in the Court's basic lineup. In controversial cases, Breyer likely will take his predecessor Harry Blackmun's place in the Souter-Stevens-Ginsburg quartet. Although Breyer will be more centrally involved in the Court's discussions than was Blackmun, the highly pragmatic Breyer likely will make few waves on what Harvard's Laurence Tribe calls a "fundamentally unadventuresome and cautious Court." The widely anticipated retirement of John Paul Stevens after the Court's 1994-95 term is expected to result in his replacement with a similarly mainstream voice, and only an unanticipated departure from the more conservative ranks of O'Connor, Kennedy, Rehnquist, Scalia and Thomas is likely to generate any significant ideological shift in the Court's alignment. If none of those justices leave prior to the 1996 Presidential election, the eventual timing of William Rehnquist's departure as Chief Justice -- generally expected to occur after, rather than before, the 1996 balloting -- looms as the next turning point in the Court's history. Whoever replaces Rehnquist as Chief Justice -- and whoever as President gets to make that choice -- will be responsible for piloting the Court into the next century.
One of Souter's former New Hampshire judicial colleagues argues that Souter in his four Washington years has undergone "a remarkable jurisprudential transformation" into a "kinder, gentler" judge. Virtually all of Souter's personal friends reject that characterization as overstated; Tom Rath firmly contends that "I don't think David has changed as a judge."
But if Souter is indeed evolving as a jurist, personally little has changed from his days in Concord. "He was the same person as Attorney General as he is now," says one former assistant and longtime friend. Warren Rudman attests that Souter's "wonderful dry sense of humor" remains unchanged, and someone who has come to know him well since 1990 stresses that "he's a very funny fellow." Tom Rath insists that "David Souter hasn't changed a bit" and recalls how this past New Year's, Souter joined the Raths and another couple for a five-hour dinner of lasagna and wine. "It was exactly the same" as years past, Rath says almost in amazement. "He's still David" and "his real life is here."
But spending nine months a year in Washington rather than Weare has of course changed Souter some. One recent acquaintance expresses mild surprise at "how well informed he is about the way the world is," and an old friend explains that "he's become much more contemporary" in his cultural awareness. Asking if a listener knows the New Hampshire Supreme Court story about a befuddled Souter saying that the only Garfield he'd heard of was a President, not a cat, the friend explains that Souter now is able -- with prompting -- to name all of the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtles.
Another difference in Souter's Washington life is the importance that running has assumed in the relatively few waking hours when he's not at the Court. Souter aims to run at least four nights a week at Fort McNair's outdoor track, only a block or so from his apartment, but even while jogging within McNair's guarded walls, one can sometimes hear the sounds of real-world gunshots not far away.
One change that Souter dislikes intensely is being recognized in public. Becoming a Justice has meant "losing his ability to be a private person," one friend says, and another recounts with distress how a few days after Casey, as they walked across Boston Common, "you could feel people turning to look." Especially in Boston, Souter enjoys going out in public -- taking his goddaughter, Jane Cetlin Pickrell's 6-year-old, for swan boat rides in the Public Garden or afternoon tea at the Ritz-Carlton -- and while he resents losing his anonimity, his innate politeness compels him to grin and bear it.
If David Souter has a real secret, it's the diary -- the daily journal he has kept since age 13. In 1990, both The Los Angeles Times and The Concord Monitor mentioned it in passing, and former colleagues on the New Hampshire court nervously joke about what it may have on them. Friends say Souter's diary writing -- which is largely devoted to recounting stories told by others, rather than the day's events -- has increased sharply in Washington, in part because of the inspiration provided by such memorable storytellers as the late Thurgood Marshall. Intensely worried that widespread awareness of the diary could result in a burglary, Souter keeps none of it in Weare or in his Washington apartment.
Souter reveres the Court, and while he sees few newspapers, when clerks or friends show him published critiques of his colleagues -- whether right-wing columnists trashing Anthony Kennedy or neo-liberals disparaging the careers of Byron White and Harry Blackmun -- Souter can react angrily. And Souter's respect for the Court's institutional privacy extends to deep dismay at any personal publicity. "He doesn't like his friends speculating about his judicial opinions," stresses one intimate, catching himself doing just that.
"David is a much better politician than people give him credit for," one of his closest friends volunteers in explaining Souter's influence and success on the Court. Reluctantly, several acquaintances confess that Souter privately has talked about the possibility of stepping down at age 65 -- 10 years hence -- but none of them take the comment seriously. Personally happy and professionally fulfilled, David Souter likely will help lead the Court well into the second decade of the 21st century. Says one friend, "A man more comfortable with himself would be hard to find."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) PLANNED PARENTHOOD FEDERATION OF AMERICA (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: ABORTION; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); ABORTION (86%); WOMEN (86%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); 

PERSON: SOUTER, DAVID (ASSOC JUSTICE); GARROW, DAVID J; SOUTER, DAVID (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) DAVID SOUTER (90%); ANTONIN SCALIA (79%); CLARENCE THOMAS (57%); ANTHONY KENNEDY (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



581 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 32; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: CHILDREN'S BOOKS

BYLINE: By Erin St. John Kelly; Erin St. John Kelly contributes articles about New York City to The New York Times.

 BODY:

FRIDAY'S JOURNEY
Written and illustrated by Ken Rush.
Unpaged. New York:
Orchard Books. $14.95. (Ages 5 to 9)
 
TAXI! TAXI!
By Cari Best.
Illustrated by Dale Gottlieb.
Unpaged. Boston:
Little, Brown & Company. $14.95.
(Ages 4 to 8) 

IN the best of all possible worlds, having divorced parents means having not one but two places to be loved. Two separate places to feel safe in, two separate identities and the strange but luxurious feeling of two separate universes of one's own. Yet there are times when a child does not savor having two bedrooms, and instead of feeling rich in having two households feels divided and bereft. Both "Friday's Journey" and "Taxi! Taxi!" describe this condition, using the device of the visit with the weekend father, albeit in very different cultural settings.
In "Friday's Journey," written and illustrated by Ken Rush, a ride on the New York City subway is a metaphor for the transition between parental worlds. The trip for the weekly court-mandated visit opens at the mother's apartment. As is often the case, the parents here do not speak to each other, speaking instead through the little boy, Chris. The father stands slouched with his hands in his pockets. The mother does not rise from her computer. They never greet each other; instead, the stiffly spoken words they utter only to their son convey the awkwardness, even hostility, they feel. When the mother says, "How about your toothbrush, honey?" and Chris replies, "Dad bought me a new one to keep at his place," it captures all the stress that lies in this broken family.
There is an unnaturally calm mood to this emotionally brutal scene. When Chris speaks first to one parent, then to the other, all while the parents studiously ignore each other, the strain and heartbreak of being a child in this situation are apparent. By speaking for and to his parents, Chris has to be the parent, a feeling often experienced by real-life children of divorce. This is the most realistic, significant moment in "Friday's Journey," and it is certainly the most poignant in this book, which otherwise falls short of describing the reality of the divorced parent-child relationship. The subway ride is too antiseptic and wholesome; the father, too spookily cheery and trite.
"Taxi! Taxi!," by Cari Best, is the same story in another culture. Here a young Hispanic girl's papi, a taxi driver, comes for a Sunday visit. In Dale Gottlieb's vibrantly colored illustrations, as bright as a bowl of tropical fruit, the young girl's world is whimsically captured. And here, with impressive economy of language, the ultimate parental betrayal is confronted: sometimes Papi comes late, and sometimes he doesn't come at all.
"Some Sundays, Tina waits and waits. And dances and counts. And sings and jumps. But Papi doesn't come." Her mother tries to ease Tina's anxiety by telling her that her father must be busy driving people around in the city. But Tina knows that Sunday is his day off: "She crosses her fingers on both hands and hopes Papi won't forget today."
In "Taxi! Taxi!" Papi takes Tina to visit a farm, where she sees plants and animals, and where they pass "a family with a mama, a papi, and a little girl."
" 'I have two families,' Tina thinks, 'Papi and me. And Mama and me.' "
Tina's father tells her how much he loves her, reassures her verbally and constantly embraces her. Can the exuberant emotional attention he showers on her be explained culturally? The affection is certainly in sharp contrast to "Friday's Journey," where the most demonstrative moment comes when the father asks Chris once more to be the parent and decide what the two of them should do for the day. They decide, and blandly grasping his son's hands he asks, "That sound O.K. to you, Mister Engineer?"
Tina is never put in such a position. When he comes, Papi always plans a surprise, like their farm outing.
Several issues are left unaddressed in these books, which bravely broach what has traditionally been a taboo or awkward area in younger children's books; ordinarily, they emphasize happy, united families and only tentatively explore the mundane experience of fractured families. We never learn where Tina's father is on those weekend days when he doesn't show up for her. It's a serious flaw in the story, which is, after all, for children in the early school years. Fear of abandonment or of being replaced is a source of real anxiety and trauma for children of divorced parents. Both books are about only children, a circumstance that gives narrative strength but avoids the complicated and all too common situation of sibling rivalry in divorced families, especially on those precious days spent with the newly absent parent.
One of the delights of "Taxi! Taxi!" is that it includes a multicultural cast of neighborhood characters, like Mrs. Sweeney, who has orange curtains and happy flowers on her fire escape, and Mr. Salazar, who has a fruit and vegetable store. They add a texture and a context to the story that are missing in "Friday's Journey." "Taxi! Taxi!" takes place in a world where people talk to plants and snort like pigs, and where the taxis are decorated with hanging plants.
Ken Rush's illustrations in "Friday's Journey" are paintings in restrained urban grays and muddy beiges, and show a series of blurry, often featureless faces. There are no characters in the story besides the dad, son and mother, and their words ring consistently false.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: FRIDAY'S JOURNEY (BOOK); TAXI! TAXI! (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (72%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LITTLE BROWN & CO INC (72%); CHILDREN'S BOOKS & TOYS INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (92%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (90%); CHILDREN (89%); 

PERSON: KELLY, ERIN ST JOHN; RUSK, KENNETH; BEST, CARI KEN RUSH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



582 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 25, 1994

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: An Honorable Boy

BYLINE: By Ben Yagoda; Ben Yagoda, who teaches journalism at the University of Delaware, is the book critic for Philadelphia magazine and the author of "Will Rogers: A Biography."

 BODY:

THIRD AND INDIANA
By Steve Lopez.
305 pp. New York: Viking. $21.95. 
JONATHAN DEMME'S film "Philadelphia," its inclusive title notwithstanding, actually presented quite a narrow slice of life in the City of Brotherly Love. To realize this, one need only recall the interiors seen in the film: expensively furnished law offices, funky lofts, Main Line mansions and (the humblest abode) Denzel Washington's cozy cottage. But there is another Philadelphia, and the news from its sprawling precincts is grim indeed.
I have in front of me a clipping from The Philadelphia Daily News listing 23 children, all age 17 and under (and 10 of them under 8), who died by homicide in the city in the first six months of this year. All were killed in the neighborhoods ruled by the economics of desperation: where factory jobs have fled abroad or just disappeared, where drugs have taken over the streets, where violence is as unremarkable as rain.
This is the part of the city in which Steve Lopez, a columnist for The Philadelphia Inquirer, has chosen to locate his first novel. As "Third and Indiana" begins, the talk of the town is a spray-painted succession of bodies being laid out by an anonymous artist on the northern reaches of Broad Street, the main north-south artery that runs through the slums straight downtown. Every time a young person dies by violence, a new outline appears; if the killing doesn't stop, the bodies will form a chain leading all the way to City Hall.
It is a striking image, and "Third and Indiana" opens with yet another one: a woman dressed in black is riding a bicycle through the rutted streets of the decaying Kensington neighborhood, observed from the shadows by a 14-year-old boy. "Maybe it was the way she made the street lonelier than it was before she got there," Mr. Lopez writes. "Maybe it was the way the air cleared a path for her thoughts, which moved in a cushion around her, a swirl of confusion. Whatever it was, Gabriel could tell from two blocks away that the woman coming at him in darkening shades of gray, as if growing out of a dream, was his mother."
Gabriel Santoro has run away from home and hitched his fortunes to a local drug gang. Every night his mother, a waitress named Ofelia, ventures out on two wheels to look for him. Eventually intersecting with mother and child is Eddie Passarelli, a shambling 38-year-old who has just walked out of a stale marriage. That he has chosen Kensington to walk to tells you all you need to know about the caliber of his judgment.
In his initial scene, Eddie is revealed to be a jazz guitarist -- which was the first indication to me that "Third and Indiana" might be headed for trouble. A jazz musician in a novel, especially a jazz musician who refuses to sell out by playing schlock, is generally a harbinger of hokum. So are evil-incarnate drug kings, Mafiosi to whom money is owed, priests of any kind and supernatural portents. All can be found in "Third and Indiana." (The drug lord is redundantly named Diablo.)
The novel is by no means a failure. Mr. Lopez's prose is crisp and sometimes poetic, and his scenes are admirably constructed; he has an ear not only for the way people talk but also for the way conversations can change pitch in an instant. However, "Third and Indiana" flirts too recklessly with the outlandish and the hackneyed to be counted a success.
IT may be that Mr. Lopez pulled out all the stops because of the nearly impossible literary task he set himself. After all, it is hard to write about hell, which is as good a word as any for a world in which children are murdered on a regular basis. And it is doubly difficult when the characters at hand are as hard to credit as the central trio in "Third and Indiana." One never shakes the feeling that these people are stand-ins for the author, notebook-wielding observers of a poor, crime-riddled neighborhood rather than real participants in its daily life. The worst is Gabriel, who is depicted as honorable, steadfast and true -- and a prodigiously talented artist to boot. Why would such a boy be willing to pocket the grocery money of teen-age mothers in exchange for crack? The problem is not so much that the explanations Mr. Lopez provides are unsatisfactory (though they are) as that he has to provide explanations at all.
It's not impossible to write believably about the ravages of the drug trade, as Richard Price proved in "Clockers," a cogent re-creation of a terrifying world. A better comparison for "Third and Indiana" is with "N.Y.P.D. Blue." Mr. Lopez's novel has the same technical facility and melodramatic punch -- and about the same relationship to reality.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: THIRD AND INDIANA (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PHILADELPHIA INQUIRER (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); WRITERS (72%); HOMICIDE (69%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); SLUM DWELLINGS (68%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (60%); 

PERSON: YAGODA, BEN; LOPEZ, STEVE DENZEL WASHINGTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 1994



583 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 341 words

HEADLINE: In Mexico, Storm Quietly Gathers

 BODY:
To the Editor:
After having served as a foreign visitor to the Mexican elections in August, I decided to return to Mexico for another month of study and travel. It was an educational experience to note the calm immediately after the elections and, subsequent to that, a growing restlessness among the people in a number of states who don't want to face six more years of repression and starvation. 
 In Chiapas state, 150,000 people have died over 10 years from hunger and curable diseases. In Guerrero, 350 disappearances have taken place out of a reported 550 that occurred during Carlos Salinas de Gortari's term as President. Another assassination of a Revolutionary Democratic Party member was reported several weeks ago in Acapulco.
On Sept. 13, in Chilpancingo, capital of the state of Guerrero, a group of indigenous people were exercising the civil right to demonstrate in request for community funds promised by President Salinas. On Sept. 14, according to Mexican news articles, 150 police officers confronted them in their office. The indigenous group put up the Mexican flag and started singing the national anthem.
The police attacked them, wounding 23, causing one person to suffer a fractured skull and another a broken leg. The police took 26 people, whose whereabouts are not known.
The United States has a responsibility to be more aware of events in Mexico. It is a proud country, and that ought to be respected. What we are obligated to learn is more about its progress in social and political development. If we do not, the obvious appearance is that our interest is merely in economic exploitation of low wages and capital return.
Presidents Clinton and Salinas, who are scheduled to meet at the United Nations next Monday, need to do more than play a game of pretend. Both countries are playing off their poor, leaving millions of people desperately out of the economy. The day could come when this explodes in instability in both directions across the border.
 
GRACE BRALEY
Yonkers, Sept. 21, 1994

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; MEXICO-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US ELECTIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); STARVATION (76%); HUMAN RIGHTS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); BONE FRACTURES (71%); HEAD INJURIES (71%); 

PERSON: BRALEY, GRACE HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



584 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1742 words

HEADLINE: A Town Loses Its Hospital, In the Name of Cost Control

BYLINE: By ERIK ECKHOLM, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: DESTIN, Fla.

 BODY:
This resort town on a barrier island off the Florida Panhandle enjoys silken beaches, good fishing and a boom in real estate. What Destin does not have these days, to the outrage and despair of many residents, is its own hospital.
Last May the country's largest hospital chain, which had recently acquired the eight-year-old Destin Hospital, closed most of it in the name of efficiency. The only part left open was the emergency room, which, lacking the support of an intensive-care unit and ready surgeons, could not treat many life-threatening conditions. As of now, the hospital is completely closed. 
 Officials of the company, Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation, noted that fewer than one-third of the hospital's 50 beds had been filled on average and that two other hospitals it owned were only about 15 miles away.
"We simply can't have a hospital on every corner," David T. Vandewater, chief operating officer of Columbia, said in a recent interview. "We just can't afford it."
But what Mr. Vandewater described as a sensible economic step created an uproar in Destin, where travel to the other hospitals can take as long as 45 minutes in the tourist season when the roads are crowded. People here see the hospital's closing as a threat to their health and prosperity, and as a callous move by a company that had gained a stranglehold on the medical market here.
"This company has basically lost our respect," said Charles Clary Jr., an architect and City Council member in Destin. "The community here doesn't trust them anymore to work for our good."
Even without strong direction from Washington, the nation's health care is being transformed by market forces and the search for lower costs. In the abstract, everyone agrees that waste must be wrung from a bloated system.
But as the conflict here shows, efficiency as defined in the emerging medical marketplace does not always square with the deeply felt needs of communities. And sometimes, unavoidably, it can mean longer drives for medical care, longer waits and even medical risks.
"Destin is a microcosm of what you're going to see around the country," said Douglas Cook, director of Florida's Agency for Health Care Administration, which supports the town's effort to regain a hospital."We were caught between what we feel is a legitimate need of a community and what a corporation is willing to do if it owns a hospital."
Painful hospital closings are by no means confined to the for-profit chains. As patients' hospital stays have shortened and payers -- Federal and private -- insist on lower prices, hundreds of hospitals have already shut down or merged with neighbors in recent years, especially in rural areas and small towns.
But Columbia, based in Louisville, Ky., has been a highly visible leader in bringing hard-nosed corporate tactics to the once-staid world of medicine: buying hospitals, closing weak ones, zealously competing for doctors and their patients. The company, after several recent mergers, owns 195 hospitals and 125 outpatient surgery centers. It says its size brings economies of scale, allowing quality care at lower prices. Indeed, Columbia describes itself as a grass-roots leader in the national overhaul of health care.
In Florida alone, Columbia has bought 45 hospitals, accounting for one-third of the state's hospital beds; it is now the state's largest private employer.
Columbia officials said they were surprised by the outcry in Destin, which they called the worst in their experience of numerous hospital closings. They said the attacks reflected nervous real estate interests more than legitimate health concerns. And they noted that Gov. Lawton Chiles has crusaded for leaner health care, but that now, immersed in a tough fight for re-election, has supported Destin's drive to reopen the hospital.
Dan Moen, president of Columbia's Florida Group, said that Destin residents still lived within 20 minutes of two other hospitals, also usually half-empty -- a 247-bed one in Fort Walton Beach and a 75-bed one in Niceville.
But Destin believes it has a strong claim. Not only are many residents and visitors are elderly, but each summer also sees serious water and road accidents. In addition, during high season, the roads to the mainland become so crowded that the drive to the other hospitals can take twice as long as it does at other times.
Destin's population is about 15,000 "on a Wednesday," as the city manager put it, and growing fast. That number jumps by several thousand in the winter as Northern retirees move in, and it doubles in the summer as vacationers come for the white sand beaches and emerald waters of the Gulf of Mexico.
The closing of Destin Hospital has left residents like Martha Coxe, 56, who suffers from chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, scared. Living 10 minutes from the hospital had provided security and convenience.
"This has been a real upheaval for the community," Ms. Coxe said, describing her own feeling as desperate. "This is an added stress for me on top of my respiratory problem. It's just greed on the company's part."
Columbia's actions also seem to have wounded civic pride. The town has a sense of itself as independent, with bright prospects symbolized by several giant cranes along the shoreline, each heralding yet another high-rise condominium. "This community is large and thriving," said Philip G. Cook, the Destin city manager, "and we need a small hospital."
City leaders attributed the hospital's low occupancy and financial losses, reported by the company as $100,000 a month, in part to manipulation by Columbia and the previous owner, another private chain. They argued that Destin was treated merely as a feeder to other hospitals, that it never nurtured a corps of doctors who would bring in patients and that it did little marketing. They said a small hospital here should be able to make ends meet, a contention supported by outside consultants.
The company contends that the outcry has been driven by business considerations. "This didn't come down to a health care issue," Mr. Vandewater said. "It was about keeping property values up."
Destin leaders do worry that the loss of the hospital will deter migrants like John Rossi, a 62-year-old retiree from the Air Force who moved here last winter with his father. "I bought a home right here because the hospital was close by," Mr. Rossi said.
"This is disastrous," he said of the shutdown, noting the preponderance of elderly people in his neighborhood.
Dewey Destin, a commercial fisherman and City Council member, acknowledged that worry about the impact on business had figured in the outcry. But he added: "I have kids myself, and I've talked to many parents with young children and to old people who've lived here a long time. They're really scared that in an emergency they can't get in a car to get stabilized within 10 minutes or so."
Local doctors say the medical need is real. "I've personally taken care of a few patients who probably would not have survived the ambulance ride to Fort Walton Beach," said Dr. Travis Bolton Jr., an internist at a clinic next to the closed hospital.
Columbia officials wanted to retain the hospital's state license and certificate of need, arguing that the company might reopen beds some day as the population grew. Keeping the license would also freeze out potential competitors, since the state would not grant a new certificate in this overbuilt county. Throughout Florida, in fact, hospital occupancy averages only about 50 percent.
But in an agreement forced on it by the state last month, Columbia agreed to sell the hospital by Dec. 31 or lose the license and certificate.
Originally, the company said it would keep open an emergency room half-time. When the community protested, it said it would maintain the emergency room round the clock, as well as two inpatient beds.
Still, sicker patients who might need hospital admission were routinely directed elsewhere, and local doctors said that, without the backup of a hospital, the emergency room was little more than a walk-in clinic.
"That was an emergency room in name only," said Dr. George Novak, a plastic surgeon in Destin. "In my opinion, it was just an attempt to keep competition away from here."
In June, the City Council sued both Columbia and the state, arguing that the company had violated the licensing rules by no longer operating a hospital. In addition, thousands of residents signed a petition calling for reopening the hospital, and while campaigning in Destin, Governor Chiles, a Democrat, promised to try to help the town retain a hospital.
Then came a deadly incident on Aug. 3. A man with severe internal injuries from a jet-ski accident was taken to Destin Hospital for helicopter evacuation to a major trauma center. Ambulance workers said they had asked to bring the man into the emergency room for help in the minutes while waiting for the helicopter but were refused entrance. The man later died.
The hospital denies that it refused the man entrance, and while exactly what happened outside the hospital that day remains in dispute, doctors say it did not affect the patient's outcome. Nonetheless, the incident took on mythic dimensions for the town, proving in citizens' minds the vital need for a local hospital.
After a quick investigation, the state health care agency sought to revoke Columbia's Destin license on the ground that it was not operating a genuine hospital. In an Aug. 30 settlement with the state, the company agreed to make a good-faith effort to sell Destin Hospital, along with its certificate of need. In the meantime, the hospital has been completely closed.
So now, whether Destin can sustain a small hospital will be tested in the marketplace. The city's attorneys say that nearly a dozen private hospital companies have inquired about a possible purchase. Destin is also considering public ownership as a last resort.
The outcry has not changed Columbia officials' views; they say the shutdown of underused hospitals is both desirable and unstoppable. "It's going to happen again and again around the country," Mr. Moen said.
Councilman Destin, whose ancestors settled the area in the early 19th century, agreed that the trend might be unstoppable.
"That's the problem with the health care we're moving toward in this country," he said. "The bottom line's going to be profit rather than community welfare."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Workers on Sept. 18, covering up a sign that pointed the way to Destin Hospital, now closed. (Kiichiro Sato for The New York Times); David T. Vandewater, chief operating officer of Destin Hospital's owner, Columbia/HCA Healthcare Corporation, defended the hospital's closing as a sensible business move and said, "We simply can't have a hospital on every corner. We just can't afford it." (Associated Press for The New York Times); Martha Coxe, who uses an oxygen tube for her chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and her husband, Barry, in their home just east of Destin, Fla. Ms. Coxe said the closing of Destin Hospital was an added stress for her on top of her respiratory problem. "It's just greed on the company's part." (Kiichiro Sato for The New York Times)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (91%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (91%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (91%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: COLUMBIA/HCA; DESTIN HOSPITAL (FLA) HCA HOLDINGS INC (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA/HCA; DESTIN HOSPITAL (FLA)

GEOGRAPHIC: DESTIN (FLA); FLORIDA; UNITED STATES (95%); FLORIDA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); HOSPITALS HOSPITALS (91%); HEALTH CARE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CLOSINGS (77%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (77%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (77%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (74%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HEALTH CARE LAW (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (63%); TOURISM (52%); 

PERSON: ECKHOLM, ERIK MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



585 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

International A3-11
 
CHAOS GROWS IN HAITIAN CITY
Hundreds of Haitians, emboldened by the deaths of 10 members of the security forces in a firefight Saturday with U.S. marines, ransacked police stations in Cap-Haitien, Haiti's second-largest city. A1 

U.S. SEEKS FASTER DISARMAMENT
Gen. John M. D. Shalikashvili said the U.S. military would seek to speed up efforts to disarm Haitians in response to the firefight in Cap-Haitien. A1
 
Aristide said he would convene Parliament to consider amnesty. A10
 
Haiti's once much-feared army has been humbled. A11
 
Many people dispute Jimmy Carter's view of Yannick Cedras. A11
 
SERBS OPEN SARAJEVO GAS SUPPLY
The Bosnian Serbs reopened the gas supply to Sarajevo after an 11-day cutoff, but they threatened to fire on incoming U.N. flights, which are essential for the delivery of aid. A3
 
BOSNIA PROMISE HAUNTS CLINTON
As he prepared to address the U.N. and to meet with President Yeltsin, President Clinton sought a way out of a promise on Bosnia that could divide the U.S. and Russia, Administration officials said. A3
 
PANIC OVER PLAGUE EBBS IN INDIA
The city of Surat began what officials there described today as "a return to normalcy" after days of panic brought about by an outbreak of pneumonic plague. A6
 
TALKS ON PALESTINIAN ELECTIONS
Edging toward the next phase of Palestinian self-rule, Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin of Israel and Yasir Arafat agreed to start talks next week on elections in the West Bank and Gaza Strip. A6
 
 A Cuban city revives the laws of supply and demand. A8
 
Brazilian socialist's presidential campaign is sagging. A8
 
Helmut Kohl, fearing voter apathy, warns of Communists. A8
 
Koriyama Journal: American colleges are failing in Japan. A4
 
National A12-15, B8-9
 
WHO HAS THE RIGHT TO KNOW?
As genetic researchers find ways to identify who is likely to develop deadly diseases, ethicists worry that the information may be too much for some people to bear. A1
 
SELLING THE CANDIDATE
Image makers for Tom Ride in the Pennsylvania governor's race are well aware that the quality of television advertising can make or break the candidate. A1
 
AT ARM'S LENGTH ON THE STUMP
President Clinton campaigned for Democratic candidates in four cities over the weekend and got a polite reception. B8
 
EFFICIENCY VS. HEALTH NEEDS
Residents of Destin, Fla., see the closing of their hospital as a callous move by a chain that gained a stranglehold on the medical market there. A1
 
MAIN EVENT FOR SIMPSON
After nearly two months of preliminary legal skirmishes and a deluge of publicity, O. J. Simpson will finally go on trial this week. A12
 
WHO'S MINDING THE CHILDREN?
When a Pittsburgh couple failed to return home to their four children, a 14-year-old baby sitter organized her friends into shifts to care for the children for two weeks. A12
 
AWARD IN VALDEZ SPILL
Six Alaska native corporations and a borough were awarded $9.7 million for land damages caused by the Exxon Valdez oil spill. The plaintiffs had sought $120 million. A12
 
QUESTIONS ON HEART TREATMENTS
A study of more than 200,000 elderly heart attack patients indicates that treatments like heart bypass operations and catheterizations may not increase long-term survival.B9
 
Dispute over the informing of abortion patients. A14
 
New limits are set for food stamp experiment. A15
 
Bacterial infection is blamed for Miss America's hearing loss. B9
 
Metro Digest B1
 
SMOKING BATTLE GROWS FIERCE
The tobacco industry is mounting an all-out campaign against legislation to impose new restrictions on smoking in public in New York City. Philip Morris says it may leave New York if the bill passes. A1
 
CLINTON'S SERMON: KEEP CUOMO
Rocking to resounding gospel strains, President Clinton went to a Harlem church to rouse a vital constituency to turn out its vote for Governor Cuomo, the former rival whom he now praised as "the heart that you must not lose." A1
 
Business Digest D1
 
Arts/Entertainment C11-18
 
A boom in poetry readings. C11
 
Theater: "Ghost in the Machine." C16
 
Film: "Caro Diario." C11
 
"Chunking Express." C14
 
Music: Dudley Moore in a benefit at Carnegie Hall. C11
 
CMJ Music Marathon. C13
 
A sense of Weimar. C13
 
Barbara Cook. C14
 
Dance: Tharp in Washington. C12
 
Meredith Monk. C12
 
Dek-ad-ens. C13
 
Books: "In Defense of Elitism," by William A. Henry 3d. C18
 
Obituaries D9
 
Sports C1-9
 
Columns: Anderson on Jets. C4
 
On pro football C4
 
On baseball C9
 
Football: Jets fall to Bears. C1
 
Simms near Cardinals deal. C5
 
Hockey: Clock ticks down as talks resume. C3
 
Tennis: Capriati reemerges. C1
 
Editorials/Op-Ed A16-17
 
Editorials
 
For safety's sake, reduce arms.
 
Biodiversity pact on the ropes.
 
Listen to all Iranian voices.
 
Letters
 
Anthony Lewis: What weakness costs.
 
William Safire: The new disloyalty.
 
Paul Krugman: Fantasy economics.
 
Allen Sanderson: Ticket fix.
 
Bridge C12
 
Chronicle A15
 
Crossword C12
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%); 

CITY: SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HAITI (98%); UNITED STATES (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (92%); ISRAEL (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); INDIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); GUJARAT, INDIA (57%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); PITTSBURGH, PA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS INFECTIOUS DISEASE (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ARMIES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (77%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); CLOSINGS (72%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (72%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); ETHICS (69%); BIOETHICS (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (64%); POLICE FORCES (58%); GOVERNORS (50%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (50%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); JIMMY CARTER (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



586 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1371 words

HEADLINE: TOBACCO INDUSTRY FIGHTS NEW YORK OVER SMOKING BILL

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
The tobacco industry is mounting an all-out campaign to derail or modify legislation imposing new restrictions on smoking in public in New York City. As part of that campaign, Philip Morris has warned that it will consider moving its headquarters out of New York if the bill passes.
Today the City Council's Health Committee is to hold a hearing and possibly a vote on the bill, which would outlaw smoking in nearly all restaurants and public places. While the bill will not be voted on by the full Council for weeks, lobbying is under way with a zeal that is rare in New York's municipal affairs. 
 In the last few days Council members have faced a barrage of letters, requests for meetings, full-page newspaper advertisements, nonstop faxes and unending telephone calls. The lobbying comes from opponents like the Tobacco Institute and the United Restaurant, Hotel, Tavern Association, as well as supporters like the American Cancer Society and Harlem Hospital.
Philip Morris, which employs about 2,000 workers in its Park Avenue headquarters, has heightened the pressure by threatening to leave the city and by mobilizing arts organizations that it underwrites.
"It has been communicated to officials of the city that if the bill is passed, it would cause us to reconsider having our headquarters in New York City," said Steven C. Parrish, senior vice president and general counsel of Philip Morris, the world's largest cigarette maker. "Our employees are concerned that the city seems to be attacking our company and our industry. This bill is very, very important to us."
The measure, introduced in March by Speaker Peter F. Vallone, would be one of the most stringent in the nation, banning smoking in all restaurants and in most office areas, as well as many outdoor places like stadiums.
As a result of fierce lobbying on both sides, some provisions have already been changed: a plan to exempt small restaurants has been shelved, for instance, and pro-tobacco forces were able to derail certain features of the bill, like a ban on smoking in all private offices.
The legislation expands a 1988 law requiring the establishment of nonsmoking areas in public spaces. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who has banned smoking from Gracie Mansion, has not taken a position on the bill, but has generally supported antismoking initiatives.
Because the measure is sponsored by 32 of the 51 members of the Council, its passage is considered virtually certain. But it can be amended at any point. And with more and more states and cities restricting smoking in restaurants and the workplace, tobacco companies and smokers' advocates say defeating or watering down the New York City bill is a priority.
Philip Morris, a major supporter of New York-based cultural organizations, like the Alvin Ailey Dance Theater, Lincoln Center, the Joyce Theater and the Museum of Folk Art, has encouraged some arts groups to enter the fray. Officials of some organizations said they had been asked to contact Council members and tell them that if the company moved from New York City, so would its grants to many of the city's arts groups.
"They wanted us to stress to Council members that, if the bill passes, it will directly reflect on their funding to us," said a senior executive of a leading arts organization, who asked not to be identified.
Another arts administrator, Karen Brooks Hopkins, executive vice president of the Brooklyn Academy of Music, said the academy was not pressed by the cigarette company to do any lobbying. But she added, "They have informed us how they feel about this bill and they have left it up to us to respond as we see fit." She said the academy had made "discreet telephone calls" to City Council members to express concern about the bill.
And that has led to letters and phone calls and faxes by the thousands, Council members say. In the Brooklyn office of City Councilman Enoch H. Williams, the letters have reached the point where they are no longer in stacks, but heaps that have to be stored in huge boxes. Across the bridge at City Hall, Mr. Vallone, the Council Speaker, has spent day after day in meetings, besieged by all manner of advocates, corporate executives, business owners and champions of smoking restrictions.
"I have had dozens and dozens of meetings with people who want to persuade me," Mr. Vallone said. "This is the most intense lobbying we have seen, other than with the budget, in some time. The tobacco companies have been the most intense because they realize that New York City is a bellwether. And they have pulled out all the stops."
Of Philip Morris's threat to leave the city, Richard A. Riley, a spokesman for Mr. Vallone, said: "Philip Morris and other interested parties on all sides of the issue will have an opportunity to testify about the bill and any potential economic effects. The Speaker is willing to listen to any suggestions to improving the bill while retaining its intent. But the goal of this bill is to protect the rights and health of nonsmokers from the danger of secondhand smoke."
In anticipation of the vote, several Council members have been wined and dined by representatives of the tobacco and restaurant industries. The United Restaurant, Hotel, Tavern Association, which opposes the bill as too restrictive, has taken out full-page ads in New York City newspapers denouncing the measure and asking people to call the Mayor's office or individual Council members.
"We consider this, short of alcohol beverage prohibition, the most serious risk to our bottom line," said Scott Wexler, executive director for the statewide industry trade association. Mr. Wexler said that his association estimates that restaurants would lose up to a quarter of their business if smoking were prohibited.
In addition to the newspaper ads, the association has mailed information denouncing the bill to 10,000 restaurant owners in New York City, asking them to contact their Council representatives.
Councilman Williams, who chairs the Health Committee, which is holding the hearings, said his phone has been ringing off the hook. "At first the calls were 10 to 1 in favor of the bill," Mr. Williams said. "Now we're seeing it swing the other way. The tobacco people have been gearing up in the last week."
So far, their efforts may have produced some small gains. In the latest version, the bill would allow smoking in some private offices, some hotel lobbies and in bars that are connected to restaurants.
To make its case, the tobacco industry has hired some of the city's best-known lobbyists, many with close ties to Mr. Vallone, including Martin J. McLaughlin, who heads a public relations and lobbying firm and is a friend of the Speaker, and Norman Adler, a consultant and former political adviser to Mr. Vallone.
"Our approach is simple," said Thomas Lauria, a spokesman for the Tobacco Institute, the industry's trade association. "We contact City Council members, articulate what the problems are. We help coordinate the efforts made by restaurant owners and people in the hospitality industry. Nonsmokers have an axe to grind, and we do, too."
Supporters of the measure have not been sitting idly by, either. The Coalition for a Smoke-Free City, an association of 70 organizations, including medical, youth, science and education groups, has also sent information to the City Council, including data on smoking-related diseases. In addition, the group has placed an advertisement on radio stations asking for citizen support of the bill.
"We have sent as much information as we can to the City Council on the disease and deaths caused by tobacco addiction," said Joseph W. Cherner, the policy chairman for the coalition, who is widely regarded as one of New York's leading antismoking campaigners. "We also want the Council to know how successful smoke-free policies have been in other cities."
Mr. Vallone, who smoked a pack of cigarettes a day before quitting 15 years ago, said his campaign to ban smoking has been inspired by medical studies on the dangers of secondhand smoke.
"I am open to discussing this," the Speaker said. "But the truth is that I no longer see this as a civil rights issue. It's a health issue."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MO (NYSE) (92%); PMI (SWX) (92%); PM (PAR) (92%); PM (NYSE) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312230 TOBACCO MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2111 CIGARETTES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PHILIP MORRIS COS INC ALTRIA GROUP INC (92%); PHILIP MORRIS INTERNATIONAL INC (92%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); TOBACCO INSTITUTE (56%); TOBACCO INSTITUTE (56%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: PHILIP MORRIS COS INC AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); TOBACCO INSTITUTE (56%); TOBACCO INSTITUTE (56%); AMERICAN CANCER SOCIETY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: SMOKING AND TOBACCO; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; RESTAURANTS; CITY COUNCILS; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS; LAW AND LEGISLATION SMOKING (92%); LEGISLATION (91%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (91%); TOBACCO MFG (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TOBACCO REGULATION & POLICY (90%); CITIES (89%); SMOKING BANS (89%); MAYORS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (78%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (78%); COMPANY RELOCATIONS (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); SPONSORSHIP (74%); LAWYERS (73%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); DANCE COMPANIES (66%); DANCE (66%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (65%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (62%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (54%); 

PERSON: HICKS, JONATHAN P RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



587 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1196 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Sermon in Harlem: Don't Desert Cuomo

BYLINE: By TODD S. PURDUM 

 BODY:
Rocking to resounding gospel strains, President Clinton went to a black church in the heart of Harlem yesterday to rouse a vital constituency to turn out its vote for Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, the onetime rival whom he now praised as "the heart that you must not lose."
Mr. Clinton, in town for political fund-raising and meetings with international leaders before a speech at the United Nations today, took his sermon from an epigraph by the prophet Isaiah printed on the cover of the program at the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church on West 132d Street: "They that wait upon the Lord shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles." 
 "But I want to talk to you about the rest of the verse," added the President, an old Sunday school regular who entered the venerable church -- once a stop on the Underground Railroad -- with a Bible under his arm. " 'They shall run and not grow weary. They shall walk and not faint.' "
This weekend, Mr. Clinton practiced the difficult task of promoting his party as a not-very-popular President, giving eight speeches in four cities in three days for Democratic candidates, plus the appearance for Governor Cuomo. [B8.]
The implication of the President's ad lib in Harlem could not have been plainer for the embattled Democratic Governor, who declined to seek the prize that Mr. Clinton won, nominated him with soaring oratory at the Democratic Convention two years ago and now needs every shred of support any surrogate can muster. The congregation of 350 worshipers responded with applause.
"The people who don't want us to get together, and who have a very different idea about moving forward than most of us do, are hoping and praying that you will grow weary, that you will not run, that you will not walk, that you will just grow weary," Mr. Clinton said in a not-so-veiled reference to the Republicans. He added: "Do not lose heart. Show up, talk to the people in your neighborhood, tell them to show up. Scripture says we're supposed to be good citizens, too. Mario Cuomo is the heart that you must not lose."
Black turnout is especially crucial to Mr. Cuomo's prospects against State Senator George E. Pataki, and although the Governor retains strong black support in the polls, he has been at some pains to energize black voters. The symbol of that trouble -- former Mayor David N. Dinkins, who has made no secret that he believes Mr. Cuomo did not work hard enough for his re-election last year -- was absent from the group of black leaders in the church.
Mr. Clinton, facing Democratic losses in Congress and statehouses in November, retains atypically high poll ratings in New York -- well above Mr. Cuomo's. So keeping a Democrat in Albany is squarely in the President's self-interest, and the Governor's aides said the White House late last week proposed a joint appearance at a black church. Bethel's pastor, the Rev. O'Neil Mackey, got final word of the visit at 7:30 P.M. Saturday, after a trip to Brooklyn was ruled out because of travel time. He stayed up until 2:30 yesterday morning working on the details.
The President managed a bipartisan moment, too: a courtesy call in his suite at the Waldorf-Astoria with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, who ranks as one of his and Mr. Cuomo's favorite Republicans these days, having lobbied for the President's crime bill and lobbed grenades at Mr. Pataki's refusal to say how he would help the city.
"The only discussion we had of the Governor's race was a mutual agreement that it was very close," Mr. Giuliani said after the meeting.
Last night, Mr. Clinton spoke at the Waldorf to raise money for Democratic Congressional candidates from around the country, and was joined by big donors like Maurice Tempelsman. "Let's face it," the President said, "the guys we're running against are good at talking. And they have a simple system: Rule or ruin. They're not much interested in doing."
Throughout the morning church service, Mr. Cuomo was flanked on the altar by Representative Charles B. Rangel, who grew up down the block, and his Democratic running mates, Comptroller H. Carl McCall and former Family Court Judge Karen S. Burstein, the nominee for State Attorney General. The President praised them all, noting especially that Mr. McCall would become the first black man elected statewide in New York and thus, he said, a national role model.
Mr. Clinton sat on the aisle in the third pew from the front with his wife, Hillary, and daughter, Chelsea, until rising to speak at the end of the hour-and-45-minute service. He sang the hymns lustily, murmured the responsive refrains of the choral anthems and swayed to the jazz-gospel soloists, at several points putting his arm around Mrs. Clinton.
When a booming baritone began a bluesy plea for redemption that crested with the phrase: 'Oh, Lord, Oh, Lord, please work on me!" Mr. Clinton sat rapt, nodding intently. But Mr. Cuomo was oblivious, scribbling furiously in the speech notes on his lap.
For his part, the Governor also cited religious themes and maxims, albeit more eclectic and erudite ones, skipping from "Deo Gratias" (Latin for "Thank you, Lord") to "Tikkun Olam" (Hebrew for "Repair the World," one of the basic tenets of Judaism) to the writings of his favorite French Jesuit, Teilhard de Chardin, who held that one's endeavors should be based on the desire to do greater good, not ambition.
In stemwinding ad libs of his own, Mr. Cuomo barely pleaded his case, but he made one for the President, and the Democrats, that left his meaning clear, saying at one point: "I don't want a President who's going to take me wherever the political wind blows, because I don't know where it's going to blow, and maybe next year it's going to blow against Italians, and maybe it's going to blow against guys with baggy eyes. And I'll tell you, I've got to look out for winds that blow like that."
Mr. Clinton, whose talk had to compete with that archetypal New York annoyance -- a broken car alarm that began wailing just as he started -- said that Mr. Cuomo's "greatest failing is that he speaks about me better than he speaks about himself." He recited his own burdens in running for re-election as Governor of Arkansas, including an encounter with an old man at the State Fair who, asked by Mr. Clinton, "Aren't you sick of me after all these years?" replied: "No, but everybody else I know is."
But that is the price of grappling with governance, Mr. Clinton suggested, adding that for all of Mr. Cuomo's three terms in office, "in a lot of ways, this is his first term, and it's just started, because it's the first time we've had a chance to work together" as Democratic partners to face what the President said were 30 years of social problems, 20 years of economic trials and 12 years of Republican neglect.
The catch: Since Mr. Clinton took office, New Yorkers have just as often as not complained that his proposals in areas from taxes to health care to welfare would hurt wealthy states like New York, which are hardest hit by tax increases and whose rich social benefits could be squeezed in the wake of new national minimum programs and standards.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Clinton with Governor Cuomo yesterday at the Bethel African Methodist Episcopal Church. (Monica Almeida/The New York Times)(pg. A1); State Senator George E. Pataki stopping to speak with Yun Jim Nam, a young Korean-American dancer, at the Korean Harvest and Folklore Festival yesterday in Flushing Meadows-Corona Park in Queens. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. B7)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: PRESIDENT'S AD (94%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; HARLEM (NYC); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; GOVERNORS (US); BLACKS (IN US) PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); FUNDRAISING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RELIGION (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); MAYORS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (71%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (71%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); 

PERSON: CUOMO, MARIO M (GOV); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PURDUM, TODD S BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



588 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Financial Desk

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:
The Economy
 Alan S. Blinder has stirred things up at the Fed by suggesting that creating jobs should sometimes take precedence over cutting inflation by a few points. The new Fed vice chairman has irritated some colleagues with tutorials on the economy. [Page D1.] At the Fed, officials are likely to respond to signs of strong growth by again raising interest rates this year, but economists are divided whether the bank's rate-setting panel will act tomorrow. [D1.] 
 Philip Morris is threatening to move out of New York if the City Council passes a bill that would make smoking illegal in nearly all restaurants and public places. Its lobbying has drawn in arts groups that Philip Morris supports. [A1.]
 Destin, Fla., a barrier-island resort town, does not have a fully functioning hospital. In May its new owner, Columbia/HCA Healthcare, closed most of the facility, leaving open only an emergency room without an intensive-care unit or ready surgeons. The town's situation underlines that efficiency in the medical marketplace may not square with human needs. [A1.]
 Orders for machine tools fell 7.57 percent in August compared with those in July. [D2.]
Whether gold will continue upward after Friday's spot close at $396.10 an ounce, the highest in months, is far from certain. [D3.]
 
Companies
The collapse of Senate efforts to overhaul communications law is likely to give telephone and cable-television companies a temporary reprieve from the prospect of increased competition. But the day when people can choose between local phone companies and cable systems may be delayed for years in many places. And some companies are unlikely to invest as much in future technology until the regulatory climate is clearer. News Analysis. [D1.]
 Hills Stores has emerged lean and profitable from three years in bankruptcy court, despite stiff competition. [D1.]
 Calyx & Corolla, a mail-order flower company, has sold a stake to a subsidiary of Capital Cities/ABC. [D3.]

International
 Coca-Cola and two bottling partners plan to invest $100 million in the next three years in Russia. [D2.]
 
The Media Business
 Talks between General Electric and Disney about NBC have cooled, apparently because Disney is interested in the entire company and G.E. wants to sell only a 49 percent stake, people with knowledge of the discussions say. [D1.]
CBS is turning from macho to mush on Sunday afternoons. Having lost the National Football League to Fox, it has counterprogrammed with movies made from romance novels, hoping to find a significant number of football widows and other viewers. [D1.]
Most viewers rely on listings, not channel surfing, to see what's on, and that's a problem for smaller cable channels. Television. [D6.]
Life magazine is having its most profitable year since its rebirth in 1978 as a monthly. [D6.] Alfred Eisenstaedt, after 58 years with Life, still goes to the office every day. [D6.]
 
Today's Columns
 An electronic inventory of refrigerator contents could reduce the amount of food that spoils. Sabra Chartrand: Patents. [D2.]
 Buying opportunities can be found among some companies that are not studied closely by Wall Street analysts, some investors say. As always, there are caveats. Market Place. [D4.]
 McDonald's first music promotion has gone well, raising the possibility of increased national advertising. Advertising. [D7.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: HCA (NYSE) (56%); KO (NYSE) (52%); GNE (PAR) (52%); GEC (LSE) (52%); GE (SWX) (52%); GE (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS622110 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (56%); NAICS621493 FREESTANDING AMBULATORY SURGICAL & EMERGENCY CENTERS (56%); SIC8062 GENERAL MEDICAL & SURGICAL HOSPITALS (56%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (56%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (52%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: HCA HOLDINGS INC (56%); COCA-COLA CO (52%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (52%); ABC INC (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); CABLE TELEVISION (86%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (86%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LOBBYING (74%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); HEALTH CARE (73%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (71%); CITIES (70%); CABLE INDUSTRY (70%); RESTAURANTS (70%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (68%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (66%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (60%); SPORTS (60%); LOCAL TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



589 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: THE DEMOCRATS;
Out of Fashion With, Clinton Campaigns in a Fashion for the Faithful

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

 BODY:
Politics is just an art. Campaigning for Democrats when you are a less-than-popular Democratic President, on the other hand, is nuclear physics. It is the science of embracing a candidate while remaining at arm's length, and giving a Presidential blessing to a man or woman who may not wish to look like your ally. It is being radioactive without giving everyone else on the dais a lethal dose of political roentgens.
This weekend, President Clinton went to four cities in three days and gave eight speeches on behalf of Democratic candidates, as well as making an appearance with Gov. Mario M. Cuomo. If he did not win the Nobel, at least give him a Ph.D. 
 There is no simple way to measure Mr. Clinton's standing in Chicago, Minneapolis and Kansas City, Mo., the three Midwestern cities he visited. But the customary gauges suggest he is no more popular there than in the nation as a whole, where polls show that about 6 in 10 people disapprove of his performance.
For example, the President was greeted by sparse crowds at airports and light turnouts along the routes to his appearances. More telling, perhaps, was the turnout at the four fund-raising events that were the overarching purpose of his trip.
Mr. Clinton collected a total of $1.1 million at his three Midwest stops, including just $350,000 in Chicago, where a Presidential appearance 15 months ago had raised $1 million. By comparison, President George Bush collected $1.5 million in Minneapolis alone four years ago this week, on a midterm election jaunt similar to the one Mr. Clinton just completed.
One veteran Chicago fund-raiser said Democratic donors are "tapped out" by a series of expensive state races, but added, "The President's problems don't help any."
The President picked up another $350,000 for House candidates from about 70 donors last night in New York City, where his popularity is unusually high. (Separately, Mr. Clinton honored a group of New York Democrats who had raised $2 million for House races.)
Despite the seeming indifference to the President in most places, the national Democrats who arranged the fund-raising events and the candidates who will receive the money say that Mr. Clinton is in great demand as a campaigner.
"There's no dearth of candidates asking for his assistance," Don Foley, the executive director of the Democratic Senatorial Campaign Committee, said at Mr. Clinton's Kansas City stop, before perhaps 300 people in a plush hotel room distinguished by an ice sculpture of a buxom mermaid. "It's not his message that the people are going to vote on; it's the message the candidates are delivering."
Ann Wynia, the Democratic candidate for the Minnesota Senate seat being vacated by Dave Durenberger, a Republican, said she was "just delighted" when Mr. Clinton agreed to come to town.
"Here in Minnesota," she said, "I detect a huge reservoir of good will for President Clinton. They believe he is truly trying to solve the problems of the average American."
Perhaps so, but in Minnesota and elsewhere, Mr. Clinton and those around him tended to play matters more as if they suspected a drought.
The President did not go out of his way to lash himself to his party's candidates on this trip, and the same was largely true of the candidates themselves. Three of the six midwestern fund-raisers were closed altogether, and the remaining three were open only to journalists and the loyal Democrats who made large donations for the chance to attend.
Moreover, Mr. Clinton was circumspect in his remarks at those events where the cameras were rolling. In a Chicago speech that ran five-and-one-half pages -- single spaced -- the President named the three Senate candidates for whom he was stumping exactly once. (The candidates themselves were from Arizona, Montana and Michigan; they flew to Illinois for the event.)
In other speeches, the President was careful to note that his endorsement did not imply that a candidate would be loyal to him.
Here was Mr. Clinton in Kansas City, speaking of Representative Alan Wheat, the Democrat seeking the Senate seat being vacated by John C. Danforth, a Republican: "He's important to the country -- not because we will always agree, but because he will show up for work in the morning." (Republicans come only to talk and delay, he said.)
And here was Mr. Clinton in Minnesota: "I came here to ask you to help Ann Wynia -- not because, as she said, she would agree with me on every issue, but because she would bring common sense" to the Senate.
Such little dodges are part of what makes campaigning such a wondrous craft. But they are useless without a good campaigner, and it was when Mr. Clinton was forced to confront his unpopularity in public that his skills shone.
After groping for weeks to find a political explanation for his low numbers, Mr. Clinton finally squeezed his sour polls this weekend and made lemonade. The problem, he said, was not with his policies, but with the do-nothing, obstructionist Republicans who ruined the country and are blocking its rebirth.
"Sam Rayburn once said, 'Any old jackass can kick down a barn, but it takes a carpenter to build one,' " he said in Kansas City to cheers. "It also takes longer to build one than it does to kick one down."
And in Minneapolis: "The bad political policies that we've had, dividing us, the wealthy against the middle class, different races, different religions -- all these political and economic and social problems we have, we've had these for the last 12 years. I have just been there 20 months. We are going in the right direction. Do not turn back."
Anyone not in the room might have suspected that he was campaigning not for other Democrats, but for himself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); 

CITY: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MINNESOTA SENATE (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: MINNESOTA SENATE (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (92%); MIDWEST USA (92%); MISSOURI, USA (87%); ILLINOIS, USA (87%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (87%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; PUBLIC OPINION; FINANCES POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (79%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); PHYSICS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SCULPTURE (73%); NUCLEAR PHYSICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); AWARDS & PRIZES (69%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); WINES, MICHAEL BILL CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



590 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1252 words

HEADLINE: Panel Weighs Indian Point 3 And Its Future

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD 

 BODY:
Safety concerns have shut the Indian Point 3 nuclear reactor for 19 months. Now the changing economics of electric power may shut it for good.
Four reactors around the country have already been prematurely retired in the last few years because the electricity they generated cost more than electricity from other sources. And at a legislative hearing beginning today, several witnesses are expected to testify that Indian Point 3 should also be closed. 
 Assemblyman Richard Brodsky, chairman of the Assembly's Environment Committee, said electricity from oil and gas is cheaper than buying power from the troubled plant in Westchester County, on the east side of the Hudson River just south of Peekskill, N.Y.
Mr. Brodsky's panel will hold hearings on the future of the plant, which is run by the New York Power Authority, the state-owned utility. The hearings will start at 10 A.M. in the Municipal Building in Croton, N.Y., not far from Indian Point 3.
The reactor is 18 years old, less than halfway through its planned life, but it runs badly, with one of the worst records for reliability in the industry. Not only has it been on the Nuclear Regulatory Commission's watch list of least-safe plants for more than a year, but it is also in the middle of a region with a huge electricity surplus and has long been unpopular politically.
In nuclear power plants, where fuel costs are small but capital and maintenance costs are high, the key to economical operation is reliability; the bills for debt service and maintenance pile up whether or not the plant is running. Plants in the New York area vary widely in reliability, but Indian Point 3 is at the bottom of the heap.
The plant supplies power to governmental customers, including the Metropolitan Transportation Authority and the City of New York. But it has not run since February 1993, and will be shut at least until early next year because of safety problems.
Since starting up in 1976, Indian Point 3 has run only about half the time, but operating expenses plus continuing capital investment amount to $175 million a year, said Charles Komanoff, an energy analyst in New York. With the high fixed cost, the staff of the Assembly's Environment Committee calculates that its power costs 4.4 cents a kilowatt-hour. The committee says that power is available from Con Edison for a little over 3 cents a kilowatt-hour.
"For years this whole issue has been dominated by the widely accepted truism -- and I don't think it was ever true -- that this was a trade-off between economic benefits and the environmental and public health risks," Mr. Brodsky said. "Now there's a set of data that offers prima facie evidence that it's not just dangerous, it's more expensive."
Economics has already killed the reactor construction industry, with no orders for new reactors since 1978. All the plants ordered after 1973 have been canceled. Now competition is stalking the existing plants; two reactors in California, one in Massachusetts and one in Oregon have been prematurely retired in recent years because of a depressed market for electricity and high maintenance costs. Industry analysts predict more will follow.
But the president of the Power Authority, S. David Freeman, who is scheduled to testify today, said that the evaluation would have to include more factors than just the comparative cost of a kilowatt-hour. Closing a reactor, he said in an interview last week, is "like a divorce; not all of your costs go away."
Mr. Freeman is one of the foremost experts on that subject. Before Gov. Mario M. Cuomo appointed him in March, he was the manager of the Sacramento Municipal Utility District in California, where he was called in to manage the district's recovery after voters shut its biggest generating station, the Rancho Seco nuclear plant. Costs there remained substantial for years after the shutdown because of security and maintenance of the systems needed to tend to the spent fuel.
Indian Point 3, and its near twin, Indian Point 2, which is operated by Con Ed, are in Buchanan, N.Y., 35 miles north of midtown Manhattan. Nearly 300,000 people live within 10 miles, the highest number within 10 miles of any reactor in the country.
Indian Point 2, which is three years older, is not a target of the hearings. It runs better, and closing it would be more difficult because it is owned by an investor-owned utility.
Even closing Indian Point 3 might not be easy, though. The committee said it would require the Power Authority to take a $660 million write-off, which might result in higher costs for the agency's customers.
Ten years ago, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission was threatening to close the reactors because emergency plans for evacuation of neighbors were in poor shape. Officials in Rockland County, which is directly across the river, refused to participate in an evacuation drill, saying that an evacuation in case of accident would be impossible and that the plant should be shut. Governor Cuomo sent bureaucrats from Albany to play the parts of Rockland officials so the drill could be successfully conducted.
Since then, the price of oil and natural gas, two competing fuels, has dropped, and many private companies have built generating stations. The result has been to create a huge power surplus and a sharp drop in price.
The New York Power Pool, a consortium of utilities that coordinates power needs, said it believed that a surplus of more than 5,000 megawatts would persist for years. Indian Point 3 produces 965 megawatts. (A megawatt, one million watts, is enough power to light 10,000 hundred-watt bulbs.)
The plant would look more economical if it ran better, experts say, but some doubt it can ever compete. Mr. Komanoff said that if it resumed operation next year and ran with a capacity of 70 percent -- which would make it one of the more reliable plants and which Mr. Komanoff said was optimistic -- costs would still be about 3.5 cents a kilowatt-hour, the same as electricity available on the open market.
Mr. Brodsky said in a telephone interview that matching the market price was not good enough. "You'd have to have a relatively significant savings to justify the public health risk," he said. "And now the data is that it's more expensive."
Other issues include whether closing Indian Point 3 would result in significantly more air pollution from the plants that would burn coal, oil or natural gas to replace the electricity, and whether more transmission capacity would be required to bring in power from other sources.
Mr. Freeman declined to discuss his position in detail, saying that he would leave that for the hearing. He said when he was appointed that Indian Point 3 and the authority's other reactor, the FitzPatrick plant, near Syracuse, would have to prove to be economical or they should be shut.
Mr. Freeman said he would keep an open mind at the hearings, especially since those testifying would include "our biggest customer, the City of New York, and our next-door neighbor, Con Edison. It's going to be an interesting family gathering."
"I have never been associated with nuclear uber alles," he said. "I was never with the crowd that tried to jam nuclear down your throat." But if running the plant has economic advantages, he said, it would be wrong to close it for ideological reasons. "I don't feel the New York Power Authority is in some godlike position where we have to make that decision on behalf of the nation," he said.

GRAPHIC: Map/Table: "OVERVIEW: See How They Run"
The Indian Point 3 nuclear power plant has the lowest capacity factor of any nuclear plant in the New York region. The capacity factor, which measures plant reliability, compares actual electricity output with the electricity that would have resulted if the plant had run 24 hours a day, 365 days a year. The national average is about 62 percent.

		Rank among		 	 	Name	Lifetime Capacity Factor	111 plants	Fitzpatrick	59 percent	73		 	 	Ginna	72 percent	32		 	 	Indian Point 2	62 percent	64		 	 	Indian Point 3	42 percent	95		 	 	Nine Mile Point 1	57	83		 	 	Nine Mile Point 2	57	90		 	 	Hope Creek	80 percent	8		 	 	Salem 1	59 percent	38		 	 	Salem 2	56 percent	26		 	 	Oyster Creek	55 percent	89		 	 	Millstone 1	67 percent	48		 	 	Millstone 2	67 percent	50		 	 	Millstone 3	65 percent	54		 	 	Connecticut Yankee 72 percent	34	 	
 
(Source: Komanoff Energy Associates Notes: As of Jan 1 1994 Figures include four reactors that are now closed (Rancho Seco, San Onofre 1, Three Mile Island 2, and Trojan) and omit Comanche Peak 2 which opened recently)(pg. B6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (58%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STATE POWER AUTHORITY CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (58%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE POWER AUTHORITY NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); NUCLEAR REGULATORY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; NEW JERSEY; CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: ATOMIC ENERGY; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; INDIAN POINT NUCLEAR POWER PLANT (NY); RATES; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; GAS (FUEL) ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (92%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (92%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (91%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (90%); POWER PLANTS (90%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (90%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (90%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (75%); ENERGY REGULATION (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (71%); NURSERY & GARDEN STORES (70%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (70%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (68%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (66%); 

PERSON: WALD, MATTHEW L RICHARD BRODSKY (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



591 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 2; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Machine-Tool Orders Fell 7.5% in August

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Orders for machine tools built in the United States fell 7.5 percent in August compared with July but were up more than 80 percent from a year ago, the Association for Manufacturing Technology reported yesterday.
The group also said orders rose nearly 29 percent in the first eight months of the year, compared with the corresponding period in 1993. 
 Taken together, the statistics are another sign of strength in the American industrial economy, which has been expanding fairly steadily since the summer of 1993. Higher orders for machine tools mean manufacturers are optimistic about sales growth and are buying equipment to refurbish and expand factories to meet future demand.
The association's report covers two categories, metal-cutting tools and metal-forming tools. Both are used to manufacture a wide range of finished products, from appliances like toasters and dishwashers to large-scale items like locomotives and jetliners.
August orders totaled $327.45 million, down from $354.25 million in July but up from $181.40 million in August 1993. Year-to-date orders totaled $2.83 billion, up from $2.20 billion in January-August 1993.
The August order backlog, a measure of the ability of American machine-tool makers to keep up with customer demand, rose to $1.87 billion, up from $1.77 billion in July and $1.46 billion in August 1993.
A sign of some recovery in the sluggish economies of Europe and Japan also emerged from the machine-tool data. Foreign orders for American tools rose 3 percent from July and nearly 51 percent from August 1993. Still, year-to-date foreign orders remain more than 14 percent below comparable 1993 levels.
Export orders totaled $24.20 million, up from $23.50 million in July and $16.05 million in August 1993. Export orders from January to August totaled $170.40 million, down from $198.65 million in the corresponding 1993 last year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY STRATEGIES (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY LABORATORY (58%); MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY INC (58%); ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: ASSOCIATION FOR MANUFACTURING TECHNOLOGY (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: MACHINE TOOLS AND DIES MACHINE TOOLS (93%); FACTORY ORDERS (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); METALWORKING EQUIPMENT MFG (91%); SALES FIGURES (78%); SALES PROJECTIONS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



592 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1102 words

HEADLINE: Giuliani Wants to Cut Back Consumer-Protection Licenses to Ease Business Burdens

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Deciding that New York City no longer needs to exercise its regulatory authority over such things as masquerade balls and drive-in theaters, the Giuliani administration plans to stop requiring consumer-protection licenses for a variety of business activities, officials said yesterday.
As part of its efforts to reduce burdens on businesses, the city would no longer regulate 21 of the 72 categories of businesses now licensed by the city's Department of Consumer Affairs -- from auctioneers to used-car wholesalers, laundries, children's rides, sightseeing guides and movie theaters. 
 In each case, the officials said, the city's rationale for the licenses had either become obsolete, served little purpose or duplicated other regulations and inspections, like those under the health, building or fire codes.
At the same time, the administration wants for the first time to require licenses for furniture and appliance stores -- two businesses that are among the most frequent sources of consumer complaints but are not now regulated, according to the department.
"Government shouldn't be regulating and overregulating for the sake of it," said Alfred C. Cerullo 3d, the Consumer Affairs . "There should be a purpose. It's clear there are many categories of small businesses that no longer justify the license."
The proposal, which is expected to be unveiled by Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani as early as today, would need the approval of the City Council, and at least some of the deregulations -- including those for used-car wholesalers and for laundries -- could encounter opposition from consumer advocates or other interest groups.
In 1992, the Consumer Affairs Department, then headed by Mark J. Green, proposed ending regulation of 24 activities, including many of the same ones on the Giuliani list. But in the face of opposition, the Council agreed to approve only 10 of them, leaving the total of 72 license categories now in effect.
"There is room to flatten the bureaucracy," said Mr. Green, now the city's Public Advocate, "so long as they don't jeopardize consumer health and safety." The Public Advocate has issued his own proposals to deregulate city licensing processes.
Richard Schrader, who served as Consumer Affairs Commissioner in 1993, said he had some concerns about deregulation, particularly in the case of auctioneers, laundries and used-car wholesalers. He acknowledged, for example, that there were few complaints about laundries, but said the licensing gave consumers protection that would otherwise not exist.
"To take away the regulatory scheme entirely," he said, "leaves the consumer vulnerable."
Representatives of business, however, welcomed the proposed changes. Evangeline Binder, vice president for government affairs of the New York City Chamber of Commerce and Industry, said that in many cases a license burdens a business without any public benefit. "It does not offer protection to the consumer, and it's a cost to the business," she said.
The administration's proposals, which were outlined for City Council members late last week, are part of a broader push by Mr. Giuliani to strip away regulations on businesses, particularly small ones, as he pledged to do during last year's mayoral campaign.
In addition to the deregulation at Consumer Affairs, the Mayor's office is planning to ease enforcement of such rules as those on sidewalk litter and to consolidate the process of applying for licenses, according to an internal memo circulating through the city's agencies.
The City Health Department also plans to stop regulating beauty parlors, clinical laboratories and blood banks, the report said, since changes in the law have increased the oversight of those businesses by state agencies.
Many of the city's proposals need approval from the State Legislature, like allowing businesses to pay fees or fines with credit cards, or require new computer equipment the city may not be able to afford, given the budget crunch.
The plan to deregulate comes as the Consumer Affairs Department, like other agencies, is enduring cuts in spending and staff. Commissioner Cerullo said the plan would help the department cope by reducing administration, but he stressed that the driving force was a desire to remove burdensome regulations on businesses.
Mr. Cerullo said the city would forgo about $2 million a year in fees for the licenses, which range from $5 for a sidewalk antiques dealer to $350 for a movie theater with fewer than 500 seats. At the same time, he said, the city would save at least that in the cost of administering the licenses.
More importantly, he said, the deregulation would allow the department to focus on the activities that create the most complaints -- from tow trucks to home-improvement contractors.
Chris Meyer, a lawyer for the New York Public Interest Research Group, which has been a strong consumer advocate, said most of the administration's proposals made sense. "Some of these licenses are so archaic and ridiculous that they deserve to be eliminated," he said.
Many licenses that would be deregulated duplicate other state or city regulations on businesses. The department, for instance, now licenses both billiard halls and the employees in them; employees would no longer be required to have a license. And it plans to stop licensing individual pinball or video games, while still licensing video arcades with five or more games.
The rationales for other licenses have become antiquated, said Marc A. Wurzel, the department's chief of staff. Since 1921, for example, the city has required a license for anyone holding a masquerade ball in a public catering hall. The licenses for laundries, including separate laundry drivers, date to 1938 and appeared intended to exact control over immigrants, particularly the Chinese, he said.
Other activities, according to the department's proposal, generate too few complaints to justify licenses. Mr. Wurzel said there was no need to regulate auctioneers, except for auto auctioneers, who would still be regulated as used-car dealers. As for the separate license required for auctioneers who work at night, Mr. Wurzel said, "While there might have been a rational basis for doing this many years ago, we can't find one today."
And the department wants to give up licensing private skating rinks since it currently licenses only one, Sky Rink in Manhattan. (The others are operated by public or quasi-public agencies, like the rinks in Central Park and Rockefeller Center.) "We're not getting a lot of complaints about broken-down Zambonis," Mr. Wurzel said.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: Removing Licesnce Regulations"
 
Jobs, activities or businesses in New York City now requiring licenses from the Department of Consumer Affairs that the Giuliani administration has proposed deregulating:
 
Billiard room employees -- There are 129 licensed employees. Under the proposal, the department would still license billiard halls.
 
Pinball, video and arcade games -- There are 7,136 in delis, bars, restaurants and stores. The department plans to stop requiring licenses for individual video games, but would continue to license video-game arcades with five or more machines.
 
Arcade game attendants -- There are 232 licenses for those who service the games.
 
Children's rides -- The city licenses 1,245 rides, like the gyrating ponies, boats, fire engines or planes in front of supermarkets. Under the proposal, the Department of Transportation would still enforce rules prohibiting such rides from cluttering the sidewalk.
 
Festival games -- Games like ring toss and other street festival favorites are supposed to be licensed, but 42 have been issued.
 
Laundry drivers -- Laundries used to deliver, but not any more, so there are none licensed now.
 
Sightseeing bus driver -- The department licenses 418 drivers. The license was originally intended to crack down on "hawkers" who solicited tourists on the street or curbside.
 
Motion picture projectionists -- The license was originally created because of the specialized skills required to handle film, which years ago was more cumbersome and flammable. The department licenses 648 projectionists.
 
Open-air theaters or drive-ins -- There are no longer any drive-in theaters in New York City.
 
Masquerade balls -- This license was established in 1921 and is required for anyone who rents a public or catering hall, which are also licensed, for a masquerade or fancy dress ball. Since the Department of Consumer Affairs was created in 1969, it has not issued a single license for such a ball.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC7389 OTHER BUSINESS SERVICES (92%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMMERCE & INDUSTRY INSURANCE CO (50%); DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS (88%); CITY COUNCIL (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF CONSUMER AFFAIRS (88%); CITY COUNCIL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; CONSUMER PROTECTION; LICENSES; FURNITURE; HOME APPLIANCES CONSUMER LAW (92%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (92%); CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); MAYORS (90%); COMPUTER GAMES (90%); DEREGULATION (89%); CITIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); MOTOR VEHICLE WHOLESALERS (75%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); TRENDS (72%); LICENSES & PERMITS (72%); FURNITURE STORES (68%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MYERS, STEVEN LEE RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



593 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 4; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 858 words

HEADLINE: Koriyama Journal;
American Colleges Are Flunking Badly in Japan

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: KORIYAMA, Japan

 BODY:
Texas A & M University is one of the largest institutions of higher education in the United States and prides itself on the academic programs there. But that did not impress people four years ago when the college opened a campus in this city north of Tokyo and tried to attract Japanese students.
People "think this is an English-language school," Takeshi Watanabe, a student, said as he stood in the asphalt yard of the nearly deserted campus shortly before it was shut down in August. "They don't look at it as a university." 
 Texas A & M is only the most recent American college to fail in Japan. In the late 1980's, American colleges flocked to start programs in Japan, mainly to funnel students to their American campuses, but also to provide a place for Americans to study in Japan. By 1991, Japan had more than 20 American campuses.
But at least nine programs, including that of Lehman College of the City University of New York, have already been terminated, the victims of Japan's recession and recruiting difficulties. Many of the remaining programs are suffering from a shortage of students.
The closings could widen what both countries agree is a serious imbalance between the more than 40,000 Japanese students studying in the United States and the estimated 1,800 American students in Japan. The small number of American students here reflects Japan's high cost of living, the language barrier and a lack of programs for American students, experts say.
The Texas A & M campus here grew out of meetings in 1986 between American and Japanese politicians who felt that having American colleges in Japan would promote mutual understanding. Instead, it became the focus of a dispute between the college and its host city and another symbol of friction between the two economic superpowers.
Koriyama, a city of 320,000 that lies 90 minutes north of Tokyo by bullet train, wanted another campus to help keep young people from fleeing to the big cities. With the Mayor's strong support, the city assembly pledged about $25 million in 1989 to back the effort and to help build a permanent campus.
The college opened in 1990 in a temporary campus consisting of four prefabricated buildings surrounding an asphalt lot that doubled as a parking area and a basketball court.
The college offered freshman-level courses taught in English and intensive English lessons. After two years, students would transfer to the main campus in College Station, Tex.
But the campus had fewer than 100 students its first year and never attracted the 300 new students a year needed to break even. The city decided that it would be foolhardy to build a new campus. B. A. Stout, the director of the program here, said the city's reneging on the permanent campus was the "fatal blow."
College officials also say the campus had a poor reputation.
"Texas A & M was not understood for what it really was," said Demar Taylor, assistant director for external affairs at the campus. "It was looked at by most citizens as a place where students who couldn't make it elsewhere would come to school."
American colleges in Japan say such reputation problems result from unfair trade practices. Japan's Ministry of Education refuses to accredit the American branch campuses, so many Japanese students shun them and their American students cannot get student visas. Last year, in response to pressure from Washington, Japan agreed to give such students cultural visas, with some of the privileges of student visas.
Officials of American colleges here concede that they do not meet all the requirements for accreditation, nor do they want to. Offering an American-style education is their main selling point. An official at the American Embassy in Tokyo said Japanese colleges must specify four years in advance every course that will be offered and who will teach it, allowing little flexibility.
When the American colleges began to open here in the 1980's, Japan was in an economic boom. Many of the colleges that came were small, obscure ones invited to enter partnerships with Japanese businessmen who saw an American education as a marketable commodity in a nation trying to internationalize. And the colleges wanted the income.
But with the recession in Japan the last three years, their plans fell by the wayside. An early casualty was the U.S. International University, a San Diego-based college that was already in serious financial difficulty at home when it opened here.
"Certainly, there were too many at one time and many were here for the wrong reasons," said William Young, associate dean of Temple University Japan, which opened in 1982. It is the oldest American branch campus and has the most students, 1,800.
By the time Texas A & M Koriyama closed its doors, the campus had run up a $7 million debt. The city, the college and an entity set up by the city to run the college are fighting over who will pay. The remaining students have been sent to the main campus in Texas, even if they had not yet finished their English training.
"Eventually," Mr. Young said, "there will be only three or four American universities left here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Texas A & M, which opened a campus in Koriyama four years ago, closed it in August, the latest victim of Japan's recession and recruiting difficulties. Shortly before it closed, its asphalt yard was almost deserted. (Kanji Takamasu for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (94%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY TEXAS A&M KORIYAMA (67%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (93%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (93%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; UNITED STATES (98%); JAPAN (96%); TEXAS, USA (94%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); COST OF LIVING (64%); BASKETBALL (60%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



594 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 3; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: Gold's Perch, Close to $400, Is Precarious

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
The spot price of gold traded Friday at its highest level since Jan. 4, rising to more than $400 an ounce before falling back to $396.10. And futures contracts are feeling a similar push. Investors buying gold on Friday for December delivery paid $399.60 an ounce.
Yet whether gold continues its ascent or retreats as it has in three other climbs earlier this year is uncertain. 
 "There are two major factors working here, which I believe are moving the market today," said David J. Christensen, a gold analyst for Merrill Lynch in San Francisco. "First there is the supply-and-demand factor, which has been improving over the last year. Principally, mining companies have shown slow growth in new mine production in the face of improving demand for gold jewelry as the world economies start to improve."
The other aspect of the recent rise is psychological, he said, with investors returning to gold as a traditional hedge against inflation.
The chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, in his semiannual testimony before Congress early this year, showed unusual enthusiasm for using gold prices as a guide to monetary policy, which in turn led the financial markets to focus more closely on those prices.
Five year ago, the economics of the gold business turned down, Mr. Christensen reflected, and mining companies cut back on exploration. Consequently, there was a decline in production growth.
According to Gold Fields Mineral Service Ltd. of London, gold production in 1980 was 1,131 metric tons, while the demand for gold for use in jewelry was 542 metric tons. Last year, mining production was up to 2,280 metric tons, but jewelry demand rose to 2,501 metric tons.
"We are now looking at a macro-turning in fundamentals in the gold market, meaning supply is no longer as abundant as global growth," Mr. Christensen said.
Gold has a dual role, as a commodity and as a financial asset, he noted, adding: "On that basis the commodity side will give direction to gold prices over the long haul, but the short term is easily influence by fears of inflation. There is no doubt that over time the $400 level will be breached, but the short term is now an influence because inflation has embroiled the financial markets with so much uncertainty."
Traders are always amazed at the relatively small size of the market and how so few businesses can generate so much volatility. If all the publicly listed gold companies in the world were lumped together, the aggregate revenues would be less than that of Wal-Mart Stores Inc.
"So if you have a number of investors looking to put a small portion of their investment into gold, the impact on the share valuations in the sector could be dramatic," Mr. Christensen said.
It remains hard to say where gold prices are headed, particularly during this week, which mixes a heavy dose of economic data with a meeting of the Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee.
That two-day session, which starts tomorrow, sets the Fed's monetary policy for months ahead. Whether to nudge interest rates higher is at the top of its agenda. Any sharp rise in interest rates would certainly put upward pressure on gold prices.
Investors will also be watching the trade talks between the United States and Japan, and how well the dollar does on the world currency markets. While gold is a safe haven of choice for many investors, it remains extremely sensitive to pressures both obvious and unforeseen.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (61%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (61%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (72%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (61%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (72%); CALIFORNIA, USA (72%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; PRICES MINES & MINING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); GOLD MINING (90%); GOLD MARKETS (90%); FUTURES (90%); SPOT MARKET (90%); FINE JEWELRY (89%); MINING & EXTRACTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW MINING PROJECTS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); PUBLIC POLICY (72%); MARKET SIZE (69%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); MONETARY POLICY (67%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT ALAN GREENSPAN (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



595 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 3; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1484 words

HEADLINE: Tough-Decision Time for the Federal Reserve;
New Vice Chairman Stirs the Board's Pot

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
When Alan S. Blinder worked at the White House, his usefulness to President Clinton went far beyond his job as economic adviser.
Mr. Clinton, stumped by the math homework of his 14-year-old daughter, Chelsea, sometimes pulled Mr. Blinder aside at economic policy meetings for advice. Usually they were "mind-twisting problems" that involved turning words into complicated equations, one Administration official recalled. "Alan would almost always have the answer," the official said. 
 A natural teacher, Mr. Blinder was able to build an easygoing relationship with the President that made such tutoring possible. But he has not had that same good fortune since he became vice chairman of the Federal Reserve Board this summer -- the President's first appointee to the central bank, which has more influence over the economy than any other single government institution.
The answers to questions of how fast the economy can grow without threatening a surge in inflation are subject to much more passionate debate than the solutions to ninth-grade math problems. And Mr. Blinder's public tutoring lessons have irritated some of his Republican colleagues who prefer a different brand of economics.
He has dared, some would say, to suggest that the Federal Reserve should sometimes worry more about creating jobs than cutting inflation a few tenths of a percent. In the words of a friend, Mr. Blinder's comments are like "sticking needles in the eyes of central bankers."
Mr. Blinder has also stirred controversy by chastising European central banks for allowing high unemployment. And he has criticized the view, popular among Fed officials, that central banks are more effective in controlling inflation if they ignore unemployment.
He has hunkered down some since a speech a month ago in Jackson Hole, Wyo., opened this touchy debate. He gave a speech two weeks ago in which he minimized the differences; he declined to be interviewed for this article and he can point out that he did vote for the interest rate increase of half a percentage point that the Fed approved in August. But he has not backed down from what he said.
Mr. Blinder has come face to face with the problem of every vice chairman at the Fed in deciding how much independence to show, a situation that may help to explain why no vice chairman has ever become chairman.
After two decades as an outspoken liberal economist, Mr. Blinder faces an especially hard choice. He can parrot the utterances of the chairman, Alan Greenspan, or continue to educate the public about his own brand of economics -- which he would argue is, at the most, only marginally different -- while risking public speculation of a rift at the Fed.
Paul A. Volcker, the Fed chairman before Mr. Greenspan, said that while the extent of any actual difference of opinion was not clear to him, the current controversy underlined the risks for a vice chairman who speaks out.
"I think a vice chairman has a responsibility for supporting policy in public statements," Mr. Volcker said. "If he has a real difference of opinion, at the end of the day that shouldn't be disguised, but as much as possible he should support the institution."
The man at the center of this controversy is a soft-spoken 48-year-old balding academic. A 21-year career as a Princeton economics professor and his many influential academic articles on economic theory have made him one of a handful of leading economists active in public policy today.
He is best known by his critics and admirers alike for his brilliance, his sometimes reckless candor, and, particularly his sense of humor.
When he sprained his ankle this summer, for instance, he joked to an audience that he had hurt it while defending the plunging dollar. The White House's internal bulletin included the quip the next day in its compilation of humorous one-liners. "Alan Blinder is the only non-late- night comedian I've seen who ever made it," said Lawrence Katz, who was the Labor Department's chief economist at the time.
He is as quick at candor and contrarian opinions as he is at one-liners, often with little thought of personal gain or loss.
During the mid-1970's, for example, Mr. Blinder told a group of colleagues at Princeton that New York City bonds were severely undervalued even compared with bonds issued by financially distressed cities during the Great Depression. One of the professors, William J. Baumol, was so impressed by Mr. Blinder's reasoning that he called his wife immediately and had her invest heavily in the bonds.
The bonds climbed sharply in value in the subsequent days. But Mr. Blinder expressed surprise that Mr. Baumol had acted on his historical analysis.
"He said, 'You know, I didn't buy any,' " recounted Mr. Baumol, who has since written a highly regarded economics textbook with Mr. Blinder. "The moral of the story is Alan is extremely clear, he looks very clearly at the facts and is more concerned with that than pushing himself in any way."
Aside from Mr. Blinder's public candor, his difficulties now really have two origins -- the profession's mainstream has divided into many different rivulets and his colleagues are more conservative than the average economist. "He's certainly in what used to be in the mainstream -- he's in a mainstream that many people no longer consider very adequate," said Mr. Volcker, who went on to add that he considered Mr. Blinder to be "a first-class, middle-of-the-road economist."
Some of Mr. Blinder's allies contend that the anonymous criticism heaped on him in recent weeks by his current Federal Reserve colleagues reflects a desire to conceal from the public that raising interest rates to fight inflation can mean job losses and less short-term prosperity.
"I think there are a lot of central bankers who don't want Alan Blinder to wake up the public because that will make their job more difficult," said Robert A. Johnson, a managing director at Soros Fund Management in New York, who wrote his doctoral dissertation at Princeton under Mr. Blinder's guidance.
The same disregard of self-interest was evident when Mr. Blinder delivered his first major speech as vice chairman at the annual conference of the Federal Reserve Bank of Kansas City at Jackson Hole in August
Federal Reserve officials usually speak cryptically and avoid references to unemployment at public events. They try to keep their personal reputations as tough inflation fighters intact by avoiding any comment that might frighten investors into believing that the central bank will inflate the economy to put Americans back to work.
But Mr. Blinder was visibly annoyed when he delivered his off-the-cuff speech after a succession of conservative economists had called for reducing unemployment by making it as unpleasant as possible, including through reductions in unemployment benefits.
Mr. Blinder responded with an eloquent call for central banks to show more compassion and take more responsibility for joblessness. Mr. Blinder urged central bankers to follow the views of the British economist John Maynard Keynes, who argued in the 1930's that aggregate demand for goods and services in an economy sometimes varied in erratic ways, and that Government policies could be used to steady the economy and employment.
"President Nixon had it right when he said we're all Keynesians now," Mr. Blinder proclaimed.
But most of the assembled central bankers did not consider themselves Keynesians, preferring other schools of economic thought that allow central bankers to focus on inflation and worry little, if at all, about unemployment. They sat silently through Mr. Blinder's comment.
After a short pause, Mr. Blinder quipped, "I shouldn't put it to a vote."
Mr. Blinder's forthrightness in the last month about monetary policy has divided his friends and colleagues. Some regard him as courageous for shaking up the nation's central bank. Others criticize him for endangering his prospects of becoming the next chairman of the Federal Reserve when Mr. Greenspan's term expires in 1996.
Frederick H. Schultz, a former Fed vice chairman appointed by President Jimmy Carter, was not at Jackson Hole. But when he heard reports of the speech, he said, "My first reaction was: He's about to learn that when you say something as a member of the Council of Economic Advisers, people may not notice, but if you belch as a member of the Federal Reserve, the wire services are going to pick that up."
For his part, Mr. Blinder has made no secret of his reason for speaking out. "When we take actions, they are not reversible by any other body of government, and I think that gives us a tremendous obligation to try to explain what we're up to, why we're up to doing it, and why we think it is the right thing," Mr. Blinder said in a speech two weeks ago. "And I hope for at least a little while longer to continue to do that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alan S. Blinder, the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, has suggested that the Fed should sometimes worry more about creating jobs than battling inflation. He sat beside Senator Frank R. Lautenberg, Democrat of New Jersey, left, at his confirmation hearing in May. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); WYOMING, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; CREDIT; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET; PRICES ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); HOMEWORK (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); INFLATION (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; BLINDER, ALAN S; BLINDER, ALAN S (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH) BILL CLINTON (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (79%); FRANK LAUTENBERG (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



596 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 6; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 878 words

HEADLINE: Tough-Decision Time for the Federal Reserve;
Meeting Tomorrow Could Raise Rates

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER, Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Sept. 25

 BODY:
Federal Reserve officials appear likely to respond to signs of strong economic growth by raising short-term interest rates again this year, but economists are deeply divided over whether the increase will come when the central bank's committee on interest rates meets on Tuesday.
Producer prices rose at a brisk pace in August, and American factories are operating closer to full capacity than they have in five years. This has convinced some that the Federal Reserve will nudge interest rates higher in an attempt to prevent the economy from overheating, which would add to inflation. 
 "I think they're going to do it," said James E. Annable, a senior vice president and chief economist at the First National Bank of Chicago. "This economy looks strong and it's an economy without a lot of excess capacity" for further growth.
But consumer prices have yet to reflect the increase in producer prices, and Fed officials announced after their last rate increase on Aug. 16 that they would not act again soon. "They said it should be adequate for a time, and six weeks doesn't seem like enough time," said Bruce Steinberg, an economist at Merrill Lynch.
Indeed, there is pressure on the Fed from many sides to stand pat for now. Many Congressional Democrats have called for the Fed to stop raising rates, including Representative Henry B. Gonzalez, Democrat of Texas, who heads the House Banking Committee. And on Saturday, the nation's manufacturers urged the Fed not to raise rates again this year and risk their resurgent prosperity.
The Federal Reserve's position is particularly unclear, since the Fed's top officials have made relatively few pronouncements on the economy since the Federal Open Market Committee, which sets policy, last met on Aug. 16.
The seven governors of the Federal Reserve Board, including the chairman and vice chairman, and the presidents of the 12 regional Federal Reserve banks are all members of the committee, which meets every six to nine weeks. The governors and the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York vote on interest rates at every meeting, while the 11 other presidents take turns doing so, with only 4 of them voting at any given meeting.
Two committee members said in recent interviews that they did not see the economy as growing quickly. While neither official was willing to discuss interest rate policy, their views suggested that they might be inclined to wait before raising rates again.
Cathy E. Minehan, the president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, which oversees banks in New England, said that growth in the economy there was becoming less brisk.
"I think the sense that we have is that it's probably slowing a bit just like the national economy is slowing a bit," she said in an interview last Monday. "I think it takes a while for a monetary policy to have an effect, and I don't know whether it has been enough, but I think it's probably slowing a bit."
Lawrence B. Lindsey, a governor of the Federal Reserve Board, made the same point. The economy "is continuing in a moderate growth path," he said. Still, he added, inflation "is always a matter of some concern."
Many members of Congress have criticized the Fed for raising short-term interest rates five times this year, most recently on Aug. 16. The discount rate, which banks pay to borrow money overnight from the Federal Reserve, has risen to 4 percent from 3 percent. The Federal funds rate, which the Federal Reserve controls and which banks pay to borrow money overnight from each other, now stands at 4.75 percent, up from 3 percent.
But while the economy may be slowing, Fed officials appear to feel no regrets.
"I think that what the numbers show is the wisdom of our actions earlier this year -- if we were still at 3, I think it would be a matter of serious concern," Mr. Lindsey said in an interview a week ago.
Federal Reserve officials are barred from granting interviews on the economy and monetary policy for a week before or after a meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee.
Senior officials in the Clinton Administration have avoided saying anything about interest rates, while emphasizing that consumer price inflation remains very low.
"They're the best numbers we've had in years," Treasury Secretary Lloyd Bentsen said on Friday at a White House news conference about bank regulation. Choosing his words carefully, Mr. Bentsen went on to say that while the Administration was always concerned about inflation, he did not see any immediate need for "deepening concern."
While Mr. Bentsen refused to say anything about short-term interest rates, he played down the significance of data showing high use of the nation's industrial capacity, pointing out that less than a quarter of economic output now consists of manufactured goods. Most output these days, roughly three-fifths, is made up of services.
Beyond all that, the Administration's tough stance in trade talks with Japan worries some investors and has complicated the Fed's decision. "What the Administration has done by talking in a way that pushes the dollar down is make the Fed's job a little harder because a weaker dollar acts as a stimulant" to the economy, Richard B. Berner, an economist at the Mellon Bank, said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (63%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (63%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NORTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (63%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF BOSTON (61%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO HEIGHTS (56%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES ECONOMY; CREDIT; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); PRODUCER PRICES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MONETARY POLICY (89%); INTERVIEWS (88%); PUBLIC POLICY (79%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); EXECUTIVES (74%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (70%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH CHARLES A GONZALEZ (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



597 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 77 words

HEADLINE: Corrections

 BODY:
A front-page article yesterday about investments by towns and colleges in highly speculative Wall Street offerings referred incorrectly in some copies to the amount of public money that the treasurer of Sandusky County, Ohio, placed in an interest-rate investment known as an inverse floater. It was $6.5 million, not $6.5 billion. 
 The article also misstated the location of Portage County, Ohio, in some copies. It is east of Akron, not near Toledo.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Correction

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); 

CITY: AKRON, OH, USA (69%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); AKRON, OH, USA (69%); TOLEDO, OH, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; CORRECTION STORIES; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES BONDS (88%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (85%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



598 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 582 words

HEADLINE: For Safety's Sake, Reduce Arms

 BODY:
President Clinton and President Boris Yeltsin of Russia can spur efforts to curb the spread of nuclear arms when they speak at the United Nations today and then meet in Washington. They can do so only if they recognize that the fewer warheads they have, the better the chances of keeping them out of the hands of other countries. But a just-completed Pentagon review of America's nuclear posture could get in the way of deeper cuts.
The two leaders need to arrange for closer monitoring of Russia's vast stocks of nuclear material -- to keep any of it from slipping onto the black market. In view of alarming reports of attempted smuggling, the material needs to be collected at a few well-guarded storage sites while the Russians determine how best to dispose of it. Unfortunately, Russia's nuclear custodians are resisting any sharing of custody or help from the outside. Mr. Clinton needs to persuade Mr. Yeltsin to break down their resistance. 
 The two leaders also need to advance the larger goal of stigmatizing and reducing nuclear arms. They can expedite global bans on nuclear tests and on production of fissile material, commit themselves now to negotiate deeper nuclear arms cuts and reduce the role of these arms.
The Pentagon's posture review, by continuing to embrace an outmoded cold-war strategy, will impede any significant reduction in nuclear roles. The review does recommend removal of nuclear arms from all U.S. surface ships and a modest cut in bombers. That is not enough. The review also lowers U.S. warhead requirements, making talks on further cuts possible.
But the Administration says it will not pursue such talks until Russia implements the latest strategic arms reduction accord. Administration officials argue, shortsightedly, that proposing new talks would only invite the Russians to reopen that accord instead of ratifying it. On the contrary, deeper cuts would redress imbalances in the agreement, making Russian ratification of that agreement easier. Cuts would also leave fewer warheads to secure against smuggling or misuse.
Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin need to pursue further cuts to improve the political atmosphere for achieving two of their aims -- securing unlimited extension of the 1968 Nuclear Nonproliferation Treaty at next year's review conference and advancing multilateral efforts to curb trade in bomb-making material and technology.
In the 1968 treaty, states without nuclear arms agreed to forgo developing them and to accept international inspection of their peaceful nuclear programs. In return, the nuclear-armed states pledged to negotiate in good faith on effective measures to end the nuclear arms race and disarm.
The U.S. and Russia have halted nuclear testing but have yet to conclude a formal ban. Even after the latest round of cuts is implemented, they will still have more warheads than they did a quarter-century ago.
The non-nuclear states, led by Mexico, are trying to get the nuclear powers to keep their end of the bargain. They are threatening to hold up unlimited extension of the Nonproliferation Treaty. That would be self-defeating since the treaty keeps their neighbors from acquiring these arms.
But they may have the votes to block extension. They also have a valid reason for encouraging the nuclear powers to do more to disarm: diminishing the status of nuclear arms removes one incentive for others to acquire them. Mr. Clinton and Mr. Yeltsin cannot afford to miss this vital point.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (UN) UNITED NATIONS (91%); UNITED NATIONS (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; UNITED STATES (95%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); 

SUBJECT: ARMS CONTROL AND LIMITATION AND DISARMAMENT; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US MILITARY WEAPONS (94%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); SMUGGLING (89%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ARMS RACE (78%); COLD WAR (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (70%); BOMBINGS (70%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (69%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



599 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 26, 1994
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 679 words

HEADLINE: Coca-Cola to Put Another $100 Million Into Russia

BYLINE: By SETH FAISON 

 BODY:
The Coca-Cola Company and two bottling partners plan to invest $100 million during the next three years in Russia, where the foreign soft-drink market has long been dominated by a competitor, Pepsico.
Coca-Cola is scheduled to announce its plans today as President Boris N. Yeltsin begins a visit to the United States, largely to woo American executives with a picture of Russia that includes less inflation and lowered barriers to investment and trade. 
 Coca-Cola, to hear its executives talk, is already on board. Its new investment in Russia will follow $140 million it has already spent on bottling and distribution there in recent years.
The Russian market for Coke is tiny but growing rapidly. E. Neville Isdall, senior vice president of Coca-Cola, said he expected Coke's 1993 sales in Russia -- twice what they were in 1991 -- to double again by the end of 1995. He would not discuss its sales figures, saying he did not want Pepsico to know them, but he said he expected Russian operations to begin turning a profit by 1996 or 1997.
Polly Howes, a spokeswoman for Coca-Cola, said about $200 million worth of Coca-Cola products were sold by retailers in Russia last year, although this does not reflect actual revenue to the company. Pepsico, which began selling in Russia nearly 30 years before Coke, is estimated to have sold about twice as much.
Combined, foreign soft drinks represent about 10 percent of overall soft-drink sales in Russia.
"I am significantly more confident than I was a year ago," said Mr. Isdall, who noted signs of growing stability and a proliferation of small businesses that sold products like Coke.
"We're now seeing the first stirrings of Russian entrepreneurship," he said, referring to private kiosks and stores that he said would be a principal venue of soft-drink sales. "It's what we saw in Poland a few years ago."
Analysts who track Coca-Cola described the investment plans as a natural step for the Atlanta-based company, which needs to continue expanding overseas or see a downturn in its growth rates. In 1993, Coca-Cola earned 80 percent of its $3.1 billion operating income abroad. But only $152 million, or about 4 percent, was earned in the region that includes Russia, Eastern Europe and India.
"It's crucial to be competitive in these areas in the future," said Roy Burry, an analyst at Kidder, Peabody & Company. "If they don't do it, they're dead meat."
Coca-Cola said the new investment would be used to rebuild plants in Moscow, St. Petersburg, Vladivostok and several smaller cities and to open a few others.
Of the $100 million investment, roughly $30 million will be spent by mid-1995 to expand a bottling plant in Moscow, which officially opened in April.
In addition, $40 million is to be spent over the next three years to upgrade seven or eight plants in southern and eastern Russia and $30 million is to be spent by two international partners, the Leventis Group, which already bottles Coca-Cola in Greece, Bulgaria and Romania, and EFES, a Turkish brewery.
Mr. Isdall said Coca-Cola planned to put in Russia the same kind of system of production, bottling and delivery that had allowed its sales in Eastern Europe to grow several-fold in recent years.
Ms. Howes, the Coca-Cola spokeswoman, would not discuss sales figures in Eastern Europe, but offered an alternative statistic: In Poland, the average person consumed three servings of Coca-Cola in 1991; by 1993, he or she consumed 23 servings. In Romania, the average consumer drank less than one serving in 1991; by 1993, he or she drank 26.
In Russia, the average consumer drank two servings of Coca-Cola in 1993, Ms. Howes said.
Mr. Isdal estimated that Coke's new investment would lead to the hiring of 1,000 to 1,500 employees, in addition to about 3,000 already working for Coca-Cola in Russia, nearly all of them Russian. In the past, Mr. Isdall said, each new employee hired by Coca-Cola typically meant that about five new jobs were created by Russian companies in related production, cooling, delivery and sales.

CORRECTION-DATE: September 29, 1994, Thursday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Monday about an investment by the Coca-Cola Company in Russia misspelled the surname of a senior vice president of the company. He is E. Neville Isdell.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: KO (NYSE) (96%); PEP (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (96%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (61%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); POLAND (52%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: COCA-COLA CO COCA-COLA CO (96%); PEPSICO INC (90%); KIDDER PEABODY & CO INC (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: COCA-COLA CO

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; ; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (79%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%); POLAND (52%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (78%); SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: SOFT DRINKS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS SOFT DRINK INDUSTRY (92%); BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); SOFT DRINKS (90%); BEVERAGE SALES & REVENUES (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); RETAIL SALES (73%); COMPANY PROFITS (73%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); RETAILERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); 

PERSON: FAISON, SETH MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); MICHAEL MCMAHON (65%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 26, 1994



600 of 703 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1994 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: September 27, 1994

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1289 words

HEADLINE: THE 1994 CAMPAIGN;
In Pennsylvania, Feeling the Consequences of One Vote

BYLINE: By R. W. APPLE Jr., Special to The New York Times 

DATELINE: BRYN MAWR, Pa., Sept. 25

 BODY:
President Clinton's budget, increasing taxes and cutting Federal spending in a bid to reduce the deficit, is a hot topic across the nation this fall as Republicans seek to oust enough Democratic incumbents to seize control of the House of Representatives for the first time in 40 years.
The test case is Pennsylvania's 13th Congressional District. The target is Representative Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, a first-term Democrat. Sometimes a Congressional race turns on a single vote among the hundreds any member casts on the floor of the House, and so it is here and now. 
 "You can't trust her," says her opponent, Jon D. Fox, a Republican county commissioner, stressing how deeply the new taxes bite into the incomes of the affluent people in the district. "She said she'd be different. She's not. She thinks higher taxes are the answer, just like Clinton."
"I'm no rubber stamp for the President," retorts the incumbent, who knows as well as anyone how unpopular Mr. Clinton has become. "According to The Associated Press, only three Democrats voted against him eight out of nine times on key parts of his economic program, and I'm one of them."
She backed the budget bill, she said earlier this month, "not because I liked it but because I wanted to break through gridlock, so we could move on to crime, health care and other major issues."
Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky won in 1992 by exactly 1,373 votes.
Then, on the night of Aug. 5, 1993, she cast The Vote. Hard-pressed on deficit-reduction, an issue he considered vital to the survival of his Administration's political credibility, Mr. Clinton had called Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky and implored her to support him.
If he needed her, she said, talking to Mr. Clinton by phone an hour before the voting began, she would be with him, even though she had publicly pledged that very afternoon to oppose the budget measure on the grounds that it contained too many taxes and too few cuts.
With the television cameras watching, the count crept forward until Mr. Clinton needed one more vote to give him 218, a majority. Without that vote, the tally would be 217-217, and the bill would fail. Telling herself that "you're not one-tenth as important as the President," Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky gulped and filled out the green card that signified an "aye" vote.
"Frankly, I think I lose my seat on this one," she says she told the President. "I think I fall on my sword."
Now, in a race that is gaining national attention, she is trying to prove herself wrong in a rematch against Mr. Fox, the 47-year-old journeyman politician whom she defeated last time.
She is philosophical about her chances, conceding that she is behind but arguing that it is encouraging, given all the things working against her, that she is viable at all in what looks increasingly like a Republican year.
"The biggest problem in the House is that people vote to hold their seats," she said. "That doesn't mean everything to me. Those of us who came here as outsiders, I guess, are not so defined by the place. If I'm re-elected, great -- I love the work. If not. . . ."
If ever there was a Congressional district that looked like prime Republican territory, it is this one, which includes most of Montgomery County, with its spine formed by the handsome suburbs strung out along the Main Line of the Pennsylvania Railroad running northwest from Philadelphia.
And if ever there was an unlikely Representative for such an area, it is Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky, a peppy, extroverted, 52-year-old Democrat -- the mother or stepmother of no fewer than 11 children -- who until four years ago made her living as a local television reporter in Washington. In her former life, people called her Marjorie Morningstar; in her present one, she is known as 3M.
A poll taken for the Fox campaign this summer showed the Republican ahead, 47 percent to 29 percent. But many politicians consider Mr. Fox a lackluster candidate and blame him for allowing the Democrats to take the seat two years ago for the first time since 1916. They give Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky a slim chance of survival.
Experts in both parties believe that the Republicans would have been wiser to nominate Mr. Fox's primary rival, Ellen Harley, a fiscally conservative, socially more liberal State Representative.
"Marjorie was dead," said Neil Oxman, a Democratic consultant based in Philadelphia. "But the Republicans nominated the wrong candidate; Jon Fox is the best thing going for her. Also, she'll have a bucket of money. Still, there are very few ways in America, short of committing a crime, that she could have defined herself so quickly, so clearly and so negatively as that vote."
Senator Arlen Specter, a Philadelphia Republican who is widely believed to have a magic political touch, said he considered Mr. Fox "a weak campaigner."
"She cost those people in her district a hell of a lot of money," Mr. Specter said. "There's a lot of resentment about that. But on the other hand, the whole thing has made her a celebrity. She's attractive, well financed, and the outcome still hangs in the balance."
Mr. Fox, who has been an Assistant District Attorney and a State Representative, is relentless in attacking Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky's record. Her budget vote, he asserted the other evening after a fund-raising event at a Capitol Hill bar, "cost people in my district $1.4 billion." She campaigned as a reformer, he said, "and she took more PAC money than any other freshman."
He vows to run a better campaign this time, though he concedes that he is still "no media star."
What he is, he says, is "the representative of the common folk" who live in the gritty old factory towns like Norristown and Conshohocken along the Schuylkill River rather than in the ample, tree-shaded fieldstone houses on big plots in suburbs like this.
There is, indeed, a cultural chasm as well as a partisan difference between the two candidates. Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky went to Ivy League universities (Penn and Columbia) while Mr. Fox went to Penn State and Widener University, a small local law school. She, he says, "lives in a $600,000 house and has eight cars," while he lives in a $120,000 house and has but one car.
Counterattacking, Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky pictures Mr. Fox as soft on crime, describing him as a foe of the ban on assault weapons. After much hemming and hawing, Mr. Fox told an interviewer that he did not know how he would have voted on that measure alone, though he opposed the crime bill as a whole.
Seeking to hold the votes of affluent Republican women who broke ranks to back her last time, in "the year of the woman," Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky satirizes his somewhat equivocal stand on abortion: "pro-choice, that's me, multiple choice, that's Jon Fox." And she reminds people that his supporters sang, "Ding-Dong! The Witch is Dead" at his post-primary victory party.
Incumbency confers advantages, even in this season of anti-incumbent fervor; Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky will probably outspend Mr. Fox at least 3 to 1. Hillary Rodham Clinton was here for a fund-raising event last Tuesday night, depicting Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky's budget vote as a rare act of political courage, not as evidence of spinelessness.
Quoting figures put out by the Tax Foundation, a Washington group that backs lower taxes, Mr. Fox has been asserting that the vote "put 21,685 Pennsylvanians out of work." Mrs. Clinton told 750 people who paid $150 each, it had helped create four million new jobs nationally.
But incumbency also has its demands. Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky missed the fund-raising event, stuck in Washington for a roll-call. "It was like I didn't show up for my own wedding," she said, rolling her eyes.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Representative Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, center, preparing to leave on a two-mile health walk in Bryn Mawr, Pa., on Saturday. She is in a tough race for re-election with Jon D. Fox, a Republican. (Chris Gardner for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "THE 1994 CAMPAIGN: Pennsylvania"
 
13TH CONGRESSIONAL DISTRICT
 
DEMOCRAT: Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky, 52, incumbent
REPUBLICAN: John D. Fox, 47
 
ANALYSIS
 The race is becoming a test case of whether a vote for President Clinton's first budget, which raised taxes and cut Federal spending, may prove fatal for candidates this fall. Ms. Margolies-Mezvinsky, whose position was shaky to begin with in a district that had long been Republicam, case the crucial vote for the budget and is now suffering for it.
 
REGISTERED VOTERS
 
REP.: 216,016
IND.: 1,457
DEM.: 109,394
OTHER: 640
NONPARTISAN: 32,545

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US) ASSOCIATED PRESS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (US)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA; UNITED STATES (95%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; TAXATION BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ELECTIONS (79%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (79%); LEGISLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COUNTIES (73%); 

PERSON: APPLE, R W JR; MARGOLIES-MEZVINSKY, MARJORIE (REPR); FOX, JOHN D; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: September 27, 1994

 
