

401 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 817 words

HEADLINE: DreamWorks and Disney Agree to a Distribution Deal

BYLINE: By BROOKS BARNES and MICHAEL CIEPLY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Touchstone Pictures, a film label that the Walt Disney Company had all but abandoned, is coming back to life as the new distribution pipeline for Steven Spielberg's production company.
 As expected, Walt Disney Studios and DreamWorks Studios, the latest incarnation of Mr. Spielberg's boutique filmmaking operation, said Monday that they had reached a distribution agreement after a collapse in talks between Mr. Spielberg and Universal Pictures, with whom DreamWorks had announced a new distribution deal just four months ago. 
 Under the new agreement, Disney, via its Touchstone imprint, will distribute 30 DreamWorks films over five years. Disney will also handle DVD sales and distribution on Starz, the premium cable channel with which Disney has a long-term deal. 
 More unexpected were some of the details of the arrangement. DreamWorks, for instance, will pay Disney a fee of 10 percent of revenue. The percentage is more onerous than the company had expected at Universal. Disney will also lend DreamWorks a little more than $100 million, said people with knowledge of the deal who were not authorized to speak publicly.
 The news late last week that DreamWorks was parting from Universal so soon after striking that deal jolted the movie industry, becoming the latest sign that the climate for raising money in Hollywood is extremely difficult, even for someone named Spielberg. 
 ''This is an opportunity to improve our profitability by wisely using some extra capacity in our system,'' Robert A. Iger, Disney's chief executive, said on Monday. ''DreamWorks has a great creative and commercial track record.''
 Stacey Snider, the chief executive of DreamWorks, said on Monday, referring to Disney, ''We're not just in the place we need to be, we're in the best place we could be.''
 The extra capacity Mr. Iger mentioned involves Touchstone, which was founded in 1984 as a way for Disney to expand beyond the family market and make movies for adults. Touchstone released the company's first R-rated picture, ''Down and Out in Beverly Hills,'' and scored several megahits, including ''Pretty Woman.''
 But in 2006, Disney significantly scaled back its investment in Touchstone as moviemaking costs soared industrywide, deciding instead to focus on family pictures stamped with the Walt Disney logo. As a result, Touchstone has released two to three pictures a year, compared with six or seven in earlier years.
 In 2008, Touchstone released ''Miracle at St. Anna'' and ''Swing Vote,'' both box office disasters with combined worldwide sales of $36.6 million and combined production budgets of $66 million, excluding marketing. While Disney's bets on the movies did not pay off, they did not hurt the studio much either, because Spike Lee and Kevin Costner, respectively, shouldered part of the production costs. DreamWorks had a hot streak at the box office when it was owned by Paramount, with hits that included ''Norbit'' and ''Tropic Thunder.'' But several recent films, including ''Revolutionary Road,'' ''The Ruins,'' ''Ghost Town'' and ''The Uninvited'' have underperformed, posing a challenge.
 Ms. Snider said the DreamWorks slate stood a reasonable chance of turning a profit for all involved. ''When you've got that kind of volume, you're looking at actuarial results, not picture-by-picture performance,'' she said.
 Touchstone will not release a DreamWorks film until late next year. No titles have been announced, but the pictures Mr. Spielberg and Ms. Snider are working on most aggressively include a comedy starring Steve Carell called ''Dinner With Schmucks'' and ''Motorcade,'' a Secret Service drama. DreamWorks is also developing a series of movies around ''The 39 Clues'' series of children's fantasy adventure books. 
 The agreement between Disney and DreamWorks was reached after a planned distribution deal between DreamWorks and Universal Pictures fell apart last week. Underscoring the squishy nature of Hollywood dealmaking, a partnership between DreamWorks and Universal was formally announced in October. ''This agreement starts a new chapter,'' said Mr. Spielberg at the time. But no paperwork was ever signed, say the people with knowledge of the Disney deal.
 The economic slowdown has made it difficult for DreamWorks to raise the necessary money for film production to supplement its $500 million or so in backing from Reliance Big Entertainment of India. In recent weeks, talks between Universal and DreamWorks grew increasingly bitter, with DreamWorks asking Universal to change its original terms and Universal asking Mr. Spielberg to change the terms of a long-standing consultant contract he holds with the Universal theme parks.
 Universal executives then became furious that Mr. Spielberg's representatives approached Disney without alerting them. In a cranky public statement on Friday, Universal said it was walking away from DreamWorks.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben Stiller, left, and Robert Downey Jr. in ''Tropic Thunder,'' one of several hits for DreamWorks when Paramount owned it. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MERIE WEISMILLER WALLACE/PARAMOUNT PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (90%); FILM (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); MOVIE REVENUES (79%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); MOVIES & SOUND RECORDING TRADE (78%); CONTENT RATINGS (78%); TICKET SALES (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (74%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (73%); CABLE TELEVISION (69%); BUDGETS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: WALT DISNEY CO (96%); WALT DISNEY PICTURES & TELEVISION (93%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (90%); UNIVERSAL PICTURES (57%)

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (96%); DWA (NASDAQ) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (96%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (96%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (96%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (96%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (93%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (90%); ROBERT A IGER (78%); STACEY SNIDER (58%); BEN STILLER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



402 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: ON NYTIMES.COM

 BODY:
Divas Of the Dog World Come To the Garden
 A slide show of highlights from the first night of the 135th Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show, held at Madison Square Garden. At left, the bearded collie event. 
 nytimes.com/sports
 SLIDESHOW: VENICE'S CARNEVALE
 Spectacular masks, colorful costumes and street festivities come to life during the city's most famous festival. 
 nytimes.com/travel
 DARWIN'S TEXT
 The complete text of Darwin's ''On the Origin of Species,'' with annotations by scientists on their favorite passages.
 nytimes.com/science
 Well
 On Prostate Cancer
 Dana Jennings ponders the impact of prostate cancer on his marriage. 
 nytimes.com/well
 The Lede 
 Bishop May Not Recant
 Bishop Richard Williamson, who has been ordered by the Vatican to retract his statements denying the Holocaust, now says he will ''review the historical evidence,'' but is making no promises that he will recant. 
 nytimes.com/thelede
 SLIDESHOW: TIMES SQUARE'S HEART
 A 10-foot-tall pulsing metallic heart may be Times Square's answer to the Rockefeller Center Christmas tree.
 nytimes.com/cityroom
 Deal Book
 Bank's Deal Gone Bad
 Bank of America's problems are crippling investment banks' proprietary trading model.
 nytimes.com/dealbook
 Economix 
 Hidden Cost: Patient Time
 The time patients spend getting health care should be reflected in America's national health care expenditures, writes Alan B. Krueger, an economics professor at Princeton.
 nytimes.com/economix
 AUDIO: AMAZON'S NEW E-BOOK
 Brad Stone and Motoko Rich discuss Amazon's new e-book, the Kindle 2, and its impact on the publishing industry. 
 nytimes.com/technology
 10 TIPS FOR TAXPAYERS HIT BY THE RECESSION
 Tara Siegel Bernard, a personal finance reporter for The Times, offers suggestions for tax filers feeling the recession.
 nytimes.com/yourmoney
 Opinion
 UNDERSTANDING A-ROD
 Doug Glanville, who was Alex Rodriguez's teammate in 2003, suggests we cut Rodriguez some slack and save some outrage for another aspect of this case. 
 nytimes.com/opinion
 Room for Debate 
 Future of Newspapers
 Most newspapers in America are in dire straits. What survival strategies should they adopt?
 nytimes.com/roomfordebate
 Question of the Day: What guides your decision to keep a sick child home from school?
 Share your thoughts at: nytimes.com/science

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY OZIER MUHAMMAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (93%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (87%); HEALTH CARE (86%); MEN'S HEALTH (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (75%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (75%); ATHLETES (72%); CHRISTMAS (71%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (71%); PROSTATE DISEASE (71%); PROSTATE CANCER (70%); EVOLUTION THEORY (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (69%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (69%); PUBLISHING (66%); INVESTMENT BANKING (66%); RELIGION (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (55%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (55%); BAC (LSE) (55%); 8648 (TSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



403 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1556 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES: February 10, 2009

 BODY:
International
 U.S. LOOKS AHEAD IN AFGHANISTAN
 And Fears a City in Pakistan
 There is increasing concern among the American military about the wild card that the various al Qaeda havens in Pakistan represent for the war in Afghanistan. Officials are looking more and more at the city of Quetta, where Taliban leaders are believed to be responsible for stirring up violence in southern Afghanistan. Page A6 
 FIRE RAGES AS BEIJING CELEBRATES
 As fireworks lighted up the sky above Beijing to commemorate the lunar new year, a yet-uncompleted 34-story luxury hotel burned unchecked, rendering the building un-useable. Page A6 
 A DEATH IN A RIGHT-TO-DIE CASE
 A recent right-to-die case that has inflamed Italy politically as well as theologically ended when the woman at the center of the dispute died. She had been moved to a private clinic that had agreed to remove her feeding tube. Page A7 
 PRESSURE BUILDS IN EGYPT
 Philip Risk was detained in Egypt, and held for two days without explanation following his participation in a protest to raise awareness over the conflict in Gaza. His continued detention is a prime example of the shockwaves emanating from the conflict, and Egypt authorities' frustration over local and international criticism for refusing to open the border with Gaza. Page A8 
 HOPES ARISE AT ISRAELI ELECTION
 The elections in Israel have been energized as voting draws near. The new vigor might be a result of the hopes that the prime minister will reach a deal for the release of an Israeli soldier held since June 2006, before he leaves office. Page A8 
 PALESTINIAN PATIENTS SENT HOME
 Dozens of Palestinians who were being cared for in Israeli hospitals have been told to return home because the Palestinian Authority has ceased paying for their treatment. Page A8 
 NEW YEAR RIOT IN CHINA
 Unrest and riots in China are frequently caused by discontent over government corruption, confiscation of land or workers being denied fair wages. In a new twist, the police and residents of rural Guizhou Province clashed over a dragon dance, a traditional part of the new year celebration. Page A9 
 Chelobityevo Journal
 In Russia, No Rest for the Weary
 The legions of migrant workers in Russia suffer even when times are good. Now as the country enters the worst economic decline since the collapse of the ruble in 1998, these people face even deeper hardships. Page A11 
 National
 HARD TIMES FOR INFORMAL HOME 
 Of Wyoming Politics
 The Hitching Post Inn, a hotel near Wyoming's Capitol, had long served as something like the legislative dormitory, where lawmakers could horse-trade informally and rub elbows after hours. So it came as a shock to many when the Hitch's owners filed for bankruptcy last week. PAGE A12
 OBAMA BACKS OFF ON SECRETS
 A lawyer for the Obama administration seemed to surprise a panel of federal appeals judges by pressing ahead with an argument for preserving state secrets originally developed by the Bush administration. PAGE A12
 GOVERNOR VOUCHES FOR EX-SENATOR
 Gov. Edward G. Rendell of Pennsylvania took the witness stand to vouch for the work ethic of Vincent J. Fumo, a former state senator and occasional adversary accused of misusing millions of dollars that belonged to the state, a maritime museum and a nonprofit community group. PAGE A13
 ARMY SUSPENDS RESEARCH AT LAB
 Army officials have suspended most research involving dangerous germs at the biodefense laboratory at Fort Detrick, Md., which the F.B.I. has linked to the anthrax attacks of 2001, after discovering that some pathogens stored there were not listed in a laboratory database. PAGE A16 
 New York
 PLAN TO RAISE TAXES ON RICH
 Gains Momentum in Albany
 A group of Senate Democrats plans to introduce a bill that would impose an income tax of 10.3 percent on the highest-earning New Yorkers, and increase taxes on all households that earn more than $250,000 a year. Supporters say the plan could bring $6 billion annually to the depleted state treasury and is an option lawmakers are considering as alternative to cuts in social services and smaller, more targeted tax increases that Gov. David A. Paterson has proposed. PAGE A19 
 USING THAT KEY WISELY
 Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg presented keys to the city to Capt. Chesley B. Sullenberger III and four other crew members who guided US Airways Flight 1549 to a safe emergency landing in the Hudson River last month, with no casualties. But the honor often brings with it the kind of scrutiny that magnifies the recipients' ups as well as their downs. PAGE A19
 Business
 TROUBLES WITH PRIVATE CREDIT CARDS 
 Could Augur Deeper Woes
 Private label credit cards, which can be used only at a single retailer, are becoming a big headache for their issuers. Losses on the cards are rising at a faster pace than those in the rest of the credit card market. And because they tend to be held by riskier borrowers with fewer credit options, they offer a window into the deteriorating finances of some of the most distressed Americans, perhaps suggesting an early warning of deeper problems ahead for general credit cards. PAGE B1
 NEW SALVO IN E-BOOK COMPETITION
 Amazon.com rolled out the Kindle 2, a new version of its popular electronic book reader, setting up a battle with Google and a possible one with Apple in the fast-growing e-book business. The new version has more memory, turns pages faster and has a sharper display. PAGE B1
 MADOFF REACHES CIVIL SETTLEMENT
 Bernard L. Madoff agreed to a partial settlement of civil accusations that he ran a $50 billion Ponzi scheme, though it does not affect the criminal securities fraud charges that were also filed against him. The settlement comes days before the deadline for federal prosecutors either to file a formal indictment against Mr. Madoff or submit to a court hearing to explain why he was arrested. PAGE B3
 G.M.'s Vice Chairman to Retire B3
 Arts
 THE RETURN OF JULIA ROBERTS,
 Hollywood Leading Lady
 When Julia Roberts scaled back her acting workload to start a family, no one stepped in to fill the void of most bankable female lead in Hollywood. The forthcoming ''Duplicity,'' above, will be her first real leading role since 2001, and has excited movie executives looking for a dose of unbridled female star power at the box office. PAGE C1 
 NOT HARSHING THE MELLOW
 Ben Ratliff writes that the inaugural installment of the Big Ears music festival was aimed at fans with an appetite for letting repetitive non-dance music wash over them, with few interruptions from commercial sponsors. ''In other words, at times, it was heaven,'' he observed. PAGE C1
 HOW THE SURGE WAS CONCEIVED
 Michiko Kakutani reviews ''The Gamble,'' in which Thomas E. Ricks recounts how the Bush administration radically, if obstinately, changed its approach to the war in Iraq by pressing forward with the surge. PAGE C1
 Music Review:
 The Argento Chamber Ensemble C2 Arts, Briefly C2
 Sports
 FACING UP TO THE TRUTH
 Is a Good Start
 George Vecsey writes that Alex Rodriguez's admission about taking performance-enhancing drugs, qualified and vague as it may have been, was a candid enough apology that it should allow him to move forward in a way other scandalized sluggers have not. PAGE B10
 FROM SACKS TO SEQUINS
 Lawrence Taylor watched other football greats become audience favorites on ABC's ''Dancing With the Stars,'' and decided that he wanted in, too. ''I am a little older than the rest of those guys so I may have to rehearse more, but I'm not going in it to make a fool of myself,'' he said. William C. Rhoden, Sports of The Times. PAGE B11
 Woods Is Father for Second Time B12
 Obituaries
 ROBERT ANDERSON, 91
 His plays walked the tightrope between realism and sentimentality, and he was among the theater's most visible, serious playwrights of the 1950s and 1960s. His works attracted big names to the Broadway stage, if not always substantial audiences to theaters. PAGE A25
 Editorial
 A BETTER STIMULUS BILL
 We agree with President Obama that Congress needs to pass a stimulus bill, and that it needs do it quickly. But a bill that is better-than-nothing will not be nearly good enough. Page A26 
 MEDICARE AND OFF-LABEL DRUGS
 The use of cancer drugs is expanding, and the price is soaring. The expense is often justified, and the Obama administration seems ready to eliminate policies that may be driving up costs unnecessarily. It needs to take a close look at a Medicare rule that seems likely to make the problem worse. Page A26 
 IF DRIVERS WIN, RIDERS LOSE
 The Metropolitan Transportation Authority is threatening big fare increases for everyone who uses public transit. Here is one way to head this off: Ask drivers to start paying tolls on the bridges that cross the Harlem and East Rivers. Page A26 
 Op-Ed
 BOB HERBERT
 Last week was supposed to have been a bad one for Barack Obama, but he may be outfoxing his opponents on the stimulus package, after all. Page A27 
 PLUGGING IN THE POSTAL SERVICE
 President Obama wants to put a million electric hybrid cars on the road by 2015. In an Op-Ed article, Ruth Y. Goldway, a member of the United States Postal Regulatory Commission, argues that money in the stimulus package should be used to convert the Postal Service's vehicles -- the largest civilian fleet in the country -- to electricity. Page A27 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (78%); TALIBAN (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (77%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (77%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (76%); RIOTS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (76%); DEATH & DYING (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (75%); POLITICS (74%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (69%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (68%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (67%); CORRUPTION (66%); MIGRANT WORKERS (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%); CHEYENNE, WY, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); WYOMING, USA (79%); GUIZHOU, CHINA (54%) ISRAEL (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); CHINA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); EGYPT (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



404 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1052 words

HEADLINE: At Town Hall Rally, Obama Pushes Stimulus Plan

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: ELKHART, Ind. 

 BODY:
President Obama took his case for an $800 billion economic recovery package to one of the most distressed places in America on Monday as he opened a series of campaign-style events intended to press Congress to approve the plan by week's end.
 Wrapping himself in the mandate of his election last November, Mr. Obama sounded like a candidate all over again, scolding greedy Wall Street bankers and pointedly rejecting Republican critics for sticking with what he called a failed philosophy. At one point, he spoke about people with as many as five homes, which sounded like a reference to his opponent last fall, Senator John McCain.
 ''We can't wait and see and hope for the best,'' Mr. Obama told a packed high school gymnasium that sounded like an election rally. ''We can't posture and bicker and resort to the same failed ideas that got us into this mess in the first place. That was what this election was all about. The American people rejected those ideas because they hadn't worked. You didn't send us to Washington because you were hoping for more of the same. You sent us there to change things.'' 
 Mr. Obama used the event to hammer home what he called the benefits of his program of spending and tax breaks, promising that it would create or save nearly 80,000 jobs in Indiana, give 2.5 million state residents a $500 tax credit and provide health care, unemployment benefits and job training for tens of thousands more. Bringing it down to the most local level, he suggested his plan would help rebuild U.S. Highway 31 and build an overpass in Elkhart.
 But with the Senate about to adopt its own version of the economic plan and then begin negotiating with the House, Mr. Obama acknowledged some doubt about whether the mix of initiatives includes only those that will actually do some good. 
 ''I can't tell you with a hundred percent certainty that every single item in this plan will work exactly as we hoped,'' he said. ''But what I can tell you is -- I can say with complete confidence that endless delay or paralysis in Washington in the face of this crisis will only bring deepening disaster. I can tell you that doing nothing is not an option.''
 In his first comments on the Senate version of the bill, crafted by Democratic senators along with three moderate Republicans, he complained that it cut too much from his plans to rebuild schools to retrofit them for a high-technology era. ''I would like to see some of it restored,'' Mr. Obama said.
 The visit to Elkhart, where unemployment has tripled in the last year to 15 percent, was Mr. Obama's first real trip back on the road since taking office three weeks ago and kicked off a week on the stump to build momentum behind his plan. He heads Tuesday to Fort Myers, Fla., where he will be joined by the Republican governor, Charlie Crist, a strong McCain supporter. On Thursday, the president will travel to Springfield and Peoria, Ill.
 Aides denied that they felt any concern that more Americans were growing skeptical of Mr. Obama's approach in the face of strong Republican criticism that he is relying too much on spending and not enough on tax cuts. 
 ''One thing that we learned over two years,'' said David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser, ''is that there's a whole different conversation in Washington than there is out here. If I had listened to the conversation in Washington during the campaign for president, I would have jumped off a building about a year and a half ago.''
 In addition, the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, criticized what he called the ''myopic viewpoint in Washington'' regarding the economy compared with what people in Elkhart think. ''It's illuminating because it may not necessarily be where cable television is on all of this,'' he said. ''But, you know, we're sort of used to that. We lost on cable television virtually every day last year. So, you know, there's a conventional wisdom to what's going on in America via Washington, and there's the reality of what's happening in America.''
 But House Republicans said they were not the obstructionists because Congress is controlled by Democrats, including Representative Nancy Pelosi, the speaker, and Senator Harry M. Reid, the majority leader.
 ''House Republicans understand the urgency of the situation and continue to promote an economic recovery bill that will create and protect jobs for struggling American families,'' said Brad Dayspring, a spokesman for the House Republican whip's office. ''The Democrats' spending bill can pass and be signed into law by the president. When, if and how that occurs is completely in the hands of Speaker Pelosi and Senator Reid.''
 The ''town hall'' program at Concord High School here had a familiar feel to many Obama aides nostalgic for the simpler days of the campaign trail, although there were fewer placards and buttons and the music had changed from Stevie Wonder to ''Hail to the Chief.'' 
 Still, the audience chanted ''Obama, Obama'' when the president entered and some shouted, ''We love you.'' When he opened it to questions from the floor, some sounded almost worshipful, with one declaring that he was ''very thrilled to be in the presence of you.'' The only person who got up and asked a question that challenged Mr. Obama's actions was booed. Mr. Obama quieted the crowd and said her question was legitimate.
 The woman asked how Americans could trust him if ''those you have appointed to your cabinet are not trustworthy,'' referring to his nomination of several officials who did not pay all of their taxes until the prospect of working in his administration. She also suggested that he sit down for a beer with Sean Hannity, the conservative Fox News Channel host.
 ''I think these were honest mistakes,'' Mr. Obama responded. ''If you're not going to appoint anybody who's not made a mistake in their life, then you're not going to have anybody take a job.'' But he agreed that he erred by not seeing that it would look like a double standard. ''I made a mistake because I don't want to send the signal that there are two sets of rules,'' he said.
 As for Mr. Hannity, the president said: ''I didn't know he invited me for a beer. But I will take that under advisement. Generally his opinion of me does not seem to be very high. But I'm always good for a beer.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX LAW (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%); BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



405 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1385 words

HEADLINE: Nearly a Year After a Plant Shut, Many Are Struggling to Recover

BYLINE: By MICHAEL LUO

DATELINE: NEW FRANKLIN, Ohio 

 BODY:
It has been 10 months since most of the workers walked out of the plain, low-slung factory here for the final time. The building, which had been home to the Manchester Tool Company since just after World War II, sits dormant now, a ''for sale or lease'' sign in front, buried recently in a fresh snowfall.
 But the fallout of the plant's closure last year by Kennametal, a global conglomerate based in Latrobe, Pa., just a few months into the recession, continues to weigh heavily on the lives of the roughly 100 employees who lost their livelihoods. 
 ''Some of us bounced back,'' said Bill Luplow, 66, who worked on the shop floor of the industrial tool-making plant for nearly 45 years. ''And some of us haven't.'' 
 In fact, an examination by The New York Times of the fates of the laid-off workers found that less than 15 percent of the hourly workers had steady jobs almost a year later. 
 Many of the rest are sliding perilously close to the economic precipice. Some let their health insurance lapse; others are in danger of losing their modest homes. A similar experience -- or worse -- may lie ahead for the hundreds of thousands of Americans who continue to lose their jobs every month.
 Age seems to have played a role in the outcome for the Manchester employees. Many of the older hourly workers, some of whom had worked at the plant since graduating from high school, appear paralyzed, struggling with their self-confidence as they consider their bleak odds of finding work.
 The machines they worked with at Manchester tended to be specific to that plant, and the skills to run them were not necessarily transferable. Many have resisted retraining, deciding it did not make sense. A few who tried found it too daunting. 
 At least seven mostly younger workers, on the other hand, decided to take advantage of federal grants to go back to school.
 With more education and skills, the approximately 35 salaried employees at Manchester, including engineers, accountants and other office workers, appear to have fared better than their hourly counterparts. About a third were asked to stay on at least several more months with Kennametal; several remain with the company. In all, some 40 percent of them appear to be earning a regular paycheck, according to interviews.
 Among the hourly workers, at least four who did manage to find jobs were laid off a second time recently because of the slowing economy. Even the lucky few who are still working typically found they had to accept a significant decrease in pay. 
 Unemployment insurance has proved to be a critical bridge for those who remain jobless. But the regular checks also prevented many from considering lower-paying jobs, once they calculated that they would be earning roughly the same amount.
 Nonetheless, it is slowly sinking in that the middle-class lives they constructed at Manchester, in this suburb of Akron, may now be slipping from their grasp.
 ''I think it's gone forever for a lot of people,'' said John Foss, 50, who worked at the plant for 13 years, most recently as a stockroom clerk, and remains jobless. 
 Around the nation, 3.6 million jobs have been lost since the recession began in December 2007, including 1.1 million in manufacturing, according to the Bureau of Labor Statistics. A dismal report from the bureau last week showed job losses accelerating in January.
 At Manchester, plant workers, represented by the United Steelworkers, earned $18 to $22 an hour, adding up to more than $50,000 a year in some cases with regular overtime. Workers averaged some 20 years on the job.
 Mr. Foss, who started as a machinist at Manchester, applied for scores of jobs after his layoff, combing the newspaper and Internet and dropping in on employers to fill out applications. He has not heard back from anyone. 
 A job search he initially thought might take a few weeks has stretched into its 11th month. And his initial hopes of landing a job that paid close to the $18.12 an hour he used to make have faded. He now believes $8 to $12 an hour is more likely. 
 ''Some days are worse than others,'' Mr. Foss said. ''Sometimes depression takes over more than other times.''
 The balm for Mr. Foss has been that his wife, Marie, is still working as an office manager at a printing company, enabling them to cover their bills for now. Mrs. Foss has been screwing up her courage to ask her customers if they are hiring. One called her back recently and said he might have some openings this month, lifting her spirits. 
 ''Today was a good day,'' she said. ''At least it was something to hope on.'' 
 Cindy Starcher, 35, and Lorraine Norrod, 50, are among the small group of Manchester workers who decided to seek retraining in a new field. Their rationale is easy to understand: in Ohio, more than 280,000 manufacturing jobs have been shed since 2000. 
 The women carpool now to classes Monday through Thursday at Northcoast Medical Training Academy, studying to become medical assistants. Those jobs typically pay about $20,000 to $30,000 a year, they said, much less than what they used to make.
 But as Ms. Norrod put it, ''It pays more than being laid off.''
 Ms. Starcher, who has two young children at home, said she settled on health care as a potential career after much deliberation, concluding the jobs would always be needed.
 ''There's always going to be sick people,'' she said. ''It's the one thing you can't send overseas.''
 Other Manchester workers said additional schooling was never an option, even if they wanted it badly, because they had bills to pay, or needed the health benefits that came with a job. 
 For still others, a return to the classroom proved too intimidating.
 Randy Smith, 56, a 14-year veteran of Manchester who worked in the stockroom with Mr. Foss, enrolled in a class in October to become a motorcycle mechanic but quickly found himself overwhelmed in a class full of students half his age. Fretting about keeping up, he had trouble sleeping.
 ''This is almost embarrassing to say,'' he said. ''I only stayed there like three days.''
 Mr. Smith now fills his days going back and forth to his former wife's house to take care of their 21-year-old daughter, who is handicapped. 
 ''Do I feel like a failure sometimes?'' he said. ''Yes, I do sometimes.''
 Maureen Petrie, 63, who worked at Manchester for nearly 30 years, managed to survive a four-month class in programming for computer-automated machinery. At one point, she told her instructor she was quitting because she could no longer handle the stress. But she was urged by another former Manchester worker to stay, finally finishing last month.
 Now she is back to looking for a job. Strangely, however, she admitted to feeling immobilized, struggling to muster the courage to aggressively look for work. 
 ''There's too many people out there looking for jobs,'' she said. ''I don't know how to sell myself.''
 Jennifer Pelton, 48, is one of the few former Manchester workers who is working, although with a 30 percent cut in pay. In June, she joined a company that makes medical equipment, but she said she would most likely have to take on a second job to make ends meet. 
 Nevertheless, Ms. Pelton credits her employment to a combination of luck and determination. Unlike many other Manchester workers, who waited until the plant finally closed last March to begin looking for work, Ms. Pelton began distributing her resume right away. 
 ''I didn't want to lose what I had worked so hard for,'' she said. 
 Because the company had been highly profitable, many former plant workers remain angered by the closure, wondering why Kennametal bought Manchester in early 2007, only to close the plant a year later.
 But Kennametal, like other publicly traded companies, faced pressure from shareholders to cut costs and consolidate its operations, said Van Simpson, 57, Manchester's former executive vice president and general manager, who lost his job himself at the end of last month.
 Mr. Simpson, who worked at Manchester for 35 years, said he had tried to avoid bitterness but grew emotional several times in an interview at his home when talking about the challenges that lie ahead for many of his former workers.
 ''Some are going to have a very difficult time,'' he said. ''It's going to be an extremely painful situation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Randy Smith, 56, with his daughter, Miranda. Mr. Smith worked in the stockroom of the Manchester Tool Company.
 Cindy Starcher, left, with a medical instructor, Sharon Coya. The Manchester plant where she used to work is up for sale or lease. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAVID AHNTHOLZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); PLANT CLOSINGS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); MACHINE TOOLS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (75%); GRANTS & GIFTS (70%); HIGH SCHOOLS (69%); HEALTH INSURANCE (66%); WORLD WAR II (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANCHESTER, NH, USA (92%) NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



406 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
National Edition

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; THE TV WATCH; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: It Seemed Familiar, And Yet So Different

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY

 BODY:
President Obama insisted that he was nothing like his predecessor. ''What I won't do is return to the failed theories of the last eight years that got us into this fix in the first place,'' he said Monday night, ''because those theories have been tested, and they have failed.''
 Yet Mr. Obama's first prime-time presidential news conference had an eerie similarity to the first one held by George W. Bush, in 2001. 
 That, too, was a time of crisis, one month to the day after the Sept. 11 attacks. As he stood tensely at his lectern in the East Room, Mr. Bush, like Mr. Obama, faced anxious times and a surge of good will among a national television audience. Even viewers who had voted against Mr. Bush were too traumatized by Osama bin Laden's strike to wish the new president anything but success. 
 The main difference is that back then, Mr. Bush wanted to persuade viewers that calamity had changed him overnight, making him newly focused, better informed and comfortable in command of the nation's capital -- the Washington insider in chief. 
 Mr. Obama, in contrast, did all he could Monday to suggest that despite the daunting economic responsibilities at hand, he stood in the East Room unchanged, still intent on bringing change to Washington -- the ultimate outsider. 
 At times, he sounded like the visiting ambassador from Elkhart, Ind. (unemployment 15.3 percent). ''Local TV stations have started running public service announcements that tell people where to find food banks,'' he said at the news conference, describing the dire straits of the place where he had held a clamorous town-hall-style meeting earlier in the day. He mentioned Elkhart so often that on CNN's post-mortem, the Democratic strategist Paul Begala said he almost expected the president to distribute ''I Elkhart'' bumper stickers.
 Mr. Obama allowed a note of populist outrage to heat up his usual cool, cerebral delivery, taking particular umbrage at Republican accusations that the stimulus package contained pork.
 ''When I hear that from folks who presided over a doubling of the national debt, then, you know, I just want them to not engage in some revisionist history,'' he said sharply. ''I inherited the deficit that we have right now and the economic crisis that we have right now.''
 He accused those naysayers of ''playing politics rather than trying to solve the problems of the American people.'' 
 Mr. Obama was intent on reclaiming the television screen that he surrendered just as his stimulus package was coming under attack. 
 Last week, working behind closed doors, he basically left a vacuum on 24-hour cable news that was eagerly grabbed by conservative critics and carpers of all stripes, from Congress and the blogosphere. For a while, the Senate minority leader, Mitch McConnell, and the House Republican whip, Eric Cantor, were showcased almost as often as A-Rod. Cable news thrives on conflict and showy confrontations; economic analysis and unemployment statistics are not nearly as telegenic.
 Mr. Obama's appearance in Elkhart was shown live on cable news, and there he fired back: ''We can't posture and bicker and resort to the same failed ideas that got us into this mess in the first place. I can say with complete confidence that endless delay or paralysis in Washington in the face of this crisis will only bring deepening disaster.''
 When Mr. Bush spoke without a teleprompter, viewers braced themselves for verbal blunders and mixed metaphors. Mr. Obama's locutions are steady, fluent and often very long. On Monday night, even his fiercest warnings about the perilous state of the economy were bracketed by professorial disquisitions on everything from charter schools to electronic medical records. In Elkhart, he tried to explain his stimulus package in plain language and simple metaphors. At the White House, he reverted back to technocratic tropes. 
 And that is one reason he is leaving it to Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Tuesday to explain the administration's new bank bailout plan. Mr. Obama is to travel to Fort Myers, Fla., to hold another town meeting, once again planting himself far beyond the Beltway and aligning himself with those who, as he put it, ''understand that there have been a lot of bad habits built up here in Washington.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TERRORISM (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (75%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (74%); PUBLIC SERVICE ADVERTISING (69%); NATIONAL DEBT (65%); CONSERVATISM (65%); FOOD BANKS & SOUP KITCHENS (64%); FOOD CHARITIES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



407 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1568 words

HEADLINE: Calls for Clarity In New Bailout For U.S. Banks

BYLINE: By DAVID BARSTOW and MIKE McINTIRE

 BODY:
When Congress passed the $700 billion bank bailout last October, the Bush administration confronted a thorny question: Should it require banks to account for how they spend taxpayer money?
 The answer was an emphatic no. 
 Forcing banks to reveal what they did with government funds, senior officials believed, would deter participation, and they feared what might happen if major banks were obliged to report, for example, that they were hoarding bailout cash to shore up their own balance sheets.
 ''You would not want them exposed to market reaction to having to say that,'' Michele Davis, the assistant secretary for public affairs in the Bush Treasury Department, explained in an interview days before President George W. Bush left office.
 But now, as the Obama administration prepares to lay out its plans on Tuesday for a revamped bank bailout, the initial instinct to shield banks from public scrutiny has created a new set of problems. Chief among them is restoring public trust in a much-maligned bailout so shrouded in complexity and inscrutability. 
 The Obama administration has pledged to make the bailout more transparent, indicating in recent days that it intends to ask banks to report publicly how they are spending funds from the bailout, known as the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
 ''The priority now has to be restoring trust, demonstrating that the financial system can be supported in ways that are accountable and transparent,'' Lawrence H. Summers, the director of President Obama's National Economic Council, said Sunday on ''This Week With George Stephanopoulos.''
 But the administration has not explained in recent weeks whether the new reporting requirements will demand a detailed accounting down to the last dollar or merely a general narrative description. Nor is it clear how much the administration will open up other key aspects of the bailout, including the government's secret deliberations over which firms should get TARP money, or how the government negotiates the value of the preferred shares and warrants it acquires from banks in exchange for bailout money.
 The issue of transparency is all the more pressing given the administration's decision to use public money as a means to encourage hedge funds and other largely unregulated private investors to play a greater role in the bailout. 
 Despite the efforts of multiple oversight bodies, members of Congress and news organizations, central elements of the execution and impact of the first stage of the bailout still remain all but invisible, even though hundreds of billions of tax dollars have already been invested in more than 350 banks, two major automakers and the nation's largest insurance company.
 The lack of transparency has sown confusion and suspicion, with chastened bankers even facing allegations that they are dipping into the public trough to subsidize bonuses and lavish retreats. And with half the TARP money still to be spent, the failure early on to create clear-cut mechanisms for holding banks accountable for how they spend tax dollars is hardening criticism in both parties. 
 Mindful of public opinion, the Obama administration has already taken modest steps toward more transparency -- a point the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, is expected to emphasize when he unveils the administration's strategy to revive the financial system. It made public hundreds of pages detailing bailout agreements with the nation's largest banks, and it promised to promptly publish any new contracts. It also set new limits on lobbying and executive compensation for firms seeking bailout money.
 In addition, Mr. Geithner is expected to announce a new Web site devoted to the bailout. The site will identify all recipients of TARP money, and it will include reports on their use of bailout funds and assessments of whether firms are complying with executive compensation limits and other restrictions. 
 Mr. Geithner is also expected to announce that all banks that receive financial assistance must show how every dollar they receive from the government is helping them to preserve or generate new lending compared to what they would be doing without assistance. Among other things, they will have to file monthly reports with the Treasury that describes their lending activity in considerable detail.
 The level of lingering mistrust was underscored in a report released on Friday by the Congressional Oversight Panel set up by Congress to monitor the bailout.
 The report concluded that, contrary to statements by Mr. Bush's Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., the government substantially overpaid for its equity stakes in banks. In all, the panel estimated the Bush Treasury Department spent $254 billion to buy assets actually worth only $176 billion, effectively handing firms like Citigroup, Morgan Stanley and the American International Group a $78 billion subsidy.
 Elizabeth Warren, the Harvard law professor who is the panel's chairwoman, has warned for months of the practical and political ramifications of a highly complex, poorly explained and mostly opaque bailout apparatus. In an interview, she argued that without significant changes it will be virtually impossible to answer the most fundamental question of accountability: ''What are you doing with our money?''
 She is hardly alone in her fears.
 A recent report by the Government Accountability Office found that while the Treasury Department had strengthened management of the bailout, it had ''made less progress in improving the transparency of the program.''
 Despite running hundreds of pages in length, the government's current contracts with TARP recipients contain only two vaguely worded sentences describing what the banks pledge to do for the public in return for tax dollars: They must try to ''expand the flow of credit to U.S. consumers and businesses'' and they must ''work diligently'' to help homeowners avoid foreclosures. The documents contain no other requirements for disclosure or use of the federal money.
 The G.A.O. report warned that unless future agreements allowed the Treasury Department to follow the money, the government might ''have difficulty taking action'' against firms that squander bailout money. What's more, it said, the public may never know whether TARP achieved its stated goals of stabilizing the banking system, spurring new lending and providing relief to homeowners on the brink of foreclosure.
 ''We have to be able to know what these banks are doing with the money,'' Jeb Hensarling, a Republican representative from Texas who sits on the Congressional Oversight Panel, said in an interview.
 But the populist impulse to follow the money is not always shared by banking regulators who are primarily concerned with preserving the overall stability and liquidity of the financial system. For them, there is such a thing as too much transparency -- especially if it undermines public faith in banks or discourages ailing firms from seeking help.
 This clash of values emerged at a Congressional hearing in January, when Alan Grayson, a Democratic representative from Florida, asked Donald L. Kohn, vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, to identify each institution that had taken advantage of some $1.2 trillion in new emergency lending by the Fed. 
 ''I would be very, very hesitant to give the names of individual institutions,'' Mr. Kohn said. He added: ''I'd be very concerned, Congressman, that if we published the individual names of who's borrowing from us, no one would borrow from us.''
 Mr. Kohn's reluctance is noteworthy because the Obama administration wants the Federal Reserve to play a bigger bailout roleby expanding its lending to investors who buy securities backed by student, auto and credit card loans. 
 Some banking executives have argued that because of the fungible nature of money there is no ironclad way to separately account for how banks use their federal bailout checks. But according to senior G.A.O. officials, two of the nation's eight largest banks are doing precisely that.
 The two banks -- G.A.O. officials declined to identify them -- have adopted accounting procedures that will let them track how they are spending TARP money. The other six, though, told the agency they did not intend to separately track bailout money because they view it as no different from any other capital.
 Among the questions confronting the Obama administration is whether to renegotiate the Bush administration bailout contracts to demand an accounting of all TARP money committed before Mr. Obama took office. It could, alternatively, insist firms account only for future injections of TARP money. But for now, in the absence of a clear requirement forcing a thorough accounting, other efforts are under way that will give at least a partial picture of how the money is being spent. 
 Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general in the Treasury Department responsible for monitoring TARP, is asking every firm that gets TARP money for a ''narrative'' description of what the firm is doing with it. He is also asking for a letter signed by a senior executive certifying that the information is accurate.
 The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, meanwhile, has begun requiring state-chartered banks outside the Federal Reserve System to ''monitor'' use of capital injections and financing guarantees from the federal government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Elizabeth Warren, chairwoman of the TARP oversight panel
Lawrence H. Summers, director of the National Economic Council. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (61%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (50%); AUTOMAKERS (50%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); ELIZABETH WARREN (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



408 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1509 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Said to Have Prevailed on the Bailout

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON and EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration's new plan to bail out the nation's banks was fashioned after a spirited internal debate that pitted the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, against some of the president's top political hands. 
 In the end, Mr. Geithner largely prevailed in opposing tougher conditions on financial institutions that were sought by presidential aides, including David Axelrod, a senior adviser to the president, according to administration and Congressional officials.
 Mr. Geithner, who will announce the broad outlines of the plan on Tuesday, successfully fought against more severe limits on executive pay for companies receiving government aid. 
 He resisted those who wanted to dictate how banks would spend their rescue money. And he prevailed over top administration aides who wanted to replace bank executives and wipe out shareholders at institutions receiving aid. 
 Because of the internal debate, some of the most contentious issues remain unresolved. 
 On Monday evening, new details emerged after lawmakers were briefed on the plan. 
 It intends to call for the creation of a joint Treasury and Federal Reserve program, at an initial cost of $250 billion to $500 billion, to encourage investors to acquire soured mortgage-related assets from banks. 
 The Fed will use its balance sheet to provide the financing, and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation might provide guarantees to investors who participate in the program, which some people might call a ''bad bank.'' 
 A second component of the plan would broadly expand, to $500 billion to $1 trillion, an existing $200 billion program run by the Federal Reserve to try to unfreeze the market for commercial, student, auto and credit card loans. A third component would involve a review of the capital levels of all banks, including projections of future losses, to determine how much additional capital each bank should receive. 
 The capital injections would come out of the remaining $350 billion in the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
 A separate $50 billion initiative to enable millions of homeowners facing imminent foreclosure to renegotiate the terms of their mortgages is to be announced next week. 
 Some of President Obama's advisers had advocated tighter restrictions on aid recipients, arguing that rising joblessness, populist outrage over Wall Street bonuses and expensive perks, and the poor management of last year's bailouts could feed a potent political reaction if the administration did not demand enough sacrifices from the companies that receive federal money. 
 They also worry that any reaction could make it difficult to win Congressional approval for more bank rescue money, which the administration could need in coming months. 
 For his part, Mr. Geithner will blame corporate executives for much of the economic crisis, according to officials. He will announce rules that require all banks receiving capital from the government to submit plans that describe how they intend to strengthen their lending programs and generally restrict them from using the money to acquire other banks until the government money is repaid.
 But officials said Mr. Geithner worried that the plan would not work -- and could become more expensive for taxpayers -- if there were too much government involvement in the affairs of the companies. 
 Mr. Geithner also expressed concern that too many government controls would discourage private investors from participating.
 A spokeswoman for Mr. Geithner, Stephanie Cutter, had no comment.
 In an interview on Monday Mr. Axelrod did not deny that there were differences of opinion as the policy was being crafted or that he had taken a harder line on issues such as executive pay restrictions, as other participants to the discussions recalled. But he said he was ultimately satisfied with the final product put forward by Mr. Geithner.''We had a great and productive discussion and as a result we came up with a good set of guidelines and rules,'' he said. ''I didn't come away disappointed in any way.'' 
 The White House is hoping that its rescue plan will be perceived as a more coherent rescue effort than the Bush administration's, and one whose breadth and scope are so vast that it begins to restore financial confidence in the battered markets and entices private investors to come off the sidelines.
 The plan is calibrated to work on multiple fronts, with promises to invest billions of dollars in scores of ailing banks and creation of a new institution to relieve bank balance sheets of their most troubled assets. 
 It will also renew a legislative proposal giving bankruptcy judges greater authority to modify mortgages on more favorable terms to lenders and over the objections of banks.
 Officials say that new rules encouraging transparency and limiting lobbying are intended to begin to restore political confidence in a program that has faced withering criticism in Congress, an effort that they view as essential because they expect to return to Congress for more money later this year. 
 But as intended largely by Mr. Geithner, the plan stops short of intruding too significantly into bankers' affairs even as they come onto the public dole. 
 The $500,000 pay cap for executives at companies receiving assistance, for instance, applies only to very senior executives. Some officials argued for caps that applied to every employee at institutions that received taxpayer money.
 Abandoning any pretense about limiting the moral hazards at companies that made foolhardy investments, the plan also will not require shareholders of companies receiving significant assistance to lose most or all of their investment. Some officials had suggested that the next bailout phase not protect existing shareholders. (Shareholders at most banks that fail will continue to lose their investment.)
 Nor will the government announce any plans to replace the management of virtually any of the troubled institutions, despite arguments by some to oust current management at the most troubled banks. 
 Finally, while the administration will urge banks to increase their lending, and possibly provide some incentives, it will not dictate to the banks how they should spend the billions of dollars in new government money.
 And for all of its boldness, the plan largely repeats the Bush administration's approach of deferring to many of the same companies and executives who had peddled risky loans and investments at the heart of the crisis and failed to foresee many of the problems plaguing the markets.
 In internal discussions, Mr. Geithner is said by officials to have raised the lessons of countries that forced banks to make loans and adopted other, more interventionist measures. Those strategies, he said, wound up costing more and undermining their governments' credibility. He concluded the wiser course would be to provide economic incentives to encourage lending.
 Some Democrats in Congress who have been given previews of the outline of the plan said it struck the right balance.
 ''They want to make sure the plan is a balance of carrots and sticks, which are needed substantively and politically,'' said Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, vice chairman of the Joint Economic Committee. ''They are using every tool in the book because the problem is so vast, but they are also tailoring their response to the individual needs of each institution.''
 For private institutional investors, the question of whether to invest alongside the government will depend on what kinds of carrots and sticks Treasury officials offer. 
 Managers of hedge funds and private equity funds are closely watching to see how much the government pushes banks to write down the value of troubled mortgages and mortgage-backed securities they want to sell. 
 There is no market value for most of those troubled assets because they are not trading. Investors want to buy them at the lowest price possible, but banks want to avoid selling them at rock-bottom prices and realizing huge losses. 
 The impasse is particularly serious for whole mortgages, which are loans that banks have kept on their own books instead of selling them to Wall Street firms, which bundle them into pools and resell them as mortgage-backed securities. 
 Under current accounting rules, financial institutions have already been required to write down the value of mortgage-backed securities to reflect their current market value. But banks do not have to write down the value of whole mortgages if the borrowers are still current, and many regional banks collectively hold vast numbers of those loans. 
 Under the category of sticks, private investment managers are closely watching how the Treasury rolls out its ''uniform stress test'' for grading the health of banks. If the government takes a tougher line with more banks, it could force them to sell off more of their loans and take their lumps sooner rather than later. 
 Under the category of carrots are various forms of financing and government guarantees. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy Geithner, top left with Lawrence Summers, prevailed over top administration aides, including David Axelrod, above, who wanted to take a tougher line on executive pay. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 JOSHUA ROBERTS/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (pg.A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); FORECLOSURE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (75%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (75%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (73%); APPROVALS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (67%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (67%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (92%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); DAVID AXELROD (73%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



409 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: If Drivers Win, Riders Lose

 BODY:
Facing big deficits, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority is threatening big fare increases -- from $2 to $3 for a subway ride, for instance -- for everyone who uses public transit. Gov. David Paterson and other politicians are trying to head this off, or reduce the pain. Here's one suggestion: Ask drivers to start paying tolls on the bridges that cross the Harlem and East Rivers. 
 Just about every commuter pays a fee of some sort -- except for drivers who use those bridges. This is manifestly unfair to millions of others who take the bus, subway or railroad in this area to get to work.
 Charging drivers their fair share was an important part of proposals offered last year by a commission led by Richard Ravitch, who once ran the authority. To put the entire system on a stronger financial footing, and to avoid both drastic fare increases and service cuts, the commission's plan required contributions from riders, businesses and people who drive cars. 
 Riders would endure a modest increase in the cost of their trips. Businesses, governments and unions in the 12-county area around New York City would do their part with a modest tax per employee. And drivers would start paying new bridge tolls.
 It is that last part that has politicians in Brooklyn, Queens and the Bronx up in arms. Mayor Michael Bloomberg, seeking re-election this year, has not rejected the measure, suggesting that it is an option and obviously trying to leave the impression that it does not come from him. He should be pitching the idea hard, because it could also cut congestion. 
 Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, considered the most powerful man in Albany, has not blocked the proposal, while the newly Democratic-controlled State Senate is still not organized on this issue. 
 Mr. Paterson should provide the missing leadership -- especially when tough economic times mean more people will surely need the bus or subway or railroad to get to work. If everyone contributes, no one would have to suffer the drastic cuts in service and draconian increases in fares now proposed by the M.T.A.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (77%); MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



410 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 833 words

HEADLINE: Sternly Taking On His Critics, Obama Puts Aside Talk of Unity

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama has made a show of reaching across the aisle since taking office, inviting three Republicans into his cabinet and wining and dining other opposition leaders. But by Monday, he sounded like a candidate back on the trail, railing against the status quo and dismissing critics as apostles of a failed philosophy.
 Three weeks into his tenure, Mr. Obama acknowledged that his effort to change the political climate in Washington had yielded little. He made clear that he had all but given up hope of securing a bipartisan consensus behind his $800 billion economic recovery package, arguing that the urgency of the economic crisis had at least for now outweighed the need for unity. 
 ''I'm happy to get good ideas from across the political spectrum, from Democrats and Republicans,'' he said at the Monday night news conference. ''What I won't do is return to the failed theories of the last eight years that got us into this fix in the first place, because those theories have been tested and they have failed. And that's part of what the election in November was all about.''
 The sharp tone at the news conference and at a whooping election-style rally in Indiana earlier in the day signaled a shift by the White House in the fractious debate over his package of spending and tax breaks. 
 With no Republicans in the House voting for the economic plan and just three in the Senate, Mr. Obama on Monday began a week of barnstorming stops that will also take him to Florida and Illinois to create momentum behind his program.
 Gone were the soothing notes of the last three weeks. Authoritative and unsmiling, gloomy rather than inspirational, Mr. Obama cast the nation's economy in dire light and offered a barbed point-by-point critique of the Republican argument that his plan would just create more government jobs and authorize a raft of new wasteful spending.
 ''It's a little hard for me to take criticism from folks about this recovery package after they presided over a doubling of the national debt,'' he said at the news conference. ''I'm not sure they have a lot of credibility when it comes to fiscal responsibility.''
 As Air Force One took him to Elkhart, Ind., where the unemployment rate has tripled to more than 15 percent in the last year, Mr. Obama and his aides sought again to reclaim the mantle of change, a theme central to his election victory. 
 His advisers depicted the president as the champion of people neglected by Washington politics. 
 ''One thing that we learned over two years is that there's a whole different conversation in Washington than there is out here,'' said David Axelrod, the president's senior adviser. ''If I had listened to the conversation in Washington during the campaign for president, I would have jumped off a building about a year and a half ago.''
 Robert Gibbs, the White House press secretary, decried what he called a ''myopic viewpoint in Washington,'' disconnected from the troubles of the country. 
 ''It's illuminating because it may not necessarily be where cable television is on all of this,'' Mr. Gibbs said. ''But you know, we're sort of used to that. We lost on cable television virtually every day last year. So you know, there's a conventional wisdom to what's going on in America via Washington and there's the reality of what's happening in America.''
 In case Republicans doubted who was in charge, Mr. Obama wrapped himself in the mantle of his election victory. At Concord High School in Elkhart, he basked in the roar of a crowd that chanted, ''Obama, Obama.'' To Obama aides nostalgic for the simpler days of the campaign trail, it had a familiar feel, even if the music had changed from Stevie Wonder to ''Hail to the Chief.''
 The point was reinforced when the White House distributed poll numbers indicating that twice as many Americans support Mr. Obama on the economy as they do Congressional Republicans. 
 But Mr. Obama's aides disregarded other surveys showing that a bare majority approves of the package of spending and tax breaks. Republicans pointed to their alternative call for deeper tax cuts as a more effective way to get money quickly into the economy.
 ''It is not too late to craft a bipartisan plan that creates more jobs and helps get our economy back on track, and Republicans stand ready to work with the president to do this,'' Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the House Republican leader, said after the news conference.
 For his part, though, Mr. Obama seemed to suggest it was too late, and that the time for bipartisanship lay further down the road. He said he recognized that some Republicans had good-faith doubts about his program, but he also characterized some of the opposition as an effort to ''test'' the new president. 
 He vowed to continue trying to build alliances with the other party in the hope that it ''will pay some dividends over the long term,'' and added: ''As I continue to make these overtures, over time, hopefully that will be reciprocated.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, at his White House news conference on Monday night, where he discussed the Democratic stimulus plan and opposition to it by Republicans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); DAVID AXELROD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



411 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 617 words

HEADLINE: A Better Stimulus Bill

 BODY:
In Elkhart, Ind., on Monday afternoon to rally support for an $800 billion stimulus and recovery package -- and in his first prime-time press conference Monday night -- President Obama said that he couldn't guarantee that every item voted by Congress will work exactly as planned. But he warned that doing nothing could not be an option.
 He is absolutely right that Congress needs to quickly pass a stimulus bill, and the Republicans who have been blocking action are courting disaster. But a bill that is merely better than nothing won't be nearly good enough. The economy is too fragile. And the numbers are too huge. 
 When members of the House and Senate sit down this week to craft a final version of their differing bills, they must include the most-effective provisions -- those that provide powerful stimulus and help those Americans who are most in need. 
 There is a decent deal to be had in negotiations. Whether Congress and the administration get there will depend a lot on Mr. Obama's leadership and his insistence on a better bill. 
 Both the House version, which passed nearly two weeks ago, and the version in the Senate that is expected to pass on Tuesday, provide adequate increases in unemployment benefits and food stamps -- generally the two most-effective forms of stimulus. Those items must not change appreciably. 
 Aid to states is excellent stimulus because the money is funneled quickly to public employees, private contractors and beneficiaries of public programs. The Senate bill falls far short. It provides $40 billion less to the states than the House's version -- money that is mainly targeted at education budgets. It shortsightedly fails to include a $10 billion provision that would allow states to temporarily offer Medicaid coverage to uninsured people who are unemployed. 
 Negotiators should also salvage the child tax credit, worth up to $1,000 per child. The House wants to make the credit available to all working families. The Senate would make it available only to families with wages of at least $8,100. Negotiators should split the difference. The credit is robust stimulus because the recipients are likely to spend it quickly. 
 There are obvious compromises that could pay for these must-haves. 
 Nearly $70 billion of the Senate bill is spent on providing a one-year reprieve from the alternative minimum tax. The relief is needed. It also is a measure that passes easily each year on its own. A fair deal would be to take A.M.T. relief out of the package -- contingent on a promise from Mr. Obama to champion a separate relief bill as soon as possible. Or leave it in but add it on top of -- not in place of -- the package's other spending increases and tax cuts.
 Tax cuts aren't the best stimulus. But the House bill's $3 billion to improve a first-time homebuyer's tax credit already on the books is a reasonable attempt to spur demand. The Senate's $39 billion in tax credits for anyone and everyone who wants to buy a house goes way too far, especially since the bulk of the credit would go to people who would buy a new house anyway. 
 The administration is also expected to unveil on Tuesday a plan to use tens of billions from the bank bailout fund to forestall foreclosures, which would more directly address problems in the housing market. Negotiators should go with the House version. 
 Odds are unfortunately high that even an $800 billion stimulus package will fall short of what's needed to combat today's downturn, and that more will be needed later. When the Obama administration asks for more, it will need to be able to make a compelling case that the first round was the best it could possibly be. It's certainly not there yet. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FAMILY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); BUDGETS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); MEDICAID (65%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (65%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



412 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1224 words

HEADLINE: Obama Makes Case as Stimulus Bill Clears Hurdle

BYLINE: By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG and HELENE COOPER; Peter Baker contributed reporting from Elkhart, Ind.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama took his case for his $800 billion economic recovery package to the American people on Monday, as the Senate cleared the way for passage of the bill and the White House prepared for its next major hurdle: selling Congress and the public on a fresh plan to bail out the nation's banks.
 Warning that a failure to act ''could turn a crisis into a catastrophe,'' Mr. Obama used his presidential platform -- a prime-time news conference, the first of his presidency, in the grand setting of the White House East Room -- to address head on the concerns about his approach, which has by and large failed to win the Republican support he sought.
 ''The plan is not perfect,'' Mr. Obama said in an eight-minute speech before taking reporters' questions. ''No plan is. I can't tell you for sure that everything in this plan will work exactly as we hope, but I can tell you with complete confidence that a failure to act will only deepen this crisis.'' 
 The news conference was the centerpiece of an intense and highly orchestrated campaign by the administration to wrest control of the stimulus debate from Republicans and reframe it on Mr. Obama's terms.
 Earlier Monday, the president took his message on the road, traveling to one of the most economically distressed corners of the nation, Elkhart, Ind. -- a city whose hard luck story, including an unemployment rate of 15.3 percent, he invoked hours later at the White House as he sought to highlight the severity of problems facing ordinary Americans.
 ''If there's anyone out there who still doesn't believe this constitutes a full-blown crisis,'' Mr. Obama said, ''I suggest speaking to one of the millions of Americans whose lives have been turned upside down because they don't know where their next paycheck is coming from.''
 As he has since the outset of his presidency, Mr. Obama sought to draw sharp distinctions between himself and his predecessor, on both domestic and foreign affairs.
 He took a swipe at the economic policy championed by George W. Bush through good times and bad, saying that ''tax cuts alone can't solve all of our economic problems.'' He also criticized President Hamid Karzai of Afghanistan, a close ally of Mr. Bush. Yet he echoed Mr. Bush when he said the most ''sobering moment'' of his adaptation to the presidency has been writing letters to families of fallen troops.
 Mr. Obama's tone was for the most part serious and businesslike, and he was pointed in rebutting Republican criticisms of his economic plan, saying he was not willing to take advice from ''the folks who presided over a doubling of the national debt.''
 And while his answers were frequently lengthy, he steered clear of disclosing any details of the forthcoming bank bailout and housing plans or foreign policy initiatives.
 On Monday evening, the stimulus bill advanced in the Senate by a vote of 61 to 36; three centrist Republicans and two Independents joined 56 Democrats to move the legislation forward, with a vote on final passage expected Tuesday. But the bill passed by the Senate differs substantially from its counterpart in the House, and the two versions will have to be reconciled before Mr. Obama can sign the legislation into law. 
 ''There have been a lot of bad habits built up here in Washington,'' Mr. Obama said, explaining why he thought so few Republicans have voted for the plan, despite overtures that included inviting them to the White House and putting three Republicans in his cabinet.
 The past few weeks have been rocky ones for the fledgling Obama administration, as Republicans have successfully cast the stimulus plan as an exercise in pork-barrel spending. The news conference and presidential road trips were an effort by the White House to tap into Mr. Obama's considerable rhetorical skills, in effect putting him back onto the campaign trail.
 In Indiana on Monday, Mr. Obama sounded as much like a candidate as a president, scolding what he said were greedy Wall Street bankers and taking aim at the Republicans whose support he was still trying to attract, even as he conceded he was not 100 percent certain that every single item in his plan would create jobs.
 ''We can't posture and bicker and resort to the same failed ideas that got us into this mess in the first place,'' Mr. Obama told the enthusiastic crowd that packed into a high school gymnasium, where he took questions from the crowd that he said had not been screened. He added: ''You didn't send us to Washington because you were hoping for more of the same. You sent us there to change things.''
 Leading Democrats said Monday that it was critical for the new president to take back the debate.
 Senator Kent Conrad, Democrat of North Dakota and chairman of the Senate Budget Committee, said Mr. Obama had to persuade Americans that the recession is ''substantially more serious'' than was apparent even a few weeks ago and that ''it is going to take a series of steps, not just one economic recovery package'' to survive it. 
 To that end, Mr. Obama began Monday's news conference by laying out the stark economic facts facing the country, beginning with the 598,000 jobs lost last month alone -- a figure, Mr. Obama said, that is ''nearly the equivalent of losing every job in the state of Maine.'' 
 At several points, Mr. Obama made clear that more action would be needed in the future -- starting with the next steps to bail out ailing financial institutions, and with unknown measures yet to come. Mr. Obama's treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, is set to introduce the next $350 billion installment of the financial rescue package on Tuesday, but Mr. Obama said he could not yet estimate how much more money might be needed to get the credit markets operating smoothly again. 
 ''We don't know yet whether we're going to need additional money, or how much additional money we'll need,'' he said. Saying he had not come to Washington ''ginned up'' to spend billions of taxpayer dollars, the president said that pushing a stimulus package ''wasn't how I envisioned my presidency beginning.'' 
 But he said his first priority was to arrest a downward economic spiral and put an end to what he called Wall Street's profligate ways.
 ''The party is now over,'' he said.
 He said he had a fundamental disagreement with those Republicans who argued that government could not solve the economic crisis.
 On foreign affairs, Mr. Obama took aim at Mr. Karzai, who administration officials have been criticizing more strongly -- and publicly -- of late for failing to crack down on corruption and drug trafficking, which they say is fueling the Taliban insurgency. Afghanistan's ''national government,'' Mr. Obama said, ''seems very detached from what's going on in the surrounding community.''
 He also said that he was reviewing a Bush policy that barred the news media from or photographing the coffins of soldiers killed in Iraq and Afghanistan, but that he had not yet determined whether to lift it.
 On Iran, a nation Mr. Bush labeled a rogue state, Mr. Obama said he was ''looking at areas where we can have constructive dialogue where we can directly engage with them.''
 ''My expectation,'' he said, ''is that in the coming months we will be looking for openings that can be created where we can start sitting across the table face to face.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Though conceding that ''the plan is not perfect,'' President Obama asserted that ''a failure to act will only deepen this crisis.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A1)
 Looking on as the president spoke were Rahm Emanuel, left, his chief of staff, and Robert Gibbs, Mr. Obama's press secretary. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); TAX LAW (72%); BANK FAILURES (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); HAMAD KARZAI (59%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); RAHM EMANUEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); AFGHANISTAN (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2009



413 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Lede)

PUB-DATE: February 10, 2009

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Fear More of a Factor Than Hope as Israel Votes

BYLINE: ROBERT MACKEY


HIGHLIGHT: As Israelis vote, many say they are motivated more by fear of some candidates than hope in any.

 BODY:
As Israelis vote in Tuesday's parliamentary elections, the final opinion polls suggest that either the conservative Likud party, led by Benjamin Netanyahu, a former prime minister, or the centrist Kadima party, now led by Tzipi Livni, the current foreign minister, could end up with the most seats in the Israeli parliament, the Knesset. Neither party, however, is expected to win anything close to a majority of the seats, and the contest between the two leaders is to see who will be in the strongest position to stitch together a multi-party coalition to govern the country.
Watching the opinion polls tighten in the final days of the race, The Guardian's Rory McCarthy wrote -- in an article headlined "Israel's Election Cliffhanger as Livni Closes Gap With Netanyahu" -- that the change was due less to a surge in confidence in Ms. Livni than to the phenomenal rise of another party, Yisrael Beitenu (Israel Is Our Home), led by Avigdor Lieberman, which has drawn support away from Likud. As Mr. McCarthy wrote:
Only a few weeks ago Netanyahu had a commanding lead in the opinion polls, a lead apparently reinforced by Israel's devastating war in Gaza. However, in the final days of the campaign he has begun to lose support to Avigdor Lieberman, a far-right secular politician whose populist tone has captured the public mood like never before.
In an article on Monday, Ethan Bronner, The Times's Jerusalem bureau chief, described the unease Israelis across the political spectrum feel at the sudden success of Mr. Lieberman's ultra-nationalist party, which wants to impose a loyalty oath on all Israeli citizens, Arabs as well as Jews:
Most of the political establishment, including members of the Likud, Kadima and Labor Parties, are furious and afraid of either possibility because they broadly consider Mr. Lieberman a demagogue. [...]
They say he is drawing in Israeli Jews who feel the country needs a greater display of power to survive.
Writing on the Web site of the Israeli newspaper Haaretz on Monday, Benjamin Hartman said that:
The fear of a far-right (let's just call it extremist) government headed by Bibi Netanyahu and his ghosts of Knessets past, in alliance with the surging Yisrael Beiteinu party, threatens to determine the results of tomorrow's election. [...] This fear may very well be the best thing Tzipi Livni has going for her in this election.
In other words, if Ms. Livni does manage to eke out a narrow victory in the election, it may have little to do with the success of her own campaign, which, as Griff Witte reported last week in the Washington Post, has been trying, perhaps a little too hard, to take a page out of the playbook of the new U.S. President Barack Obama. As Mr. Witte wrote of Ms. Livni on the stump:
A relative newcomer to politics, she presents herself as a fresh alternative to her chief competitors, both of whom are older men who have held Israel's top job before.
On the stump, she invites Israelis to "vote for change." Her campaign distributes T-shirts emblazoned with the made-up word "Believni." And she brags that unlike the race's front-runner, former prime minister Binyamin Netanyahu, she could partner with Obama in pursuing a peace accord with the Palestinians. "The American people voted for hope," Livni told an audience of college students recently. "This is also possible in the state of Israel."
But the Netanyahu campaign answers with its own T-shirt: "No, She Can't." 
In an article and video report, The Guardian's Peter Beaumont discussed (and showed) how far Ms. Livni has gone in her attempt to emulate Mr. Obama's success by winning the youth vote:
Livni announced she would be the "prime minister for the young". To reinforce that point she chose to make an appearance in Haoman 17, one of Tel Aviv's huge warehouse dance clubs, as popular with the out-of-towners as with the city's cool set, who prefer more intimate places.
Footage of Ms. Livni, the normally undemonstrative, former Israeli secret service agent, dancing and working the turntables at a nightclub comes about three minutes in to the video report accompanying the article. Mr. Beaumont described the scene this way: "The 'Ice Queen' wearing a white jacket, T-shirt and faded jeans - rather than the skirt suits she favours - bops self-consciously."
The campaign in support of Ms. Livni has even featured a 'Livni Boy' video on YouTube, echoing the Obama Girl. In December The Jerusalem Post reported that Ms. Livni's Kadima party played the Livni Boy video at a press conference where it announced that one of the campaign's slogans would be: "Tzipi Livni: The Audacity to Change."
A full English translation of Livni Boy's rap is available on Ben Smith's blog on Politico's Web site, but these sample lyrics give a flavor:
In my dream you're at the podium to the chanting of the anthem
At the end of the day we'll drink together at Michal Coffee
If the recession is over then we'll also eat
I would walk far and make the journey for you
In the end you will conquer the premiership
Oh Oh Oh Oh Tzipi
You are what I wanted
Everything that I expected
From a political leader
I don't want Ehud
I don't believe Bibi
Tzipi if you let me
I'll be your man
Arguably less helpful than Livni Boy's support was the last-minute decision by Israel's outgoing prime minister, Ehud Olmert, who, less than a year ago, was supported by about 3 percent of Israeli voters in opinion polls, to endorse his own party's new leader, Ms. Livni. As The Jerusalem Post reported on Monday:
Prime Minister Ehud Olmert entered the political fray at the eleventh hour ahead of Tuesday's election when he announced at a Maccabiah conference on Sunday night that he hopes Foreign Minister Tzipi Livni will succeed him.
The endorsement came after weeks of speculation, spurred by Livni's associates, that Olmert was secretly working behind the scenes on behalf of Likud chairman Binyamin Netanyahu. 
More than any posters, t-shirts or viral videos though, what appears to have propelled Ms. Livni in the campaign's closing days is the fear of the more conservative alternative offered by Mr. Netanyahu, and the prospect of the right of center coalition he might lead with support from Mr. Lieberman's nationalist party.
Lisa Goldman, in one of a series of posts on "Israel's largely leftist, and Hebrew-language, political blogosphere" on The Guardian's news blog wrote last week:
A friend - and occasional blogger - who lives in a prosperous town in central Israel phoned me from her car this morning to moan about the state of the country. "I'm depressed," she announced from the driver's seat of her child-friendly SUV. "I'm driving around the main streets of my town, looking at the campaign posters, and they are all for far-right parties! What's going on in this country?! What happened to the moderate left?"
My friend, who considers herself a member of the moderate left, said that she planned to vote for Tzipi Livni - not because she is particularly impressed by the Kadima candidate's platform, but because she would rather see anyone but Binyamin (Bibi) Netanyahu become Israel's next prime minister. And she is not alone: a Hebrew Facebook group called "rak lo bibi," or "anyone but Bibi" has already attracted 4,466 members. 
Ms. Goldman also notes that support for Mr. Lieberman, who emigrated to Israel from the former Soviet Union in the 1970s and is supported by many fellow Russian-speakers, is hard to find in the Hebrew-language blogosphere:
If you're looking for Israeli political bloggers who plan to vote for Lieberman, you'll need to learn Russian. I could not find any Yisrael Beiteinu voters among the Hebrew political bloggers, but there are plenty in the large and lively Russian-language blogosphere on livejournal. 
While Ms. Goldman reported that many Israeli bloggers pledged to vote for Israel's Green party, Al Jazeera English, in this recent television report found an active debate going on among Arab citizens of Israel as to "whether or not to vote" at all:
In published on Monday by Ynetnews, the English-language Web site of Israeli newspaper Yedioth Ahronoth, one Arab citizen of Israel, Ali Zahalka, the principal of an elementary school in the Israeli town of Kfar Kara, implored his fellow Palestinians to vote for any Israeli party that had a chance to form a government that would not include Mr. Lieberman's nationalists. Mr. Zahalka blamed the leadership of the Arab-Israeli community for helping to make Mr. Lieberman's party popular: 
The Arab-Israeli leadership is increasing pushing us into anti-Israel radicalism. This extremism climaxed with the "Death to the Jews" chants during Operation Cast Lead. Here is what I have to say to those leaders: Look at what you've done.
We did not cry out in the face of rocket attacks on southern residents that went on for years. We did not cry out in the face of the suffering of our brethren, Gaza residents, who have been brutally repressed by Hamas. Yet we cried out, of all things, in the face of an onslaught against the most radical element in the Arab world. [...]
So now we can accurately measure the result of this conduct: 18. Why 18? Because this is the number of Knesset seats that the polls predict for Avigdor Lieberman's party, Yisrael Beiteinu.
Apparently, we got what we deserve. If we, citizens of the State of Israel, which has a Jewish majority, connect to the worst enemies of the State, why are we surprised that this is what we get?
Lieberman and his party are not a marginal political element such as Meir Kahane's party, Kach. We are dealing with immense political power that constitutes tangible danger to Israeli Arabs. He hates us and incites against us, and we can see that it's going very well for him: The more he incites against us, the stronger he gets. 
More in fear than with hope, Mr. Zahalka urged Arabs with a vote in Israel's election to use it wisely:
I turn to Arab residents of Israel: This is a moment of truth for us. We are facing grave danger, and don't say that you weren't warned. Eighteen Knesset seats for Lieberman is no longer a political game. For us, it's genuine trouble. We cannot stand by and watch on, as if this does not pertain to us. We must enlist and massively support the moderate parties that will weaken Lieberman. [...]
Therefore, do not abstain from voting, and do not vote for the radical Arab parties. Rather, vote in a way that reduces the great danger we are facing today - Lieberman and his colleagues. In other words: Support parties that are still willing to give us the opportunity to integrate as citizens with equal rights. 

        
Confused by Israel's Election? Israelis Are Too.
        
Israelis Differ on 'Defensible Borders'
        
Netanyahu to Confront Obama With 'Reality,' Israelis Say
        
Israeli Settlers Reject the 'Auschwitz Borders' of 1967
        
An 'Israeli Remix' of a Palestinian Scarf

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (78%); WEB SITES (61%); US PRESIDENTS (60%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (50%) Elections; Israel; livni; netanyahu; Obama; the palestinians; News

ORGANIZATION: KADIMA (84%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); TZIPORA LIVNI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (95%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2011



414 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1472 words

HEADLINE: A High Court Choice Who Knows How to Break Up a Logjam

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
When Jonathan Lippman became the presiding justice of the Appellate Division in Manhattan in 2007, he inherited a court with its heels planted firmly in the mud. Judges were taking months -- more than a year sometimes -- to issue decisions, while cases piled up and litigants were left waiting.
Justice Lippman moved aggressively. He made more lawyers available to assist the judges, gave them more definitive schedules and put in regular face time with them to encourage speedier dispositions. A year later, the caseload was down by nearly 75 percent and decisions were coming out much quicker.
''He was able to really develop a culture of working together and a consensus, really getting the backlog down,'' said Justice Angela M. Mazzarelli, the second-longest tenured judge on the court. 
When lawyers, judges and academics talk about Justice Lippman, the nominee to be chief judge of the New York Court of Appeals, they are usually quick to mention his administrative successes. His accomplishments as a jurist, however, do not roll off the tongue as easily.
Although he has been a judge for more than 13 years, Justice Lippman has been regularly hearing cases for only about four years. Most of his time has been spent as the state's chief administrative judge, overseeing the management of New York's sprawling network of courts and pushing court reform in Albany.
Now, as Justice Lippman stands one step from becoming the chief judge of the state's highest court, his body of work as a jurist remains relatively thin, leaving some judges and legal scholars uncertain about what he will bring to the bench that has the last word on state law.
''The Court of Appeals is in the business of settling the law and making the law when it isn't there,'' said Vincent M. Bonventre, a professor at Albany Law School who studies the Court of Appeals. ''It's very, very different than being on a lower court. Lippman hasn't spent much time even on a lower court or any time litigating these kinds of issues.''
Although the candidates to replace Judith S. Kaye as chief judge included two current Court of Appeals judges and others with more courtroom experience, Gov. David A. Paterson nominated Justice Lippman last month. Not only does the chief judge hear and help decide cases as part of the seven-member court, but he also serves as the chief executive of the court system, which has a budget of more than $2 billion and handles more than four million cases a year.
Justice Lippman, 63, declined to comment until after his State Senate confirmation hearing, scheduled for Wednesday. But those who have worked with him describe a man who is enthusiastic, optimistic and intelligent. The New York State Bar Association gave Justice Lippman and five of the other six finalists ''well-qualified'' ratings, and he was one of only two to get an ''exceptionally well-qualified'' rating from the New York City Bar Association.
A Manhattan native, Justice Lippman's entire professional career has been in the state court system, starting in 1968, after graduation from law school at New York University, when he became an entry-level court lawyer. He became the deputy chief administrator for management of the state court system in 1989. In 1995, Gov. George E. Pataki appointed him to be a judge on the Court of Claims, which hears cases in which the state is being sued, and the following year Ms. Kaye hired him as the chief administrative judge.
He won election as a State Supreme Court justice in 2005, but kept his administrative role until May 2007, when Gov. Eliot Spitzer appointed him to the rung below the Court of Appeals, the Appellate Division's First Department, hearing appeals from Manhattan and the Bronx.
Some of Justice Lippman's colleagues have coined the phrase, ''to be Lippmanized,'' which happens when Justice Lippman persuades someone to side with him.
''He is one of those people who really does engender loyalty and support because he treats everyone with dignity and respect,'' said A. Gail Prudenti, the presiding justice of the Second Department, which hears appeals from the rest of the city and several suburban counties.
As chief administrative judge under Ms. Kaye, he succeeded in persuading lawmakers to more than double the financing for the court system and back innovations like jury reform and specialized courts for issues like drug abuse, mental illness and domestic violence.
Despite his accomplishments, he will inherit several pressing matters if he is confirmed, not the least of which is the Legislature's freezing of judicial salaries since 1999.
''From a standpoint of administration, I think he's in a unique position to take his expertise, especially in these tough economic times, to help reduce the bureaucracy in that system and make it a more efficient court operation,'' said John A. DeFrancisco, the former chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee.
Justice Lippman has won many allies from his work in Albany, including Ms. Kaye, who kept it barely a secret that she wanted Justice Lippman to succeed her when she reached the mandatory retirement age of 70 last year.
''He kept himself above the political scene,'' said Sheldon Silver, the Assembly speaker, who has been a friend of Justice Lippman's since they were children on the Lower East Side. ''He dealt with Republicans and Democrats the same.''
Mr. Silver said his friendship with the judge had little to do with the nomination and that Justice Lippman earned it on his own merits.
Justice Lippman began to hear cases as an acting Supreme Court justice and in 2005 ran for one of four Supreme Court seats covering five counties in the northern suburbs. Some Democratic and Republican party leaders in the area agreed to endorse him and another candidate, all but assuring they would win. Justice Lippman had said he would run only with a cross-endorsement. because he did not want to be involved in a partisan election. Three years earlier, he dropped out of a State Supreme Court race after the parties could not agree on a cross-endorsement.
In a 2005 article in The Journal News, Ken Harper, then chairman of the Putnam County Democratic Committee, criticized the cross-endorsement as a back-room deal. The judicial election process in New York State has often been criticized as putting too much power in party leaders' hands, but it was upheld unanimously by the United States Supreme Court a year ago.
Nicholas A. Spano, a former Republican state senator who was friends with Justice Lippman, said the judge had earned the right to run virtually uncontested.
''I think it would have been practically an insult for him to have to run in a competitive political race because he was so nonpartisan and so eminently qualified for the job,'' Mr. Spano said in a recent interview.
In Justice Lippman's time on the bench, he has presided over more than 2,000 cases, according to a spokesman for the court system. He wrote 14 opinions in 20 months with the Appellate Division (most decisions at that level are issued through memos not signed by any judge) and a handful more while on the Supreme Court.
Justice Lippman's supporters argue that he already has proven his legal acumen and, although he may have presided over relatively few cases, he spent many years as a court lawyer helping judges decide cases. Some also note that many Court of Appeals judges, including Ms. Kaye, came to the court never having served as a judge.
Although no clear ideological picture emerges from the few opinions Justice Lippman has written, academics say he appears to be a shrewd and pragmatic jurist.
Perhaps his most notable opinion was published last April, when he upheld a jury's verdict that the Port Authority was 68 percent liable for the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Justice Lippman wrote that the Port Authority had knowingly ignored ''an extreme and potentially catastrophic vulnerability'' in its security.
In a decision last June, People v. Valdez, Justice Lippman upheld a theft conviction, but in his ruling, he criticized the trial judge for allowing the prosecution's main witness, a police officer, to testify about his accolades, which included two ''Cop of the Year'' awards. Daniel J. Castleman, the chief assistant district attorney in Manhattan, said the ruling had an influence on the way prosecutors are trained.
Mr. Bonventre noted two slight patterns in Justice Lippman's opinions: he is careful to protect the rights of the accused, and he favors letting lawsuits play out in court. They suggest a judge who is ''at least moderately liberal,'' Mr. Bonventre said.
Oscar G. Chase, a law professor at New York University, said that Justice Lippman's judicial prowess remains an open question, but that the few opinions he has written have been ''well-organized and thorough, even if it doesn't always persuade all of his colleagues.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jonathan Lippman spoke with reporters last month after being named by Governor Paterson to be chief judge of the State Court of Appeals. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHANIEL BROOKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUDGES (92%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (87%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); LAWYERS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (74%); LITIGATION (73%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK COURT OF APPEALS (56%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



415 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: 'Vulture' Investors Eye Bad Assets, but Warily

BYLINE: By MICHAEL J. de la MERCED and ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
Howard S. Marks is the sort of financier who Washington hopes will help fix the nation's tumbledown banks. Trouble is, he is not quite sure he wants the job.
Mr. Marks is a former banker who became a pioneer in the graveyard of Wall Street. He is one of the biggest players in distressed investing -- putting money into risky investments that few others will touch.
But he and other potential investors are wary of the risk in this case. 
With its plan to shore up banks that was announced on Tuesday, the Obama administration hopes to entice investors like Mr. Marks, who has $55 billion at his command, to buy troubled assets from the nation's banks and enable them to make the loans needed to jump-start the economy.
The administration hopes, in short, to counterbalance some of the fear gripping the financial world with a bit of old-fashioned greed.
To combat the bust, Washington wants to marshal some of the same financiers who grew rich during the boom: hedge fund managers and corporate buyout specialists.
But Mr. Marks and other investors like him said they were in no hurry to wade into this mess. Distressed investors -- ''vultures'' is the Wall Street term for them -- aim to buy investments on the cheap in hopes of reaping big returns.
Yet even for the vultures, the risks -- political as well as financial -- seem daunting. Some worry about being seen as profiteers who benefit at taxpayers' expense, even though the economy could get worse unless they swoop in.
''You have to ask whether this is an attractive deal,'' said Mr. Marks, the chairman of Oaktree Capital Management, a big money management firm in Los Angeles. It all depends on the price, the terms and the risks, he said. Wall Street, of course, wants what it always wants: a lot of potential profit on the upside, and not much risk of losses on the downside. But as Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner outlined his sweeping rescue plan on Tuesday, the questions kept piling up.
What kind of assets would the banks sell, and at what price? What role would the government play? And, of course, the big one: what are these investments really worth? The banks themselves are struggling to place values on them.
Hundreds of billions of dollars of these assets are hanging over banks. Until there is a clear way to purge them, the industry, and the broader economy, are likely to languish.
That is where the vultures come in. Hedge funds and other institutions dominate the field of distressed investing, and they are known for driving hard bargains. In recent weeks, several prominent hedge fund managers met with Lawrence H. Summers, the head of the National Economic Council, to discuss their interest in the planned public-private partnership.
Few of these investors were willing to discuss their plans publicly on Tuesday. Some worried their own investors, which include large public pension funds, might view the potential investments as too risky. And some would not be allowed to buy such assets under their own investment guidelines.
But if the vultures do alight, their rewards could be enormous. Funds specializing in distressed investments earned annual returns of more than 30 percent in the early 1990s as the economy pulled out of recession.
''There are plenty of guys who are willing to take the risk, but they want the high returns,'' said Chip MacDonald, a partner at the law firm Jones Day.
Some private investment firms, like Apollo Global Management, headed by Leon D. Black, first made their names and fortunes in the wake of the savings and loan crisis, when the government's Resolution Trust Corporation sold off assets to other investors on the cheap.
Others, like the Blackstone Group, the large buyout firm run by Stephen A. Schwarzman, and Paulson & Company, whose chief, John Paulson, made billions betting against subprime mortgages, have told their investors they are hunting for the bargains in the ruins of the financial sector.
Still others, like the Pacific Investment Management Company, the big bond fund, and BlackRock, another money management firm, could also emerge as big buyers of the troubled assets.
Howard Newman, the chief executive of Pine Brook Road Partners, a private equity firm that invests in financial companies, said such investors drew a distinction between potentially valuable assets and those that are outright toxic. Some good assets simply cannot be sold right now given the turmoil in the markets.
''If the purpose of the partnership is to find a place to house the loss, I don't think private equity will be willing to do that,'' Mr. Newman said.
Some executives said they wanted the government to subsidize their purchases with low-cost loans. Others said the Treasury should put a floor under their potential losses.
One model might be the government-brokered sale of IndyMac Bancorp, the large California mortgage lender that failed last summer. IndyMac was bought by a group of private firms last month for $13.9 billion. As part of the deal, the investors agreed to assume the first 20 percent of the bank's losses, while the government picked up the rest.
Another big issue is the price at which the troubled assets would be valued by the banks. While potential investors want to buy as cheaply as possible, the banks might have to take debilitating write-downs if they sold at fire-sale prices. Such an outcome might not be in the government's -- or taxpayers' -- interests.
But competing interests are bound to bedevil this kind of deal, said Campbell R. Harvey, a professor at the Fuqua School of Business at Duke University.
''Given the conflicting objectives, I'm not sure I'd be interested in this kind of altruistic investing,'' he said.
And the potential political costs, money managers said, are real. Some managers said that if they did their job well, they could earn double-digit returns and, with them, public scorn.
''We can't really win,'' one private equity executive said. ''When we made money, people criticized us. This year, we lost money, and people are criticizing us.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Traders on the floor of the New York Stock Exchange on Tuesday. The markets slid all day. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL APPLETON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) CHART: DOW INDUSTRIALS (Source: Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TOXIC ASSETS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); HEDGE FUNDS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (60%)

COMPANY: OAKTREE CAPITAL GROUP LLC (53%)

TICKER: OAK (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (53%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (53%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



416 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ADVERTISING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1165 words

HEADLINE: A Pill That Promised Too Much

BYLINE: By NATASHA SINGER

 BODY:
Bayer HealthCare Pharmaceuticals has just introduced a new $20 million advertising campaign for Yaz, the most popular birth control pill in the United States.
But the television ads, now running during prime-time shows like ''Grey's Anatomy'' and on cable networks, are not typical spots promoting the benefits of a prescription drug. Instead, they warn that nobody should take Yaz hoping that it will also cure pimples or premenstrual syndrome.
As part of an unusual crackdown on deceptive consumer drug advertising, the Food and Drug Administration and the attorneys general of 27 states have required Bayer to run these new ads to correct previous Yaz marketing.
Regulators say the ads overstated the drug's ability to improve women's moods and clear up acne, while playing down its potential health risks. Under a settlement with the states, Bayer agreed last Friday to spend at least $20 million on the campaign and for the next six years to submit all Yaz ads for federal screening before they appear. 
''You may have seen some Yaz commercials recently that were not clear,'' an actress says in the new corrective television spot, as she looks into the camera. ''The F.D.A. wants us to correct a few points in those ads.''
Yaz is the best-selling oral contraception pill in the United States, with sales last year of about $616 million or about 18 percent market share, according to IMS Health, a health care information company.
Critics of consumer drug advertising say that while the F.D.A. sends a few dozen letters each year asking drug companies to suspend, amend or correct informational pamphlets and videos, it is unusual for the government to require commercials to set the record straight.
''They rarely require these corrective campaigns,'' said Judy Norsigian, the executive director of Our Bodies Ourselves, a health education and women's advocacy group in Cambridge, Mass. But she said the popularity of the Yaz brand and the misleading ads had demanded a rare punishment. ''These ads should never have been out there,'' Ms. Norsigian said.
Representatives of the F.D.A., and the Florida attorney general, who led the states' effort, declined requests for phone interviews. They released a joint statement on Monday in which they said, in part, they wanted to ''clean up misleading advertising in the marketplace.''
California, Texas, Massachusetts and Michigan were among other states in the settlement, in which Bayer did not admit that it had engaged in deceptive advertising or committed any wrongdoing.
A Bayer spokeswoman responded to a query with an e-mail message. ''The ad for Yaz was revised to more clearly state the indications for Yaz,'' she wrote, adding that no one from Bayer was available for a phone interview to answer other questions on Tuesday.
The corrective television commercials, which began appearing two weeks ago, are scheduled to run until July 26. New print ads, in national magazines like Lucky and Elle, give detailed information about Yaz, but do not indicate they are meant to correct earlier television ads.
The F.D.A. first moved against the Yaz campaign last October, with a warning letter to Bayer saying that two television ads overstated the drug's benefits while understating its risks. By giving consumers the impression that Yaz was generally a drug for acne and general mood problems, the company's ads ran afoul of federal laws against promoting the unapproved uses of a drug, the F.D.A. said. The agency approved Yaz in 2006 as a birth control pill that has a side benefit in treating mood-related psychological problems called premenstrual dysphoric disorder.
In 2007, the agency approved another side benefit of Yaz, that of improving moderate acne. But Yaz contains drospirenone, a progestin that can cause excess potassium production in some patients, its side effects include an increased risk of serious heart and other health problems.
After the F.D.A. complained, Bayer halted the Yaz ads. The agency told Bayer to submit a media plan for a corrective message that would reach the same size and kind of television audiences as the misleading ads did.
The Bayer affair comes at a delicate moment for the pharmaceutical industry. Some of the most popular branded drugs are nearing patent expirations that will open the doors to generic competition, so many big-name drug makers now rely heavily on direct-to-consumer advertising.
Critics charge that the F.D.A. division that oversees drug promotion, with a staff of 52 people, cannot keep up with the tens of thousands of marketing and advertising items produced annually by drug manufacturers. The Yaz controversy may raise new questions about whether that oversight is sufficient.
Aimed primarily at women in their 20s, Yaz has been known for its slogan -- ''Beyond Birth Control'' -- which promotes it not only for pregnancy prevention but as a lifestyle drug.
In one of the commercials cited by the F.D.A., with the song ''We're Not Gonna Take It'' by Twisted Sister playing in the background, a series of young fashionably dressed women kicked away or punctured floating signs with labels like ''irritability'' and ''feeling anxious.'' Meanwhile, a voiceover promoted Yaz as a ''pill that goes beyond the rest,'' with benefits like the ability to maintain clear skin.
The other commercial, set to the tune ''Goodbye to You'' by the Veronicas, shows a variety of women next to balloons -- marked ''headaches,'' ''acne'' and ''feeling anxious'' -- which float away, presumably after treatment with Yaz.
''The ad is basically speaking to a majority of menstruating women,'' and not to the minority of women with the psychological problem for which Yaz is approved, said Dr. Nada L. Stotland, a professor of psychiatry at Rush Medical Center in Chicago and the president of the American Psychiatric Association.
For 2008 during which the ads in question were broadcast on television, sales of Yaz in the United States increased to about $616 million, from about $262 million the year before, according to IMS Health.
This is not the first time that health groups and government officials have faulted birth control commercials as being misleading. In 2003, the F.D.A. sent a warning letter to Berlex Laboratories faulting its ads for Yasmin, the precursor to Yaz, for implying the pills were superior to other oral contraceptives and for minimizing risks specific to the drug.
Bayer, which acquired Berlex as part of a deal in 2006, now markets Yasmin. Last year, Yasmin had sales of about $382 million, or about 11 percent of the United States market, according to IMS Health.
Bruce L. Lambert, a professor of pharmacy administration at the University of Illinois at Chicago, lauded the F.D.A. for insisting this time that Bayer run a corrective advertising campaign. But he referred to the corrective $20 million ad campaign for Yaz as ''chump change'' and ''just the cost of doing business.''
''I don't think it is likely to stop,'' he said, ''unless there are more significant consequences.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An ad for Yaz, a birth control pill by Bayer, promoted its effectiveness against premenstrual symptoms. (B1)
 An actress in new ads for Yaz says that some commercials were not clear, and that the F.D.A. ''wants us to correct a few points.''(pg. B9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); CONTRACEPTION (90%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (90%); DIRECT TO CONSUMER DRUG MARKETING (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (90%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (78%); MARKET SHARE (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); ACNE (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (75%); WOMEN (75%); CONSUMER LAW (75%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (75%)

COMPANY: BAYER HEALTHCARE PHARMACEUTICAL DIVISION (59%); IMS HEALTH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (59%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (59%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



417 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 771 words

HEADLINE: Satellite Radio Company Sirius XM Prepares for Possible Bankruptcy

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and ZACHERY KOUWE

 BODY:
Last summer, Mel Karmazin was rattling off his trademark one-liners to talk up the future of Sirius XM Radio, the combined company he ran that had just been blessed by regulators.
He was planning to cut costs and expand a business that was already a fixture in the lives of millions of Americans. ''Forty-three cents a day -- it's not even vending machine coffee,'' he said at the time, parrying a question about whether the softening economy might hurt subscriptions.
But now Sirius XM, the satellite radio company, has problems with much bigger price tags. It has hired advisers to prepare for a possible bankruptcy filing, people involved in the process said. 
That would, of course, be a grim turn of events for the normally upbeat Mr. Karmazin, Sirius XM's chief executive, who had hoped to create a mobile entertainment juggernaut with stars like Howard Stern.
It is unclear how a bankruptcy would affect customers. Service is unlikely to be interrupted, but the company might have to terminate contracts with high-priced talent like Mr. Stern or Martha Stewart.
A bankruptcy would make Sirius XM one of the largest casualties of the credit squeeze. With over $5 billion in assets, it would be the second-largest Chapter 11 filing so far this year, according to Capital IQ. The filing by Smurfit-Stone, with assets of $7 billion, has been the year's biggest to date.
Sirius XM, which never turned a profit when both companies were independent, is laden with $3.25 billion in debt. Its business model has been dependent, in part, on the ability to roll over its enormous debts -- used to finance sending satellites into space and attract talent like Mr. Stern (who was paid $100 million a year) -- at low rates for the foreseeable future until it could turn a profit.
The company's success and failure are also tied to the faltering fortunes of the automobile industry, which sells vehicles with its radio technology installed and represented the largest customer base among Sirius XM's 20 million subscribers.
Sirius XM owes about $175 million in debt payments at the end of February that it is unlikely to be able to pay.
Sirius XM's problems could pave the way for a takeover by EchoStar, the TV satellite company, which has bought up Sirius XM's debt.
Mr. Karmazin has been locked in talks with EchoStar's chief executive, Charles W. Ergen, over Sirius XM's options, people involved in the talks said. The men are said not to get along, these people said, and Mr. Karmazin had rebuffed Mr. Ergen's takeover advances before.
Sirius XM hired Joseph A. Bondi of Alvarez & Marsal and Mark J. Thompson, a bankruptcy lawyer with Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett, to help prepare a Chapter 11 filing, these people said.
Documents and analysis are close to completion and a filing could come in days, according to a person familiar with the matter.
The threat of bankruptcy could also be part of a negotiating dance with Mr. Ergen, who could decide to convert his debt into equity instead of demanding payment.
In addition to the $175 million due in February, EchoStar also owns $400 million of Sirius XM's debt due in December. If Sirius XM files for bankruptcy, EchoStar could seek in court to take over the company. Mr. Ergen, however, may be able to negotiate to convert his shares before bankruptcy at an attractive rate and gain control of the company, these people said.
For Mr. Karmazin, the sale or bankruptcy of Sirius XM would be one of his first failures. He founded Infinity Broadcasting, sold it to CBS and later merged the combined companies into Viacom, where he had a notoriously difficult relationship with Sumner M. Redstone, the chairman, before being ousted.
Mr. Karmazin bought two million shares of Sirius XM at $1.37 a share in August. Before that, he had bought 20 million shares at an average price of $5 each. On Tuesday, Sirius closed at 11.4 cents a share.
Since the summer, the company's prospects have dimmed.
''I'm not trying to paint the rosy picture, because we have challenges connected to our liquidity and certainly our stock price is dreadful,'' Mr. Karmazin said in December. ''But, you know, our revenues are growing double digits. We're growing subscribers. We're not losing subscribers.''
A spokeswoman for Mr. Karmazin declined to comment. A spokesman for EchoStar could not be reached.
Mr. Karmazin staked the success of the merger on nearly $400 million in annual cost savings and the potential to gain subscribers through deals with auto companies to put satellite radios into cars.
But satellite radio failed to win over many younger listeners, and competition from other sources slowed subscriber growth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, Mel Karmazin, chief of Sirius XM. Below, Charles Ergen, EchoStar's chief.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS
 DAVID SCULL/BLOOMBERG NEWS)(pg. B10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SATELLITE RADIO (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (88%); CREDIT CRISIS (75%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (69%); MOBILE MEDIA (68%); EXECUTIVES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (64%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (60%)

COMPANY: SIRIUS XM RADIO INC (96%); SIMPSON THACHER & BARTLETT LLP (80%)

TICKER: SIRI (NASDAQ) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (96%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (96%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (80%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (80%)

PERSON: HOWARD STERN (79%); CHARLES ERGEN (74%); MARTHA STEWART (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



418 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; DINING BRIEFS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 450 words

HEADLINE: Revisit

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI

 BODY:
A VOCE
41 Madison Avenue (26th Street); (212) 545-8555. Avocerestaurant.com.
As we all wonder whether our new president has the requisite judgment to steer us away from economic catastrophe, we can take some comfort from this: he has the requisite judgment to appreciate Missy Robbins. 
Ms. Robbins cooked for years at Spiaggia, an acclaimed restaurant in Chicago that was a favorite of Barack Obama's. A few months before he relocated from the Windy City to the even windier one (at least when the Sunday-morning talk shows are on), she bolted for New York.
Her mandate: keep the kitchen at A Voce, the Italian standout near Madison Square Park, operating at the high level it did under Andrew Carmellini, its original chef, who had just departed.
She's the one following the really tough act.
Judging from a recent dinner, she isn't (and needn't be) bowed by that. She has skills and sound judgment, and under her guidance A Voce turns out food with grace and gusto.
Try the thinly sliced octopus terrine ($16), which spreads out like a pink mosaic over the whole of a large plate. Or if that sounds too precious, go for the cassoncini, pockets of fried dough filled with cheese and Swiss chard ($13). The kitchen aced both.
Of three pasta dishes my companions and I tried, only one was a disappointment: overcooked tagiolini with ''sweet shrimp'' that weren't so sweet, bottarga that wasn't so salty and an overall blandness that wasn't much of a recommendation ($23).
In contrast, the quadrati, envelopes of pasta filled with pecorino and ricotta ($22), seemed to be hoarding all the flavor denied the tagiolini. The dish had bacon, Savoy cabbage and black pepper, while a ravioli special had veal and black truffles from Umbria ($26).
Many of Italy's 20 regions have some say in Ms. Robbins's menu, which celebrates north and south, sea and land. Both dorade ($31) and trout ($29) were gorgeously cooked: so was lamb, served two ways -- grilled chops, braised neck -- in one dish ($36).
Prices aren't low, though a three-course $29 lunch was recently added. The cold contemporary decor has never been to many diners' tastes. And the real test of Ms. Robbins's performance here is whether she can sustain it once a second, larger A Voce opens in the Time Warner Center later this year. It was the double challenge that lured her.
But what she's doing now would surely make Mr. Obama proud. And it would leave him sated.
Correction: February 18, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An entry in the Dining Briefs last Wednesday about the restaurant A Voce misstated the price of a three-course lunch menu that it recently added. It is $29, not $35.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: OBAMA'S PICK: Missy Robbins at A Voce.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTIAN HANSEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); RESTAURANTS (76%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); ITALY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



419 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: New Plan, Old Doubts: For Geithner's Debut, A Lukewarm Reception

BYLINE: By JACKIE CALMES

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- For Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner as much as for the troubled government program to bail out the financial system, Tuesday amounted to a do-over.
Initial reviews for the man and his plan were not good, however. Stock markets slid through the day, perhaps spurred downward by withering punditry on the business-news cable channels faulting Mr. Geithner for not providing more details, particularly on stemming home foreclosures. Senators of both parties lodged similar complaints at a hearing.
''I haven't heard yet how we're going to solve this problem,'' Senator Bob Corker, Republican of Tennessee, told the Treasury secretary more than three hours into the Senate Banking Committee hearing. 
With a formal speech, live television interviews and then his Senate appearance, Mr. Geithner announced the Obama administration's overhaul of the Bush administration's bank bailout program, which had proved largely ineffective at getting credit flowing again.
The changes are intended to ensure that the $350 billion still available from the original $700 billion allocated by Congress will accomplish what the Bush team's effort did not: jump-start lending, clean up the balance sheets of banks, provide relief to housing markets and restore confidence in the government's response.
The day also was the public debut of Mr. Geithner, the man President Obama has called ''the chief economic spokesman for my administration.'' And it was a chance for him to begin reintroducing himself after the flap over his failure to pay some federal taxes nearly derailed his confirmation and undercut the credibility he has enjoyed and now needs badly.
Mr. Geithner, 47, becomes the face of the government's economic rescue efforts after months as the junior partner with his predecessor as Treasury secretary, Henry M. Paulson Jr., and the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke.
Two weeks into his job, Mr. Geithner has taken full responsibility for issues on which Lawrence H. Summers, his boss at the Treasury in the 1990s and now the chief economic adviser in the White House, had filled in while Mr. Geithner weathered his confirmation controversy.
Mr. Obama gave Mr. Geithner's speech -- in the Treasury Building's gilded Cash Room on Tuesday -- a big advance buildup at his news conference Monday evening. ''He's going to be terrific,'' Mr. Obama said, adding, ''I'm going to make sure that Tim gets his moment in the sun.''
The Democratic chairman of the Senate Banking Committee, Christopher J. Dodd of Connecticut, introduced Mr. Geithner, making the case that ''he understands the enormity'' of the financial crisis in a booming voice that contrasted with Mr. Geithner's initially nervous start.
Mr. Geithner, gaining some confidence, delivered his remarks in simple sentences using a teleprompter, suggesting the importance of communicating a complex issue both to markets and to taxpayers who are reluctantly financing the bailout.
Mr. Paulson was widely criticized as being inarticulate and faulted for sending mixed signals that occasionally disturbed markets and investors.
In his testimony, Mr. Geithner acknowledged that he risked criticism for not providing more details. He told senators that he wanted to address the public's desire for a clearer idea of the new administration's thinking but that he wanted to get the details right -- and not repeat what he has called ''the zigs and zags'' and mistakes of the past.
Among those was Mr. Paulson's redefinition of the bailout program after he had sold it to Congress, a shift that unsettled financial markets further. Mr. Geithner did not specify that episode and otherwise has declined to criticize the predecessor with whom he worked. Instead, he has come in for blame as well, both for his role in the miscalculations of the initial efforts and, at the New York Fed, for being complicit in failing to counter abuses that gave rise to the credit crisis.
In his speech, he acknowledged the criticism. ''Policy was always behind the curve, always chasing the escalating crisis,'' he said, adding that the first effort had proven ''inadequate.''
Senator Richard C. Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the Senate Banking Committee, told Mr. Geithner that he and other regulators ''failed the American people.''
While Mr. Geithner accepted some blame, he took credit for regulatory efforts at the Fed that ''made a substantial difference.''
As Treasury secretary, Mr. Geithner will take a lead role in overhauling the financial regulatory system and he promised ''comprehensive reform.''
For the speech that started Mr. Geithner's day, the guests included Mr. Bernanke, who will be his chief partner under the revised plan, as well as officials from the Treasury and White House, financial regulators, industry lobbyists and representatives of both parties in Congress. Mr. Summers was not present. He was at a White House meeting on the fiscal 2010 budget that will be released later this month.
Though Mr. Obama had said on Monday that Mr. Geithner would be holding a press conference, after the speech at the Treasury, the secretary left the room without taking questions from dozens of reporters seated behind five rows of invited guests. But he immediately went to do live interviews for the CNBC and Bloomberg business news channels. Among the 17 cameras that filmed him was one for a possible ''60 Minutes'' profile.
The invited included Spencer Bachus of Alabama, the senior Republican on the House Financial Services Committee. He said Mr. Geithner faced ''a very long process of winning back credibility'' with the public after the tax controversy. But, he added, ''opening the drawer and going through the dirty laundry just doesn't help us at this point. And he is very capable.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, explained his economic plan Tuesday morning in the Treasury's Cash Room, which was designed as a roofed version of an Italian palazzo.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B1)
 Timothy F. Geithner is the man President Obama has called ''the chief economic spokesman for my administration.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); BANK FAILURES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); CABLE TELEVISION (71%); ECONOMIC POLICY (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (68%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); LAWRENCE SUMMERS (58%); BOB CORKER (58%); BEN BERNANKE (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



420 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1622 words

HEADLINE: Bailout Plan: $2.5 Trillion and a Strong U.S. Hand

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and STEPHEN LABATON; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting from Fort Myers, Fla.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The White House plan to rescue the nation's financial system, announced on Tuesday by Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, is far bigger than anyone predicted and envisions a far greater government role in markets and banks than at any time since the 1930s.
Administration officials committed to flood the financial system with as much as $2.5 trillion -- $350 billion of that coming from the bailout fund and the rest from private investors and the Federal Reserve, making use of its ability to print money.
Mindful of previous financial crises at home and abroad that became protracted because governments moved too slowly, Mr. Geithner pointedly criticized the Bush administration for not acting boldly and quickly enough. 
But the initial assessment of the plan from the markets, lawmakers and economists was brutally negative, in large part because they expected more details.
Basic questions about how the various parts of the program would work, especially those involving the unsellable mortgages that banks are holding and preventing home foreclosures, were left for another day. Some Wall Street experts criticized the plan for relying too heavily on the same vague solutions proposed by the Bush administration.
The stock market, propped up for weeks on the expectation that Washington would finally deliver a comprehensive rescue plan, dipped almost as soon as Mr. Geithner began speaking in the morning. The Dow Jones industrial average fell 382 points, or 4.6 percent, by the time the market closed. Yields on Treasury bills dropped, indicating a flight from stocks to the safety of government bonds. Asian markets slipped more narrowly.
While traveling in Fort Myers, Fla., President Obama welcomed the news that the Senate voted 61-37 to approve its $838 billion economic stimulus bill Tuesday, but dismissed the market reaction to his bank rescue plan.
''Wall Street, I think, is hoping for an easy out on this thing and there is no easy out,'' Mr. Obama said in an interview with ABC News.
Many of the vital details of the program remain unsettled and are the subject of an intense behind-the-scenes debate.
The president himself had built up expectations that the plan would get ahead of the crisis -- and not lurch from pillar to post as the Bush administration did last year, often in partnership with the New York Federal Reserve under its then-president, Mr. Geithner.
A central piece of the plan -- and the one item that investors most craved information about -- would create one or more so-called bad banks that would rely on taxpayer and private money to purchase and hold banks' bad assets. But the administration provided the least amount of details about this part of the plan.
Another centerpiece of the plan would stretch the last $350 billion that the Treasury has for the bailout by relying on the Federal Reserve's ability to create money, in effect, out of thin air. The Fed's money will enable the government to become involved in the management of markets and banks in ways not seen since the Great Depression.
In the credit markets, for instance, the administration and the Fed are proposing to expand a lending program that would spend as much as $1 trillion to make up for the $1.2 trillion decline between 2006 and last year in the issuance of securities backed primarily by consumer loans.
The plan's third major component would give banks new helpings of capital with which to lend. Banks that receive new government assistance will have to cut the salaries and perks of their executives and sharply limit dividends and corporate acquisitions.
They will also have to make public more information about their lending practices. A Treasury fact sheet said that banks would have to state monthly how many new loans they make, but stopped short of ordering banks to issue new loans or requiring them to account in detail for the federal money.
Mr. Obama, in the ABC News interview, suggested that banks would be required to reveal more about their mortgage holdings.
''Essentially what you've got are a set of banks that have not been as transparent as we need to be in terms of what their books look like. And we're going to have to hold out the Band-Aid a little bit and go ahead and just be clear about some of the losses that have been made because until we do that, we're not going to be able to attract private capital into the marketplace.''
The day was the first big test of Mr. Geithner as Treasury secretary, who has one of the toughest sells in America: convincing lawmakers and taxpayers that they should again bail out the very banks whose mistakes contributed to the loss of more than three million jobs and caused acute financial pain.
It was clear during the hours he spent before the cameras and lawmakers that he was well-spoken and thoughtful. But his career until now had played out behind the scenes as a civil servant and a central banker. He occasionally lapsed into financial jargon and struggled to connect to a broader public audience.
As the day wore on, Mr. Geithner faced growing skepticism from Democratic and Republican lawmakers, many of them channeling deep voter disgust with the way the government has handled the bailout over the last nine months.
Even Democrats who are supportive of the administration said that it had failed to provide more information about how it would be spending the remaining money in the bailout program.
''We need more details from Treasury on how exactly it plans to remove bad assets while protecting the taxpayer,'' said Senator John Kerry, the Massachusetts Democrat who is a senior member of the Senate Finance Committee. ''We have zombie banks that are weighed down because their liabilities exceed their assets. Without a precise mechanism for addressing toxic assets, it will be difficult to increase lending.''
The pessimism seemed to indicate that Mr. Geithner missed the mark with one of his shorter-term goals -- to quickly instill confidence that the Obama administration has a coherent approach to the banking crisis and that the transparency and oversight of the new program will differ markedly from the Bush administration's management of the first $350 billion that Congress authorized last year for the Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
''The spectacle of huge amounts of taxpayer money being provided to the same institutions that helped cause the crisis, with limited transparency and oversight, added to the public distrust,'' the Treasury secretary said, in a clear swipe at the Bush administration.
''We will have to try things we've never tried before. We will make mistakes. We will go through periods in which things get worse and progress is uneven or interrupted,'' Mr. Geithner said.
Representative Barney Frank, the Massachusetts Democrat who heads the House Financial Services Committee, criticized the Obama administration for not putting out more details and said it should commit more than $50 billion to avert home foreclosures.
''The secretary said the administration would present details of their foreclosure reduction plan in a few weeks, which is too much time,'' Mr. Frank said.
Appearing on Tuesday afternoon before the Senate banking committee, Mr. Geithner vowed to move quickly to provide more details. But Republicans were skeptical.
''Is there a concrete plan here?'' Richard Shelby of Alabama, the senior Republican on the committee, asked Mr. Geithner point blank, after noting that Mr. Geithner had been part of the leadership involved in last year's bailout efforts. ''What is different about the process that you are offering here to devise your plan such that we should have confidence that it is well thought out?''
There was also withering criticism from Wall Street. Ethan Harris, co-head of United States economics research at Barclays Capital, said the program was ''shock and uh.'' He said the Treasury made a ''tactical mistake'' by building up expectations about a plan before it had much to announce.
''What's striking is that these are not new issues that they are facing,'' Mr. Harris said. ''These are the same issues that the Treasury faced last fall -- how do we price the assets? The fact that it's so been so difficult to figure out the answer may tell you something about whether it's worth doing or not.''
Mr. Harris warned that setting up a so-called bad bank would be very expensive, as Mr. Geithner himself acknowledged when he set the goal of creating a fund that would reach $1 trillion. Frank Pallotta, a former managing director at Morgan Stanley and a veteran mortgage trader, said the gap was so wide between what banks were valuing their assets and what investors were willing to pay that the government would attract investors to buy only if it provided a subsidy of one form or another.
''Right now, the banks aren't selling anything,'' said Mr. Pallotta, now a consultant to both buyers and sellers of distressed mortgages. ''You have Chase thinking that its assets are worth 75 cents on the dollar, and Joe Hedge Fund who thinks they are only worth 45 or 25. There is a huge gap, and the government has to find out if there is some middle point where they can get in.''
Mr. Pallotta said he did not fault the Treasury for failing to offer specifics yet, but he said it could not delay for long. ''If we don't hear in the next 30 days about how this thing will flesh out, then I would be upset.''
Correction: February 12, 2009, Thursday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: A chart on Wednesday with an article about the Treasury's new plans to assist ailing banks misstated the amounts provided under a $125 billion program for big banks and referred incorrectly to the number of banks receiving the money.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Geithner, center, at the banking committee with Senator Christopher Dodd, right, and Senator Richard Shelby. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.A22) CHART: KEY STEPS TO HELP BANKS AND CONSUMERS (pg.A1)
 DRAWING DOWN ON TARP: Just over half of the Treasury Department's $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, was committed during the Bush administration. On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner unveiled some details about how the new administration would use the fund. (Source: Treasury.)(pg.A22) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); BONDS (75%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (74%); APPROVALS (72%); STOCK INDEXES (66%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (64%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (54%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



421 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; BOOKS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1089 words

HEADLINE: U.S. as Parent To Countries In Their Teens

BYLINE: By DWIGHT GARNER

 BODY:
GREAT POWERS
America and the World After Bush
By Thomas P. M. Barnett
488 pages. G. P. Putnam's Sons. $29.95.
Thomas P. M. Barnett, a former professor at the United States Naval War College, had a surprise best seller in 2004 with ''The Pentagon's New Map.'' The title was mildly deceptive; Mr. Barnett's book was as much about globalization as about military deep-think.
Mr. Barnett's ''new map'' split the world into two basic categories: a ''functioning core'' of nations that are plugged into the global economy, and a ''nonintegrating gap'' of countries -- in the Middle East, Latin America and elsewhere -- that are chaotic and dangerous because they are cut off from the world's established markets and institutions.
Mr. Barnett's sane idea: bring the world's rowdy, hormonal, emotionally tortured teenage countries to the adult table, and teach them to prosper through capitalism, cooperation and openness. The enemy ''is neither a religion (Islam) nor a place (the Middle East), but a condition -- disconnectedness,'' he explained. 
''The Pentagon's New Map'' sold well for a number of reasons. It became popular with military officers, so much so that the Washington Post columnist David Ignatius called Mr. Barnett ''the most influential defense intellectual writing these days.''
Civilians liked Mr. Barnett's talky, joke-filled, accessible prose, full of allusions to things like ''Planet of the Apes.'' He is also cheekily provocative. In ''The Pentagon's New Map'' he suggested that the United States would add new members to its union in coming decades, leading some to wonder if he were advocating annexing Canada and parts of Latin America.
Mr. Barnett's new book, ''Great Powers: America and the World After Bush,'' picks up where ''The Pentagon's New Map'' left off. His central argument, once again, is the importance of enlightened globalization.
''We are modern globalization's source code -- its DNA,'' he declares. We should ''take everything we've learned along the way and sell it across the planet at suitably discounted prices.''
He is clearly fluent in Thomas L. Friedman's ''flat-world'' ideas, as well as in Fareed Zakaria's notion of the ''rise of the rest'' in his book ''The Post-American World.'' Mr. Barnett tinkers with these writers' theories while adding his own military-wonk spin.
When it comes to globalization's rough patches, particularly when America is confronting emerging countries or belligerent would-be superpowers, Mr. Barnett suggests that we need to realize that ''we're playing against 'younger' versions of ourselves in many instances.'' He counsels a kind of parental Zen patience.
''It took us 89 years to free the slaves and 189 years to guarantee African-Americans the right to vote,'' he writes. ''Women waited 144 years before earning suffrage. If a mature, multiparty democracy was so darn easy, everybody would have one.''
One problem with playing parent is that, as the old saying goes, you're only as happy as your unhappiest child.
If globalization is Mr. Barnett's big hedgehog idea, as a thinker he's decidedly a fox. In ''Great Powers'' he cleans out his mental closet, spinning out ideas about everything from religion to health care to transportation to milk supplies. He says so much that he's in danger of saying nothing.
As often as possible, Mr. Barnett wedges his ideas into user-friendly lists. He is, verily, obsessed with lists. In his new book he delivers ''the seven deadly sins of Bush-Cheney'' (lust, greed, pride, etc.), as well as a ''12-step recovery program for American grand strategy,'' based on the Alcoholics Anonymous credo that one needs to admit past mistakes and make amends.
We're also given ''Barnett's 14 points to remember,'' a ''seven-step recalibration process'' to adjust the country's faulty strategic trajectory and a list of 14 ''shifts'' or ''tipping points'' he sees in the near future.
The inspirations for these lists can seem arbitrary. Why base the Bush administration's mistakes on the Seven Deadly Sins? Why not the Ten Commandments, the five senses, the Four Horsemen of the Apocalypse (Pestilence, War, Famine and Death) or Freud's three parts of the psyche? There's always Mr. Barnett's next book.
As ''Great Powers'' rumbles forward, Mr. Barnett's smaller, more granular ideas are the ones that catch your eye.
He argues, for example, that history will judge former President George W. Bush's dealings with China, in terms of encouraging that country to become a ''stakeholder'' in global security, as a success that is ''greater than the Bush administration's failures in Iraq.''
He zings baby boomers, saying their generation has brought us ''one of the weakest cohorts of politicians America has ever produced.'' He compares the boomer era to that of 1875-90, the period of industrial and financial titans like Andrew Carnegie and J. P. Morgan.
''Decades from now,'' he says, ''the key names most Americans will remember from our age will be Bill Gates, Warren Buffett and Rupert Murdoch (yes, he's a Yank now, too), while virtually all our politicians will slip into well-deserved obscurity.''
Mr. Barnett is more foxy than hedgehoglike in other ways too. In the years since he published ''The Pentagon's New Map,'' he has positioned himself as a busy, multiplatform pundit. He writes for Esquire magazine; he has a syndicated newspaper column; he blogs and Twitters like a madman. His PowerPoint presentations are popular on YouTube.
In his new book, in fact, Mr. Barnett writes as if he were delivering a long, caffeinated PowerPoint lecture, pacing the stage with a microphone snaking around from the back of his head, Tony Robbins-style. Which is to say that his book is talky, glib, overly long and piled high with filibustering verbiage (''Circling back to my original point,'' ''I hope you're beginning to see why I bothered telling you all this'') and cliches. In ''Great Powers,'' fences always need mending, chickens come home to roost, rubber meets the road, and tides are swum against.
If it can sometimes be hard to take Mr. Barnett entirely seriously, he does not seem to have self-esteem issues. In ''Great Powers'' he relates how Gen. David H. Petraeus ''e-mailed me one afternoon to say he was a reader of my weblog.'' This, of course, has the effect of ''confirming his reputation,'' Mr. Barnett notes, ''for a voracious and wide-ranging intake of analysis.''
Give Mr. Barnett this much: his books are rarely humdrum. And it is hard to disagree with his nonfoxy observation that ''the world desperately wants America back.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (C1)
 Thomas P. M. Barnett (PHOTOGRAPH BY CONNIE DAWSON) (C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ADOLESCENTS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); WRITERS (89%); BOOK REVIEWS (78%); NAVIES (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (74%); RELIGION (66%)

COMPANY: G P PUTNAM'S SONS (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%)

PERSON: THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%)

TITLE: Great Powers: America and the World After Bush (Book)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



422 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2151 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
Role of U.N. Peacekeeper
Raises Concerns Among Experts
More than a decade after United Nations peacekeepers failed to prevent massacres in Rwanda and Srebrenica, Bosnia, diplomats and experts say that the organization's flagship mission appears to be slouching toward crisis once again because of a significant rise in the number of peacekeeping commitments worldwide. PAGE A6
REPORT LINKS ATTACKS TO PAKISTANIS
According to a report by the Pakistani government leaked to local television networks, at least 5 of the 10 gunmen who attacked targets in Mumbai, India, nearly three months ago were of Pakistani origin -- the first acknowledgment by Pakistan that more than one of its citizens had participated in the assault. The country has confirmed that the lone surviving gunman, in Indian custody, is Pakistani. PAGE A7 
PALESTINIANS ASK FOR GAZA INQUIRY
The Palestinian Authority is pressing the International Criminal Court in The Hague to investigate accusations of war crimes committed by Israeli commanders during the recent war in Gaza. Luis Moreno-Ocampo, the chief prosecutor at The Hague, has received more than 200 requests to look into allegations of war crimes during the recent fighting between Israel and Hamas militants. PAGE A9
U.N. SAYS ISRAEL IS BLOCKING AID
Ban Ki-moon, the secretary general of the United Nations, repeated his demand that Israel allow significantly more humanitarian aid and relief supplies into the beleaguered Gaza Strip, and he announced that he would send a team to investigate the bombings of United Nations facilities there. PAGE A9
IRAQI PREMIER BUILDS TIES TO FRANCE
During a visit to Iraq by President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, Prime Minister Nuri Kamal al-Maliki signaled a desire to gradually diminish American power over Iraqi politics and increase ties to other Western powers. PAGE A10
NETWORK APOLOGIZES FOR BEIJING FIRE
In a rare gesture of contrition by China's national television network, China Central Television blamed an illegal fireworks display by its employees for igniting a blaze that destroyed a futuristic luxury hotel and theater. Page A12
PLANNING A HARDER LINE WITH CHINA
Senior officials in the Obama administration said they planned to reallign the United States' relationship with China by putting more emphasis on climate change, energy and human rights, widening the focus beyond the economic concerns of the Bush years. PAGE A12
National
TOWN REELS AFTER MAN IS ACCUSED
Of Tricking Teens on Facebook
The quiet town of New Berlin in eastern Wisconsin was rocked by charges against an 18-year-old accused of setting up a fake profile on Facebook, the popular social networking site, to dupe 31 male students at a local high school, some as young as 15, into sending him nude photos of themselves over the past several months. PAGE A13
REMEMBERING GETTYSBURG ADDRESS
Dignitaries will gather in Gettysburg, Pa., on Thursday, the 200th anniversary of Abraham Lincoln's birth, to open a new National Park Service museum at the home of David Wills, the lawyer who invited Lincoln to the town to deliver the address and housed him while he was there. PAGE A14
CARWASHES CHARGED WITH ABUSE
The city attorney of Los Angeles accused the industry of systemic labor violations and charged three men with 176 counts of worker abuse at four family-owned carwashes. PAGE A14
DOWNSCALING ON THE STRIP
Because of structural defects, the MGM Mirage casino in Las Vegas said it would to shorten a hotel-condominium project it is building on the Strip to 28 stories instead of the planned 49. PAGE A14
SHINING A LIGHT ON PACKED PRISONS
A ruling by Federal judges in California that packed facilities are the chief impediment to adequate health care in prisons is significant because of the scale of its proposed prisoner reduction (55,000 prisoners in the next three years), and also because it shines a harsh light on the failures of state government to address the problem. PAGE A15
A SHORT-LIVED UPPER HAND
The Tennessee Republican Party gave up its new one-seat majority in the state House of Representatives -- the first time it has controlled the house since 1869 -- when the chairwoman stripped the House speaker, Kent Williams, above, of his Republican Party membership, citing ''dishonor, deception and betrayal'' after he rose to the post by circumventing the Party and being backed solely by Democrats. PAGE A16
RIVALS DEFY PARTY ON STIMULUS
Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, both of Maine and hardly the best of friends, broke with virtually every other Republican senator to back President Obama's $800-billion-plus economic recovery plan. PAGE A18
NEW YORK
HIGH COURT NOMINEE KNOWS
How to Clear a Logjam
When Jonathan Lippman, the nominee to be chief judge of the New York Court of Appeals, became the presiding justice of the Appellate Division in Manhattan in 2007, he inherited a court with its heels planted firmly in the mud. A year later, the caseload was down by nearly 75 percent, and decisions were coming out much more quickly. PAGE A24
CHARGES OF ILLEGAL PRESCRIPTIONS
A Staten Island doctor was charged with operating a walk-in wellness center that illegally prescribed steroids to more than 200 customers, prosecutors said, including one bodybuilder with a transplanted heart who died from taking the drugs. PAGE A25
BEER DISTRIBUTOR TO MOVE TO PIERS
One of the city's largest beer distributors, Phoenix Beverages, has reached a tentative agreement to move to two piers on the waterfront in Red Hook, Brooklyn. PAGE A25
BUSINESS
AS GEITHNER OFFERS NEW PLAN
For Bailout, Stocks Plunge
Investors were expecting the Obama administration to unveil a shock and awe solution for the nation's banking system. But shock was what prevailed after the plan raised more questions than it answered, sending stock markets and the shares of some banks sharply lower. PAGE B1
SPEND NOW, SAVE LATER?
It's your fault. Part of it is, anyway. You, the American consumer, spent too much money. And now you're going to have to do your part to end the crisis. How? By spending. John Maynard Keynes, the great 20th-century economist, would have appreciated the apparent absurdity in these mixed messages, David Leonhardt writes. PAGE B1
TECHNOLOGY'S FINGERPRINTS ON BILL
The biggest outlay on new initiatives in the $800 billion stimulus bill is essentially a technology industry wish list. To many on K Street, the bill was the clearest guide to the new administration's closest friends in the business world. PAGE B3
BILLOWING BUILDINGS ON A BUDGET
Frank Gehry is using software called Digital Project to design Beekman Tower, a wrinkled-looking residential skyscraper in Manhattan commissioned by the Forest City Ratner Companies, testing the idea that an architect can provide software to help keep costs down. PAGE B6
RENTS FALL IN GARMENT DISTRICT
The average asking rents for office space in New York's garment district have fallen 23 percent since 2007, to around $42, says one real estate broker. PAGE B7
Sports
A TOP DOG IS A CHIP
Off the Old, Long-Dead Block
Yes, a black standard poodle that took home the top prize in the nonsporting group at Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show this week was conceived using 25-year-old frozen sperm from Snapper, another prize-winning poodle who died in 1990. PAGE B13
THE METS' HO-HUM START
Unlike the other baseball team in New York, the Mets have been largely devoid of drama, and their biggest question is how far along their pitching ace, Johan Santana, is in his recovery since knee surgery in October. PAGE B15
TWINS POWER A POTENT OFFENSE
Travis and Chavis Holmes are the highest-scoring twin brothers in N.C.A.A. Division 1 history and have revived the basketball program at the Virginia Military Institute, which has not had a winning season since 1997-98 and has not reached a national postseason tournament since 1976-77. PAGE B13
Arts
DISTRIBUTOR OF AVANT-GARDE FILMS
Threatened With Eviction
The Film-Makers' Cooperative, which has been a stalwart guardian of avant-garde American cinema, is facing eviction from its Lower Manhattan office space, which is owned by P.S. 1, another champion of avant-garde art. The cooperative would be removed to make room for a new Internet art radio project, which happens to be the brainchild of P.S. 1's founder and former executive director. PAGE C1
TACKLING GEOPOLITICS, EFFUSIVELY
Dwight Garner writes that ''Great Powers'' by Thomas P. M. Barnett reads as if the author is delivering a long, caffeinated PowerPoint lecture. It's packed with cliches and long digressions, but also with lots of provocative ideas about America's place in a rapidly globalizing world. PAGE C1
FINDING A MIDDLE, VIA RAY CHARLES
In recent collaborations between Willie Nelson, above, and Wynton Marsalis, the pair wade deftly into the wide river of American music. At the first of their two sold-out shows at the Rose Theater, they played songs associated with Ray Charles, the artist who most credibly covered all the pertinent terrain. A review by Nate Chinen. PAGE C1
Arts, Briefly C2
A CRUNCHED MET MOVES FORWARD
The Metropolitan Opera has announced that it will put on eight new productions, at a time when the economic downturn has otherwise prompted the house to scale back its ambitions. PAGE C3
Fondly Remembering a Mafioso C7
Dining
REMEMBERING TASTES OF HOME,
Wherever That May Be
New York is what it is for many reasons, but two of these are its pace and its population seasoned by so many people from someplace else. Those that settle here bring with them histories, languages, cultures and most of all food. For meals that match the pace of New York but have a taste of home, there's no place like, well, home. Page D1
OH NO, NOT THE CHECK!
The power lunch used to end with a mad scramble as a monetary one-upmanship ensured, each person trying to outdo the other by paying for the check. That was when corporate accounts were flush. Now that they're drier than the Mojave, that little piece of paper sits on the table like medusa -- everybody is afraid to even look at it. Page D1
The Pour
Italian Strangers, $10 to $20
Spending less than $10 on a bottle of wine can usually get you something palatable that goes down easy. But if you raise that amount just slightly, there is a vaster world to be had, Italy to be exact. Page D1
The Minimalist
Back in Brown D2
A Good Appetite
Third Time's the Charm D2
STRAIGHT FROM THE GARDEN
A vegetable appetizer from Corton in TriBeCa brings new meaning to garden variety. A grouping of vegetables, flowers and leaves, each prepared separately and strewn across a bed of dirt -- in this case, brioche crumbs and powdered tomato. The dish owes its inspiration from Gargouillou, a dish whose ingredients reflect the surrounding area. Page D2
Food Stuff
Importing Turkish Flavor D3
What's New in Rice Cookers D3
A Seedless Kumquat D3
VODKA DONE SOUTHERN STYLE
Fireflies, front porches, sweet tea and visions of the Kremlin. Okay, so that last one doesn't match, but a vodka infused with sweet tea has the potential to be so tasty it doesn't matter. Page D3
Dessert Ruined by Peanuts D6
FINDING NEMO, THEN EATING HIM
It's not easy to create a place that looks like no other and serves food that tastes like no other, but, Frank Bruni writes, the John Dory may have done just that. It's vivid, perhaps too much so, and it's not comfortable, but the food is excellent. Oh, did we mention the aquarium? Page D7
Editorial
THE BAILOUT'S NEXT CHAPTER
When he announced the Obama administration's new-and-improved bank bailout plan on Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner certainly seemed to have digested some of the flaws in the Bush administration's rescue attempt. But someone should have told him that the one thing to avoid at a time of uncertainty is raising more questions. Page A26
CONTINUITY OF THE WRONG KIND
The Obama administration failed -- miserably -- the first test of its commitment to ditching the extravagant legal claims used by the Bush administration to try to impose blanket secrecy on antiterrorism policies and to avoid accountability for serial abuses of the law. Page A26
BANNING BOOKS IN MIAMI
The Miami-Dade school board decided a few years ago to ban the children's book ''A Visit to Cuba'' from its school libraries because it offers too positive a portrait of life under the Castro regime. That was bad enough, but then last week a federal appeals court upheld the ban. The Supreme Court should reverse this disturbing ruling. If the school board wants to oppose the totalitarianism of the Castro regime, banning books is an odd way to go about it. Page A26
Op-Ed
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Leave it to a brainy Indian to come up with the cheapest and surest way to stimulate our economy: immigration. Page A27
BONUS BABIES
In an Op-Ed article, Paul Wilmott, the founder an eponymous journal of quantitative finance, explains the mystery behind the failure of bankers to diversify their companies' portfolios: doing so would have lessened their chances of big bonuses. Page A27

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACEKEEPING (92%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); ISRAELI-PALESTINIAN CONFLICTS (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); WAR CRIMES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (89%); INTERNATIONAL COURTS & TRIBUNALS (79%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (76%); WAR & CONFLICT (74%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (74%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); HAMAS (73%); BOMBINGS (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (71%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); ANNIVERSARIES (68%); ADOLESCENTS (64%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (64%); FIRES (62%); HIGH SCHOOLS (60%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (94%); INTERNATIONAL CRIMINAL COURT (56%); HAMAS (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: NOURI AL-MALIKI (75%); BAN KI-MOON (58%); BARACK OBAMA (50%); NICOLAS SARKOZY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (90%); MUMBAI, INDIA (77%); BEIJING, CHINA (76%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (68%) CHINA (94%); PAKISTAN (94%); ISRAEL (94%); IRAQ (93%); INDIA (93%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); NETHERLANDS (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); RWANDA (92%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2011



423 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 830 words

HEADLINE: The Open-Door Bailout

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN

DATELINE: Bangalore, India 

 BODY:
 Leave it to a brainy Indian to come up with the cheapest and surest way to stimulate our economy: immigration. 
 ''All you need to do is grant visas to two million Indians, Chinese and Koreans,'' said Shekhar Gupta, editor of The Indian Express newspaper. ''We will buy up all the subprime homes. We will work 18 hours a day to pay for them. We will immediately improve your savings rate -- no Indian bank today has more than 2 percent nonperforming loans because not paying your mortgage is considered shameful here. And we will start new companies to create our own jobs and jobs for more Americans.'' 
 While his tongue was slightly in cheek, Gupta and many other Indian business people I spoke to this week were trying to make a point that sometimes non-Americans can make best: ''Dear America, please remember how you got to be the wealthiest country in history. It wasn't through protectionism, or state-owned banks or fearing free trade. No, the formula was very simple: build this really flexible, really open economy, tolerate creative destruction so dead capital is quickly redeployed to better ideas and companies, pour into it the most diverse, smart and energetic immigrants from every corner of the world and then stir and repeat, stir and repeat, stir and repeat, stir and repeat.'' 
 While I think President Obama has been doing his best to keep the worst protectionist impulses in Congress out of his stimulus plan, the U.S. Senate unfortunately voted on Feb. 6 to restrict banks and other financial institutions that receive taxpayer bailout money from hiring high-skilled immigrants on temporary work permits known as H-1B visas.
 Bad signal. In an age when attracting the first-round intellectual draft choices from around the world is the most important competitive advantage a knowledge economy can have, why would we add barriers against such brainpower -- anywhere? That's called ''Old Europe.'' That's spelled: S-T-U-P-I-D.
 ''If you do this, it will be one of the best things for India and one of the worst for Americans, [because] Indians will be forced to innovate at home,'' said Subhash B. Dhar, a member of the executive council that runs Infosys, the well-known Indian technology company that sends Indian workers to the U.S. to support a wide range of firms. ''We protected our jobs for many years and look where it got us. Do you know that for an Indian company, it is still easier to do business with a company in the U.S. than it is to do business today with another Indian state?'' 
 Each Indian state tries to protect its little economy with its own rules. America should not be trying to copy that. ''Your attitude,'' said Dhar, should be '' 'whoever can make us competitive and dominant, let's bring them in.' ''
 If there is one thing we know for absolute certain, it's this: Protectionism did not cause the Great Depression, but it sure helped to make it ''Great.'' From 1929 to 1934, world trade plunged by more than 60 percent -- and we were all worse off.
 We live in a technological age where every study shows that the more knowledge you have as a worker and the more knowledge workers you have as an economy, the faster your incomes will rise. Therefore, the centerpiece of our stimulus, the core driving principle, should be to stimulate everything that makes us smarter and attracts more smart people to our shores. That is the best way to create good jobs.
 According to research by Vivek Wadhwa, a senior research associate at the Labor and Worklife Program at Harvard Law School, more than half of Silicon Valley start-ups were founded by immigrants over the last decade. These immigrant-founded tech companies employed 450,000 workers and had sales of $52 billion in 2005, said Wadhwa in an essay published this week on BusinessWeek.com. 
 He also cited a recent study by William R. Kerr of Harvard Business School and William F. Lincoln of the University of Michigan that ''found that in periods when H-1B visa numbers went down, so did patent applications filed by immigrants [in the U.S.]. And when H-1B visa numbers went up, patent applications followed suit.''
 We don't want to come out of this crisis with just inflation, a mountain of debt and more shovel-ready jobs. We want to -- we have to -- come out of it with a new Intel, Google, Microsoft and Apple. I would have loved to have seen the stimulus package include a government-funded venture capital bank to help finance all the start-ups that are clearly not starting up today -- in the clean-energy space they're dying like flies -- because of a lack of liquidity from traditional lending sources.
 Newsweek had an essay this week that began: ''Could Silicon Valley become another Detroit?'' Well, yes, it could. When the best brains in the world are on sale, you don't shut them out. You open your doors wider. We need to attack this financial crisis with green cards not just greenbacks, and with start-ups not just bailouts. One Detroit is enough. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); NEW ECONOMY (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (72%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (71%); SUBPRIME LENDING (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (70%); JOB CREATION (69%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (69%); US PRESIDENTS (64%)

COMPANY: INFOSYS LTD (51%)

TICKER: INFY (PAR) (51%); INFY (NYSE) (51%); INFY (NSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (58%) UNITED STATES (96%); INDIA (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



424 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: After Prices Rise, Profit Narrows At Molson Coors

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Molson Coors Brewing reported a lower profit for its fourth quarter on Tuesday despite having raised its beer prices.
 Molson, which partly owns the Miller brands in the United States through a joint venture with SABMiller, said its financial results were hurt the most by the strength of the dollar, which lowers revenue when foreign currencies are converted to dollars. 
 Peter Swinburn, the chief executive, said that beer drinkers might have balked at higher prices for Miller Lite in the United States, where consumers have been hard hit by rising unemployment and a deepening recession. Like other brewing companies, Molson has raised its prices in the last year because of higher costs.
 Mr. Swinburn also said that Miller Lite was a popular brand at bars and restaurants and that those sales had declined as the economy softened and fewer people ate out.
 ''I think we're recession-resistant, not recession-proof,'' he said. ''In economic times like this, this is a good industry to be in.''
 For the quarter ended Dec. 28, profit fell 44 percent to $96.8 million, or 52 cents a share. That compared with $173.2 million, or 94 cents a share, a year earlier.
 Excluding discontinued operations and one-time charges, profit was $105.1 million, or 57 cents a share, down from $133 million, or 73 cents a share. Analysts surveyed by Thomson Reuters had expected profit of 71 cents a share.
 Mr. Swinburn told investors that exchange rates accounted for more than half of the year-over-year decline in profit.
 The company said that total revenue fell 49 percent to $1.10 billion but that number does not include sales from the joint venture. Worldwide beer volume, or the number of barrels sold to customers, slipped 4 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRICE INCREASES (92%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BEER & ALE (90%); BEVERAGE PRICES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BREWERIES (79%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); DRINKING PLACES (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (73%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (72%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EXECUTIVES (56%)

COMPANY: MOLSON COORS BREWING CO (98%); SABMILLER PLC (58%)

TICKER: TAP (NYSE) (98%); SOSAB (JSE) (58%); SAB (LSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS424810 BEER & ALE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (98%); NAICS312120 BREWERIES (98%); SIC5181 BEER & ALE (98%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (98%)

PERSON: PETER SWINBURN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



425 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 437 words

 BODY:
OVERHAULING BAILOUTS, AGAIN Acknowledging that Americans have lost faith in the government's effort to rescue the banking system, the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, outlined a sweeping expansion of the program. 
 BANKERS HAVE DOUBTS Now that the government is starting to look more closely at banks that have taken billions in government bailout money, some bankers think it would be wise to give it back. [B3.]
 VULTURES ARE WARY The investors the Obama administration is looking for -- so-called vultures looking for the biggest rewards from the riskiest gambles -- are proving wary of the bad assets that must be sold to rescue the banking system. [A1.] 
 NEW CAST OF LOBBYISTS In Washington's corridors of power, lobbyists for Big Oil are on the outs, replaced by lobbyists for high tech and clean energy. [B3.]
 WHERE THE MONEY WILL GO Unless the government changes the conditions attached to bailouts for banks, much of what the taxpayers lose will go into the pockets of past and future investors in banks. Breaking Views. [B2.]
 WAR CRIMINALS AS TV FARE NBC News's ''Dateline,'' which teamed up with local police to trap sex offenders for its successful but scandalous ''To Catch a Predator'' series, is now using the same tactics to hunt bigger game: alleged war criminals. [A1.]
 LAYOFFS AT GENERAL MOTORS... General Motors, which must submit a satisfactory restructuring plan to the government next week to keep billions of dollars in loans, said it would lay off 10,000 salaried workers worldwide this year. [B10.] 
 ...AND AT WAL-MART Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer and a rare bright star in the grim retailing universe, said Tuesday that it planned to cut 700 to 800 jobs at its headquarters. [B8.] 
 MERGER IN TICKET SALESLive Nation and Ticketmaster, two giants in ticket sales and artist management, agreed to merge, notwithstanding the concerns of Bruce Springsteen, above, that it could lead to higher ticket prices. [B12.]
 WHOLESALE INVENTORY CUT Wholesalers cut back on their inventories in December by the largest amount in nearly 17 years, and economists say more reductions are likely as the recession deepens. [B8.]
 ABOUT THOSE ADS... Under orders from the Food and Drug Administration, Bayer is spending $20 million on a campaign to correct misleading TV ads for Yaz, the nation's best-selling birth-control pill. Advertising. [B1.]
 A.M.A. SUES HEALTH INSURERS The American Medical Association is joining several state associations in suing two health insurers over a database they say was rigged to underpay doctors on out-of-network claims for more than a decade. [B9.]

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); BAILOUTS (91%); LOBBYING (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MERGERS (89%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); RECESSION (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); RETAILERS (74%); WAR CRIMES (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (71%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (70%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (69%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (67%); TICKET SALES (67%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); INVENTORIES (66%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); INVENTORY MANAGEMENT (61%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (60%); POLICE FORCES (51%); CONTRACEPTION (50%)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); WAL-MART STORES INC (66%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); TICKETMASTER ENTERTAINMENT INC (53%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (66%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (66%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (66%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (53%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (53%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (73%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



426 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; WORLD BRIEFING EUROPE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 89 words

HEADLINE: Russia: Record Arms Sales in 2008

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY

 BODY:
Russia exported $8.35 billion in arms in 2008, a 10 percent increase over last year and a post-Soviet record, President Dmitri A. Medvedev announced Tuesday. Russia has typically sold more arms abroad than any country other than the United States. Mr. Medvedev praised the country's arms manufacturers, but warned that economic conditions would hurt future sales. ''Obviously this year will be difficult because of the fact that the entire world is experiencing a financial crisis that will affect the volume of procurement,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMS TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (83%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (83%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



427 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Making Buildings That Billow (on Budget)

BYLINE: By ALEC APPELBAUM

 BODY:
When Bruce Ratner hired Frank Gehry in 2004 to design a wrinkled-looking 76-story residential skyscraper in Manhattan near the Brooklyn Bridge, the market for eye-popping luxury condominiums was booming, and the world-class architect's multimillion-dollar fees probably seemed relatively insignificant. Now, however, the economy is crumbling, the building is envisioned as rental apartments and Mr. Gehry is bringing a more potent tool to control costs than most architects can deliver. 
 For the Forest City Ratner Companies, the developer of Beekman Tower, the project will test the idea that an architect can provide powerful (and expensive) modeling software to help keep costs down. Using the software, fabricators have produced a facade with various textures at a price that Mr. Gehry says does not exceed what a developer would pay to build a conventional boxy building of similar dimensions. 
 The project, Beekman Tower, which has $680 million in debt and is due to open with 904 apartments in 2010, will be Mr. Gehry's most important contribution to New York's skyline. With the building's distinctly bumpy silhouette, ''the idea I was trying to achieve was a fabric, so it would catch the light,'' Mr. Gehry said. 
 Mr. Gehry developed the software, now called Digital Project, to produce a sculpture of a diaphanous fish for a Barcelona exposition in 1992 and refined it to specify the titanium panels cloaking his celebrated Guggenheim Museum Bilbao, which opened in 1997. He based it on the three-dimensional software that aerospace companies use. ''If they can build airplanes paperless, I think buildings can be built paperless,'' Mr. Gehry said. 
 In 2002, he spun off the software business into a company called Gehry Technologies, which sells Digital Project to other developers and architects and trains project teams to use it. 
 Digital Project works by modeling, in three dimensions, every odd shape an architect envisions and then letting engineers and architects reconcile the shape with a building's site, ductwork and other features. It shows how one change to a building's ingredients changes all the others.
 The stakes in construction are very high. Developers say that the closeness of the match between what an architect draws and what contractors produce can make or break a project. When engineers and contractors misunderstand how parts of a building connect, resulting delays often inflate a construction budget by 5 or 10 percent. 
 These days, when banks are loath to risk any money, such contingencies are not available. And some developers do not expect them to return soon.
 ''If you've got a $100 million cost that your bank engineer has approved, you will add $5 million or $10 million contingency for construction errors into your loan,'' said Donald Capoccia of BFC Partners, which is building a twisty residential tower called Toren near the Brooklyn side of the Manhattan Bridge. ''In the future, with stricter underwriting requirements, I believe a building with a $100 million deal will have to be done for $90 million or less.''
 Architects routinely use modeling software, but the latest version of Digital Project would enable them to try extreme designs for skyscrapers. While acknowledging that the Gehry software is impressive, Carl Galioto of Skidmore, Owings & Merrill, a firm that has designed many skyscrapers, says that it is hard to learn and three or four times as expensive as a conventional modeling program. Revit Architecture, the industry standard from Autodesk, is listed at $5,495 on Autodesk's Web site.
 At Beekman Tower, the pressure on Digital Project is intense. The returns on a rental building are likely to be lower than on a condominium, and committing to Mr. Gehry's ornate design could burn the developer if it leads to cost overruns. 
 Beekman Tower, with steel panels that bend a little, a lot or not at all and sit in various ways on the building's skeleton, is definitely complicated. ''There is a stair-step character that I tried to achieve,'' Mr. Gehry said. 
 While Mr. Gehry fine-tuned his design and Forest City Ratner tweaked the mix of apartment sizes and shapes, Digital Project analyzed the number of stainless-steel panels that could be used while meeting an essentially fixed price. ''There are flat panels, panels that curve a little and panels that curve a lot,'' explained Dennis Shelden, chief technology officer of Mr. Gehry's software company.
 Software modeling revealed where panels could sit flush against the skeleton, where they could break without letting in too much cold air, and where they could lean outward. 
 ''We had to find places to put cylinders or cones behind the panels to prop them up,'' said Sameer Kashyap of Gehry Technologies, who oversees the use of Digital Project at Beekman Tower. ''This is the first time a 76-story building has had entirely unique slab edges.'' 
 Forest City Ratner's relationship with Mr. Gehry is not limited to this project. He also created a design for the multibillion-dollar Atlantic Yards project, with 17 buildings, which the company has proposed for downtown Brooklyn. With lawsuits pending and the economy turned sour, however, none of those buildings have gone to construction. 
 Of Forest City Ratner's financing for Beekman Tower, $203.9 million is in tax-exempt Liberty bonds, which Mr. Ratner secured by agreeing to build a public school at the base (Mr. Gehry did not design it) and by directing $6 million to a fund to support affordable housing. The project must repay a $476.1 million loan from a consortium of six international private lenders. The developer says it is current on its debt service. 
 Mr. Gehry professes confidence that Digital Project will guide the tower smoothly through construction. ''The Bilbao Museum came in $3 million under on a $100 million budget,'' he said. ''If there were surprises at Beekman, I would know about them.'' 
 Forest City Ratner said that the project is on time and on budget. ''It will stay on budget,'' added a spokeswoman, Joyce Baumgarten. 
 Success with this version of Digital Project seems crucial to Mr. Gehry's legacy. He has frequently been commissioned by institutional clients, which might be expected to be more indulgent than profit-minded developers.
 But his image suffered when the Massachusetts Institute of Technology sued his firm in 2007 because of leaks in his 720,000-square-foot Ray and Maria Stata Center, a laboratory and classroom building with a day care center and gym. (Neither M.I.T. nor Mr. Gehry's companies would comment about the litigation, which is pending in Superior Court in Boston.)
 But David Gerber, Gehry Technologies' chief marketing officer, said that future refinements of Digital Project will incorporate more information and avoid foul-ups. The latest iteration, Mr. Gerber said in a recent interview, even models a building's basement sprinklers.
 Architects and developers agree that software to measure a building's ingredients will gain value as governments tighten rules about buildings' effects on the environment. ''You can ask a model to show you what shadow a building casts, or how far materials have to travel to a job site,'' says Phil Bernstein, a technologist with Autodesk.
 So Digital Project may offer Mr. Gehry a way to make money in an economic era when relatively few clients are likely to be commissioning ambitious buildings. The Swire Group, a Hong Kong concern, used it to deliver One Island East, a tower in Hong Kong, several months ahead of schedule last year. 
 ''Our service is now in consulting,'' said Mr. Shelden, the chief technologist for Gehry Technologies.''But we are in discussion with some clients about a shared-savings model,'' under which the company would be paid a portion of a client's savings in construction overruns.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 12, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on the Square Feet pages on Wednesday about Beekman Tower, a skyscraper in Manhattan designed by the architect Frank Gehry, referred incorrectly to the site of the proposed Atlantic Yards project, also designed by Mr. Gehry. The project is near Downtown Brooklyn, not in it. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A mock-up of Beekman Tower in Lower Manhattan near the Brooklyn Bridge. It is expected to open in 2010.
 A computer model shows the ridged surfaces of Beekman Tower.(PHOTOGRAPHS FROM GEHRY PARTNERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (76%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (75%); COMPUTER SIMULATION (74%); SCULPTURE (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (65%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (64%); APPROVALS (60%)

COMPANY: RATNER COS (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7231 BEAUTY SHOPS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); BASQUE COUNTRY, SPAIN (69%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



428 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 888 words

HEADLINE: Beer Distributor Makes a Deal to Move to Two Piers in Red Hook

BYLINE: By CHARLES V. BAGLI

 BODY:
One of the city's largest beer distributors has reached a tentative agreement to move to two piers on the waterfront in Red Hook, Brooklyn, where the distributor, stevedores and government officials hope to revive and expand once-bustling cargo operations.
 Phoenix Beverages, which distributes Heineken, Guinness, Brooklyn Beer, Smirnoff Ice and other brands, plans to move its operations from Long Island City, Queens, and Elizabeth, N.J., to Pier 7, at the foot of Atlantic Avenue, and nearby Pier 11 at Atlantic Basin, which the city leases from the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey. The company said it expected to unload about 20,000 containers a year from freighters. 
 ''This will be a real boon for port commerce in Brooklyn and the region,'' said Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, a longtime advocate for expanded maritime operations in Brooklyn. ''It will save and grow high-wage jobs, keep a key New York company here in New York where it belongs, and stabilize and expand critical container port operations at Red Hook.''
 American Stevedoring, which operates Piers 7 though 10, said that Phoenix would serve as an anchor and help attract additional cargo ships bearing goods bound for New York, Long Island and Westchester County.
 Currently, American Stevedoring handles only a fraction of the cargo coming into New York Harbor and much of that is put on barges and sent to warehouses on the New Jersey side of the Hudson River. Company executives said the deal would lead to an increase in New York-bound cargo and more jobs. 
 Phoenix, which employs about 600 drivers and warehouse workers, had considered moving all operations to New Jersey. The company reached an agreement on Tuesday with American Stevedoring as well as the Port Authority, the city's Economic Development Corporation and Mr. Nadler. 
 The deal would put to rest, at least for several years, the Bloomberg administration's one-time plan to buff the gritty Red Hook waterfront to a shine with new marinas, luxury housing, brew pubs and cruise ship terminals. 
 The city, along with the Port Authority, had sought for years to oust American Stevedoring from the Red Hook piers, and American Stevedoring sued the Port Authority. Last year, the company blocked an attempt by the city to turn Pier 7 over to Phoenix. 
 But in April, American Stevedoring, with Mr. Nadler's backing, negotiated a 10-year extension of its lease. Since then, American Stevedoring has been trying to rebuild the business it says it lost during its battle with the city and the Port Authority. Pier 7, which was once the largest cocoa pier in the country, has been largely shuttered. The company, now completing its new lease, is ending its lawsuit.
 Sabato Catucci, chief executive of American Stevedoring, said his company and Phoenix had formed a strategic partnership to work with food distributors and shippers to ''expand port operations'' in Red Hook. The challenge will be to convince shippers that there is enough of a demand for cargo bound for New York.
 Under the agreement, an estimated 10 million to 12 million cases of beer would be unloaded annually at Pier 11 and stored in the warehouses there and at Pier 7. City officials said there were also plans for public access to the waterfront and perhaps a beach at Pier 11, which sits opposite the cruise ship terminal at Pier 12.
 ''The Port Authority is committed to working with our partners to bring job-intensive uses to our facilities, while ensuring stable revenue,'' said Christopher O. Ward, executive director of the Port Authority. ''This project will accomplish both of these goals.''
 But not everyone in the often contentious Red Hook neighborhood embraces the tentative deal. The community board and others had criticized a recent city plan to move Phoenix to Pier 11, saying the truck traffic would be unbearable. They favored a proposal from New York Water Taxi to build a base for its ferries, a marina, a beach and shops for ship repairs, while putting Phoenix at Pier 7.
 Adam Armstrong, a local resident, said the latest plan would ''wall off the community from the waterfront'' and do little for local businesses or the quality of life.
 ''This deal will waste a unique opportunity to build a critically needed maritime support facility that has broad-based community support,'' said Tom Fox, president of New York Water Taxi. ''It's incredibly short-sighted and there should be a better compromise.''
 Seth W. Pinsky, president of the Economic Development Corporation, said the Bloomberg administration would continue to work with the community, adding that the city had always said that Pier 7 was the logical place for Phoenix. But some city officials said that the deal had taken them by surprise. Still, Mr. Pinsky said, ''It presents an opportunity not just to retain jobs but to expand what Phoenix does in the city.''
 Phoenix, which is the exclusive Heineken distributor in New York City and Long Island, has sought for seven years to move to Red Hook, where it hoped to reduce its handling costs and cut the number of trucks needed to transport containers from New Jersey to New York. ''Time really was of the essence,'' said Rod Brayman, chief executive of Phoenix. ''It is now possible to lock in contracts which will provide jobs and commerce for years to come.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HARBORS & PORTS (91%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); MARINE CARGO HANDLING (90%); BEER & ALE WHOLESALERS (90%); MARINE SHIPPING (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (89%); BEER & ALE (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BEVERAGE PRODUCTS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (78%); MARINAS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); CRUISES (76%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (74%); FOOD WHOLESALERS (73%); DRINKING PLACES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); LITIGATION (60%)

COMPANY: PORT AUTHORITY OF NEW YORK & NEW JERSEY (71%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS485999 ALL OTHER TRANSIT & GROUND PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (71%); SIC4119 LOCAL PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (71%)

PERSON: JERROLD NADLER (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



429 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 371 words

HEADLINE: State Allots $2 Billion More For Unemployment Benefits

BYLINE: By PATRICK McGEEHAN

 BODY:
With 25,000 New Yorkers filing new claims for unemployment benefits every week, state lawmakers agreed on Tuesday to authorize paying out an additional $2 billion this year to the unemployed. 
 The agreement announced in Albany came five weeks after the state started borrowing from the federal government to cover a growing gap between what the state unemployment trust fund collects and what it pays out each week. The current budget had allowed for $3 billion per year in benefits to the state's unemployed, but state officials now estimate those payouts will rise to $4.6 billion as the recession grinds on.
 The new limit, of $5 billion this year, ''allows some flexibility in case there's some further deterioration,'' said Jeffrey Gordon, a spokesman for the state's budget office.
 But the agreement does not address the underlying problems that have left the state fund with a rapidly widening shortfall. New York State taxes a smaller amount of each worker's annual pay than neighboring states do, leaving it with less of a cushion to cover benefits in hard times. 
 ''What they should be doing is fixing the trust fund by raising the threshold for contributions and adjusting the benefits,'' said Denis M. Hughes, president of the New York State A.F.L.-C.I.O. ''For the working men and women of this state, they have to make this system more solvent.''
 The maximum weekly unemployment check of $405 in New York is lower than in neighboring states like New Jersey ($584), Connecticut ($576) and Massachusetts ($628).
 More than 420,000 state residents are collecting unemployment checks, up from about 175,000 a year ago, according to Gov. David A. Paterson's office. The jobless rolls are still growing, with twice as many people filing first-time claims for benefits each week as there were a year ago. In December, the state's unemployment rate rose to 7 percent, from 6 percent in November.
 On Feb. 22, the state is scheduled to start paying extended unemployment benefits to thousands of New Yorkers whose benefits have lapsed in the first several weeks of 2009. The rise in the state's unemployment rate in December qualified residents who had exhausted 46 weeks of benefits to collect an additional 13 weeks. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (91%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%)

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (54%)

PERSON: DAVID PATERSON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



430 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 713 words

HEADLINE: Deepening Slump Seen in European Output

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Industrial output in Europe slumped in December, data released Tuesday showed, suggesting that economic growth over all weakened by a record amount after the financial crisis intensified in September.
 Industrial production figures for December from France, Sweden and Italy showed declines of 1.8 to 5.1 percent for the month, according to official publications.
 As a result, analysts have been revising their forecasts for European gross domestic product downward during the fourth quarter. Most now say that they expect that figure, due Friday, will be the weakest since the euro was introduced in 1999. 
 ''Business and consumers seemed to react in September to the collapse of Lehman Brothers and the intensification of the financial crisis by cutting back,'' said Anders Matzen, chief analyst at Nordea Economic Research in Copenhagen.
 That, he said, is being reflected in the output data, and will also come through in the first estimates of G.D.P. data for the fourth quarter and all of 2008 from the European Union's statistical agency, Eurostat.
 Mr. Matzen estimates that G.D.P. contracted by 2 percent in Germany during the fourth quarter and by at least 1.2 percent for the 16-nation euro zone.
 Aurelio Maccario, chief economist at UniCredit Group in Milan, said that ''it shouldn't pass unnoticed, especially to those who until only a few weeks ago were boasting about the safety of the euro zone economy, that at the end of last year, the euro area contracted more than the U.S.''
 The United States economy shrank by an annualized 3.8 percent during the fourth quarter. European Union data offices do not use annualized numbers, but Mr. Maccario's assumption is based on a ''conservative estimate'' of a 1.3 percent contraction during the fourth quarter, giving an annualized decline of about 5.2 percent.
 Last month, the Federal Statistical Office in Germany offered a preliminary estimate that the national economy shrank by 1.5 to 2 percent in the fourth quarter.
 ''Germany is being hardest hit because of the collapse in export markets and a lack of support from consumers,'' said Mr. Matzen of Nordea.
 He added that the fourth quarter was probably the trough and that growth would gradually improve and might ''creep into positive territory by the second half as we start to see some positive effects from the government stimulus plans and the easing of monetary policy.''
 The reason for that guarded optimism is that some reports have stabilized or improved slightly recently. In particular, analysts cite an index of purchasing managers for euro area services and manufacturing for January and surveys on Belgian consumer confidence and German investor sentiment.
 Insee, the statistics office in Paris, said French industrial output fell 1.8 percent in December from November, when it was down 2.8 percent.
 The slump in production was mostly concentrated in the automobile sector, following recent plant shutdowns in response to the collapse in demand worldwide. But the report also suggested that the decline was becoming more broad-based, affecting, for example, intermediary goods, which go into making final products.
 Italy fared even worse. Output fell 2.5 percent in December from November, when it was down 3.5 percent. For the entire year, output was down 4.3 percent from 2007, the national statistics agency Istat said.
 Meanwhile, Statistics Sweden said that in December production slumped by 5.1 percent from a month earlier and by 20.3 percent from December 2007. The decline was broad, touching manufacturing, mining and quarrying.
 The fall might have been worsened by the fact that the report was calculated based on goods delivered, and did not reflect any buildup in company inventories, analysts said.
 The release raised expectations among economists that the Riksbank, the central bank, would deliver an interest rate cut of three-quarters of a percentage point at its meeting Wednesday.
 In Germany, Europe's biggest economy, industry output plunged by a record 4.6 percent for the month in December, data showed last week.
 On Tuesday, the association of heavy machinery and factory equipment makers in Germany, the V.D.M.A., said it expected 25,000 job losses and a fall in demand for this year as a result of the crisis.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); STATISTICS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (72%); MONETARY POLICY (50%); EXPORT TRADE (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (58%); NORDEA BANK AB (56%)

ORGANIZATION: STATISTICAL OFFICE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES (55%); EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

TICKER: NDA1V (HEL) (56%); NDA.SEK (STO) (56%); NDA (CPH) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522293 INTERNATIONAL TRADE FINANCING (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6082 FOREIGN TRADE & INTERNATIONAL BANKING INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (90%) EUROPE (95%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ITALY (92%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



431 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'GREAT SPEECHES FROM A DYING WORLD'; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 533 words

HEADLINE: Oratory From the Streets: The Homeless Lift Their Voices

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
Tomey Smith, a gaunt, stringy-haired drifter and intermittent drug user suffering from H.I.V. he contracted while in prison, is Exhibit A in ''Great Speeches From a Dying World,'' Linas Phillips's unsettling documentary portrait gallery of nine homeless people living on the streets of Seattle. 
 Near the end of a film that explores the connection of great oratory to people's broken lives, Mr. Smith recites from the John Donne meditation that proclaims, ''No man is an island.'' As we have already seen, he has a tender, protective relationship with Josie, a transsexual crack addict, and is an avid dog lover. Although Mr. Smith doesn't lend Donne's prose any special conviction, the words still resonate with his situation. 
 Each subject recites a famous discourse that relates directly or indirectly to his or her personal biography. Half the time, the speaker (who may be reading from a teleprompter or reciting from memory; it isn't clear which) doesn't make a strong emotional connection to the material, which includes Lincoln's Gettysburg Address, Jesus' Sermon on the Mount and speeches by John F. and Robert F. Kennedy. At these times the premise feels like a stunt that has backfired.
 But when a connection is made, it sticks. From his hospital bed, Jose Martinez, who has attempted suicide seven times, delivers a slurred reading of Hamlet's ''To Be or Not to Be'' soliloquy that makes you consider the self-destructive impulses in the lives of the unfortunate. 
 Even more arresting is the forceful reading of the abolitionist and women's-rights advocate Sojourner Truth's ''Ain't I a Woman?'' speech by Deborah Payne, an African-American and crack addict who sleeps in a wheelchair in a parking garage. 
 When she recites the words ''If the first woman God ever made was strong enough to turn the world upside down all alone, these women together ought to be able to turn it back,'' you sense that Ms. Payne, in different circumstances, might once have been strong enough to lead the charge. She doesn't ask for sympathy; of her addiction she says bluntly: ''I was bored. I got tired of being clean and sober.'' 
 ''Great Speeches'' returns again and again to Mr. Smith, who relates a personal tale of woe that begins when he was placed in juvenile detention after pleading guilty to second-degree murder for a crime that he said he knew about but didn't participate in. When he turned 16, he was sent to prison, where he remained for 15 years. Years later, he landed a job that paid $60,000 a year but lost it after 9/11. 
 Given today's worsening economic climate, the movie carries an extra weight as newly unemployed workers face the possibility of landing on the street without a livelihood. Which of us in our worst nightmares hasn't imagined a calamitous pile-up of personal disasters that could end in destitution and despair? 
 GREAT SPEECHES FROM A DYING WORLD
 Opens on Wednesday in Manhattan. 
 Directed, edited and produced by Linas Phillips; director of photography, Mr. Phillips; music by Lori Goldston and Tara Jane O'Neil. At the Anthology Film Archives, 32 Second Avenue, at Second Street, East Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tomey Smith, who chose to recite a passage by John Donne. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LINAS PHILLIPS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SUBSTANCE ABUSE (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); COCAINE (78%); JAIL SENTENCING (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); MURDER (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (73%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (73%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (68%); WOMEN (68%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (63%); JUVENILE CRIME (60%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%); SUICIDE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (91%) WASHINGTON, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

TITLE: Great Speeches From a Dying World (Movie); Great Speeches From a Dying World (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



432 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Some Banks Want to Give Government Money Back

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
Wall Street banks have taken billions of taxpayer dollars. Now some of them are starting to wonder if they should give the money back. 
 Even before the government announced its latest efforts to fix the troubled banking industry on Tuesday, executives at Goldman Sachs and Morgan Stanley said they wanted to repay the money quickly. Both banks received $10 billion under the first rescue plan last fall.
 Paying back all those funds would be difficult in this tough economic environment. But banking executives worry that the government may intrude further into their businesses as long as they are beholden to Washington. 
 ''We just think that operating our business without the government capital would be an easier thing to do,'' said David A. Viniar, the chief financial officer of Goldman. ''We'd be under less scrutiny, and under less pressure. Not that we'd be out of the public eye; we're still going to be in the public eye.'' 
 The issue is likely to draw close scrutiny on Wednesday, when executives from eight banks are scheduled to testify on Capitol Hill. The efforts to break free of government support reflects a growing trepidation among Wall Street's largest players about their independence and the new rules that may be imposed on them because they accepted federal capital. 
 In recent weeks, the Obama administration has announced that banks will have to disclose more information about their spending and cap executive pay at $500,000. Several lawmakers have gone further with proposed measures about compensation for all bank employees as well as halting certain types of immigration visas for companies that received government money.
 Industry groups say the new rules are unfair.
 ''The contract says that Congress can change the law, and we were obviously concerned,'' said Scott Talbott, senior vice president for government affairs for the Financial Services Roundtable. ''But we didn't think they would tip the scales this far. The more of these retroactive rules they place on institutions, the more institutions will look for an exit strategy.''
 But the banks are likely to find that escape is a distant hope, analysts said. The government required banks to replace taxpayer money with new equity -- in the form of common stock or preferred shares -- before any repayment. And the markets for raising capital are all but dead, especially for financial companies.
 Banks are not allowed to repay the government money out of their earnings for three years, though some bank executives are privately saying they think the government may reverse that rule for banks if they start earning money again. After all, bank executives said, it may be beneficial for the government to show taxpayers that some banks are regaining their financial strength.
 Still, it is unclear that it would make sense for banks to repay the government money, given the uncertain outlook for their businesses, analysts said. One chief executive of a major bank said last week that he feared returning the money first would leave his bank as ''the only one in the water without shark repellent.''
 And, in a market of quickly shifting fortunes, any bank that returned capital could find itself in need again months later. Bank of America, for instance, was among the companies that appeared to be in a stronger position last fall when regulators met with chiefs of the eight banks. But at the end of the year, as the outlook for its merger with Merrill Lynch soured, the bank returned to the government for a second round of assistance. Citigroup has also received a second bailout.
 And government funds are cheap with interest payments of only 5 percent and a few percentage points more for related warrants. Banks are unlikely to find other parties that would offer them such low rates, analysts said.
 ''I don't think anyone should be in a hurry to pay it back,'' said Jeffery Harte, a banking analyst at Sandler O'Neill. ''But if you could prove able to pay it back, especially when other institutions are coming back for a second or third helping, it would send a pretty strong message to the market.''
 Many banks have also issued new debt in recent months backed by the government. The program, run by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, has received far less attention than the capital injections, but it represents another subsidy to banks, which otherwise would have found issuing debt more expensive, or impossible. Banks that repay taxpayer money may still be beholden to the government if they issued these government-backed bonds.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (74%); COMMON STOCK (72%); PREFERRED STOCK (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); IMMIGRATION (64%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (50%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



433 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: I Make a Bundle. I'd Part With Half.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Please Raise My Taxes'' (Op-Ed, Feb. 6): 
 The suggestion by Reed Hastings to tax executive earnings of more than $1 million at 50 percent is long overdue. As he says, it would divert public anger and it would be a relatively easy method to help control runaway compensation packages. 
 I would suggest a graded system in which earnings would be taxed at higher and higher rates -- say, 60 percent on pay over $10 million, 70 percent on $20 million, and so on. 
 These higher taxes would immediately help curtail the unbridled greed gripping corporate boards and turn their attention back to where it should be, on their products and customers instead of on how much gold they can fit into their pockets.
 A strong case can be made that exaggerated compensation is the root cause of our present trouble.
 David P. Colley Easton, Pa., Feb. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Reed Hastings defeats his own argument while glossing over a fundamental concern in the controversy over exorbitant executive pay. 
 He argues that boards must pay an arm and a leg for already proven talent and then states that most of the motivation for executives is the sheer challenge of the job. 
 In the current economy, the challenge is greater than ever, and there is a ready supply of the recently unemployed in competition for those jobs, so the market alone should dictate lower salaries.
 Moreover, Mr. Hastings merely mentions the fact of the rich rewards for corporate failure. With all the talk of teachers' compensation being tied to student performance, why is there no parallel movement for executive pay to be tied to the performance of the company?! 
 Ann Summer Princeton, N.J., Feb. 6, 2009
 The writer is a retired social worker in the Princeton public schools.
 To the Editor:
 Reed Hastings's suggestion that high-income earners like himself pay a tax of 50 percent is a great idea -- with this caveat.
 Take that 50 percent off the top -- no deductions, no loopholes, no exemptions on anything above a half million.
 People who make lots of money seem to find myriad ways to shield that income from the taxes that middle-class Americans like my husband and I pay. How many times have we found very rich people and corporations paying at a percentage far below that of average Americans?
 I would be happy for Mr. Hastings to make $2 million if $1 million of it were actually paid to the Treasury.
 Grace Stroud Granbury, Tex., Feb. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Reed Hastings ignores the reality that executives whose salaries would be capped by taking bailout money have demonstrated that they are not proven talent who will fly to other companies. They are incompetents who went to the government because they ran their companies into the ground. If such executives cannot do a good job for $500,000 a year, no amount of money will ever be enough.
 And there are plenty of intelligent middle managers doing excellent jobs for as low as $50,000 a year who would gladly fill their shoes. 
 Nonetheless, I thank Mr. Hastings for spotting the loopholes in this new restriction on executive pay. Now let's close those loopholes. 
 Michael B. English Arlington, Va., Feb. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Reed Hastings just doesn't get it. After seeing the results of the recent performance of his highly paid peers, few Americans are willing to buy his tired argument that ''capping compensation at bailout recipients will just make it that much harder for those boards to hire and hold on to the executives who can lead their companies to compete and thrive.'' 
 If he wants to convince us that the cap on executive pay is a bad idea, he needs to start by explaining what these people have been doing that could possibly justify their inflated salaries.
 Harvey Wachtel Kew Gardens, Queens, Feb. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 There is something inherently contradictory about applauding someone's virtues and successes on one hand and asking that he be punished for it on the other, yet this is precisely what Reed Hastings, the chief executive of Netflix, is advocating in his article. 
 If he thinks that capping executive salaries and rewards is going to hamper the competition for talent, how does he think that punishing them for being successful at their jobs is going to be different?
 Mr. Hastings is essentially admitting that he and his colleagues should be subject to whatever government whim takes precedence at the moment. If 50 percent of his income is O.K. to take, why not three-quarters? Ninety percent? It's still more than a lot of people make. 
 This practice will drive the most competent people away from pursuing executive positions, and attract the sort who are loafers expecting the taxpayers to bail them out.
 Alexander Hrin Ann Arbor, Mich., Feb. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Reed Hastings encourages President Obama to celebrate the success of America's top executives by simply taxing, not capping, their indecent salaries. Unbridled greed should be regulated, not celebrated.
 Timothy May Grass Valley, Calif., Feb. 6, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LEWIS SCOTT) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (77%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (74%); WRITERS (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (71%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (70%); SCHOOL PERFORMANCE (69%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (65%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: REED HASTINGS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



434 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1073 words

HEADLINE: New York's Garment Industry Is Finding Its District Affordable Again

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
When models glide along the catwalks in Bryant Park during the Mercedes-Benz Fashion Week, which begins Friday, the economic scene will be far worse than it was during the previous Fashion Week last September. So it may seem counterintuitive that some New York fashion industry workers see a silver lining to the economic downturn -- it helps them preserve their toehold in the city's garment district.
 ''In a sense, we have a reprieve,'' said Nanette Lepore, a New York fashion designer who manufactures 85 percent of her clothing line in almost 30 independent factories within a few blocks of her office on West 35th Street. ''But we'll be back in this battle again, if we don't decide that the garment district is important to the heritage of New York.'' 
 During the Fashion Week in September, Ms. Lepore took her final bow wearing a T-shirt that read ''Save the Garment Center.'' That plea is part of an informal grass-roots campaign that aims to keep rents affordable for the small pattern-cutters and trim shops that call the district home. 
 High rents are hardly the only problems plaguing the city's fashion industry. Employment in the apparel trades has been shrinking drastically for decades, as tens of thousands of jobs have moved to China and other low-wage countries. After peaking around 275,000 in the 1950s, the number of apparel manufacturing jobs in New York has steadily declined to around 20,000 today, according to Barbara Byrne Denham, the chief economist at Eastern Consolidated, a New York broker.
 Some fashion designers like Ms. Lepore say that unless the remaining core apparel industry is preserved, it will be difficult for them to design their fashion lines in New York -- and next to impossible for young designers coming out of school to set up shop in the garment district, which spans the West Side of Manhattan on streets numbered in the 30s.
 The average asking rents for office space in the district soared 78 percent in the three years from the end of 2004, peaking at almost $55 a square foot a year in November 2007. But asking rents have fallen back 23 percent since then, to around $42, according to Colliers ABR, a real estate broker in New York. That is still much higher than the rents of around $30 that prevailed four years ago. 
 But current rents are low relative to many other office areas, in part because most of the buildings are old, unrenovated factories. For example, in Times Square, which borders the garment district, the average annual asking rent is $76.33 a square foot. But Colliers estimates that 85 percent of the office space in Times Square is in modern well-equipped buildings -- classified as Class A space -- while only 16 percent of the garment district is Class A.
 Zoning laws have long required landlords to rent much of the commercial space in the garment district to apparel companies, but the city eased some of those restrictions in 2005. The new rules made it easier for landlords to convert some former apparel factories to office space, especially along the avenues and on the western fringe of the district.
 Even some of the companies that are thriving -- like apparel importers and wholesalers -- have started moving their showrooms off the avenues to side streets. Barbara Randall, the president of the Fashion Center Business Improvement District, said there was still strong demand for showroom space in the district, ''but there is a trend for them to move to the side streets, as the buildings on the avenues convert to offices.''
 Ms. Denham at Eastern Consolidated said that in the last decade, rising rents in more upscale office markets in Manhattan have pushed businesses as varied as advertising agencies and accountants to relocate to the garment district.
 But that demand may be easing a bit. She speculated that in the current downturn, falling rents elsewhere might prompt some companies to start seeking bargains in more traditional office markets, like the West 50s or Rockefeller Center.
 Brokers who represent tenants in the garment district say that lately some landlords have become more accommodating.
 Nicky Heryet, a principal at Colliers ABR, said that, for example, she has a client who eventually wants to combine several apparel showrooms and sales offices into one large space; in the interim, the company does not want to commit to long-term lease renewals.
 She recently negotiated a five-month renewal for her client for a 21,000-square-foot space and a six-month renewal for a 50,000-square-foot space. Typically, office leases in New York last 10 years, and Ms. Heryet said that landlords would generally not have signed such short-term deals when the real estate market was strong. ''But now the landlords figure that any cash flow is better than no cash flow,'' she said.
 The changing balance of power may be seen in the differing approaches that a local real estate family has taken with two buildings in the garment district: 1359 Broadway, at the northwest corner of West 36th Street, and 1400 Broadway, at the northeast corner of West 38th Street.
 Both buildings are owned by real estate partnerships led by Peter L. Malkin and his son Anthony E. Malkin, who own stakes in many prominent buildings in this part of Midtown Manhattan, including the Empire State Building. Both Broadway buildings are former garment factories, made of brick and steel in the early 20th century.
 Earlier in this decade, at the start of the city's real estate boom, the Malkins did not renew the leases of several small apparel companies at 1359 Broadway. They then renovated the 22-story 500,000-square-foot building from top to bottom. Once that was complete, ''we weren't going to retenant the building with apparel companies,'' said Brian S. Waterman, a principal at Newmark Knight Frank, who is the leasing agent for both of the buildings. 
 But, Mr. Waterman added, ''that was a different market.'' Today, the Malkins are in the midst of a thorough overhaul of 1400 Broadway, a 37-story building with 930,000 square feet.
 This time, they are taking steps to make the building more attractive to the apparel industry, in part by prebuilding fashion showrooms. So far, the lobby has been spruced up, and work is in progress on the elevators, bathrooms and electrical system. 
 Mr. Waterman said they hoped to attract fashion designers and garment showrooms to the building, although not apparel manufacturing companies.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Nanette Lepore, a fashion designer, makes most of her line in the garment district.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT CAPLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION & APPAREL (92%); FASHION DESIGNERS (91%); APPAREL MFG (90%); FASHION DESIGN (90%); FASHION SHOWS (90%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); CLOTHING LABELS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (87%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



435 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 905 words

HEADLINE: Chinese TV Network Apologizes for Fire

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS; Huang Yuanxi contributed research.

DATELINE: BEIJING 

 BODY:
China's national television network on Tuesday blamed an illegal fireworks display by its employees for igniting a blaze that destroyed a futuristic luxury hotel and theater here. 
 In a statement posted on its Web site, the network, China Central Television, said the illegal pyrotechnics on Monday, the final night of the Lunar New Year celebrations, were staged too close to the unfinished Mandarin Oriental Hotel, which is part of the network's headquarters complex. The network apologized for ''the severe damage the fire caused to the country's property.'' 
 Xinhua, the official news agency, reported Tuesday that one firefighter had died from smoke inhalation and that six firefighters and a construction worker had been injured. 
 The apology was a rare gesture of contrition by the powerful state-owned network.
 While the cause of the fire seemed clear, many questions remained about why a building being constructed with fireproof materials was so quickly and thoroughly engulfed by flames. 
 During a news conference on Tuesday, Luo Yuan, a spokesman for the Beijing Municipal Fire Brigade, said strong winds, toxic fumes and a lack of working sprinklers hampered efforts to extinguish the fire, which began on the building's roof and spread to the lower floors. 
 After examining photographs of the blaze, Jonathan Barnett, a fire protection engineer in New York who has studied numerous skyscraper fires, said it appeared that the flames were fed by insulating foam panels along the facade. Although such material is combustible, in a finished building the foam is sandwiched between fireproof materials like wall board and glass.
 ''It may have been an issue of the construction not being complete,'' Mr. Barnett said. 
 Jill Kluge, a spokeswoman for the Mandarin Oriental Hotel Group, said company investigators had yet to be allowed on the site. Messages left at the offices of Rem Koolhaas and Arup, an engineering firm involved in the building's construction, were not answered on Tuesday.
 Beijing residents who wanted to see the smoking shell of the hotel had a harder time on Tuesday finding images of the fire on the Internet, on television or in the city's newspapers.
 There were no pictures on the front page of The Beijing News. On Tuesday morning, the home page of Xinhua featured a photo from another event: a stampede in South Korea that left four people dead. Throughout the day, CCTV's brief bulletins about the blaze omitted images of the burning tower. By evening, the newscast skipped the story entirely.
 Even before the flames had been put out early Tuesday, pictures of the burning hotel had been removed from most of the main Internet portals serving China. In the afternoon, the story had been largely buried, although by the evening, news of the fire was accessible on the Xinhua and CCTV Web sites.
 The network's unusual public apology and the media's skittish approach to covering the fire suggested that the authorities were struggling with how to deal with a delicate event in the age of cellphone cameras and YouTube.
 A directive sent out by propaganda officials, which found its way to the Internet after it was leaked, made it clear that the authorities were eager to reduce public attention to the blaze, a colossal embarrassment that many people believe augurs poorly for the new year. ''No photos, no video clips, no in-depth reports,'' read the memo, which instructed all media outlets to use only Xinhua dispatches. ''The news should be put on news areas only, and the comments posting areas should be closed.''
 The Beijing Youth Daily's report, for one, was anchored by a list of the officials who rushed to the scene, including the mayor of Beijing, the head of CCTV and the director of the Communist Party's propaganda department.
 The government could not entirely shut down coverage. In fact, many bloggers boasted that it was citizens, armed with cellphone cameras and camcorders, who provided the first images and accounts shortly after the fire began. 
 Photos were traded by means of cellphones and e-mail messages. One video circulated on the Internet showed how the fire began after a shell from the fireworks landed on the hotel roof.
 Wang Xiaofeng, a popular blogger, could not help noting that CCTV employees had accidentally created one of the biggest stories of the year and then failed to cover it. ''They didn't feel the urgency to report the news, even though the fire was up to their eyebrows,'' he wrote. ''In this case of breaking news, the official media has been defeated by the citizen media.''
 Even if they lamented the death of a firefighter, other bloggers were almost gleeful over the network's misfortune. Some said they were happy to see the demise of a building that had come to symbolize the government's Olympian extravagance. Others noted with self-satisfaction that the charred structure was also intended to house recording studios for CCTV.
 With tongue-in-cheek humor, another writer, Chaindrive, tried to find a silver lining in the fire. The rebuilding effort, he said, would mean more jobs for unemployed migrants, more money spent on construction materials and a lift for the economy.
 ''Businesses will have new customers and our government officials will have new opportunities to take bribes,'' he wrote. ''To make up the loss, we taxpayers will pay more, but our G.D.P. will go up and society will move forward in harmony.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Mandarin Oriental Hotel in Beijing on Tuesday. More photos are at nytimes.com/world. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER F. YUAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIRES (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); WEB SITES (89%); CHINESE NEW YEAR (79%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (78%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); INTERACTIVE TELEVISION (78%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ENGINEERING (74%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (71%); INVESTIGATIONS (70%); CONSTRUCTION ACCIDENTS (69%)

COMPANY: MANDARIN ORIENTAL INTERNATIONAL LTD (53%)

TICKER: MDO (LSE) (53%); M04 (SGX) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (53%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (93%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



436 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Wal-Mart to Trim 700 Jobs at Headquarters

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
Wal-Mart Stores, the nation's largest retailer and a rare bright star in the grim retailing universe, said Tuesday that it planned to cut 700 to 800 jobs at its headquarters in Bentonville, Ark., as it made broad changes to its operations.
 David Tovar, a spokesman for Wal-Mart, said in a telephone interview that ''the changes are designed to align our staffing and organizational structure, to increase operational efficiencies, support our strategic growth plans and help reduce our overall costs.'' 
 The job cuts do not affect store employees and are relatively small considering that Wal-Mart employs more than 1.4 million people in the United States alone. About 14,000 people work at the company's Arkansas headquarters. The cuts will affect merchandising, real estate, marketing and support staff positions for Wal-Mart's United States operations as well as merchandising and corporate functions at Sam's Club, a division of Wal-Mart. 
 While some Wal-Mart divisions will lose jobs, others will gain. For instance, Wal-Mart is opening fewer stores, so it needs fewer employees in its real estate group. But there will be more remodeling and relocation of existing stores, creating jobs in Wal-Mart's store planning group. 
 Similarly, Wal-Mart wants its buyers, who are based in Arkansas, to be based in New York, where some of its apparel team already works. So jobs are being eliminated in one city and created in another. Mr. Tovar said he did not yet know exactly how many managerial or in-store jobs Wal-Mart would add in 2009 but that it would be in the tens of thousands. 
 Some jobs are being cut because they are redundant. For example, Wal-Mart's pharmacy, optical and health clinic teams are being combined into one health and wellness group, which will enable the retailer to cut support staff positions. 
 ''If there is one constant in our organization, it is change,'' Michael T. Duke, president and chief executive of Wal-Mart, said in a letter to employees on Tuesday. He added that Wal-Mart must ''challenge costs in every corner of the company in order to keep our business strong today and well into the future.''
 In the last few weeks, thousands of jobs have been eliminated by retailers, including Macy's, Home Depot, Saks and Neiman Marcus. Wal-Mart's cuts are modest compared with those of other chains like Saks, which laid off 9 percent of its work force. 
 Still, as Mr. Duke said in his letter, ''We find ourselves living in unprecedented times.'' That a retailer already committed to penny-pinching would cut back further seemed to underscore the severity of the recession.
 ''The Wal-Mart C.E.O. office is the most modest C.E.O. office I have ever seen in my life,'' said Bill Dreher, senior retailing analyst with Deutsche Bank Securities. ''Most people's basements look better than his office, O.K.? It's not lavish. These are guys that need to share hotel rooms when they travel. Even an operator like this realizes they have to scale back.''
 Union groups have long expressed frustration, though, about the millions of dollars earned by Wal-Mart's top executives and members of the founding family. ''We would have hoped that during this tough time, the company would have used some of that wealth to reinvest in its work force,'' said David Nassar, a spokesman for Wal-Mart Watch, a union-financed advocacy group. 
 Wal-Mart said it began informing employees of the cuts on Thursday and would continue to do so over the next few weeks. 
 Shares were down $1.56, or 3.17 percent, on Tuesday, to $47.72.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); EXECUTIVES (73%); LABOR FORCE (72%); JOB CREATION (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (50%)

COMPANY: WAL-MART STORES INC (98%); ARK ASA (72%); SAM'S CLUB (69%)

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (98%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (72%)

PERSON: MICHAEL T DUKE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



437 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Parliament Invites the Bankers In, and Then Takes Them to the Woodshed

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The British member of Parliament fixed a withering eye on Frederick A. Goodwin, the former chief executive of the Royal Bank of Scotland, now government-owned, and put the question to him: ''Do you have a different moral compass from other bankers?'' he asked. ''Are you an aberration?'' 
 Mr. Goodwin, who sat with three other top British bankers on Tuesday before a Treasury panel investigating the British banking crisis, glanced at the bulging briefing book before him. 
 ''I couldn't be more sorry about what happened,'' he said, his voice scratchy and so low that it was barely picked up by the microphone. ''This has been a great distress to me -- I invested a lot of time and money in R.B.S.''
 True enough. But with the British government having injected close to $:40 billion ($59.3 billion) into its banks, and with an uproar building over bonuses to be paid at these institutions, contrition alone seemed unlikely to suffice.
 Bankers on both sides of the Atlantic are facing a firestorm of criticism after taking billions of dollars in taxpayer support while continuing to push for bonuses. 
 On Wednesday, executives of the eight big American banks that received roughly $125 billion in capital from the federal government last October, including Goldman Sachs, JPMorgan Chase and Bank of America, will face a similar grilling on Capitol Hill. As in Britain, the United States government attached few strings to the money when it was given, but now the banks are being asked to account for it. R.B.S., which said on Tuesday that it would cut another 2,300 jobs, is negotiating with the British Treasury on how much it can pay executives in bonuses.
 While most such discretionary payouts will be down 50 to 80 percent this year, the fact that British banks receiving taxpayer funds are seeking to pay bonuses at all has forced the government to respond quickly. 
 The British prime minister, Gordon Brown, who supported a knighthood received by Mr. Goodwin in 2004, said this week that he would ''sweep away'' the bonus culture. 
 But Mr. Brown's Labor party, which has been widely criticized for sanctioning light regulation of Royal Bank of Scotland and other banks, allowing them to grow and borrow beyond their means, is under pressure to do more. 
 John L. Prescott, a Labor politician and former deputy prime minister, urged that Mr. Goodwin's knighthood be revoked and set up a Facebook page demanding that R.B.S. pay no bonuses at all. 
 Mr. Goodwin was not the only banker to draw the committee's ire. Next to him were Thomas F. W. McKillop, who resigned his position last week as chairman at R.B.S.; Andrew H. Hornby, the former chief executive of HBOS, the mortgage lender; and Dennis Stevenson, the ex-chairman of HBOS. 
 And while the bank executives -- coached by the lawyers and public relations consultants sitting behind them -- offered apologies, they also showed flashes of defiance. Each executive argued he was undone by events that no one could have foreseen, including the fall of the American investment firm Lehman Brothers and the panic that ensued in financial markets. 
 Mr. Goodwin disputed the notion that the promise of rich bonuses pushed the bank into high-risk areas. ''Our traders held positions in what we thought to be triple-A-rated securities,'' he said. ''And they turned out to be worth 5 cents on the dollar.'' The former executives of HBOS, which has been criticized by a former risk officer who charged the bank had ignored warnings that it was loading up on risky loans, said the implosion of credit markets hurt the bank more than the concentrated bet it took on the real estate market. 
 Their defense drew angry responses from lawmakers, who accused them of blaming their problems on the collapse of the markets. 
 ''But are you culpable?'' asked Nicholas R. Ainger, a Labor representative who interrupted a meandering explanation by Mr. Goodwin. 
 ''It's just too simple to blame it all on me,'' Mr. Goodwin replied. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, the former bankers Dennis Stevenson, Andrew Hornby, Fred Goodwin and Thomas McKillop were questioned on Tuesday about financial missteps.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PARLIAMENT BROADCASTING, VIA BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BRITISH PARLIAMENT (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BANK FAILURES (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (73%); RESIGNATIONS (63%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (57%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (57%); FACEBOOK INC (51%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (93%); RBS (LSE) (93%); RBS (AMS) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (57%); BAC (LSE) (57%); 8648 (TSE) (57%); GS (NYSE) (57%); FB (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (93%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (51%)

PERSON: FRED GOODWIN (79%); GORDON BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



438 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 763 words

HEADLINE: HarperCollins Restructures And Lays Off 2 Executives

BYLINE: By MOTOKO RICH

 BODY:
The ax continued to fall in the New York publishing world on Tuesday, as HarperCollins Publishers announced a restructuring and layoffs that claimed the jobs of two of its top executives.
 The industry had been expecting some news from HarperCollins, a division of Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation, as it was one of the few major publishing houses not to have announced layoffs during the current punishing retail downturn. Random House, Simon & Schuster, Houghton Mifflin Harcourt and Macmillan, which operates divisions including Farrar, Straus & Giroux and St. Martin's Press, have all announced job losses in recent months.
 And so the shoe finally dropped at HarperCollins: the company said it was closing down its Collins division, the publisher of blockbusters like ''The Dangerous Book for Boys'' and ''Deceptively Delicious,'' a cookbook by Jessica Seinfeld. In a memo to the staff, Michael Morrison, president and publisher of the general books division for the United States and Canada, said that Steve Ross, the president and publisher of Collins, was leaving the company. 
 Mr. Morrison also announced the departure of Lisa Gallagher, publisher of William Morrow, the division whose recent hits included ''The Lace Reader'' by Brunonia Barry and ''A Lion Among Men'' by Gregory Maguire. The company also said it would close Bowen Press, a children's imprint.
 HarperCollins declined to say how many others had been laid off, but people familiar with the changes said at least five editors at Collins had been let go, including Gillian Blake and Caroline Sutton, well-respected executive editors who had been with the company for less than a year. Several sales, marketing and publicity staff members were also let go from Collins and other divisions. 
 Brian Murray, chief executive of HarperCollins, said the company had hoped to avoid layoffs by pruning its travel and entertainment budgets, freezing salaries and offering buyouts to staff members over 55.
 ''But at the end of the day we need to have operating profits so we can continue to reinvest in our business,'' Mr. Murray said in an interview. ''And, unfortunately, over the past six months we haven't had significant enough profits to continue to reinvest in our business the way we want to.''
 In the six months that ended on Dec. 31, HarperCollins's operating income dropped nearly 75 percent, to $26 million from $103 million. Over all, the publishing industry has struggled as bookstore sales have slowed drastically. For the months of October and November, the Association of American Publishers announced double-digit declines in sales, and the holiday season was widely considered the worst in recent memory.
 Literary agents were surprised to hear of Ms. Gallagher's departure, as she was described as very pro-author. Ms. Gallagher, reached by telephone, declined to comment.
 As a result of the shakeout at HarperCollins, the Collins general nonfiction list, reference imprint, business books and Smithsonian partnership titles will be absorbed by the company's Harper division under the leadership of the publisher Jonathan Burnham. But the Collins name will disappear from all but the reference books. 
 Liate Stehlik, publisher of HarperCollins's mass market paperback books, is taking over from Ms. Gallagher at William Morrow and will also absorb Collins Living titles. Collins Design is being absorbed by HarperCollins's paperback division, overseen by its publisher, Carrie Kania. 
 Industry insiders were surprised that the Collins division was being closed down just 18 months after it was revamped with the hiring of Mr. Ross from Crown Publishing Group, a division of Random House. Under Mr. Ross's leadership, the division had hired about 25 people, including several young editors. Just last November the division threw a splashy party at the Modern, the upscale restaurant at the Museum of Modern Art, to celebrate its forthcoming books. 
 According to several people at HarperCollins who asked for anonymity because they did not want to jeopardize their jobs, there had been tensions between editors at Collins and other divisions as they competed for book deals. 
 Mr. Ross declined to comment on the closing of Collins. But in an e-mail message, he pointed out that he had been named one of the 50 hottest bachelors by Page Six magazine, part of The New York Post, which is also owned by News Corporation. Mr. Ross came in at No. 41 and was described as a ''go-to smarty-pants guy.'' 
 ''I guess, what they meant to say is eligible for unemployment,'' Mr. Ross wrote.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (93%); LAYOFFS (92%); BOOK PUBLISHING (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); PUBLISHING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (86%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (78%); LITERARY AGENTS (78%); LITERATURE (78%); WRITERS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); DISMISSALS (78%); BOOK SALES (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BOOKSTORES (69%); BUDGETS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%); COMPANY PROFITS (63%)

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (84%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (58%); HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%); FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (57%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (84%); NWS (ASX) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (84%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%)

PERSON: CRAIG O MORRISON (67%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (55%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



439 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: Responding to Obama, Iranian Leader Offers Talks 'Based on Mutual Respect'

BYLINE: By NAZILA FATHI and DAVID E. SANGER; Nazila Fathi reported from Tehran, and David E. Sanger from Washington.

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran took up President Obama's oft-repeated invitation for direct talks between the United States and Iran on Tuesday. The move signaled the start of a long-delayed war-or-peace drama that may help define the Obama administration's plans to remake America's approach to diplomacy.
 But it also opens up the possibility of new tensions with Israel, which less than a year ago sought American help in preparing an attack on Iran's main nuclear complex and is expected to drift further to the right after Tuesday's parliamentary elections.
 And Mr. Obama will have to decide whether to continue a major covert program against Iran's nuclear ambitions, even while beginning to engage in diplomacy. 
 Mr. Ahmadinejad promised that if the United States was truly serious about changing the countries' relations, then Iran was ready to respond in kind. ''It is clear that change should be fundamental, not tactical, and our people welcome real changes,'' he said. ''Our nation is ready to hold talks based on mutual respect and in a fair atmosphere.''
 Mr. Ahmadinejad's remarks were made in a televised address to a rally celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution in 1979, which deposed Shah Mohammed Reza Pahlavi. That ended the close relationship between Washington and Tehran and ushered in decades of confrontation that culminated in President Bush's description of Iran in 2002 as part of an ''axis of evil.''
 Three weeks ago, however, Mr. Obama promised in his inaugural address a new relationship with nations willing to ''unclench'' their fists, an offer he repeated at his news conference on Monday evening.
 It is too early to know quite how to read Mr. Ahmadinejad's response. He coupled his offer of talks with an attack on former President Bush, calling for him to be ''tried and punished'' for his policies and actions in the Middle East and the Persian Gulf region.
 It is also never exactly clear who is running foreign policy in Iran, and there is good reason to question whether its fiery president will overcome his mismanagement of the economy to survive the elections there on June 12.
 Yet analysts note that, for all his harsh words, Mr. Ahmadinejad has sent a surprising number of positive signals to the United States in recent years. He sent a letter to President Bush in 2006 and a letter to Mr. Obama congratulating him on his election victory, and he has traveled four times to New York since he took office to take part in United Nations meetings. 
 ''Generally speaking, Iran favors ties with the United States because falling oil prices have hurt its economy dramatically,'' said Saeed Leylaz, an economist and political analyst in Tehran. ''The United States needs to take the first major step. Otherwise Iran cannot go any farther.'' But he cautioned that the United States hold direct talks only with Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's supreme religious leader. 
 There is no question that a new dynamic is afoot, one that seems likely to become even more complicated after Tuesday's election in Israel is settled. If the government that emerges is even more determined to end the Iranian nuclear program by any means necessary, Mr. Obama may find himself trying to negotiate with one of America's most determined adversaries while restraining one of its closest allies.
 ''I could draw you a scenario in which this new combination of players leads to the first real talks with Iran in three decades,'' one of the key players on the issue for President Obama said last week, speaking on condition of anonymity because the new administration had not even named its team, much less its strategy. ''And I could draw you one in which the first big foreign crisis of the Obama presidency is a really nasty confrontation, either because the Israelis strike or because we won't let them.''
 In public, Mr. Obama is talking only about the first possibility. On Monday evening, he talked about ''looking at areas where we can have constructive dialogue, where we can engage directly with them,'' and said he was looking for ''diplomatic overtures.'' But he cautioned that ''there's been a lot of mistrust built up over the years,'' and that after 30 years of a deep freeze, openings are ''not going to happen overnight.''
 To protect his right flank, Mr. Obama quickly added the caveat that Iran should know that ''we find the funding of terrorist organizations unacceptable'' and that ''a nuclear Iran could set off a nuclear arms race in the region that would be profoundly destabilizing.''
 But curiously, he did not repeat the warning he made repeatedly during the campaign that he would never allow Iran to obtain a nuclear weapon, or even the nuclear fuel and ability to build one. 
 Whether this comes to anything, or founders on the question of Iran's race to enrich more uranium even while the two presidents circle each other, is anyone's guess. But it is bound to make the new government in Israel nervous, and the clock in Jerusalem is ticking a lot faster on the Iranian nuclear problem than it is in Washington. 
 As The New York Times reported last month, a little less than a year ago the Israeli government went to President Bush seeking bunker-busting bombs, refueling ability and overflight rights over Iraq to strike Iran's main nuclear enrichment plant, at Natanz. President Bush -- who elevated pre-emption to a doctrine and declared he would never allow Iran to develop the ability to build a nuclear weapon -- turned the Israelis down. 
 Mr. Bush told the Israeli prime minister, Ehud Olmert, now in his last days in office, to wait and to give a new American covert effort to disable the Natanz plant time to work. Reluctantly, the Israelis agreed, and when the Bush administration disbanded last month, it was still unclear whether Mr. Olmert had really intended to go ahead with the attack or was just bluffing in an effort to force the United States to deal with the problem.
 Now comes the replay, this time with some new players.
 Over the weekend, Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. offered up the warning that Mr. Obama sidestepped on Monday night: If Iran stays on its current course, sanctions will intensify. The subtext of the Israeli election has been even clearer. To various degrees, all the candidates have made clear they plan to take on not only Hamas, but its Iranian sponsors. 
 And in Iran itself, the race for the presidency has been energized by the announcement over the weekend by former President Mohammad Khatami, the reformist who never mustered the power or the will to carry out much reform, that he wants his old job back. Presumably, that is a relief to Washington, which desperately wants to see President Ahmadinejad sent to an early and permanent retirement, and with him Iran's proclamations about Israel's eventual destruction and America's inevitable decline. 
 But it was under Mr. Khatami that Iran's nuclear ambitions first expanded. If the latest National Intelligence Estimate on Iran's nuclear ambitions is correct, the push to develop a weapons design, and the suspension of that effort in 2003, all happened on his watch.
 Iran contends that its nuclear program is solely for energy production, but Israel and many Western countries, including the United States, say it is just a cover for attempts to build a bomb. 
 Mr. Obama's task over the next few months will be to demonstrate that he can simultaneously make progress with the Iranians and buy a little time from the Israelis. That will require some hard decisions, first among them whether the United States will stick to its insistence that the entire nuclear infrastructure in Iran, down to the last centrifuge, be dismantled. 
 It is almost inconceivable, some of Mr. Obama's aides acknowledge, that the Iranians will be willing to give up everything needed to produce a weapon. And it is hard to imagine that the Israelis will settle for anything less. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran greeted well-wishers on Tuesday at a rally in Tehran celebrating the 30th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution.
 A woman at the rally held a poster of Ayatollah Ali Khamenei, Iran's chief religious leader, with final say on state matters. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY VAHID SALEMI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); POLITICS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); ANNIVERSARIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); RELIGION (51%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (91%); BARACK OBAMA (91%); GEORGE H W BUSH (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (59%); ALI KHAMENEI (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (90%) INDIAN OCEAN (67%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN (90%); GULF STATES (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



440 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 956 words

HEADLINE: No Ordinary Republicans: Maine Senators Break With Party on Fiscal Plan

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senators Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe are not close friends, but they have plenty in common. They both represent Maine. They share a centrist ideology. They are proper and genteel. And they can drive their Republican colleagues to distraction.
 Much to the dismay of their fellow Republicans and to loud applause from Democrats, the two senators from Maine have put President Obama on the precipice of winning passage of an $800-billion-plus economic recovery plan rejected by almost everyone else in Congress who shares their party affiliation. 
 On one of the biggest bills ever to confront lawmakers, the two senators, surviving members of the vanishing breed of New England Republicans, are wielding outsize power. Along with Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, the third Republican who broke from the pack and provided a crucial vote for initial passage on Tuesday, the two Mainers find themselves holding virtual veto control over the legislation as it enters crucial negotiations between the House and Senate.
 Many Senate Republicans would prefer the outcome be in other hands.
 ''I like them both, but I wouldn't want them to buy me a car,'' said Senator Lindsey Graham of South Carolina, who noted the compromise engineered by Ms. Collins had produced an $838 billion Senate version of the $819 billion House bill.
 ''This is no ordinary vote,'' said Senator Richard Burr, Republican of North Carolina. ''This is a huge, huge obligation.''
 Senator Tom Coburn, Republican of Oklahoma, chimed in, ''They own it.''
 The two Maine senators acknowledged that some of their Republican cohorts might be disenchanted. But they say they are simply doing what the pragmatic and independent people of Maine sent them to Washington to do.
 ''This crisis is extraordinary, and my constituents don't expect me to stay on the sidelines,'' said Ms. Collins, a onetime Senate aide who easily won re-election last November in a terrible year for Republicans elsewhere. ''They expect me to jump in. People don't want us to be the party that says no, just no.''
 Ms. Snowe said: ''I feel the ability to bridge the divide and corral a consensus on a critical issue facing this country. This is the only option we have in the final analysis as far as a fiscal tool. We have to get it right, and we have to make it work.''
 This is hardly the first time the two have broken from their party; it has occurred regularly over the years on budget, health, tax and environmental policy. But now it comes as Republicans are much more vulnerable, holding just 41 seats, and knowing that the loss of Ms. Collins and Ms. Snowe deprives them of what little power they retain to block Democratic legislation.
 It also reflects the political reality that the nature of a Republican from Maine, a state where President Obama received almost 58 percent of the vote, is much different from that of the conservative Southern and Western lawmakers who constitute much of the rest of the Senate Republican side.
 ''I think it is safe to say that Republicans in the Northeast are not exactly the same as Republicans in the Deep South,'' said Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican leader.
 Mr. McConnell said Tuesday that there were ''no complaints'' about Ms. Collins in terms of how she handled talks with a bipartisan group seeking changes in the bill and that she kept the leadership fully informed of her actions.
 But other Republicans said the main sentiment was disappointment over how Ms. Collins was ''driving the train'' in talks with Democrats that ultimately cut about $100 billion from the measure and reshaped it in other ways, but not enough to suit most Republicans.
 Senator John McCain, the Arizona Republican who has worked closely with Ms. Collins over the years, did not mention any names, but he was clearly dismayed at the talks and what they produced. 
 ''This is not a bipartisan agreement,'' Mr. McCain said Monday on the Senate floor. ''This is three members of the Senate -- none on the House side -- who have joined Democrats for a partisan agreement. It is unfortunate because we are now committing an act of generational theft.''
 Ms. Collins conceded her central role had taken at least a temporary toll on relationships with some colleagues. She noted she was left pretty much alone on the Senate floor on Friday night as the agreement struck with Democratic leaders was laid out.
 ''It is very hard,'' she said. ''These are my friends. I work with them every day. I believe I have done the right thing, but there is a cost, there is a definite cost.''
 Ms. Collins and Ms. Snowe themselves have a cool relationship, but it is not unusual for same-state senators to engage in a rivalry over who accomplishes what. Ms. Snowe, who like her Maine colleague had a private meeting with Mr. Obama at the White House, did not take part in the Senate talks orchestrated by Ms. Collins. But they do work together on Maine interests, and Ms. Collins on Monday used the Senate floor to credit Ms. Snowe for her efforts on the economic measure.
 Both senators say they wish their Republican colleagues would take a second look at the legislation, and Ms. Snowe said she had been talking to House Republicans about getting behind it. ''At this moment in our nation's history, I think it is crucial that we build a consensus,'' she said.
 Ms. Collins said she hoped the present situation was not the shape of things to come as Congress moves to contentious issues like health care and climate change.
 ''I hope that there will be fewer cases where I am in the middle,'' Ms. Collins said. ''I enjoy shaping legislation and helping to affect the outcome of major issues, but it is a difficult position to be in, without a doubt.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Maine's senators, Olympia J. Snowe, left, and Susan Collins, two of just three Republicans to back the economic bill. ''People don't want us to be the party that says no, just no,'' Ms. Collins said.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Arlen Specter, who also broke rank to back the measure.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); VETO (77%); POLITICS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (71%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (50%)

PERSON: SUSAN COLLINS (91%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (89%); ARLEN SPECTER (74%); TOM COBURN (59%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (59%); RICHARD BURR (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MAINE, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



441 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 869 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Prepares to Broach Hard Issues With China

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The Obama administration plans to realign the United States' relationship with China by putting more emphasis on climate change, energy and human rights, widening the focus beyond the economic concerns of the Bush years, according to senior administration officials. 
 With Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton scheduled to visit Beijing next week as part of her first foreign trip in her new job, the administration is said to believe that a broader relationship with the Chinese could create opportunities for collaboration -- not only on a response to the global economic crisis, but also on the environment and on security issues like the North Korean and Iranian nuclear programs. 
 Yet the new focus, which is being championed by Mrs. Clinton, carries risks, experts said, because it could aggravate tensions on delicate issues like China's repression of Tibet and its position as the world's leading emitter of greenhouse gases. 
 An added hurdle for Mrs. Clinton, these experts said, is that the United States urgently needs China's support on the economic front. Putting new issues on the table now may complicate efforts to seek Beijing's help in areas like financial regulation and stimulus campaigns. 
 ''The difficulty is not just that the timing is off,'' said Minxin Pei, a China expert at the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. ''Rebalancing the relationship means introducing elements that have friction. Those areas that have been ignored are precisely the more contentious ones.''
 Mrs. Clinton said recently that relations during the Bush administration ''turned into an economic dialogue,'' adding, ''That's a very important aspect of our relationship with China, but it is not the only aspect.''
 Speaking last week to reporters, she said, ''We want it to be part of a broader agenda, and that's what we're working to achieve.''
 Mrs. Clinton has not yet publicly declared her priorities for China, and she must square her ambitions with those of the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, and other senior Obama administration officials, like Carol M. Browner, the White House's coordinator of energy and climate policy. 
 But Mrs. Clinton has moved to reclaim the role of the State Department in making China policy after years in which the Treasury, led by Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr., dominated the issue. Mr. Paulson initiated and led the so-called Strategic Economic Dialogue that covered a wide variety of topics but, according to critics, limited American scrutiny of issues like Tibet.
 China's crackdown on protesting Tibetan monks last year led Mrs. Clinton, then a Democratic presidential candidate, to call on President Bush not to attend the Beijing Olympics. Mr. Bush went to Beijing anyway -- a decision in keeping with his administration's practice of pushing China harder on its exchange rate than on its human rights abuses.
 The Obama administration, officials said, will start softly, too, focusing initially on climate change and energy efficiency. Mrs. Clinton is expected to bring along her new special envoy for climate change, Todd Stern, who has written about the need for countries that are major emitters to work together. 
 The United States is likely to emphasize joint research projects over harder issues like cuts in Chinese emissions, an approach that largely echoes that of the Bush administration. Even so, climate experts warned that progress could easily be derailed by other jolts between Beijing and Washington. 
 ''We need to be willing to set aside other things that could poison the relationship: conflicts over Iran, conflicts over Africa, conflicts over the currency,'' said David G. Victor, an energy expert at Stanford University.
 Mrs. Clinton, whose weeklong Asian tour also includes stops in Japan, Indonesia and South Korea, is unlikely to confront the Chinese on her first visit. But given that she often cites her 1995 speech to a women's conference in Beijing and its hostile reception by the Chinese, it is hard to imagine that she would soft-pedal human rights abuses in Tibet or elsewhere.
 Officials said Mrs. Clinton was determined to engage the Chinese on North Korea, pushing for a resumption of multiparty talks with the North Koreans. Outside experts have urged the secretary to name a lead American negotiator for North Korea before her trip, to underline her urgency.
 Christopher R. Hill, the current negotiator, is expected to be appointed ambassador to Iraq, though he will travel to Asia with Mrs. Clinton. Among the people rumored to be in line for the North Korea post is Stephen W. Bosworth, a former American ambassador to South Korea. 
 Mr. Bosworth, now dean of the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy at Tufts University, returned Saturday from a private visit to Pyongyang, the North Korean capital, telling reporters that he detected some willingness on the part of North Korean officials to talk to the Obama administration. 
 Mrs. Clinton's greatest challenge in seizing China policy, some experts said, is that she is not the Treasury secretary. ''What's more important right now than economics?'' said Nicholas R. Lardy, a China expert at the Peterson Institute for International Economics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); GREENHOUSE GASES (73%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (66%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (66%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); CAROL BROWNER (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%); HENRY PAULSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (88%); XIZANG, CHINA (88%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); TIBET (93%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



442 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 583 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Disappointed by Direction of Financing

BYLINE: By KENNETH CHANG

 BODY:
Scientists, who were thrilled when President Obama vowed on his first day to ''restore science to its proper place,'' have veered from excitement to dread as the stimulus bill makes its way through Congress. 
 While both the House and Senate versions of the bill contain billions of dollars for research, the Senate bill, passed Tuesday, greatly weights the money to biomedical research and has much lower levels for the basic sciences. 
 Still, scientists expressed relief that the Senate did not approve the proposal circulated late last week by an influential group of senators. That proposal would have removed all stimulus financing for the National Science Foundation and the Office of Science in the Energy Department, agencies considered crucial to basic research that leads to technological breakthroughs. 
 According to an analysis by the American Association for the Advancement of Science, the Senate version would spend $17.8 billion on science and technology research and development, of which $10.4 billion would go to biomedical research at the National Institutes of Health. The House bill, which passed two weeks ago, allocated $13.2 billion for research, of which $3.9 billion would go to the N.I.H.
 Unless most of that money falls out of the final bill, agency officials will have to decide how to spend a big pulse of money after several lean years. 
 The challenge, especially in the face of record federal deficits that could threaten future financing, is how to spend the money now wisely while not overcommitting to the future.
 Raynard S. Kington, acting director of the N.I.H., said that because of six years of almost flat financing, the institutes had a backlog of worthy projects. He said the agency could quickly finance some of the 14,000 applications that it had judged to be of scientific merit but had turned down because of insufficient financing. 
 The usual N.I.H. research grant is from $250,000 and $300,000 and runs for four years, and each grant supports six or seven full-time or part-time jobs, Dr. Kington said.
 To provide a quicker economic impact, the institutes may also award two-year grants of $500,000 per year, but soliciting proposals and judging them could take up to a year.
 The Senate bill would give $1.2 billion, including $1 billion for new grants, to the National Science Foundation, which finances basic science research, and $330 million to the Office of Science, which finances high-energy physics research. The House version would give $3 billion to the science foundation and $2 billion to the Science Office. 
 Michael S. Lubell, director of public affairs for the American Physical Society, was dismayed at what was left out in the Senate version. Much of the House money for the Science Office would go to shovel-ready construction projects at national laboratories that the society had compiled for Congress.
 One project on the society's list is the National Synchrotron Light Source II, a $912 million project planned for Brookhaven National Laboratory on Long Island. The laboratory announced Tuesday that it had selected a general contractor for the first phase of the project. But officials said construction could not start because the laboratory has received only $21 million of the $103 million it had been expecting. 
 ''If you want to craft a bill that is essentially a stimulus bill, focus on the things that create jobs,'' Mr. Lubell said. ''Here's a case where you can do something right away and they ignored it.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT RESEARCH FUNDING (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BIOMEDICINE (90%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXPERIMENTATION & RESEARCH (89%); GRANTS & GIFTS (89%); SCIENCE FUNDING (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); SCIENCE POLICY (79%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (79%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); APPROVALS (76%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (74%); PHYSICS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (71%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%); CONSTRUCTION (50%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (55%); NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (57%); AMERICAN ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF SCIENCE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



443 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; ON WASHINGTON; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Iranian Overture Might Complicate Relations With Israel

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
When President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad of Iran took up President Obama's oft-repeated invitation for direct talks between the United States and Iran -- something that hasn't happened in 30 years -- he seemed to be signaling the start of a long-delayed war-or-peace drama that may define the Obama administration's first engagement with the rest of the world.
 It was only three weeks ago today, in his inaugural address, that Mr. Obama promised a new relationship with nations willing to ''unclench their fist,'' an offer he repeated at his news conference on Monday evening. And it is too early to know quite how to read Mr. Ahmadinejad's declaration that ''Our nation is ready to hold talks based on mutual respect and in a fair atmosphere.'' After all, it's never exactly clear who is running the country's foreign policy, and there is good reason to question whether the fiery Iranian president will overcome his mismanagement of the country's economy to survive the June 12 elections there. 
 But there is no question a new dynamic is afoot, one that seems likely to become even more complicated after today's election in Israel is settled. If the government that emerges is even more determined to end the Iranian nuclear program by any means necessary, Mr. Obama may find himself trying to negotiate with one of America's most determined adversaries while restraining one of its closest allies.
 ''I could draw you a scenario in which this new combination of players leads to the first real talks with Iran in three decades,'' one of the key players on the issue for President Obama said last week, declining to speak on the record because the new administration has not even named its team, much less its strategy. ''And I could draw you one in which the first big foreign crisis of the Obama presidency is a really nasty confrontation, either because the Israelis strike or because we won't let them.''
 In public, Mr. Obama is talking only about the first scenario. On Monday evening, he talked about ''looking for areas where we can have constructive dialogue, where we can engage directly with them,'' and said he was looking for ''diplomatic overtures.'' But he cautioned that ''there's been a lot of mistrust built up over the years,'' and that after thirty years of a deep freeze, openings are ''not going to happen overnight.''
 To protect his right flank, Mr. Obama quickly added the caveat that Iran should know that ''we find the funding of terrorist organizations unacceptable'' and that ''a nuclear Iran could set off a nuclear arms race in the region that would be profoundly destabilizing.'' But curiously, he did not repeat the warning he made repeatedly during the campaign that he would never allow Iran to obtain a weapon, or even the nuclear fuel and capability to build one. 
 It took only a few hours for Mr. Ahmadinejad, during the 30th anniversary of the Iranian revolution, to respond, even using similar language about the need for mutual respect. Whether this comes to anything, or founders on the question of Iran's race to enrich more uranium even while the two presidents circle each other, is anyone's guess. But it is bound to make the new government in Israel nervous, and as we have already learned, the clock in Jerusalem is ticking a lot faster on the Iranian nuclear problem than it is in Washington. 
 As the Times reported last month, a little less than a year ago the Israeli government came to President Bush seeking the bunker-busting bombs, the refueling capability and the overflight rights over Iraq to take out Iran's main nuclear enrichment plant, at Natanz. President Bush -- the man who elevated preemption to a ''doctrine'' and who declared he would never, ever allow Iran to develop the capability to build a nuclear weapon -- turned the Israelis down. 
 Mr. Bush told Prime Minister Ehud Olmert, now in his last days in office, to wait. A new, American covert effort to disable the Natanz facility, Mr. Bush said, needed time to work. Reluctantly, the Israelis agreed, and when the Bush administration disbanded last month, it was still unclear whether Mr. Olmert had really intended to go ahead with the attack or was just bluffing in an effort to force the United States to deal with the problem.
 Now comes the replay, this time with some new players.
 Over the weekend Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. offered up the warning that Mr. Obama sidestepped on Monday night: If Iran stays on its current course, sanctions will intensify. The subtext of the Israeli election has been even clearer: To various degrees, all the candidates have made clear they plan to take on not only Hamas, but its Iranian sponsors. 
 And in Iran itself, the June 12 race for the presidency has been energized by the announcement over the weekend by former president Mohammad Khatami, the reformist who never garnered the power or the will to implement much reform, that he wants his old job back. Presumably that's a relief to Washington, which desperately wants to see President Ahmadinejad sent to an early and permanent retirement, and with him Iran's proclamations about Israel's eventual destruction and America's inevitable decline. 
 But it was under Mr. Khatami the reformer, of course, that the expansion of Iran's nuclear ambitions blossomed. If the latest National Intelligence Estimate on Iran's nuclear ambitions is correct, the push to develop a weapons design (and the suspension of that effort in 2003) all happened on his watch.
 Iran's contention is that its nuclear program is solely for energy production, but many Western countries, the United States and Israel included, say the program is just a cover for attempts to build a bomb. 
 Mr. Obama's task over the next few months will be to demonstrate that he can simultaneously make progress with the Iranians and buy a little time from the Israelis. That will require some hard decisions, first among them whether the United States will stick to its insistence that the entire nuclear infrastructure in Iran, down to the last centrifuge, must be dismantled. 
 It's almost inconceivable, some of Mr. Obama's aides acknowledge, that the Iranians will be willing to give up everything needed to produce a weapon. And it is hard to imagine that the Israelis will settle for anything less. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); FOREIGN POLICY (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ARMS RACE (67%); TERRORISM (50%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (50%); MILITARY WEAPONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



444 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 673 words

HEADLINE: Senate Approves Stimulus, And Intense Talks Begin

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and JEFF ZELENY; David M. Herszenhorn reported from Washington, and Jeff Zeleny from Fort Myers, Fla. Carl Hulse contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional leaders moved quickly into intense negotiations with the Obama administration on Tuesday after the Senate voted to approve an $838 billion economic stimulus plan, and officials said the talks were on a fast track to finish the legislation perhaps by the end of this week. 
 In a sign of their determination to reconcile the differences between the Senate bill and the $820 billion House version swiftly, the White House chief of staff, Rahm Emanuel, and the budget director, Peter R. Orszag, huddled at the Capitol on Tuesday evening with Speaker Nancy Pelosi; the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada; and other lawmakers. 
 Participants in the talks said they wanted to reduce the overall price to just under $800 billion.
 The officials worked late into the night, with Mr. Reid shuttling between meetings with senators in his office and House leaders in Ms. Pelosi's suite. Centrist senators who were crucial to the stimulus deal, Susan Collins and Olympia J. Snowe, Republicans of Maine, Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, and Joseph I. Lieberman, independent of Connecticut, returned around 9 p.m. for the talks and left about an hour later.
 The group broke for the night shortly before 11:30 p.m. ''We're not there,'' Mr. Reid said. ''But we have made a significant amount of progress in the last 10 hours.'' 
 Despite the tight timetable, Mr. Emanuel said, the bill could still be finalized this week. ''You are in the legislative branch,'' he said. ''Anything is possible.'' He added, ''Everybody knows the seriousness of the economic crisis.'' 
 Even before the Senate voted 61 to 37 to approve the stimulus bill, President Obama met with Ms. Pelosi and Mr. Reid at the White House on Tuesday morning. The president then traveled to Fort Myers, Fla., to showcase a prominent Republican supporter of the plan, Gov. Charlie Crist. 
 Among the differences to be resolved were proposals in the House bill to subsidize private health coverage for the unemployed and to offer temporary Medicaid coverage for those who cannot retain private insurance. The Senate bill provides $10 billion less in subsidies and does not offer expanded Medicaid. The Senate cuts were likely to be part of the final bill. 
 Over all, the bills reflect differences of tens of billions of dollars in spending priorities.
 Mr. Obama announced the Senate's passage of the bill in the middle of a question-and-answer session with voters in Fort Myers. He did not mention that it passed with only three Republican votes. 
 ''We've got a little more work to do over the next couple of days,'' Mr. Obama said, perhaps understating the task ahead. ''But it's a good start.'' 
 Administration officials said that one priority would be to restore Mr. Obama's middle-class tax cut to its original size. The Senate, trying to lower the cost of the plan, had trimmed it by more than $2 billion. 
 Congressional leaders have said they want the bill on Mr. Obama's desk by Monday, and Ms. Pelosi has said Congress would not recess next week unless the bill was done.
 The president told the audience that his political future depended on the economy's rebounding. ''I'm not going to make any excuses,'' he said. ''If stuff hasn't worked and people don't feel like I've led the country in the right direction, then you'll have a new president.''
 The unemployment rate in Fort Myers was 10 percent in December, more than triple the rate of two years ago. In the last year, about 12,000 jobs have been lost in the Lee County area, a small slice of the 255,000 jobs lost across the state.
 Appearing with Mr. Obama was Governor Crist, who last year was mentioned as a contender to be Senator John McCain's running mate. Mr. Crist has sided with Mr. Obama, rather than with Mr. McCain, who has been one of the plan's biggest critics in the Senate.
 ''This issue of helping our country is about helping our country,'' Mr. Crist said. ''This is not about partisan politics. This is about rising above that, helping America, and reigniting our economy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama visited Fort Myers, Fla., on Tuesday to promote his stimulus plan, which is backed by Gov. Charlie Crist.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (66%); MEDICAID (66%); HEALTH INSURANCE (61%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (79%); NANCY PELOSI (79%); RAHM EMANUEL (59%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (59%); BEN NELSON (59%); JOE LIEBERMAN (59%); PETER ORSZAG (59%); CHARLIE CRIST (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FORT MYERS, FL, USA (86%) FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEBRASKA, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



445 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 808 words

HEADLINE: Trillion Dollar Baby

BYLINE: By MAUREEN DOWD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
 So much for the savior-based economy.
 Tim Geithner, the learned and laconic civil servant and financial engineer, did not sweep in and infuse our shaky psyches with confidence. For starters, the 47-year-old's voice kept cracking.
 Escorting us over the rickety, foggy bridge from TARP to Son of TARP by way of TALF -- don't ask -- Geithner did not, as the president said when he drew on the wisdom of Fred Astaire, inspire us to pick ourselves up, dust ourselves off and start all over again. 
 The Obama crowd is hung up on the same issues that the Bush crew was hung up on last September: Which of the potentially $2 or $3 trillion in toxic assets will the taxpayers buy and what will we pay for them?
 Despite the touting, the Treasury chief unveiled a plan short on illumination, recrimination, fine points and foreclosure closure. The Dow collapsed on its fainting couch as Sports Illustrated swimsuit models rang the closing bell.
 It wasn't only that Geithner's own tax history -- and his time as head of the New York Fed when all the bad stuff was happening on Wall Street, and when he left with nearly a half-million in severance -- makes him a dubious messenger for the president's pledge to keep the haves from further betraying the have-nots.
 It wasn't only that Americans' already threadbare trust has been ripped by Hank Paulson's mumbo-jumbo and the Democrats' bad judgment in accessorizing the stimulus bill with Grammy-level ''bling, bling,'' as the R.N.C. chairman, Michael Steele, called it.
 The problem is that the ''lost faith'' that Geithner talked about in his announcement Tuesday cannot be restored as long as the taxpayers who are funding these wayward banks don't have more control.
 Geithner is not even requiring the banks to lend in return for the $2 trillion his program will try to marshal, mostly by having the Fed print money out of thin air, thereby diluting our money, or borrowing more from China. (When, exactly, can China foreclose on us and start sending us toxic toys again?)
 There's a weaselly feel to the plan, a sense that tough decisions were postponed even as President Obama warns about our ''perfect storm of financial problems.'' The outrage is going only one way, as we pony up trillion after trillion.
 Geithner is coddling the banks, setting it up so that either we'll have to pay the banks inflated prices for poison assets or subsidize investors to pay the banks for poison assets.
 As Steve Labaton and Ed Andrews wrote in The Times on Tuesday, Geithner won an internal battle with David Axelrod and other Obama aides who wanted to impose pay caps on every employee at institutions taking the bailout and set stricter guidelines on how federal money is spent. Geithner prevailed over those who wanted to kick out negligent bank executives and wipe out shareholders at institutions receiving aid.
 In a move that would have made his mentor, Robert Rubin, proud, Geithner beat back the populists and protected the economic royalists. The new plan offers insufficient meddling with Wall Street, even though Wall Street shows no sign that the hardscrabble economy has pierced its Hermes-swathed world.
 Wells Fargo, for instance, which has leeched $25 billion in bailout money, bought an inadvertently hilarious full-page ad in The Times to whinge about the junkets to Las Vegas and elsewhere it was forced to cancel because of public outrage. (The ad in The Times on Sunday could have cost up to $200,000, which may count as a bailout for our industry.)
 ''Okay, time out. Something doesn't feel right,'' John Stumpf, the president and chief executive of Wells Fargo wrote in an open letter defending their two decades of four-day employee recognition ''events.'' Calling them junkets or boondoggles is ''nonsense,'' he protested, adding about his employees: ''This recognition energizes them.''
 In this economy, simply having a job should energize them. 
 Geithner is wrong. The pay of all the employees in bailed-out banks, not just top executives, should be capped. And these impervious, imperial suits who squander taxpayers' money after dragging the country over the cliff should all be fired -- preferably when they come to D.C. on Wednesday in a phony show of populism on Amtrak and the shuttle to testify before Barney Frank.
 Wall Street cannot be trusted to change its culture. Just look at the full-page ads that Bank of America (which got $45 billion) and Citigroup (which got $50 billion) are plastering in newspapers, lavishing taxpayer money on preening prose. 
 We don't want our money spent, as Citigroup did, to pat itself on the back ''as we navigate the complexities together.'' Bank of America cannot get back our trust by spending more of our cash to assure us that it's ''getting to work'' on getting back our trust.
 Just get back to work and start repaying us. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (88%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); SEVERANCE PAY (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TERM ASSET BACKED SECURITIES LOAN FACILITY (72%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (55%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (90%); BARACK OBAMA (75%); HENRY PAULSON (58%); DAVID AXELROD (55%); MICHAEL STEELE (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



446 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 704 words

HEADLINE: Advisers' Citigroup Ties Raise Questions

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Senior executives at Citigroup's Alternative Investment division ran up hundreds of millions of dollars in losses last year on their esoteric collection of investments, including real estate funds and private highway construction projects, even as they collected seven-figure salaries and bonuses.
 Now the Obama administration has turned to that Citigroup division -- twice -- for high-level advisers. 
 Jacob J. Lew, who served until late last year as the chief financial officer of Citigroup Alternative Investments, has been named deputy secretary of state, the department's No. 2 position.
 Michael Froman, another former chief financial officer at the Citigroup division, has joined the White House staff as deputy assistant to the president and deputy national security adviser for international economic affairs.
 Both Mr. Lew and Mr. Froman are well respected in Washington for their extensive government experience, which includes work in the Clinton administration on budget matters, in Congress and on international financial affairs. 
 But their shift to the Obama administration from Citigroup has raised questions about the potential for conflicts of interest, and about whether Mr. Obama's own staff members benefited from the kinds of Wall Street excesses he has criticized.
 ''You sort of have to wonder why it is so smart to put them in charge now, if they helped create the mess that we are in,'' said Melanie Sloan, executive director of Citizens for Responsibility and Ethics in Washington. ''They wouldn't strike me as the natural choice.''
 Senator Richard C. Shelby, Republican of Alabama, has questioned whether the Obama administration, like the Bush administration, is relying too much on former bank executives in shaping the bailout of the financial sector. Recent appointees include Mark A. Patterson, a former lobbyist at Goldman Sachs, who is now the chief of staff to the Treasury secretary.
 ''It seems to be an incestuous financial relationship situation here,'' Mr. Shelby said at a Senate hearing last week, referring to senior Treasury executives, like Mr. Patterson, who once worked at investment banks. ''And that's very troubling not only to a lot of people on this committee but to the American people.''
 Mr. Lew, through a State Department spokesman, declined to comment. Jennifer R. Psaki, a White House spokeswoman, said by e-mail that Mr. Froman's past government experience in international financial affairs is just what is needed ''given the global scope of the economic challenges we are facing.''
 Citigroup paid Mr. Lew, 53, at least $1.1 million in salary and bonus last year, according to a financial disclosure form filed last month. The form noted that he might get an additional undisclosed bonus for his work in 2008 before he started his federal job.
 As of last fall Citigroup Alternative Investments managed $49 billion worth of capital from individuals and institutions, investing in nontraditional ventures like a program that builds highways, runs airports and oversees other major public projects for governments.
 In the first quarter of last year, the Alternative Investment division lost $509 million and for the whole year, it was part of a larger Citigroup division that lost $20 billion, according to Citigroup.
 Mr. Lew's job -- overseeing financial matters at the State Department, with a focus on trying to increase the share of financing that goes to the diplomatic corps -- will take him relatively far from this world.
 Mr. Lew, who served as director of the Office of Management and Budget in the Clinton administration and was a longtime aide to Speaker Thomas P. O'Neill Jr., said at his confirmation hearing last month that he would recuse himself from State Department matters having a ''particular impact'' on Citigroup.
 Mr. Froman, 46, will serve as an economic adviser to the president, working on a team led by Lawrence H. Summers, who is director of the National Economic Council. He had a variety of foreign economic policy roles in the Clinton administration.
 One of Mr. Froman's deputies, David A. Lipton, also came from Citigroup, where he served as a managing director and the head of its global country risk management effort.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jacob J. Lew, left, and Michael Froman were executives in the same Citigroup division.(PHOTOGRAPH BY COURTESY OF THE CLINTON PRESIDENTIAL LIBRARY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (90%); ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BONUS PAY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); CIVIL SERVICES (77%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (74%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (74%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ETHICS (67%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (92%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); RICHARD SHELBY (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



447 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC SCENE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1168 words

HEADLINE: To Spend Or to Save? Trick Question

BYLINE: By DAVID LEONHARDT. 
E-mail: Leonhardt@nytimes.com

 BODY:
It's your fault. Part of it is, anyway. You, the American consumer, spent too much money. You bought too much house, took on too much debt and generally lived beyond your means. Your free-spending ways helped cause the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression.
 And now you're going to have to do your part to end the crisis. How? By spending. Enough already with the saving that many of you have suddenly begun doing. This very moment, Congress and President Obama are preparing to send you a tax rebate, to inspire you to stimulate the economy. So go out and stimulate. Spend as if the future of your country depended on it.
 John Maynard Keynes, the great 20th-century economist, would have appreciated the apparent absurdity in these mixed messages. He coined a phrase, ''the paradox of thrift,'' to point out that what was rational for an individual during hard times -- saving money -- could be ruinous for an entire economy. Eventually, many of the savers may end up out of work because everyone else is saving, too. 
 It's enough to make you wonder what exactly you're supposed to do. At his news conference on Monday night, Mr. Obama was asked directly whether people should spend or save their rebate checks. He ducked the question. 
 Fortunately, though, it has an answer. There are a few ways to help both your own finances and the country's. 
 The first involves figuring out how to spend money now to save money later -- which can lift the economy today and help individual households cope with their battered finances in the long run. The second involves realizing that Keynes's paradox isn't ironclad. In a financial crisis, when banks may need capital as much as retailers or restaurants need business, many people can save without guilt. 
 What follows is a guide to spending and saving, both sensibly and patriotically. 
 Besides developing the most famous prescription for curing downturns, Keynes can also be considered the godfather of behavioral economics, as the columnist David Ignatius recently wrote. While other economists obsessed over statistical models that treated people as hyperrational automatons, Keynes wrote about ''animal spirits.'' He helped explain how psychology shaped economics.
 Psychology-tinged economics -- that is, behavioral economics -- has taken off over the last two decades, and one of its central findings is that most people do not do a good job of planning for the future. They aren't nearly as nice to their ''future self,'' as economists say, as to their ''present self.''
 They eat just one more doughnut and put off exercising until tomorrow and tomorrow and tomorrow. They fail to set aside enough for retirement. Again and again, they choose a bird in the hand -- be it dessert, convenience or a little extra cash -- over three or four in the bush. 
 These habits end up causing a lot of trouble. But they also present an opportunity in a time like this. Most people could save themselves a good bit of money by giving proper respect to their future self. They could spend a little now and save a lot later.
 McKinsey & Company recently analyzed household spending on energy, for example, and found enormous waste. People heat their homes when they are not there and, thanks to leaks in their walls and heating ducts, also heat the airspace above their roof.
 A programmable thermostat, which adjusts the temperature when people are out of the house or asleep, can cost as little as $50. For less than $1,000, people can buy the thermostat, as well as hire a contractor to fix leaks and replace their light bulbs with more efficient ones. In either case, the spending often pays for itself in just a year or two.
 ''There is a difference between consuming and investing,'' says Ken Ostrowski of McKinsey. ''And energy efficiency falls more into the category of investing.''
 I asked behavioral economists for some other examples, and they helped me come up with a nice little list. Parents of young children can join Costco and make up their membership fee with just a few months of diaper purchases. Drivers can inflate their tires, change their air and fuel filters and start getting better mileage. Frequent book buyers who don't mind screen reading can buy the new Kindle. It costs $359, but most new books then cost less than $10. 
 Families who shop at rent-to-own stores, which charge ridiculous interest rates, can temporarily pare back and then buy furniture or electronics outright. 
 People who do a lot of laser printing can purchase a printer that uses only a cent or two of ink per page. (Many use far, far more.) 
 Purified water drinkers can lay off the Aquafina and buy a water filter. Seltzer drinkers can buy a seltzer maker. My wife and I now have one, and it is a beautiful thing indeed. 
 In these cases -- and, no doubt, many others -- the initial investment tends to pay off quickly, sometimes in mere months. That's why such spending is perfectly suited to the moment. It will keep people employed or create new jobs when the economy needs the help. But it will also shore up households' finances. 
 The one big caveat is that some people will feel that they can't afford to lay out an extra $50 or $100 right now. Millions of workers have already lost their jobs, and many others simply want to cut back. In December, households saved an average of 3.6 percent of their disposable income, up from about 1 percent in recent years.
 In a normal recession, this new saving would have a lot more downside than upside, just as Keynes explained. But this recession is different. It has been caused by a financial crisis. If Americans don't get their finances in better shape -- if mortgage defaults keep rising and credit card delinquencies soar -- banks will remain afraid to lend, and the recession will linger. 
 Even more immediately, banks need to get their own finances in order. That's the whole aim of the new bailout plan announced by the Treasury Department on Tuesday. Some additional personal savings can only help that effort. 
 ''The government is pouring hundreds of billion of dollars into banks,'' said Richard Thaler, a University of Chicago economist. ''What's so bad about households pouring some money into banks?''
 The ideas here don't apply only to individuals, either. They apply to the stimulus package as well. The federal government is set to spend $800 billion to stimulate the economy. Much of that money will necessarily go to tax rebates, unemployment benefits and other programs without much long-term benefit. But $800 billion is a lot of money. And the best forms of stimulus are the ones that take effect quickly and bring a long-term payoff. That can mean tax credits for home weatherization or money to pay for the installation of computerized medical records -- two programs that are still in the stimulus bill. 
 Whenever this recession finally ends, our future selves are going to be facing some very big bills. They can use all the help we can give them.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Struggling to Save: The personal savings rate has fallen greatly since the early 1980s, but began to rise last year. In December the rate was 3.6 percent.(Source: Bureau of Economic Analysis) Chart details line graph for Average rate, over previous 12 months. (pg. B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BEHAVIORAL FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); RETAILERS (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); TAX LAW (70%); TAX RELIEF (70%); PSYCHOLOGY (65%); RESTAURANTS (62%); WRITERS (60%); SALES REBATES (58%); STATISTICAL METHOD (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



448 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1296 words

HEADLINE: Technology's Fingerprints on the Stimulus Package

BYLINE: By CHARLIE SAVAGE and DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
To rally support for his administration's economic recovery bill recently, President Obama invited about a dozen chief executives, seven of them from technology and energy companies, to the Oval Office.
 Some of their industries' top lobbyists, meanwhile, gathered in another office where Jason Furman, a top White House economic adviser, delivered a private briefing for groups expected to benefit most from the stimulus bill. 
 While much of the sprawling $800 billion legislation consists of tax cuts and broad spending increases for existing programs, like $27 billion on highways and $8.4 billion on public transit, the biggest outlay on initiatives is essentially a technology industry wish list: in the Senate version, about $7 billion for expanding high-speed Internet access, some $20 billion for building a so-called smart grid power network and $20 billion for digitizing health records. 
 To many on K Street, the stimulus bill was the clearest guide to the new administration's closest friends in the business world. What oil was to President Bush, some say, clean energy and technology are to the Obama White House. 
 ''We have a president who gets it,'' said Dean Garfield, the president of the Information Technology Industry Council, which recently identified the Senate initiatives in a short list of its top priorities.
 A close look at the history of the stimulus bill -- the first major product of the new administration -- shows that the industries that stand to gain most from the proposed legislation were also working to help shape it even before Mr. Obama had won the election.
 For months, the industry officials had been talking with Obama advisers about how to use taxpayer aid to jump-start the economy while laying the groundwork for both the new president's and their own goals of building a high-tech infrastructure. 
 Mr. Obama's advisers say that the administration was only following through on the public promises he made in a campaign that began with a call two years ago to curb America's dependence on foreign oil and extend broadband access ''through the heart of inner cities and rural towns all across America.'' 
 And they emphasized that Mr. Obama had taken unusual steps to disclose what those firms were saying, like posting any proposals submitted to the transition on its Web site, in contrast to the Bush administration's fight to keep secret how fossil fuel company executives shaped its energy policy in 2001.
 ''Whatever they shared, we put out there so the public could see it,'' said John Podesta, president of the liberal Center for American Progress and co-chairman of the transition.
 Campaign finance records also show that executives at many of the energy and technology companies that stand to profit from the stimulus bill were also big contributors to Mr. Obama's campaign. His promises about a ''smart grid'' and universal broadband dovetailed with the dreams of many in the technology industry, as well as allied fields like renewable energy and electric power.
 Drawing on renewable energy sources, like wind turbines and solar panels, would be easier with a smart grid that could handle inconsistent electricity production. More energy would lower the cost of running giant computer servers, and because such a grid can send signals in both directions, it would also allow variable pricing for peak hours and could potentially expand the Internet network, as would extending other forms of broadband lines to rural and underserved areas. And moving health records online would open new markets for digitalconnections,data storage and consumer services.
 ''They all converge,'' said Christopher G. Caine, vice president for governmental programs at I.B.M., which is in both the smart grid and health care data businesses. At the transition's request, I.B.M. prepared a research report concluding that $30 billion in spending this year on the smart grid, broadband access and digitized health records would create approximately 949,000 jobs.
 The idea of harnessing such pre-existing proposals to a stimulus package traces back to September 2008, when the financial crisis was worsening and it became clear that a jobs bill could be an early priority if Mr. Obama won the election.
 Obama advisers including Mr. Furman, Julius Genachowski and Austan Goolsbee began soliciting input from the high-tech and alternative energy interests, including General Motors, I.B.M., Google, the Information Technology Industry Council and the electric utilities' Edison Institute.
 By October, ''there was a query that said 'if you had money to spend on broadband as part of this stimulus, what would you propose?' '' said Debbie Goldman, a lobbyist for the Communications Workers of America, which has pushed for greater government spending on broadband. 
 After the election, the campaign's policy teams went through their agenda and selected those items that could have a quick start and natural end date to identify candidates for a jobs bill.
 ''Synergies between our short-term goals and our long-term goals,'' David Axelrod, a top adviser to Mr. Obama, said in an interview, ''that was the sweet spot.''
 The transition also sought expert advice, holding conference calls and meetings at its temporary headquarters in Washington with a parade of industry lobbyists and executives from high-tech and clean energy companies from mid-November to early December. 
 On Dec. 2 for example, Ms. Goldman of the communications workers union made a presentation promoting the jobs that would be created by broadband spending. On the same day, representatives of all the renewable energy trade groups sat around a table making pitches to Carol M. Browner, who is now Mr. Obama's energy policy chief. 
 ''It was nice they were having us all in so early,'' said Karl Gawell of the Geothermal Industry Association, whose members would benefit from $400 million in grants in the House version of the stimulus bill.
 The process reached a climax when economic team members flew to Chicago to meet with Mr. Obama on Dec. 16. The team laid out the structure of the plan -- increased spending on infrastructure, education, energy and health care, with tax cuts, financial aid to states and unemployment and food stamp benefits. 
 While much of the presentation involved broad themes, Mr. Furman said it put special focus on ''a number of high-priority flagship details'' like the renewable energy and high-tech components. Mr. Obama signed off on the initial outline, after making a few adjustments.
 ''The president-elect was particularly interested in the energy component of the plan and pushed for a more robust effort on the smart grid,'' Mr. Furman recalled.
 Three days later -- the Friday before Christmas -- transition officials met at the Capitol with Congressional leaders and staff to present the proposals, which Mr. Furman said were couched in the form of ''suggestions'' by the president-elect.
 His team had few staff and relied on Congress to convert their ideas into legislative language. Congressional committees, meanwhile, had been working since November to draft their own version of a stimulus bill, and added their own details to Mr. Obama's blueprint. For example, House Democrats attached privacy protections to measures that promote the online storage of medical records, banning the sale of health data, an idea long pushed by the American Civil Liberties Union.
 Mr. Garfield of the Information Technology Industry Council said technology lobbyists accepted the privacy rules in a spirit of compromise, in light of the victories they won elsewhere with Mr. Obama's help.
 ''I won't say it is great to be the king, because we are not the king,'' Mr. Garfield said. ''But it is good to be heard.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 25, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Feb. 11 about the involvement of technology advocates in shaping the stimulus bill described Debbie Goldman of the Communications Workers of America incorrectly. She is the group's telecommunications policy director and research economist. She is not a lobbyist.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jason Furman, an Obama aide, and technology officials have met on spurring the economy and forming a tech infrastructure.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PATRICK ANDRADE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); TAX RELIEF (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); MEDICAL RECORDS (76%); TAX LAW (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); CITY LIFE (75%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (73%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); BROADBAND (69%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (69%); LIBERALISM (63%); CITIES (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (50%); WEB SITES (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JOHN PODESTA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



449 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 11, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 409 words

HEADLINE: Intel's Chief Calls for Investments in U.S.

BYLINE: By ASHLEE VANCE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Paul S. Otellini, the chief executive of Intel, made an uncharacteristic lunge toward the limelight on Tuesday, holding up his company's $7 billion investment in new computer chip factories as a patriotic gesture for other businesses to follow. 
 Although he had already told shareholders and Wall Street analysts of the company's investment plans, Mr. Otellini used the opportunity of a speech before the Economic Club in Washington to vow that Intel would spend more money than ever to expand chip factories in the United States. He made that promise despite a precipitous decline in sales and profits of computer chips, the layoffs of at least 5,000 workers and the closing of older chip plants in Asia and the United States. 
 He also urged companies trying to survive the recession to follow Intel's model of investing in future products. Such a message comes from a company that earned $11 billion in cash last year and uses its manufacturing prowess and financial strength as an edge over rivals.
 ''I thought it was very important for Intel, who is clearly a bellwether company, to be able to make this announcement in an environment where, quite frankly, there is a lot of doom and gloom,'' Mr. Otellini said in a telephone interview after the speech. 
 The severity of the economic decline prompted Mr. Otellini to make a rare speech tied to investing in the United States, he said. ''This is all about confidence,'' he said. ''Economic cycles are about confidence.''
 Intel's investment will go toward chip plants in Oregon, Arizona and New Mexico, not the factories overseas. ''We believe in the company and in this country,'' Mr. Otellini said. 
 These facilities will produce a new line of cheaper and more energy-efficient chips late this year. Historically, Intel, based in Santa Clara, Calif., has invested in the plants, which cost more than $3 billion each, even during lulls in demand for computers. As a result, the company believes that the more advanced chip-making technology gives it more than a year's lead over rivals. 
 Advanced Micro Devices, Intel's main competitor, has found the cost of building chip factories so prohibitive that it is trying to turn over that part of its operation to a newly created company to stay focused on design. On Tuesday, A.M.D. said it would need to delay a shareholder vote on the creation of the company, jointly owned by A.M.D. and an investment firm based in Abu Dhabi, until next week.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Paul Otellini, chief executive of Intel, said the company would spend $7 billion on plants in Oregon, Arizona and New Mexico.(PHOTOGRAPH BY WALLY SANTANA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER CHIPS (91%); MICROPROCESSORS (90%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); CLOSINGS (75%); COMPANY PROFITS (75%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (72%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (71%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (61%)

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (98%); ADVANCED MICRO DEVICES INC (57%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (98%); AMD (NYSE) (57%); AMD (FRA) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (98%)

PERSON: PAUL S OTELLINI (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); ABU DHABI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (52%) NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2009



450 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1129 words

HEADLINE: Ethanol, Just Recently a Savior, Is Struggling

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
Barely a year after Congress enacted an energy law meant to foster a huge national enterprise capable of converting plants and agricultural wastes into automotive fuel, the goals lawmakers set for the ethanol industry are in serious jeopardy.
As recently as last summer, plants that make ethanol from corn were sprouting across the Midwest. But now, with motorists driving less in the economic downturn, the industry is burdened with excess capacity, and plants are shutting down virtually every week.
In the meantime, plans are lagging for a new generation of factories that were supposed to produce ethanol from substances like wood chips and crop waste, overcoming the drawbacks of corn ethanol. That nascent branch of the industry concedes it has virtually no chance of meeting Congressional production mandates that kick in next year. 
The decline in fortunes has been extreme for both kinds of ethanol since last summer, when $145-a-barrel oil appeared to shift fuel economics in their favor.
Only months ago, refiners in some regions were buying up as much corn ethanol as they could to blend with expensive gasoline, effectively keeping pump prices down slightly. Meanwhile, investors seemed willing to finance plants to produce next-generation biofuels.
But since the summer, oil and gasoline prices have plunged, while the price of corn, from which virtually all commercial ethanol in this country is made, has remained relatively high. Refiners are limiting their ethanol purchases to a level required to meet federal blending mandates -- a level far below the industry's capacity.
''The ethanol industry is on its back despite the billions of dollars they have gotten in taxpayer assistance, and a guaranteed market,'' said Amy Myers Jaffe, an energy analyst at Rice University.
The government's Energy Information Administration recently projected that the industry would fall short of the targets for expanded use of ethanol and other biofuels that Congress set in a 2007 energy law. ''It's possible we may have to look at the targets again,'' said Senator Jeff Bingaman of New Mexico, the chairman of the Senate Energy and Natural Resources Committee.
VeraSun Energy, one of the nation's largest ethanol producers, has suspended production at 12 of its 16 plants and is planning to sell production facilities. In recent days Renew Energy, Cascade Grain Products and Northeast Biofuels have filed for bankruptcy protection. Pacific Ethanol said it would suspend operations at its Madera, Calif. plant.
Bob Dinneen, president of the Renewable Fuels Association, a trade group, estimated that of the country's 150 ethanol companies and 180 plants, 10 or more companies have shut down 24 plants over the last three months. That has idled about 2 billion gallons out of 12.5 billion gallons of annual production capacity. Mr. Dinneen estimated that a dozen more companies were in distress.
Ronald H. Miller, the president and chief executive of Aventine Renewable Energy, said, ''The economics right now are very poor.'' Aventine has suspended construction of one Nebraska plant and delayed completion of a second in Indiana.
This is not how it was supposed to be when Congress mandated in 2007 that refiners blend increasing amounts of ethanol into the country's transportation fuel supply. The law came at a time when the country's thirst for gasoline seemed unquenchable, and oil prices seemed only to go up.
In an effort to reduce the country's dependence on foreign oil and to lower the greenhouse gas emissions that contribute to global warming, Congress mandated a doubling of corn ethanol use, to 15 billion gallons a year by 2015. Congress also mandated, by 2022, the use of an additional 21 billion gallons of ethanol and other biofuels produced from materials collectively known as biomass. The potential materials include corn stubble, wood chips and straw.
Congress hoped that advanced biofuels would overcome the longstanding controversies associated with corn ethanol, including the contention that its production raises food prices. Congress started small, decreeing that industry produce 100 million gallons of advanced biofuels next year and 250 million gallons in 2011. But it is becoming clear that even these modest targets will not be met.
Producing the advanced fuels entails breaking down a tough material, cellulose, that is abundant in corn cobs, wood chips and other biological waste, then converting it to liquid fuel. While scientists have proven it can be done, the cost is still high, and little if any cellulosic ethanol is being produced at commercial scale.
Carlos A. Riva, president and chief executive of Verenium, a company working to produce ethanol from sugar cane waste, said that solving the technological hurdles for this type of fuel was ''not a slam dunk.'' But he and other executives say they are optimistic the challenges can be overcome, and the 2011 and 2012 targets may be met a few years late.
Small, mostly private companies that go by names like Range Fuels, Poet and BlueFire Ethanol have built pilot plants and hope to move into commercial production. But private investment in advanced biofuels has plummeted since the economy went sour late last year, and it is unclear if the industry can scale up. ''Cellulosic ethanol is something that is always five years away and five years later you get to the point where it's still five years away,'' said Aaron Brady, an energy expert at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm.
With gasoline consumption declining even as federal mandates for ethanol are increasing, demand for cellulosic ethanol may be insufficient anyway.
Energy experts project that national gasoline consumption in 2009 and 2010 will be 6 percent or more below the 2007 level, and future ethanol production targets could represent more than 10 percent of gasoline production. Since regulations set a 10 percent blend limit for ethanol in most gasoline, there would be no place for ethanol production to go.
''Without moving the blend wall, there is no future for cellulosic ethanol,'' said Jeff Broin, president and chief executive of Poet, a company with interests in corn and cellulosic ethanol.
Automobile manufacturers say most of their cars are not designed to run on higher ethanol concentrations. But the Environmental Protection Agency and the Department of Energy are conducting studies to see if the 10 percent limit could be raised.
Senator Bingaman said he expected those tests to be completed over the next year or so, and he would like to see higher blend levels for ethanol.
''There's no doubt when we wrote that bill, we did not anticipate the recession we are currently sinking into,'' he said. ''Exactly what that requires us to do as far as changing the law, I am not clear on yet.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A VeraSun Energy plant in Dyersville, Iowa, opened in early September 2008 and closed two months later. Now it is for sale.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARK HIRSCH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A27) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOFUELS (92%); ALCOHOLS (92%); ETHANOL (91%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); BIOMASS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (78%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (78%); NATURAL RESOURCES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); PLANT CAPACITY (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); GASOLINE MARKETS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); PRICE CHANGES (71%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); EXECUTIVES (60%)

COMPANY: VERASUN ENERGY CORP (52%); PACIFIC ETHANOL INC (51%)

TICKER: PEIX (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325194 CYCLIC CRUDE, INTERMEDIATE, & GUM & WOOD CHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2865 CYCLIC ORGANIC CRUDES & INTERMEDIATES & ORGANIC DYES & PIGMENTS (52%); NAICS325193 ETHYL ALCOHOL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (51%)

PERSON: JEFF BINGAMAN (58%); RONALD H MILLER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDWEST USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



451 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; SKIN DEEP; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: Let the Chips Fall Where They May

BYLINE: By CATHERINE SAINT LOUIS

 BODY:
THREE months ago, Hadley Lord and a group of co-workers at Wilson Associates, an interior architectural firm in Manhattan, used to go for manicures en masse at day's end. But now when Ms. Lord, 25, assesses what she calls her ''mental balance sheet,'' weekly $12 manicures no longer make the cut.
''We have been very fortunate to not have a lot of layoffs,'' she said of her office. But like many people worried about the economy, Ms. Lord scrutinizes every expenditure. She still gets her nails done every two weeks or so, but she has traded a deep plum for clear polish so chips aren't as conspicuous.
The last decade has been a boom time for manicures. In 2008, 58,129 full-service nail salons existed, up from 44,796 in 1998. But as unemployment rises and stock portfolios dip, some women are re-evaluating their sacred cows, no matter how cheap. Other regulars refuse to give up their manicures. As one die-hard regular, Heather Rush, a senior manager of events at The Economist, explained: ''When my nails are good, all is good in the world.'' 
And then there are those, like Ms. Lord, who are stretching the time between professional manicures as a way of scrimping.
''Clients that would come every two weeks are coming every three,'' said Stephanie Yaggy, the executive editor of Nailpro magazine.
The ripple effect of women delaying manicures could lead to salons closing and nail technicians losing their jobs, said Gordon Miller, the executive director of the National Cosmetology Association.
''We've noticed some of our salons closing,'' said Marlene Bridge, the chief executive of Elegant Distributing, which sells nail products to 1,800 salons nationwide. ''Nail technicians are closing their businesses and going to work in a day spa.''
''Some people are really nervous,'' said Hannah Lee, the editor of Nails magazine. But so far, she said, ''they are making it work. Only low-end salons are closing yet. But it makes sense to be putting on hold opening salons.'' That's just what Dashing Diva, an upscale franchise with 13 outposts nationwide, did with its planned Times Square salon. Scheduled to open early this year, it won't open until at least 2010, said Michael Park, the managing director.
''Extending appointments is a big deal,'' Mr. Miller said. ''If the majority of clients add a week, that reduction of revenue is a lot.'' Many nail technicians rent booths, he added, so those freelancers may not get counted when they join the ranks of the jobless.
Prolonging the time between manicures is easy enough with a bottle of one's favorite shade for D.I.Y. touch-ups. But women with artificial nails can't stay away long. That's one reason why nail enhancements make up more than 75 percent of the revenue for the industry.
For women with enhancements like gels and acrylics, ''it's hard to stretch and get another week,'' said Ms. Bridge, the distributing executive. ''They'll come off if you don't get maintenance.''
But some tried and true customers who are otherwise thrilled with their artificial nails have opted out of their every-two-week commitment. Most switch to regular manicures, but Allison Fine, a writer and speaker from Irvington, N.Y., recently gave up her bionic nails. ''They never chipped or cracked,'' she reminisced. She would still have them, if it were not for the $30 fills needed every two weeks, and $60 for a new set every few months. ''Things that seemed inexpensive before October now seem expensive,'' Ms. Fine said.
When she asked to have her acrylics removed, the salon owner ''was livid'' and quickly shuffled her down the row to the new girl, Ms. Fine said. ''I'm sure she's seen a lot of this, women with manicures coming less often, and women with acrylics taking them off. It's a hit to her business.''
Still, sales of artificial nails are on the rise, according to Tammy Taylor Nails, which supplies artificial nails to thousands of salons across the country. There was a 10 percent boost in sales in 2008 compared to 2007, according to Tammy Taylor, the chief executive. She attributes her continued robust sales in part to the fact that this kind of low-cost pampering is a treat.
On the other hand, Dashing Diva salons aren't getting a recession boost: 2008 started strong, but sales from August through December are down 17 percent compared with the same period in 2007, said Mr. Park, the managing director. Women aren't giving up salon manicures whole cloth, he said, but they go less often or they spend less each outing. The average ticket at Dashing Diva was $32 in December, down from $37 in August, Mr. Park said. During these uncertain times, he is confident that women may sacrifice frequency, but won't skimp on quality.
Or they will do what bargain shoppers have always done: make do with less.
Sharon Mussalli, the director of interactive sales at ICBC Broadcast Holdings, has found a way to minimize the sting of frugality. ''Dialing it down on everything a little bit instead of getting rid of one thing,'' Ms. Mussalli said, ''you don't feel it as much.'' She traded her French manicure and pedicures for a no-frills manicure near work, saving $20 a week. But some women are willing to forgo other basics -- including lunch -- to keep their manicures. Maruchi Santana, a partner at Parham-Santana, a brand-strategy firm in Manhattan, recently began bringing leftovers to the office. But she feels her weekly manicures are more important than ever. After a decade of patronage, she doesn't want to stop supporting the Nepalese nail technicians at her salon, just when they need it most. And, she said, ''To run a business you have to feel good about yourself.''
Still, Andrea Dickson, a writer for Wise Bread, a site devoted to frugal living, notes that incremental beauty expenses add up. ''Small luxuries are only small when they are infrequent,'' she said. ''If they aren't, it's a big luxury.''
Manicures can be justified for one group: the unemployed. At least, that's what Nancy Collamer, the founder of LayoffSurvivalGuide.com, argues. ''The worst thing you can do when you get laid off is to eliminate all those extra indulgences,'' Ms. Collamer said. ''You're going to feel punished,'' she added, and that won't help your job hunt.
Looking the part is why Sage Schoenfeld, 41, still has her nails painted maroon, even though she recently lost her job as a lawyer. ''I have to stay professional even when I'm not working,'' she said. Because of a recent move to Denver from Manhattan (where $10 manicures abound), Ms. Schoenfeld now pays about 50 percent more for her manicures every other week.
''I don't even look at this as luxury,'' she said. ''It's basic cleanliness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: MAKING THE CUT? Nail salons are feeling the pinch. ''Clients that would come every two weeks are coming every three,'' one observer says. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (89%); NAIL SALONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (87%); DISMISSALS (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (76%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



452 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 377 words

HEADLINE: Some Sense, at Last, About Katrina

 BODY:
The Obama administration seems to have learned the lessons of the Bush team's disastrous bungling of the resettling of Hurricane Katrina's tens of thousands of refugees. Under former President Bush, the task of resettling those whose homes were destroyed by the storm and floods in 2005 was initially given to the Federal Emergency Management Agency instead of to the Department of Housing and Urban Development, which has a long history of housing poor and displaced people through its voucher program. 
That grave mistake led to a plan that turned many survivors into wanderers who moved from place to place, cut off from jobs and schools. Washington will need to be more helpful if New Orleans and the Gulf region in general are to recover, not just from the storm, but from the damage wrought by federal mismanagement. Now plans to build affordable-housing developments have run afoul of the credit crisis. Without those developments, low- and moderate-income workers will be forced to pull up stakes and go elsewhere.
That message seems to be hitting home at President Obama's HUD. For starters, the department's new secretary, Shaun Donovan, has overturned a potentially disastrous decision that would have ended badly needed temporary rental assistance to about 31,000 households at the end of this month. The last thing the Gulf region needs at this point is more homelessness.
The point of the new policy is to keep low-income families on temporary assistance until they can complete the complicated process of qualifying for a permanent Section 8 housing voucher, which allows them to seek homes in the private real estate market. The hope is that many people being housed under the temporary program would be able to use the vouchers to remain in their homes. This would be especially helpful since rents in the city have skyrocketed since the storm.
The Bush administration wanted the vouchers primarily limited to the elderly and disabled. But Mr. Donovan has wisely expanded them to include all low-income people who are eligible under federal guidelines. This will require more money from Congress. But the expense would be well worth it if it prevents a new wave of homelessness and sustains the Gulf restoration project through turbulent economic times.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HURRICANE KATRINA (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (90%); POOR POPULATION (89%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC HOUSING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATURAL DISASTERS (78%); HURRICANES (78%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (78%); DISPLACED PERSONS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); LAYOFFS (76%); FAMILY (76%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (76%); HOMELESSNESS (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (76%); SCHOOL VOUCHERS (75%); REFUGEES (73%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); CREDIT CRISIS (71%); CITIES (71%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT AGENCY (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); GEORGE H W BUSH (90%); BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



453 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1616 words

HEADLINE: Behind The First Lady, A Shadow Stylist

BYLINE: By CATHY HORYN and ERIC WILSON

 BODY:
MICHELLE OBAMA has become the mistress to American fashion. ''The first lady the world's been waiting for,'' blazes the March cover of Vogue, where Mrs. Obama appears in a fuchsia dress by Jason Wu, the young talent she helped turn into an overnight star. No first lady since Jacqueline Kennedy has had a more instantaneous impact on fashion. Whatever Mrs. Obama wears, people notice and very often buy.
Despite the close study that people have made of Mrs. Obama's style, it is not known that her wardrobe is being managed largely by a boutique owner in Chicago. Ikram Goldman, whose store is called Ikram, has played an unprecedented role since the election, serving as gatekeeper between the fashion industry and the first lady.
All details regarding the making of Mrs. Obama's wardrobe for the inaugural were overseen by Ms. Goldman, who kept designers in the dark about whether their outfit would be chosen. 
According to the designers involved, none of them had direct contact with the first lady -- as designers have had in the past with first ladies. They worked from measurements and other information provided by Ms. Goldman and delivered the finished garments to Chicago or Washington.
''It was all very blind,'' said Maria Cornejo, who made eight jewel-tone suits, two winter coats and three dresses for Mrs. Obama. (She wore a purple jacket on the inaugural weekend train ride.) Ms. Cornejo said she had a rough idea of what would fit the new first lady based on things Mrs. Obama had already worn from the designer's line.
Designers are reluctant to discuss their dealings with Ms. Goldman -- in part, some said, because they have not received guidance from the White House and in part because they don't want to say something that might cause them to lose business. As for Ms. Goldman, she has remained virtually invisible and has not made herself available for interviews. (She declined to be interviewed for this article.) Mrs. Obama's press secretary, Katie McCormick Lelyveld, characterized the first lady's relationship with Ms. Goldman as that of a loyal client.
''Mrs. Obama has shopped at Ikram's store for years and appreciates her shared interest in working with a broad spectrum of designers, including many young and up-and-coming designers,'' Ms. McCormick Lelyveld said. She referred to the cover story about Mrs. Obama in the new Vogue, in which the first lady said, ''First and foremost, I wear what I love.'' Ms. McCormick Lelyveld did not respond to specific questions submitted by e-mail about whether the relationship had been formalized since the election and if Ms. Goldman was receiving additional compensation for her legwork.
According to a Vogue spokesman, Ms. Goldman and Mrs. Obama discussed what the first lady would wear in advance, but Ms. Goldman was not at the Vogue sitting.
Nonetheless, designers' bills for Mrs. Obama's clothes have been handled by Ms. Goldman, who, according to the designers Isabel Toledo and Mr. Wu, also first broached the subject of donating their garments to the Smithsonian Institution. Mr. Wu, who made the ivory chiffon inaugural gown, was not paid for that dress, he said, but he made it with the understanding that it would be donated if Mrs. Obama should end up wearing his design.
Ultimately four designers, including Narciso Rodriguez, had clothes chosen for different events. Each brand is also sold at Ikram, on North Rush Street in the Gold Coast neighborhood of Chicago. Although Maria Pinto, a Chicago-based designer with a long association with Mrs. Obama and her own boutique, made clothes for the inaugural, none were picked. Ms. Pinto declined to comment. Several designers from New York were asked by Ms. Goldman to submit sketches for review by Mrs. Obama.
Oscar de la Renta sent 12 sketches, but ''never heard another word'' from Ms. Goldman or Mrs. Obama's office, he said. A spokeswoman for Carolina Herrera said sketches were sent. While nothing was ordered by Mrs. Obama, a gown was made for Desiree Rogers, the new White House social secretary, and purchased through Ikram.
Many other prominent American designers, including Michael Kors, Ralph Rucci, Vera Wang and Francisco Costa at Calvin Klein, were never approached, they said.
To the older generation of design stars, the idea that a first lady would rely so heavily on a retailer -- rather than on designers or an independent stylist, people who make their living solving problems of fit and proportion -- is surprising. To some in fashion, there is also a question of a possible conflict of interest on Ms. Goldman's part, because she sells clothes by the designers that Mrs. Obama has worn and stands to benefit from their exposure.
''It is strange to think that the wife of the leader of the free world would choose clothes from only one store, when there is a wealth of clothes out there from other designers, including me,'' Arnold Scaasi said.
Mr. Scaasi, who has dressed first ladies since Mamie Eisenhower, though is perhaps best known for the blue velvet and silk inaugural gown of Barbara Bush, said he could not recall a time when designers did not have direct access to the White House. He was critical of Mr. Wu's design for Mrs. Obama, because of its loose fit. ''I don't think the inaugural gown was flattering in any way,'' he said. ''She could have looked much better.''
Mrs. Obama's predecessors typically went directly to Seventh Avenue for their clothes, bypassing stores, editors, stylists and others who might have an agenda of their own. To be sure, many designers have benefited from their trade with a first lady -- few more so than Oleg Cassini, who dressed Mrs. Kennedy and for years afterward exploited that connection. Mrs. Kennedy also bought Paris copies from Chez Ninon, a boutique in New York.
Nancy Reagan first discovered James Galanos in the 1950s, at a store in Beverly Hills, Calif., called Amelia Gray, where as an actress she bought his samples. She stuck with Galanos for the next 30 years, adding Adolfo, Bill Blass and Oscar de la Renta to her White House mix. She went to them directly. ''She always flew out to California,'' said Mr. Galanos, who is retired. ''We'd sit down and go over what she needed. It was very simple and easy.''
He was unaware of Mrs. Obama's relationship with Ms. Goldman and her store. ''If she feels happy with it, fine,'' he said. But he added, ''She's limiting herself.''
''I thought she looked nice in the white gown,'' he said of the inaugural dress. ''It recalled the one-shoulder thing we did for Mrs. Reagan. We had a little smile over that.''
Ms. Goldman, who is 41 and who gave birth in December to twins, is considered a retail dynamo. It's not uncommon for her to ask designers to make special pieces for customers, and many designers appreciate her taste, which combines vintage with more novel fashion. Her store, in both its Asiatic trappings and selection of high-end European, Japanese and American labels, is a good example of the curatorial shopping experience that fashion-conscious women like when hunting down $2,000 handbags and $6,000 crystal-studded coats. According to campaign-finance records, she and her husband, Josh Goldman, a lawyer, gave at least $6,900 to the Obama campaign.
Opinion is divided about whether Mrs. Obama's shopping approach represents a positive departure from the past or raises concern about concentrating her business with one place. (As her press secretary pointed out, the first lady also shops at Gap and J. Crew.) Indeed, many designers, battling enormous economic pressures, like reduced orders from stores, said they had not had time to consider the implications of Ms. Goldman's role.
To Ms. Toledo, who made Mrs. Obama's inaugural day clothes and has been asked to make new clothes for her, this approach has never been fairer. ''It's opened the door for many of us who might not have been looked at at all,'' she said. In an e-mail message, Mr. Wu said he has tripled sales appointments for his fall collection, which he will present Friday, and that stores like Neiman Marcus have given his designs window display next to global brands like Dior.
A NUMBER of style watchers note with surprise that Mrs. Obama seems to be wearing less Maria Pinto since the election, though this may change. ''For me, the most memorable dresses that Michelle has worn were designed by Maria,'' said the designer Tracy Reese, referring to, among others, the fiery red dress that Mrs. Obama wore to meet the Bushes at the White House. She recalled meeting Mrs. Obama at a party last June, when she told the designer: ''I need to be wearing your things.''
Ms. Reese, whose moderate-priced clothes are not carried at Ikram, said she received a call in December from Ms. Goldman requesting day dresses. Because she doesn't have a sample room, Ms. Reese had to bring in people to make the order, which was sent to Ikram last month.
''I'm still hoping she'll wear the dresses,'' Ms. Reese said.
Asked if she saw a conflict of interest that Mrs. Obama's clothes are predominantly by designers carried at Ikram, Ms. Reese said, ''I would have thought so if I hadn't gotten the phone call.''
Karen Erickson, whose company supplies Ikram with the Erickson Beamon pins that Mrs. Obama likes, points out that going through Ms. Goldman is no different than working with a Hollywood stylist.
Except Mrs. Obama is not a Hollywood star. Here, there is a risk: Can the first lady of the United States wear borrowed things, like the $17,313 pair of Loree Rodkin diamond earrings she wore to the ''We Are One'' concert, on Jan. 18, without appearing to endorse them and thus increase their value? The White House would not respond. It is unknown if those items were later sold.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: POWER BASE: Ikram Goldman's boutique sells the designers Mrs. Obama likes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SALLY RYAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
GATEKEEPER: Ikram Goldman has remained behind the scenes. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANNA KNOTT)
REVIEW: Michelle Obama in Narciso Rodriguez on the big weekend. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEWEL SAMAD/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES)
THE DESIGNERS: Clockwise from top left, Isabel Toledo, Narciso Rodriguez, Thakoon Panichgul, Maria Cornejo and Jason Wu. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY, CLOCKWISE FROM TOP LEFT, ANDREW H. WALKER/GETTY IMAGES FOR IMG
RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES
ROB LOUD/GETTY IMAGES
PAUL HAWTHORNE/GETTY IMAGES
 RICHARD DREW/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (pg.E6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (89%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); CELEBRITIES (73%)

PERSON: MICHELLE OBAMA (93%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RICK PERRY (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



454 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1174 words

HEADLINE: Ire but No Brimstone for Top Bankers at Hearing

BYLINE: By LOUISE STORY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- James D'Agostino craned his neck to get a view of the Morgan Stanley chief executive John J. Mack in the hope that the Wall Street titan would be subjected to a firestorm of criticism in a reckoning before Congress.
After participating in a protest last weekend at Mr. Mack's home in Rye, N.Y., Mr. D'Agostino said he was eager to see lawmakers ''go after him. And the others, too.''
But inside the House chamber where Mr. Mack sat shoulder to shoulder with Vikram S. Pandit, Kenneth D. Lewis, and the heads of five other too-big-to-fail banks leaning on government support, lawmakers instead delivered the equivalent of a slow burn.
''There is in the country a great deal of anger about the financial institutions, including those represented here,'' Barney Frank, the chairman of the House Financial Services Committee said, gazing at the row of executives. But, Mr. Frank continued, it would be impractical to scrap the entire financial system and start anew. ''We have no option if we are to get credit flowing in this country other than to work with the existing institutions,'' he said. 
Bank of America. Citigroup. Goldman Sachs. Morgan Stanley. These are the among the banks that the public blames for creating the mess that ravaged financial markets and ripped into the economy.
They and others that have taken in billions of dollars in hard-earned taxpayer dollars are widely perceived not to be returning the favor to the nation. Some say they are curbing lending while continuing to dish out millions in executive pay. But they are also the giants of the banking world that lawmakers are counting on to haul the economy back onto its feet.
This ''dilemma,'' as Mr. Frank described it, led some lawmakers to walk a finer line with the bankers than had been the case with the heads of the Big Three automakers, who have also sought billions in support to shore up their teetering industry.
So, at the first hearing to call banking chiefs to account for how they have spent a collective $165 billion in taxpayer money, the pitchforks were tabled -- for the most part.
''You once lived behind a one-way mirror, unaccountable to the public at large,'' said Representative Paul E. Kanjorksi, a Democrat from Pennsylvania. ''When you took taxpayer money you moved into a fishbowl.''
The love-hate relationship with Wall Street dates back to the days when the financial district was settled by the Dutch. But the 1930s holds the greatest echoes to today. Back then, lawmakers were looking for answers behind the 1929 stock market crash, and for years they hauled bankers into contentious hearings.
The sessions led to a large-scale makeover of financial regulation and left the reputation of the industry scarred for decades.
The issues are different this time, but the accusations are similar. Wall Street has been accused of letting greed blind its leaders to responsibility -- and some of the chiefs acknowledged as much.
Mr. Mack offered a full-throated mea culpa for the bank's role in fueling the crisis (''We are sorry for it,'' he said). Mr. Pandit, the head of Citigroup, pledged to cut his salary to $1 a year until the bank returned to profitability and took personal responsibility for the ''mistake'' of even thinking about buying a new $50 million private jet after getting government financing. ''I get the new reality, and I will make sure Citi gets it as well,'' he declared.
Lloyd C. Blankfein, Goldman's chief executive, acknowledged ''public anger at our industry.'' Mr. Lewis of Bank of America, who occasionally grew testy and red-faced at questions about lending, told lawmakers that his bank had ''every incentive to lend.''
But that was about where the contrition stopped.
For the most part, the bankers focused the lawmakers' attention on an armory of data and figures they hoped would show, contrary to public perception, that they had increased lending despite a worsening economy, and modified tens of thousands of mortgages for troubled homeowners since receiving injections of capital from the government last autumn.
Until recently, none of the banks had disclosed any information on their use of taxpayer money, and they were not required to do so when it was given to them. But in recent weeks, reports of multibillion-dollar bonus pools for bank employees, Super Bowl parties and decked-out corporate jets fueled public outrage about what some view as the government's largesse.
One lawmaker from Florida, Alan Grayson, said he had received 500 e-mail messages from residents of his district in anticipation of the hearing. One woman suggested that Wall Street bonuses should be used to build new schools. Another said the chiefs of Wall Street should go to jail.
The bankers said they could track the flow of government money through their companies and pledged that no taxpayer funds were being used for such luxuries.
But no one questioned the chiefs on the bonuses they paid to their rank and file. The New York comptroller has estimated that the industry paid employees about $18 billion in bonuses.
Instead, lawmakers mainly struck hard on the lending issue, describing situations in which their constituents could not get loans. Several asked the bankers why there seemed to be a disconnect between their lending figures and the hundreds of ordinary people who continue to line up for loans.
Jamie Dimon, the chief of JPMorgan Chase, said that much of the perceived pullback in credit was in fact traceable to money pulled out of the financial system by nonbank sources like hedge funds and money market funds, a claim that some in the money market industry contest.
Some lawmakers asked Citigroup and other banks with big credit card businesses why they had raised credit card rates in recent months, even as many of their customers were struggling to make ends meet in the tough economy. Mr. Pandit said Citigroup had not raised rates for two years, and only did so recently because its cost of financing had gone up.
Other lawmakers homed in on the foreclosure crisis. Representative David Scott, a Democrat from Georgia, convinced the panelists to agree that they would not foreclose on any owner-occupied homes for three weeks to give regulators time to roll out their new plans.
Much of the hearing was also focused on parsing how the financial situations of the banks vary. Some are still in desperate straits and others are turning a profit. But as lawmakers repeatedly stated, all of the chiefs and their banks will face greater scrutiny now that they are taxpayer-backed institutions.
The Rev. Jesse Jackson, who nabbed one of the few public seats in the hearing room, put it simply: ''They've never had to be accountable before,'' he said.
Louann Prosack, a retiree from Jessup, Md., said she traveled to Washington to understand why Wall Street workers were being paid so much, even as their companies foundered.
''It's coming out of other people's pockets, the money,'' Ms. Prosack said. ''And they say they can't live on their $150,000 salary. That's more than I ever made in a year, and I managed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Financial executives from left: Lloyd C. Blankfein, Jamie Dimon, Robert Kelly, Kenneth D. Lewis, Ronald Logue, John Mack, Vikram S. Pandit and John Stumpf, appeared before the House Financial Services Committee on Wednesday to account for how they have spent money from a bailout. (B1)
 Barney Frank, head of the financial services committee, said that the only way to get credit flowing again was to work with existing financial institutions.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (92%); EXECUTIVES (89%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (61%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (61%); AUTOMAKERS (61%); GREAT DEPRESSION (60%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (90%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); MORGAN STANLEY (85%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (LSE) (90%); 8648 (TSE) (90%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); MS (NYSE) (85%); GS (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (56%)

PERSON: JOHN J MACK (92%); BARNEY FRANK (89%); JOHN G STUMPF (79%); JAMES DIMON (78%); VIKRAM PANDIT (73%); KENNETH D LEWIS (73%); RON LEWIS (72%); RONALD E LOGUE (58%); LLOYD BLANKFEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 23, 2011



455 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: Problems Persist In Belgium And Ireland

BYLINE: By MATTHEW SALTMARSH and EAMON QUINN. 
Matthew Saltmarsh reported from Paris, and Eamon Quinn from Dublin.

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Ireland moved toward greater government control of its financial system Wednesday by bailing out its two largest lenders, while shareholders in Fortis, once the biggest bank in Belgium, derailed state-led plans to sell the nationalized business to BNP Paribas of France. 
 Together, the moves suggested that Europe -- like the United States -- was still struggling to find the right template for stabilizing its banks, one that could soothe jittery markets and an increasingly incensed public. 
 The Irish government, meeting Wednesday night, approved capital injections of 3.5 billion euros each ($4.5 billion) for Allied Irish Banks and Bank of Ireland, a Finance Ministry official said. That would make Ireland the first European Union country to take de facto control of all of its most important banks. Last month, the government stepped in to nationalize the teetering Anglo Irish Bank, which was No. 3.
 In Brussels, the vote by Fortis shareholders left the bank's Belgian operations in government hands while BNP Paribas decided whether to go to court or take its money -- nearly 7 billion euros -- and walk away. 
 Since the financial crisis deepened in September, policy makers in Europe and in the United States have tried various approaches to stabilize banks, including loan guarantees, capital injections, forced mergers and breakups, and most recently commitments to create institutions to acquire tainted assets. 
 During the crisis, few banks have actually been fully nationalized outside of Iceland. Two examples are Northern Rock in Britain and Anglo Irish. Instead, governments have often sought to use capital injections using preferential shares, which still leaves private shareholder equity and operational control with a board.
 But some of those deals have collapsed. Last month, the British government revised the terms of its bailout of Royal Bank of Scotland, exchanging its preference shares for common equity and raising its stake in the bank to 70 percent from 58 percent.
 At a meeting in Brussels on Tuesday, Joaquin Almunia, the European Union's monetary affairs commissioner, said guidelines for government programs to reorganize banks would be produced soon.
 The document also suggested that governments might have to require banks to participate to avoid uncertainty in the markets.
 In the last five months, the Irish government has already staked a claim over most of the Irish banking territory. 
 In late September, it advanced a state guarantee for all the 440 billion euros in liabilities of six banks based in Dublin after a run on deposits threatened the collapse of Anglo Irish. 
 Last month, the government stepped in to nationalize Anglo Irish after disclosures that its former chairman and chief executive, Sean FitzPatrick, had hidden personal loans of over 120 million euros for the last eight years from regulators and auditors. 
 Late Tuesday, the Irish financial regulatory agency disclosed it was also investigating huge deposits, including one of about 4 billion euros, moved into Anglo Irish by a rival bank, Irish Life & Permanent, last September, around the time that the Irish government announced its state guarantee of all Irish lenders. 
 As Ireland was stepping in, Belgium was having trouble extricating itself from the nationalization of Fortis assets.
 Angry shareholders of Fortis, whose holdings were virtually wiped out in the nationalization moves last October, prevailed in court, forcing a vote on the Belgian and Dutch actions. On Wednesday they voted against the sale of the Dutch banking and insurance units to the Netherlands, and against Belgium's move to take control of banking unit Fortis Bank. 
 The Dutch government maintains that its move was legal and irrevocable, while Fortis Bank issued a statement noting the shareholder vote but deferring comment, Reuters reported. Further court action seeking damages for shareholders is likely. 
 The acting Fortis chairman, Jan-Michiel Hessels, said that given the shareholder votes, it made no sense to proceed to the third and final part of the carve-up -- BNP Paribas's purchase of 75 percent of Fortis Bank and a stake in the Belgian insurance operations from Fortis.
 BNP Paribas, the largest bank in France, now faces a decision on whether to pursue the purchase in court or to abandon the acquisition. In a brief statement, BNP Paribas said that its original offer was valid through the end of the month, but did not elaborate on its next step.
 The chief executive of BNP Paribas, Baudouin Prot, warned last weekend that he was ready to walk away if the sale was not wrapped up, adding that he was not prepared to make more concessions.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A shareholder in the banking giant Fortis objected in Brussels to a government plan to sell assets to the French bank BNP Paribas. A subsequent vote left the assets in Belgian government hands.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOHN THYS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EURO (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); NATIONALIZATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MERGERS (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); PREFERRED STOCK (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); ACCOUNTING (62%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: AGEAS NV (92%); BNP PARIBAS SA (91%); BANK OF IRELAND (84%); ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (65%); ALLIED IRISH BANKS PLC (57%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (56%); PERMANENT TSB GROUP HOLDINGS PLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

TICKER: AGS (BRU) (92%); BNP (PAR) (91%); BNP (BIT) (91%); IRE (NYSE) (84%); BKIR (LSE) (84%); RBS (NYSE) (65%); RBS (LSE) (65%); RBS (AMS) (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (92%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (92%); NAICS524210 INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (92%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6411 INSURANCE AGENTS, BROKERS, & SERVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (50%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (50%)

PERSON: JOAQUIN ALMUNIA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%); DUBLIN, IRELAND (79%) BELGIUM (98%); IRELAND (96%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ICELAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



456 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 693 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Rebuffs Critics On Banking Rescue Plan

BYLINE: By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner, rebuffing criticism of his bank bailout plan for not providing significant details, told lawmakers on Wednesday that the administration would move swiftly to complete its work on the plan.
 In a second day of hearings in the Senate, Mr. Geithner said he was sympathetic toward Wall Street's craving for more information but said that a rushed plan would be more costly and less credible, and might require expensive revisions that would damage its credibility.
 ''I understand the desire for details and I understand the disappointment about the lack of details,'' Mr. Geithner said, departing from his prepared remarks in a three and a half hour appearance before the Senate Budget Committee. ''But part of the disappointment is because people were hoping that we do things that, in my judgment, would have been too generous and not responsible for the taxpayers' money.'' 
 On Tuesday, Mr. Geithner committed to flooding the financial system with as much as $2.5 trillion from the Federal Reserve, the Treasury and private investors as part of a plan to restore banks and financial markets to health. 
 The plan calls for the creation of a program financed jointly by the government and investors to buy up to $1 trillion in rapidly deteriorating assets held by banks.
 It also called for the Fed and Treasury to expand, possibly up to $1 trillion from $200 billion, an existing program to thaw consumer and business credit markets. 
 A third component would make more capital available to banks, after subjecting them to a stress test to determine which banks can weather a serious economic downturn. 
 The final leg of the plan would use $50 billion of the remaining $350 billion in the Troubled Asset Relief Program to help arrest housing foreclosures, though details were scanty. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, which plunged nearly 5 percent on Tuesday after the announcement of the proposal, recovered only slightly on Wednesday, closing up 50 points, or about 0.4 percent.
 Administration officials and lawmakers briefed on the plan gave several explanations for the delay in completing the work. Foremost among them was that Mr. Geithner had been in office for only two weeks and much of his economic team has yet to be nominated and confirmed. 
 They said that Mr. Geithner wanted to take the time to carefully design each piece of the plan, mindful that repeated course changes by the Bush administration had rapidly undermined the credibility of his predecessor, Henry M. Paulson Jr.
 Moreover, among those officials in place, there remained significant disagreement about some crucial elements of the plan. Reflecting that tension, some financial specialists said that the plan, as outlined, sought to walk a fine line between working with Wall Street and imposing tougher constraints on it.
 ''Are you going in with the bankers or are you being tough with bankers?'' asked Simon Johnson, a professor of economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund. ''Geithner was being ambiguous about that.''
 ''They don't want to upset the banking industry,'' he added, ''and that's the heart of it.''
 Democratic and Republican lawmakers on Wednesday repeated their concerns about the failure of the administration to move more quickly.
 ''Many of us were looking forward to a plan that could be presented in a straightforward, clear and detailed way,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, at a hearing before the Senate Budget Committee. ''Unfortunately that is not what we received yesterday. At least that's not what the markets and the country perceived they heard.'' 
 But Mr. Geithner said that it would be a worse policy to move too precipitously. 
 ''I do not want to compound the mistakes of the last 12 months, when things were rushed out before they were ready, and strategy had to be adapted because of that,'' he said. ''If that means that there is going to be disappointment with the level of details until we get it right, I will live with that disappointment because it is better than the alternative.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner conferred with an aide before testifying to the Senate Budget Committee on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SUSAN WALSH/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (79%); BUDGETS (79%); FORECLOSURE (78%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (63%); STOCK INDEXES (62%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (93%); HENRY PAULSON (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



457 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1023 words

HEADLINE: And Now, the $2.5 Trillion Question

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''Bailout Plan: $2.5 Trillion and a Strong U.S. Hand'' (front page, Feb. 11):
 For all of us who voted for ''change'' last November, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's plan does not seem to be change that I can believe in. Despite new ideas like a $500,000 pay limit for companies receiving bailout money, you have rightly pointed out that this is only for the most senior executives -- not much of a change from the Bush administration. 
 Change would mean nationalizing the banks, firing most of their executives, and guaranteeing most of the bad mortgages that caused this mess to the benefit of homeowners, not just the securities behind them. Otherwise, this is just more of the same. 
 Luke Johnson Claremont, Calif., Feb. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Senate Approves Stimulus, and Intense Talks Begin'' (news article, Feb. 11): As one of the 598,000 workers laid off in January, I think it is great to see that the Senate has approved the stimulus bill. But as a taxpayer and a voting citizen, I have to ask, What has taken the Senate and the House so long?
 Maybe instead of practicing partisan politics and pushing the same old ideas, members of Congress should go to their district or state and get to know their constituents who have lost jobs. 
 Why not go to an unemployment center and talk to people until the person at the back of the line gets through the line? In my case, on the southwest side of Chicago, the process took three and a half hours. That would provide plenty of time to learn about these people -- where they were working and what they think they need. Maybe it will spark an idea of how to help. 
 That is what we need. Not speeches, not whining, but action.
 Steve Vihon Chicago, Feb. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Re ''The Bailout's Next Chapter'' (editorial, Feb. 11): 
 The bigger we got, the harder we fell. 
 While details may have been lacking, the Treasury secretary outlined a plan of public and private money being used to remove bad assets from banks' balance sheets. That is different from where we were before Tuesday. 
 Better? Worse? Time will tell. And what about help for homeowners? Should there be a bailout for them? Is it reasonable to think that the government can keep all of those homeowners in their homes? It would be nice to think so. 
 If there is a practical plan to do it, someone ought to lay it out. The point is, we have a multi-trillion-dollar problem. The mother of all balloons had all but burst, and the government is looking for ways to let the air out slowly to allow the economy to recover. This is a bear of a problem, and we had better take a deep breath and get used to putting out the fires where we can and not expect too much each day along the way.
 About the clearest statement all week came from the woman at the president's Florida town meeting, who, now homeless, said it would be nice to have a bathroom and a kitchen for her family. Right now, we need lots of little successes to get back on our feet. 
 Bruce Neuman Sag Harbor, N.Y., Feb. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Now that both the Bush and Obama administrations have told us that some of our banks and financial institutions are too big to be allowed to fail, we probably all need to accept that that is true. 
 What I don't understand is why the only solution either administration could come up with is to give money to these failing companies, enabling them to become even bigger and worsening the problem.
 Surely, establishment of a national bank, requiring these ''too big to fail'' institutions to break up into smaller entities, and feeding money into the system through subsidies to at-risk homeowners, are all better ideas.
 Richard L. Eichholz Chicago, Feb. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 It must be perfectly obvious to anyone not a committed partisan or ideologue that the politicians are floundering and that the stimulus and bailout ''plans'' are 90 percent guesses, desperate hope and prayers and only 10 percent cold analysis. 
 Is there any history, apart from World War II, where a nation spent itself out of a recession or depression? 
 Wildly improvident borrowers and lenders over the last two decades, with the politicians of both parties benignly looking on, caused the problem. Perhaps it can best be solved, painfully and over time, by the classic market cure of punishing those who made unwise financial decisions. At least that way, the generation that caused the problem will bear the pain and not pass it on to their progeny with even more debt. 
 Ron Holdaway Draper, Utah, Feb. 11, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Accountability must be built into the bailout process to ensure effective use of federal money and public trust. I propose a simple step, which can and should be carried out immediately. 
 All companies receiving federal bailout money should have audit oversight by the Government Accountability Office. The G.A.O., not the corporation, would select and pay the private C.P.A. firm conducting its annual financial audit. The G.A.O. would review these audits. The G.A.O., if it chooses, may rotate accounting firms for stronger objectivity and independence. 
 Second, the G.A.O. should conduct a comprehensive performance audit of the Securities and Exchange Commission, with detailed recommendations to Congress and the administration on how its mission, organization and staffing should be improved.
 G. Alexander McAlmon Austin, Tex., Feb. 11, 2009
 The writer is a certified public accountant.
 To the Editor:
 Re ''Trillion Dollar Baby'' (column, Feb. 11): Maureen Dowd has it exactly right. I have felt a sense of betrayal ever since President Obama chose Timothy F. Geithner as his Treasury secretary, and it has only deepened. 
 Why did our new president choose someone from the Rubinomics school that has already caused so much grief? Or someone connected with the failed pre-inauguration TARP exercise? 
 Mr. Obama should listen to his other advisers, who have advocated measures that don't pander to the financial industry that landed us in this mess. To do so might regain my trust. 
 Vivienne Armentrout Ann Arbor, Mich., Feb. 11, 2009

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHAEL SLOAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (75%); POLITICS (73%); EXECUTIVES (70%); APPROVALS (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



458 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: The Recession. Isn't It Romantic?

BYLINE: By ABBY ELLIN

 BODY:
THE last five months have been filled with grim numbers, most of them preceded by a minus sign. Nearly 600,000 jobs lost in January. A national debt of $10.7 trillion. The Dow, down more than 2,200 points since September.
 It's not exactly the stuff of romance novels.
 And yet, those negative numbers seem to be having a positive effect on romance -- or at least the search for it. Online and offline matchmakers are reporting that dating interest is up, way up. Match.com, for instance, had its strongest fourth quarter in the last seven years, and brick-and-mortar outfits like Amy Laurent International, a matchmaking service with outposts in New York, Los Angeles and Miami, say business is up 40 percent among women over the last four months. 
 Those in the online dating industry say the increased traffic can be explained by at least a few factors: unemployed and underemployed people have more time on their hands to surf the Web, and online dating is a relatively inexpensive way to meet people. Offline matchmakers add that organized dating events are cheaper than financing a series of potentially stultifying meals with blind dates. And some experts say singles seek the comfort of relationships during difficult times. 
 ''At a time when money is scarce or uncertain, when people are assessing their priorities, they don't want to go through it alone,'' said Dr. Pepper Schwartz, a professor of sociology at the University of Washington in Seattle, and the relationship expert at Perfectmatch.com, which had a 51 percent increase in new members in the fourth quarter of 2008 compared with 2007. ''When you're not sure what's coming at you, love seems all the more important,'' Dr. Schwartz said.
 Marissa Berry, 25, who recently joined Speeddate.com, a free online dating site, is among those who feel newly driven to find a relationship.
 ''It's an upsetting, depressing, scary time, and to have someone to relate to and to vent with would be nice,'' said Ms. Berry, who works for a children's clothing company in New York and notes that the cost of meeting people the old-fashioned way -- by going out a lot -- is an expense she can no longer afford. ''The money I do have, I want to save in case I get laid off,'' she said.
 Speeddate.com was averaging about 80,000 virtual encounters a day in October; today traffic is up 60 percent, with an average of 130,000 daily encounters, said a founder, Dan Abelon. 
 The $34.99-a-month fee to join Match.com's for-profit site is apparently not deterring new members: the site's North American membership grew 17 percent in December. Nor has a $50-a-month fee scared away people from Perfectmatch.com, which had a 30 percent increase in January.
 Of course, online dating has had a following ever since dating sites popped up around 1994, said Mark Brooks, editor of Online Personals Watch, an industry news blog. A few years later came sites like Friendfinder.com, Match.com and Matchmaker.com. Niche sites -- that is, those catering to people with specific interests (say, Christian singles) soon proliferated; some promised more ''scientific'' results by bringing in relationship experts like the anthropologist Helen Fisher at Chemistry.com. 
 During the last economic downturn, in 2001, Duane Dahl, the chief executive of Perfectmatch.com, noted that there was a spike in interest similar to what the industry is seeing now. For instance, he said, the strong third and fourth quarter results his company saw in 2008 were consistent with 2001 numbers. Mr. Brooks said the industry then started leveling off in February 2005. David Evans, an online dating consultant, noted that about 30 million people will log on this year to one of the estimated 1,500 online dating services nationwide.
 These days the sites seem to be attracting a more frugal crowd. 
 ''During recessions people stay at home more, they don't want to pay and go to bars. They're going online to meet each other,'' said Markus Frind, the chief executive of Plentyoffish, a free site, where visits have increased 77 percent from December 2007 to December 2008, and 32 percent over the last three months.
 ''Typically, we always see an increase in traffic in the beginning of a new year -- part of a New Year's resolution,'' said Matt Tatham, a media analyst at Hitwise, an online measurement company. ''People are looking for some change in their life. This year is different than in years past. Because of the economy there are a lot of people who are out of work and have free time and can spend more time online going to dating sites.''
 In the universe of online dating, the selection criteria for potential partners are showing initial signs of shifting as a result of the recession. While ''marriage'' and ''children'' were always popular key words, Mr. Frind said, during this period last year Plentyoffish.com users mentioned the word ''job'' in their profiles 5.5 percent of the time. This year, that number has risen to 7.7 percent.
 On Blackpeoplemeet.com, a site for black singles, the percentage of people listing ''job'' as a criterion when asked 'What are you looking for in a partner?' increased 18 percent from January 2008 to January 2009. (Other profiles are more direct: ''Looking for a date for dinner, Dutch treat,'' read one Match.com headline).
 MEANWHILE, offline romance specialists say they are also seeing a spike in business. Mary Jo Fay, who operates a seminar for 30- to 50-year-old singles in Denver, said her business has quadrupled over the last few months. In November, 12 people paid $10 for the two-hour event; this month, she has 60 people lined up, with a waiting list of 25. 
 On Saturday, about 500 people attended the Rocky Mountain Singles Summit, a singles event in Denver, up from 400 a year ago. From October through December 2008, new membership at The Right One/Together Dating, a dating service with 60 locations across the country, increased about 18 percent compared with the same period the previous year. The price of membership starts at $1,000, said the company's chief executive, Paul A. Falzone.
 ''People are putting down deposits rather than paying in full, which is fine,'' Mr. Falzone said.
 Indeed, many singles are guarding their wallets, but that doesn't mean they are staying home. 
 ''Dinner and a movie has turned into the early-bird special at Denny's and a DVD from the library,'' said Tony Dudek, 55, a single technology entrepreneur in Denver. ''Everyone is so emotionally and financially constrained that it's made it a lot more difficult.''
 One single, Kevin A. Pemberton, a vice president with a money management company in New York, thinks the current economic climate is forcing men to re-evaluate what they want in a partner. He said he has noticed ''humility'' as far as dating goes, a ''return to substance.'' 
 If the recession results in a desire for a relationship that is not based on one's personal finances, then it may actually be a boon for love, said Dr. Paulette Kouffman Sherman, a psychologist in New York and author of ''Dating From the Inside Out'' (Atria Books, 2008). ''There's so many aspects of a person,'' she said. ''It's kind of sick that we only focus on jobs or money.''
 That's a view that Annie Edgerton, an actress in Manhattan, shares. She is currently taking her time to get to know prospective partners through e-mail and Facebook messages. 
 ''This whole thing has actually taken a lot of the pressure off to impress with money,'' she said. ''Now you can get to know a person for who they are, rather than what they do, because they might not do it anymore.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: NEWLYMETS: Angie Ross and Joe Howe get acquainted at the Rocky Mountain Singles Summit in Denver. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATTHEW STAVER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATING SERVICES (91%); ONLINE DATING SERVICES (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); CLOTHING LABELS (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING (69%); SOCIOLOGY (65%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); DENVER, CO, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



459 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: The Recession Takes Down A Yacht Club

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: PORT WASHINGTON, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 It's safe to say that before this economic collapse runs its course, there will be many sadder stories than the demise of the Knickerbocker Yacht Club.
 Founded in 1874 on the Harlem River in Manhattan, it survived several moves, two World Wars, the Great Depression, Hurricane Carol and various internal crises, living on as the second-oldest yacht club on the Long Island Sound.
 But unless something totally unexpected happens, it won't see another summer. Shortly after becoming the club's commodore in January, Dr. Brian Raskin, a Long Island dentist, reluctantly brought to board members a proposal to shut down in the face of rising costs and falling membership. 
 The decision to close was confirmed at a meeting on Sunday, and the property on Manhasset Bay, near Gatsby Country on the North Shore, is going up for sale.
 ''Pulling teeth is easy,'' Dr. Raskin said. ''This is hard.''
 On Tuesday evening, Dr. Raskin spoke at the empty club, where tiny, brightly-colored models of members' vessels line the wall. ''It's nobody's fault,'' he said. ''In a time when Lehman Brothers, Circuit City, Merrill Lynch and Citibank are all having major issues, it's very difficult to complain about a yacht club. It's a luxury item. We all know that. But, still, we're crying over the history and what this place has meant to us.''
 The term ''yacht club'' does not exactly evoke populist sentiments or mainstream economic concerns. Still, in its own ways, this small, high-end casualty of the bust has relevant lessons.
 Originally incorporated to encourage ''Yachting and the cultivation of Naval Science and Seamanship,'' the Knickerbocker Yacht Club has for more than a century catered both to serious sailors and to members who bought into its sense of seaside amity.
 In 1907, the club moved to Port Washington, essentially the one Jewish yacht club in a non-Jewish world. Members transported their old frame headquarters to Long Island, hoisted it atop the new one and began anew. There was iceboating and frostbiting (dinghy racing) in the winter, serious racing and leisurely cruising all summer. Members' crafts ranged from 200-foot yachts to 10-foot dinghies, but most were moderate, with owners functioning as one-person crews. The club's Knickerbocker Cup race, started in 1982, became internationally recognized. 
 At its peak in the early 1980s, the club had about 290 families with 165 boats. And then, slowly, the world changed. Boating declined in popularity. Families started carting their kids to soccer games, ballet lessons and SAT classes instead of having them hang out by the water learning to sail. Living on Long Island got so expensive that older members moved away.
 And even the old sort-of rich, the doctors and dentists and successful business owners who could afford to spend tens of thousands of dollars on sailboats and their accouterments, found themselves feeling the pinch in the way they hadn't in previous generations.
 This was not the world of the zillionaires across the Sound in Greenwich and Darien. It was mostly people who made a good living but paid high taxes and struggled with college tuitions. Even at the yacht club, or this one anyway, making ends meet wasn't always so easy even before the roof fell in, a reminder of just how small a slice of American life got the big rewards during the Wall Street boom years.
 Membership fell to about 120 over the years and, with disaster looming, fell further this year. An attempt to merge with the Manhasset Bay Yacht Club next door fell through. Finally, the financial collapse put a noose around everyone. ''That was the death knell,'' said Jeanne Rosenthal, an ophthalmologist and the vice commodore, whose father taught her to sail at the club as a young girl. ''This place was like 'Cheers.' I don't know how I'll survive without it.''
 Knickerbocker isn't the only club for the well-to-do that will struggle to survive. And every collapse and divorce brings its unhappy stories. This one could, too. Members ratified the decision to close, but some still feel it was a mistake, that officials panicked or refused to consider alternatives, putting irreplaceable real estate on the market with whatever intrigue that produces.
 Geography aside, it's not quite Gatsby's world. But were he around to survey the pumped-up universe of fraud and collapse, the titanic hangover now playing out, from that big house across Manhasset Bay, he might look out to the water and give a wry smile.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOATING & RAFTING (89%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); SAILING (89%); BOAT RACING (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); GREAT DEPRESSION (77%); DANCE EDUCATION (73%); LUXURY GOODS (65%); WINTER SPORTS (63%); ARMED FORCES (62%); SOCCER (60%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (60%); BALLET (50%)

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



460 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; BEEVILLE JOURNAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: Grass, Crops and Hope Dry Up in Texas Drought

BYLINE: By JAMES C. McKINLEY Jr.

DATELINE: BEEVILLE, Tex. 

 BODY:
Austin Brown II kicked the sandy dirt near a feedlot with his spurred boot and surveyed the land his family has ranched for three generations.
 Most years the first green shoots of spring and pink bursts of paintbrush flowers would be rising from the soil by now. Nothing meets his eye but brown grass, dried up oaks and dust billowing in the wind.
 ''You can see how the sand is just drifting,'' said Mr. Brown, 65, digging his toe into the dust piled up at his feet. ''This normally would be grass.'' 
 The worst drought in nearly 100 years is racking three-quarters of Texas. Much of the state has not had a significant rainfall since August. Winter wheat crops have failed. Ponds have dried up. Ranchers are spending heavily on hay and feed pellets to get their cattle through the winter. Some wonder if they will have to slaughter their herds come summer. Farmers say the soil is too dry for seeds to germinate and are considering not planting. 
 ''The last time we had a drought this bad was in January 1918,'' said John Nielsen-Gammon, the state climatologist. ''The droughts in the 1950s in individual years were not as bad as this.'' Mr. Nielsen-Gammon, a professor at Texas A&M, said the weather had been unusually dry for the last year and a half, but since August, much of the central part of the state -- a broad swath from just south of Dallas, through Austin and San Antonio and down to Corpus Christi -- had gotten little or no rain. Even last year's hurricanes, Dolly and Ike, did not help, he said.
 Though about a half-inch of rain fell in Austin and Dallas this week, it was not enough to offset the 20-inch deficit in rainfall over the last 18 months, he said.
 A weather pattern over the Pacific known as La Nina has pushed the jet stream north, keeping the normal fall and winter rains away, meteorologists say. In the last three months, only about a quarter of the usual rain and snow has fallen across the state.
 ''We are dry from the Rio Grande Valley through the High Plains -- there is no subsoil moisture,'' said Travis Miller, head of soil and crop sciences at the Texas AgriLife Extension Program. ''I really don't think anybody's going to plant until we get significant moisture.''
 The time for planting corn and sorghum is passing fast. In central Texas, farmers plant corn from mid-February to late March, hoping to harvest it before the intense summer heat in August. Sorghum is planted a bit later, in late April. The last option is cotton, which can be planted as late as May. 
 Archie Abrameit, the manager of the Stiles Farm Foundation, a state-owned farm of 2,900 acres near Thrall, said the parched soil thwarted the winter wheat from coming up. Farmers have no hope that the spring crops will do better, since not even wild plants are sprouting. 
 ''We make the joke we can't even grow weeds this winter,'' Mr. Abrameit said.
 As a result, farmers have found themselves playing a guessing game. Does one plant corn now and hope for rain, or wait for rain, hoping it comes in time to plant sorghum? Or wait still later and plant cotton, which can be grown until later in the summer? Some admit privately that they will plant knowing the crop will fail in hopes of collecting insurance. Others say they may not plant at all.
 ''The clock is ticking as far as coming up to planting time,'' said Terrell Hamann, who farms 1,800 acres near Taylor, just northeast of Austin. ''I change my mind about three times a day about what to do.''
 Complicating the calculus for farmers and ranchers, prices for grain and beef have dropped, as people across the country have cut their spending in the economic crisis. 
 At the Brown Ranch in Beeville, about 85 miles southeast of San Antonio, the family is bracing for what could be a terrible year. So far, Mr. Brown and his son, Austin Brown III, have kept their 2,000 head of Angus, Hereford and Akaushi cattle watered by pumping well water into troughs, at great cost in electric bills. They have also dipped into the ranch's savings to buy hundreds of bales of hay and hundreds of pounds cottonseed ''cake,'' dense protein-rich pellets, to feed the animals. 
 As the younger Mr. Brown spread the cottonseed cake on the ground on a recent afternoon, a hungry mob of Hereford cows chased after his truck, jostling and bumping one another. The ground was devoid of green life as far as the eye could see. The cows and their calves had devoured a towering roll of hay left for them but could find nothing to forage.
 ''When the grass is real green and lush and they have a lot to eat, they won't hardly come to you,'' the younger Mr. Brown said.
 A point comes when the cost of feeding the cattle in a drought becomes so high it makes no sense to continue, the elder Mr. Brown said. Then all or part of the main herd of reproductive cows and bulls must be slaughtered. It is a prospect every rancher fears, for that core herd is what produces a yearly bounty of calves to be raised and fattened for the market.
 ''We are going to try to keep these cattle going into June,'' the elder Mr. Brown said, ''and if we don't get any rain by June, then it's all over and we will have to send them to market.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: With little or no rain since August in Texas' worst drought in nearly 100 years, the largest water tank on Austin Brown II's ranch has turned to sand and dirt.
AUSTIN BROWN II: Third-generation Texas rancher.
 Hungry cows chase a truck dropping high-protein feed pellets (center). Austin Brown IV with his grandfather on land the family has ranched for three generations.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CATTLE FEEDLOTS (90%); DROUGHT (90%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); WEATHER (89%); CLIMATOLOGY (75%); METEOROLOGY (75%); EL NINO & LA NINA (75%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (75%); WHEAT FARMING (69%); AGRONOMY (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (90%); CORPUS CHRISTI, TX, USA (79%); SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (71%) TEXAS, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



461 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 415 words

HEADLINE: With Trade in Decline, U.S. Deficit Narrows

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
The United States trade deficit narrowed by 4 percent in December, falling for a third consecutive month as overall trade dwindled in the face of a growing worldwide economic downturn, the government said Wednesday. 
 The Commerce Department reported that the gap between imports and exports shrank to $39.9 billion, from a revised $41.6 billion in November, its lowest levels since 2003. Most of that decline was a result of the collapse in oil prices, which have fallen to less than $40 a barrel from their summer highs of $145 a barrel. The trade deficit for all of 2008 declined for the second year in a row, to $677.1 billion.
 ''Our exports are going down, our imports are going down, and so are the rest of the world's,'' said Nigel Gault, chief United States economist at IHS Global Insight. ''And they're going down very, very fast.''
 The value of American exports fell $8.5 billion in December while imports tumbled $10.7 billion, reflecting the dwindling demand for foreign-made goods and services as consumer spending waned. Imports of oil, automobiles and parts, clothing, jewelry and capital equipment all fell. 
 ''The net trade deficit is likely to continue to shrink, although with both sides of the ledger showing losses, the news cannot really be described as good,'' Joshua Shapiro, chief United States economist at MFR, wrote in a note. The country sold $1.3 billion fewer cars, trucks and automobile parts in foreign markets in December, a sign of continuing trouble for struggling American automakers. Sales of industrial supplies and materials fell $4.6 billion as the downturn shuttered factories and slowed development worldwide. 
 For the year as a whole, exports of civilian aircraft fell by $5.3 billion. But the value of agricultural exports like soybeans, corn and meat grew, reflecting higher food prices, and consumer and industrial exports also rose.
 The trade deficit with China was a record $266.3 billion last year, while the gap between the United States and Canada reached $74 billion.
 In all, the United States sent $133.8 billion in goods and services abroad in December and imported $173.7 billion.
 Economists said the decline in trade volume was starker than the estimates used by the government in calculating the gross domestic product of the United States in the fourth quarter, which fell at an annual rate of 3.8 percent. They said the lower trade volumes were likely to contribute to a downward revision of that crucial measure of the economy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT PRICES (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (77%); NUT & LEGUME EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); FOOD PRICES (76%); OIL & GAS PRICES (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (71%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); AUTOMOTIVE SUPPLIERS (71%); AGRICULTURE (62%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



462 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; ROOMS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: Where the Sea Air Meets Its Match

BYLINE: By ALAN FEUER

 BODY:
The M/V North River, a twin-screw tanker out of Brooklyn, steamed past Rikers Island, swung to port, then slipped into its mooring in Hunts Point, in the Bronx. 
 A deckhand tied the ship off while another hooked its hoses to a manifold. Above decks, in the bridge, the first mate took the signal, then gently depressed a switch. With a hum of quiet suction, the vessel began to shudder and the pumps began to offload what is commonly called ''the cargo'' -- 85,000 inky cubic feet of human sludge.
 Even the most earthbound landlubber knows that New York's waterfront has been dying now for more than 40 years, the fruit piers and the coffee piers, the sugar trade and container ports having either gone to New Jersey or the way of the fedora. It has gotten so bad, in fact, you could probably walk from Conover Street in Red Hook around Gowanus Bay and barely find a dozen people who know a hawser from a Halston. 
 The one recession-proof commodity, of course, was the very substance being hauled that day in the North River's malodorous metal tanks. As with tax preparation and the waging of war, there will be always be a market for removing human waste.
 ''There's never a down day,'' said Capt. Frank Bryn, an unassuming salt in a baggy hooded sweatshirt. Captain Bryn was standing at his wood-wheeled helm as the sewage was unloaded. The smell of old soup and methane gas rose from below and stained the air.
 His vessel -- a football field in length from stem to stern -- is a unique link in New York City's chain of municipal waste, a complicated process that begins at 14 pollution control plants, where more than 1.3 billion gallons of wastewater are treated every day. The bulk of the material removed by treatment is known, in the trade, as sewage sludge. For nearly a century, the primary means of getting rid of it was dumping it at sea. 
 That ended in 1988 with passage of the Ocean Dumping Ban Act, which not only put a halt to ruinous deep-sea dumps but slowly gave rise to the modern process of digesting sludge into a spongy liquid-less cake. The cake is often heated into fertilizer, then offered on the market. New York City sells the stuff -- at healthy profit, one should note -- to farmers in various agricultural states.
 Decommissioned as a dumper when the ban was put in place, the North River now carts sludge from control plants to any of eight digesting centers that are spread throughout New York. There she goes, trafficking your bodily secretions, through Kill Van Kull or the Coney Island Channel, seven days a week.
 Its nerve center is the captain's bridge, which, despite the fragrant cargo, is as nautical a spot as you are wont to find on any deep-sea ship. At the helm, there is a NavNet GPS and a 30-year-old horizontal compass. Drawers on the stern wall hold the tide charts and the captain's daily log.
 An ocean man himself, Captain Bryn spent a decade in the merchant marine at every port imaginable before taking this job with the city nearly 20 years ago. His sludge boat may smell funny, but that is a complication to be looked at with a mariner's stoic eye. 
 ''It's like any other cargo,'' he explained. ''Sludge, cars, oil, military goods. It's all the same to me. All I do is take it from A to B.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A view of the bridge on the motorized vessel North River, a tanker that hauls 85,000 cubic feet of human sludge to the city's eight processing centers. ''It's like any other cargo,'' said Capt. Frank Bryn, who has been doing this job for 20 years.(PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (89%); MARINE TANKERS (89%); OIL & GAS MARINE TANKERS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (78%); MARINE SHIPPING (78%); RECESSION (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); METHANE (70%); SUGAR MARKETS (69%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (65%); OCEANS (60%); FERTILIZERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



463 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Geithner Is Pressed for Bailout Details

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner's second day of testimony before Congress on Wednesday was a chance to rebut critics who said that the bank bailout plan he announced a day earlier was troublingly vague. 
 But despite a spirited defense of the Obama administration's plan, he found it difficult to overcome the doubts among lawmakers and struggled to explain why help for distressed homeowners was still weeks away.
 As Mr. Geithner testified before the Senate Budget Committee, whose members clearly were sobered by the magnitude of the crisis and of the administration's proposed response, its chairman suggested that the Treasury Department might have to return to Congress for an additional $300 billion to $500 billion to help stabilize the financial sector. ''I don't think the right answer is zero for the housing crisis and the financial sector,'' said the chairman, Senator Kent Conrad of North Dakota. 
 Mr. Geithner, departing Wednesday from his prepared remarks before the committee, acknowledged the concerns about how markets had reacted to his first major public pronouncement as Treasury secretary.
 ''I completely understand the desire for details and commitments,'' he said. Alluding to the troubled first portion of the federal bailout plan known as TARP, he said, ''We're going to do this carefully'' and ''get it right.''
 But he provided almost no specifics or figures on that or other matters, though he spent considerable time trying to bat down grim-sounding numbers thrown at him by worried senators of both parties.
 When Senator Lamar Alexander, Republican of Tennessee, asked him about the estimate of some economists that United States banks might hold $2 trillion in bad assets -- and asked Mr. Geithner whether he had not underestimated the problem -- the Treasury secretary neither confirmed nor denied the number.
 Still, he assured committee members that the delays in providing a fuller picture did not mean a half-hearted approach. ''We believe the policy response has to be comprehensive and forceful and that there is more risk and greater cost in being gradualist and tentative than there is in aggressive action.''
 He said the administration had learned from failed policy initiatives at the outset of the Great Depression, and during the early years of the Japanese recession of the 1990s, adding, ''We believe that the action has to be sustained until recovery is firmly established.''
 More than one senator asked the Treasury chief about media estimates that the government had now taken on outlays, commitments or loan guarantees of a staggering $7.8 trillion. Mr. Geithner went to great pains to note that the ultimate cost would be far less.
 ''I understand that,'' said Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, a crucial Republican on the panel. ''And you're saying, we don't want to be tentative and we don't want to be limited. But I don't want to be reckless, overspending and unprincipled, either. And so there's a tension here.''
 A central pillar of the plan that Mr. Geithner announced Tuesday would create one or more so-called bad banks to buy and hold banks' bad assets, using a mix of taxpayer and private money. Few details on this were provided, and intense, behind-the-scenes talks on the best way to do this continued.
 The administration and the Fed are also proposing to expand a lending program that would spend as much as $1 trillion to make up for the even greater decline in the issuance of securities backed mainly by consumer loans. Banks would also be given new infusions of capital with which to lend. In exchange, they would have to cut the salaries and perks of their executives and sharply limit dividends and corporate acquisitions. 
 But the initial reaction from the markets, lawmakers and economists was sharply negative. Some Wall Street experts said the plan relied too greatly on the same vague solutions proposed under the Bush administration. The Dow Jones industrial average lost more than 4 percentage points Tuesday, though stocks were level through midday Wednesday. 
 Asked late Tuesday about the initial reaction, President Obama told ABC News: ''Wall Street, I think, is hoping for an easy out on this thing and there is no easy out. Essentially what you've got are a set of banks that have not been as transparent as we need to be in terms of what their books look like.''
 Mr. Obama, who has traveled this week to Indiana, Florida and Virginia to make his case for quick action on an $800 billion stimulus plan to a deeply worried public, said that he was constantly seeking the right balance in his comments on the crisis.
 ''I'm constantly trying to thread the needle between sounding alarmist but also letting the American people know the circumstances that we're in,'' he said. ''And the fact of the matter is, is that we are in not just an ordinary recession, we are in a perfect storm of financial problems.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TESTIMONY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BANK FAILURES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUDGETS (79%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (76%); RECESSION (75%); GREAT DEPRESSION (70%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (91%); KENT CONRAD (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); JEFF SESSIONS (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



464 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: From Transit Dispute, a Broader Battle

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
A growing dispute between Los Angeles transit officials and a light rail car manufacturer is showing how hard it can be to stimulate a sagging economy even when money is available.
 Despite $40 billion for transportation spending approved by county voters in November and new federal support for public works programs, staff officials at the Los Angeles County Metropolitan Transit Authority, known as Metro, say they plan to open bidding on 100 new light rail cars they were considering buying from AnsaldoBreda, an Italian company. 
 The bidding is needed, the officials say, because of delivery delays on 50 other cars Breda is building, at a cost to Metro of $3.2 million each, and potential compatibility problems between Breda's cars and those made by two other companies, Siemens, based in Germany, and Sumitomo, whose headquarters is in Japan. 
 But Breda executives counter that the delays were caused by Metro's change orders and that the decision to open bidding was influenced by a Metro official whose son works for Siemens.
 Breda executives also say Metro's decision will end plans for building the company's new American headquarters as well as a manufacturing plant in South Los Angeles. Breda, which assembles light rail cars in Pittsburg, Calif., has a pending deal with a contractor to build the new facility.
 Breda, which has manufactured light rail cars for San Francisco, Cleveland, Washington and other cities, says the plant would create thousands of jobs at a time they are badly needed. California's unemployment rate is approaching 10 percent. In addition, the state's population has grown by 8.5 percent since 2000, according to the Census Bureau, and traffic throughout Los Angeles is the most congested in the country. Last November voters passed a transportation ballot initiative that provided a path forward, with new and expanded roads, subways and light rail, all financed by a half-cent sales tax increase.
 Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa of Los Angeles, who is Metro's chairman, is committed to a ''full and thorough hearing'' of Breda's offer before a final decision is reached, said his spokesman, Matt Szabo. ''The hundreds of new jobs would provide exactly the kind of boost the local economy needs right now,'' Mr. Szabo said. 
 Metro's 12-member board could vote to overrule the staff decision at its meeting on Feb. 26. 
 Metro's general manager for rail operations, Mike Cannell, said in an interview that the system needs 119 new cars by 2017 and that 69 cars now operating need to be overhauled starting next year. The authority had planned to sign a contract with Breda for the work, but Metro officials informed the company on Jan. 8 that the agency is ''best served'' by open bidding for new cars.
 ''Local voters will be paying for the cost to purchase new rail vehicles and infrastructure,'' Metro said in a statement. ''We need to make sure they get the best price, performance and delivery.''
 In a letter to the authority, Breda's president, Giancarlo Fantappie, questioned the decision, citing public statements by Metro praising his company's product and performance. He also argued that a delay would affect projects that could help with economic recovery, including the proposed Breda plant in South Los Angeles.
 Mr. Cannell said it was only after receiving Mr. Fantappie's letter that he learned of ''rumors of any manufacturing plant.''
 Breda's vice president of operations, Francisco Cantatore, said Mr. Cannell called the day after receiving the letter to tell Breda it has ''no chance'' of getting the new contract.
 ''He was very upset,'' Mr. Cantatore said in an interview. ''He said we shouldn't even bother trying anymore.''
 Breda's director of government affairs, Fabio Ficano, said Metro's decision was influenced by Mr. Cannell's connection to one of Breda's competitors, Siemens, which employs his son. ''Taxpayers will undoubtedly share our company's alarm,'' Mr. Ficano said.
 Mr. Cannell called Mr. Cantatore's assertion ''absolutely false.'' He said his son works for Siemens Energy, ''which has nothing to do'' with its light rail car division. 
 Breda executives maintain that a round of bidding would add as much as $15 million to the cost of a contract for the new and refurbished cars. 
 In a letter to the board last Friday, Mr. Fantappie told members for the first time about the manufacturing plant Breda hopes to build here and as many as 5,000 temporary and permanent jobs he estimates it would generate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Los Angeles transit authority says it will open bidding on the 100 light rail cars it considered buying from AnsaldoBreda.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALBANO GUATTI) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (91%); TRAINS (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); APPROVALS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); POPULATION SIZE (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); INFRASTRUCTURE (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); REFERENDUMS (72%); BALLOTS (72%); JOB CREATION (69%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); CENSUS (66%); SALES TAX (62%)

COMPANY: SIEMENS AG (58%)

TICKER: SIN (SWX) (58%); SIE (LSE) (58%); SIE (FRA) (58%); SIE (BIT) (58%); SI (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS335110 ELECTRIC LAMP BULB & PART MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334513 INSTRUMENTS & RELATED PRODUCTS MANUFACTURING FOR MEASURING, DISPLAYING & CONTROLLING INDUSTRIAL PROCESS VARIABLES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



465 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1505 words

HEADLINE: Calming the Voices That Scream 'Shop!'

BYLINE: By DAVID COLMAN

 BODY:
OVER the last decade, the term ''guilty pleasure'' has lost virtually all meaning. What other kinds of pleasures do we have anymore? 
 But should you want to see a movie that puts guilt and pleasure back together again, ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' may be the ticket. It was green-lighted back when consumer confidence still gushed like a Champagne fountain and shopping bags were something to flaunt instead of hide. Now, following on the spike heels of ''The Devil Wears Prada,'' ''Sex and the City'' and ''Legally Blonde,'' the latest style-centric antiheroine, the shopaholic Becky Bloomwood, arrives on screens Friday, with a credit bubble popped all over her face like so much pink bubble gum.
 Many people assume the film's release is terrible timing. If they only knew the truth: Becky does not shop so much as lie, cheat and scheme to keep her secret from being detected. As a comical allegory for the last 15 years, when fashion-mad consumerism, among several other things, drove the world's economy to new heights, the film stirs up prickly issues about the complex interplay of women, fashion, spending and identity. 
 And as a panicked Becky (who works as a financial journalist, no less) conceals her mounting debt and dreams of a magical bailout, the story has a painfully familiar ring. Frothy as it is, ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' glorifies overshopping about as much as ''Trainspotting'' glamorized heroin.
 ''I think it's amazing timing!'' said Madeleine Wickham, alias Sophie Kinsella, who wrote the original novel 10 years ago. In New York for the film's premiere last week, she agreed to have lunch -- and do a little shopping -- at what might be Becky's mother ship: Bergdorf Goodman. 
 ''This story is about someone who has too much credit thrust upon her too young, and she goes out and gets loads of lovely shiny things, then she goes bust and has to deal with it,'' Ms. Wickham said. ''If we're not all going through that now... '' She trailed off. ''We're all Becky Bloomwood.''
 In creating her curious heroine, Ms. Wickham, 39, a witty, self-deprecating Oxford graduate, was not appealing to fiction snobs. In the late '90s, she had published a handful of respectable novels about 40-something Londoners. Then one day, she had a brain wave: a book about a shopaholic! She had wanted to write a comedy; here it was. She made up a pseudonym for this side project (Sophie is her middle name, Kinsella her mother's maiden name) and tapped it out in a few months. 
 The result, published in 2000, has sold three million copies and been translated into 30 languages. Its four sequels have sold 5.3 million more. With three other novels to her pen name, Ms. Wickham is now, at Barnes & Noble at least, chick lit's No. 1 best seller. 
 But with the Shopaholic books, she did something more interesting than reach the top. She took all the stuff that chick-lit novels are about -- sex, work, romance and the vagaries of being an intelligent woman in the modern world -- and pushed them all out of the way. Then she took chick lit's backdrop of lighthearted consumerism and put it front and center. While sex has been all but denuded of its onetime taboos, candid talk about shopping and debt is a far touchier subject. 
 ''It may seem like a bit of fluff, but it actually expresses a great deal of the ongoing cultural preoccupations and anxieties that have surrounded women and women's association with consumption and shopping,'' said Rebecca Connor, an associate professor of English at Hunter College in New York. Professor Connor has traced the interaction of women and consumption in literature, even tracking down literature's first shopping spree to 1778, in ''Evelina: or The History of a Young Lady's Entrance Into the World.'' (It has a familiar chick-lit ring: 18-year-old Evelina, brought up in the countryside, comes to London, and between social blunders finds herself taken on a strange new activity: going ''a-shopping.'')
 Becky doesn't have weight problems; she doesn't smoke or drink. She doesn't really care if she gets ahead in her career or even if she has a boyfriend. She has one thing on her mind. Like an endearing cross between Madame Bovary and Lucy Ricardo, Becky Bloomwood tries heroically to bail out her ship of debt (even as her stiletto habit keeps poking new leaks left and right). As we hear Becky's stream of justifications as to why she needs to buy that thing right now, we are in fact hearing justifications we use ourselves -- and that, until recently, our consumer culture told us as well. 
 Although we can see how far off the beam she is, she's also on the money. Jen Lancaster, whose book ''Bitter is the New Black'' detailed her own fall from high-life grace after the dot-com bubble burst, relates wholeheartedly: ''When she's shopping and thinks, 'This is the scarf that can make me a whole person,' I've had those thoughts.''
 If some people are hesitant to credit chick lit with an awakening of a female consumer consciousness, Ms. Lancaster is not among them. ''I didn't know I needed Manolos until I read about them in Candace Bushnell,'' she said flatly.
 Rarely has overshopping been given the literary dignity to stand more or less on its own, which cannot be said of other forms of excess like sex, alcohol, drugs and gambling, so often memorialized as part of a manly lust for life. 
 ''I am just reflecting what I see, and coming at it with my attitude, which is absolutely guilt-free,'' said Ms. Wickham, who is married with three sons -- and knows whereof she speaks. She has gone out for a coffee break and come home with a sequined evening dress; gone out to a museum and come home with a sofa.
 At Bergdorf, she did a bit of shopping on the store's colorful fifth floor, finding a Marc Jacobs ruched peach top ($178), a Tahari python-print dress ($348) and a Moschino floral halter dress ($945). Her fatal flaw: ''I always buy clothes for when the sun is shining, and I live in England.'' 
 In Ms. Wickham's books, Becky's shopping is far from a harmless pastime, yet she doesn't have to atone for her sins in quite the way we expect. (In the Americanized film, she is not so lucky: she ends up, of course, in Shopaholics Anonymous, albeit a pretty zany branch.) This, too, is a bit of break from literary tradition in which women who shop on credit pay bitterly.
 ''Right up to the present day we have a culture tacitly or overtly encouraging women to shop in order to strengthen the economy,'' Professor Connor said. ''At the same time, we've always had male commentators denigrating women for their love of trinkets and their wasteful expenditures.'' 
 This was most true in the 18th century, bedeviling characters like Pope's Belinda and Defoe's Moll Flanders; and in the 19th century, when Madame Bovary and Anna Karenina, consumers of love and luxury, come to tragic ends. The most women could hope for was to be cast as victims of an evil system, as in Zola's ''The Ladies' Paradise,'' about a greedy merchant who designs a dazzling department store in Paris to overwhelm women into overspending (a 125-year-old parallel to today's easy credit offers).
 Most 20th-century novelists focused on women's inner (and sexual) selves rather than the outer self and its trappings. If overt consumption was discussed, it was portrayed as uncouth, the province of a mistress, like Crystal Allen in ''The Women,'' or an arriviste, like Undine Spragg in ''The Custom of the Country''; or as insane, as with Nicole Diver's spending spree in ''Tender Is the Night.'' 
 Becky Bloomwood, however, comes with luggage, not baggage. ''I don't step back and judge that character,'' said Ms. Wickham, who made sure that Becky's scheming is offset by a good heart. ''She's so flawed in so many ways, I wanted to make her grounded.''
 Stripped of judgments, Becky conveys to a designer T the crazed psychological profile of the addictive shopper. Not everyone thinks the thrill of buying a dress can compare to a night of whisky, a question now being debated by the editors of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, who are not sure compulsive shopping deserves its own diagnosis.
 But is a stiletto different? As any addiction researcher can tell you, drugs are merely keys that unlock doors (and chemical reactions), opening up a lovely world where the normal rules of reality (like Visa bills) don't hold sway. And as Becky Bloomwood -- or Cinderella -- can tell you, if that doesn't describe a perfect new pair of Gucci boots, what does?
 ''I fall for it every time,'' Ms. Wickham said cheerily. ''You know, you hone your style and buy the clothes that reflect who you are, but at some point you think, 'If I only have the right strand of pearls, I, too, will be Audrey Hepburn.' '' 
 For the full fantasy effect, this transformative act is achieved with the wave of that magical wand: the credit card.
 ''We should really pay cash,'' Ms. Wickham said. ''Then it would be real.''
 The trillion-dollar question: Do we want it to be? 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MODERN-DAY GLASS SLIPPERS: Madeleine Wickham: pen name, Sophie Kinsella. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEL TOPPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E1)
PROBLEM?: Isla Fisher, as Becky Bloomwood in ''Confessions of a Shopaholic,'' is a good-hearted schemer. ''I wanted to make her grounded,'' Ms. Wickham says. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ROBERT ZUCKERMAN/WALT DISNEY PICTURES)
 PAYING CREDIT WHERE IT'S OVERDUE: Madeleine Wickham in clover, doing research at Gucci. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JAMEL TOPPIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (86%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); MOVIE RELEASE DATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (71%); WRITERS (70%); HEROIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



466 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; ROUNDUP; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 624 words

HEADLINE: Dunn Is Joining Nationals In 2-Year, $20 Million Deal

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The Washington Nationals signed free agent Adam Dunn to a two-year, $20 million contract Wednesday, according to the club's Web site.
 Dunn, a left-handed slugger who finished last season with the Arizona Diamondbacks, and General Manager Jim Bowden have a history together with the Cincinnati Reds organization. Three years after Bowden drafted Dunn in 1998, Dunn became Cincinnati's top power hitter. 
 Dunn, 29, has hit at least 40 home runs in each of the past five seasons. He has a .247 career batting average and a .381 on-base percentage. 
 With the Nationals, Dunn will bat cleanup and play first base, replacing Nick Johnson. 
 CHAMBERLAIN IMPOSTOR FINED A New Jersey man who authorities said scammed businesses by claiming he was Yankees pitcher Joba Chamberlain has pleaded guilty to disorderly conduct.
 Ryan Ward, 30, of Toms River entered the plea Wednesday in Belmar Municipal Court and was fined $2,518. He also must serve two years' probation.
 Prosecutors wanted him to serve up to a year in jail. Ward told the judge his actions stemmed from a drinking problem and he was receiving treatment.
 UGGLA IN ARBITRATION Second baseman Dan Uggla went to a salary arbitration hearing with the Florida Marlins on Wednesday, asking that he be awarded his request of $5.35 million rather the team's offer of $4.4 million.
 Uggla hit .260 with 32 homers and 92 runs batted in last season, his third straight season of 27 or more homers and 88 or more R.B.I. Eligible for arbitration for the first time, he made $417,000 in 2008. The arbitrators Richard Bloch, Fredric Horowitz and Steven Wolf heard the case and were likely to issue a decision Thursday.
 Uggla was the third player to go to a hearing this year. Washington Nationals pitcher Shawn Hill won $775,000 rather than the team's proposal of $500,000, and All-Star catcher Dioner Navarro lost to the Tampa Bay Rays and was given $2.1 million rather than his $2.5 million request.
 Fourteen more players remain scheduled for hearings.
 NO FREE-AGENT TRAINING CAMP The players' union has decided against opening a spring training camp for free agents.
 The union had a free-agent camp in 1995 in Homestead, Fla., after a seven-and-a-half-month strike. Because of the slow signings this year, the union considered the idea again.
 Agents have complained that low offers by teams have delayed agreements. Teams say there is no collusion, that individual clubs are making decisions based on the recession.
 RARE CARD NETS $64,073 A Fresno, Calif., antique dealer sold on Tuesday for $64,073 a rare baseball card she thought was worth only $10.
 The dealer, Bernice Gallego, sold the 1869 Cincinnati Red Stockings team card in an online auction. The sale price was more than double the previous record set for an identical card. The Red Stockings were the first professional team in the United States
 The front of the card features a sepia-toned, gelatin-silver photographic print of the team. The reverse has a red-and-white advertisement for Peck & Snyder, a New York sports equipment manufacturer.
 The buyer was Jeff Rosenberg, president of a Houston company that promotes sports memorabilia shows.
 TEIXEIRA DONATES $500,000 The Yankees' Mark Teixeira is donating $500,000 to fund an annual baseball scholarship at Georgia Tech, his alma mater.
 Teixeira, a first baseman, announced the Mark C. Teixeira Athletic Scholarship Fund on Wednesday.
 During his three-year career at Georgia Tech, Teixeira batted .409 with 36 homers and 165 R.B.I. 
 MILLAR IN MINOR LEAGUE DEAL First baseman Kevin Millar signed a minor league contract with the Blue Jays and was invited to major league spring training camp. Millar hit .234 with 20 home runs and 72 R.B.I. for Baltimore last season.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (92%); ALTERNATIVE DISPUTE RESOLUTION (89%); STRIKES (78%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (74%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); GUILTY PLEAS (73%); INTERNET AUCTIONS (73%); PROBATION (73%); LABOR MEDIATION & ARBITRATION (71%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (69%); DISORDERLY CONDUCT (68%); JAIL SENTENCING (68%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: CINCINNATI REDS (58%); ARIZONA DIAMONDBACKS (58%); FLORIDA MARLINS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CINCINNATI, OH, USA (91%); TAMPA, FL, USA (76%); FRESNO, CA, USA (76%) OHIO, USA (91%); FLORIDA, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



467 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; WIFE/MOTHER/WORKER/SPY; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1053 words

HEADLINE: A Dash of Party A, a Splash of Party B

BYLINE: By MICHELLE SLATALLA. 
E-mail: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
THE big drawback to being a host who wants to give a perfect dinner party is that you end up paralyzed by too many decisions. Is red meat O.K.? Is the house clean enough? Are there any ''children lovers'' who will cavil if their offspring are banished to a room where they can be sedated with video games?
 Luckily, I'm not one of those hosts. Really, I couldn't care less. I've always gone in the opposite, slapdash direction and firmly believe that all you need for an acceptable evening are cocktails, candles and cloth napkins. In that order. With the last two optional.
 But recently, after I invited over a mix of old and new friends, I started to worry that I'd made a careless mistake that could lead to a disaster: a dinner party culture war. 
 ''Who's coming?'' my husband asked a few days before the event.
 ''Ted and Amy, Mary Lou and John, Peggy and Richard,'' I said, ticking off the guest list.
 ''To the same party?'' he asked. ''Do we still have any of that 151 rum left?''
 It was then I realized I had broken one of the unspoken rules of etiquette prevailing in my corner of Northern California: I'd invited conservatives and liberals to dine together.
 It's a recipe for disaster. The cultural divide has been growing for four decades. But back in 1969, when the term ''positive polarization'' was coined to describe a way to split Americans into different camps based on what they thought about social issues, no one probably realized that one side effect of the plan would be a nation ruined by dinner-party discord.
 These days people are as apt to define themselves by their political beliefs as earlier generations were to classify themselves by religion, economic class or ethnicity. Even with a new president in office who preaches bipartisan cooperation, the country remains locked in a stubborn us-against-them, red-versus-blue debate that colors so many aspects of life.
 I've been skittish about mixing guests' politics ever since the time, a year or so ago, when a Democrat and a Republican started ''discussing'' the Middle East during the casserole course. Well before dessert, their voices escalated into a decibel range more commonly heard on the ''Meet the Press'' set than at a suburban dinner party. They both went home well before decaf.
 ''That was nothing compared to what could happen with this crowd,'' my husband warned.
 He was right. This time I'd somehow managed to invite known Republicans, including a vociferous Sarah Palin supporter, to mingle with liberals who live in notoriously left-leaning Berkeley.
 I could envision a clash of epic proportions between the government-out-of-my-life contingent and the Berkeley residents, who think it's perfectly normal to phone a ''Spare the Air'' pollution hot line for permission to burn a log in their fireplace. (''What if you didn't ask?'' I asked the last time I was in Berkeley -- on a chilly night, by the way -- and my friend replied matter of factly, ''The neighbors would turn us in.'')
 I'm in the minority. I've been dodging awkward political discussions since grade school. One day in the 1970s, as my mother and I were companionably polishing the dining room furniture, I asked her about legalized abortion. She said she opposed it, and it suddenly dawned on me that my view of the world might not please her.
 I've kept a low profile ever since. But the guests who were coming to my house on Saturday were more outspoken.
 Now, as my husband drew up a new shopping list (the first two items on it were the extra-strength rum and tequila), I started to panic. What if nobody got along?
 Desperate for advice on how to navigate a two-party dinner party, I phoned Michael M. Cohen, a professor who teaches a course on culture wars at -- where else? -- the University of California, Berkeley.
 ''Should I cancel the dinner?'' I asked.
 ''No, no,'' Dr. Cohen said. ''Politics are important, and Americans need to have these conversations.''
 Unfortunately, most of the neutral places where the discussions used to occur (like town squares, where people stood on soapboxes) are long gone, he said.
 ''So the difficulty is, where do we do it these days?'' he asked.
 ''At my house, I guess, starting Saturday,'' I said. ''But why does it have to be a fight?''
 Maybe it doesn't, he said.
 ''There's a long tradition, going back to Greenwich Village bohemianism and to salons, of doing exactly this, of bringing new people together for the excitement of seeing what happens,'' he said. ''Think of it as a great experiment.''
 On Saturday, I positioned my husband and his cocktail shaker by the front door on the theory that the sooner people were anesthetized by one of his mai tais, the better.
 The plan got us through the first hour without mishap. Happily, by the time we sat down to dinner, my guests had figured out that four of the people in the room had degrees in electrical engineering -- what were the odds? -- and had started to refer to themselves (rather adorably, I thought) as ''EEs.''
 Everyone started talking jovially about such universally acceptable dinner party topics as books they had read, places they had traveled and robots they had built.
 But then, halfway through the chicken, the moment of truth arrived. I overheard, coming from the other end of the table, what sounded suspiciously like a discussion about what's wrong with the economy.
 I tensed as someone said, ''It's going to be up and down for a while.''
 Then a miracle occurred. I heard one Democrat say, very politely, ''I don't know if you're a Republican or not, but ...''
 It was almost like one of those highly charged movie moments, where everyone holds his flatware in the air, as the guest plows on, making his point about how we were headed for certain doom.
 And then ...
 The Republican concurred. Unequivocally. Cheerfully, they agreed we're all headed for hell in a handbasket.
 Well, that's a relief.
 I turned my attention back to my end of the table in time to join a discussion about brain tumors that can be removed through the nose.
 Before I knew it, my husband started looking pointedly at his watch and yawning (midnight is his limit) and I realized the evening had been a success. As he shooed all the EEs out the door, I saw a Republican hug a Democrat. ''I really enjoyed meeting you,'' she said.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY HADLEY HOOPER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIBERALISM (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (86%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (78%); CONSERVATISM (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (70%); POLITICAL PARTIES (69%); ETHNICITY (68%); POLITICS (67%); RELIGION (62%)

PERSON: SARAH PALIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



468 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; IN THE HUNT; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Opportunity Knocks For Entrepreneurs, Even in Bad Times

BYLINE: By BRENT BOWERS

 BODY:
JOB losses, falling property values, more people without health insurance. With the current state of the economy so bleak, those are the issues getting a lot of attention. But they are not the whole picture.
 Some entrepreneurs are actually doing well in part because times are hard. This is a story about four of them. 
 One, Craig Brandman, founder of Medilinq, a provider of medical discounts for low-income people, predicted in a recent interview that his company would increase the number of its participants by more than sixfold this year, to 200,000 from 30,000 at the end of 2008. 
 Another is Peter George, the 49-year-old chief executive and part owner of Fidelis Security Systems in Boston, whose company provides protection against data breaches. Mr. George said sales rose 55 percent last year. 
 And Charles L. Burckmyer and Scott Noll, co-founders of Knob Hill Partners in Boston, are in the enviable position of sitting on about $500,000 in cash and looking for a company to buy at a favorable price in a weak market.
 Dr. Brandman, a 60-year-old cardiologist who founded Medilinq in Houston in March 2004, described the company's target customers as the working poor and the self-employed who are both uninsured and ineligible for Medicaid. They pay $24.95 a month for steep discounts on medical bills that the company has negotiated and that, he said, ''are competitive with those offered by the Aetnas and the Cignas of the world.'' Health care providers support his product, he said, because the company makes sure most bills are paid within 10 days, in contrast to the industry average of 75 days, and because it eliminates the paperwork that can eat up 25 percent of their revenue. ''Medilinq is a sort of a Costco and PayPal mode for health care,'' Dr. Brandman said. 
 As the number of people without access to health care grows and as billing headaches become more acute, he added: ''We're looking at having a big year this year. Economic hard times are a good opportunity for us.''
 Mr. George, of Fidelis Security Systems, said that in the past, companies' loss of digital assets like design documents and marketing plans was generally inadvertent, as the data slipped through holes in the computer system.
 But in a recession, he said, there is an increased chance that disgruntled or laid-off employees might purposely disseminate intellectual property to potential rivals.
 ''The big threat to computer systems until now has been hackers from the outside,'' he said. ''Data leakage by insiders is the next big threat, and we can stop it in its tracks.''
 Fidelis's orders jumped 99 percent last year, he said. In 2009, ''our operating projection is to grow faster.'' Fidelis also hopes to add to its work force in the second half of this year. It doubled last year to 50.
 Skeptics might suppose that the recession would temper Mr. George's ambitions. But he says he joined the company last March just as it was completing $22 million in venture capital financing. The timing, he said, was fortuitous -- or ''plain dumb luck.'' That nest egg should tide the company over for the next couple of years, eliminating the need to go out again with cup in hand when options for financing are limited, he said.
 A partnership with International Business Machines, which markets his products, helps as well, he said. But however slow the nation's economic recovery might be, he said, he predicts substantial growth for Fidelis.
 There were 19 major data breaches in the United States in January alone, costing companies hundreds of millions of dollars, he said, and the market to protect against such breaches is expected to grow to $1.2 billion in 2011, from $500 million this year. 
 ''My ambition is to build this into a $50 million to $100 million company within three years,'' he said.
 Mr. Burckmyer and Mr. Noll, both 32 years old and with entrepreneurial and sales backgrounds, set up Knob Hill Partners last summer and persuaded a dozen investors to provide them with a total of $500,000 in operating capital to look for promising businesses whose owners were interested in selling. They are searching especially for companies with strong growth potential and price tags of $10 million to $30 million in energy efficiency, specialty software or information technology. Once they locate a company, they said, their investors are prepared to contribute the funds for them to acquire it and manage it.
 With prices falling, the recession is a good time to be shopping for a business. But Mr. Burckmyer and Mr. Noll say they have a competitive advantage over others who are prowling the market with the intention of re-engineering a company and flipping it after two or three years.
 Typically, owners who have nurtured their ventures for decades ''want to protect continuity,'' Mr. Burckmyer said. ''Their workers are like family to them.'' Unlike the bargain hunters, he said, he and Mr. Noll promise to stay in their new management roles for the long haul and to avoid layoffs if possible.
 He cited inconclusive talks the two men held with the owner of an electronics equipment recycling company. ''He wanted somebody who was committed to sticking around,'' he said. ''Once people understand what we're doing, we get a better reception.''
 Knob Hill Partners is known as a ''search fund.'' Such funds have been around for a quarter-century, but because they have consistently produced double-digit returns, they are gaining popularity with wealthy people in this recession as an alternative to stocks, bonds, real estate and other traditional investments.
 Mr. Burckmyer and Mr. Noll closed their fund in December when they got enough funds to conduct their search. Once they find a company they want -- and what their investors, who are savvy business people and their de facto consultants, also want -- they will be able to go back to their investors and get the resources to quickly seal a deal.
 Nobody enjoys witnessing the pain that the recession is inflicting on ordinary people, Mr. Burckmyer said. Still, the troubled economy offers openings for entrepreneurs with sharp eyes and sharp elbows.
 ''We're now in what I humbly concede to be an enviable position of going out to find a business to buy as pricing multiples fall through the floor,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Charles Burckmyer, left, and Scott Noll, are co-founders of Knob Hill Partners, which is seeking to acquire small businesses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JODI HILTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); HEALTH CARE (89%); LAYOFFS (79%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (78%); MEDICAID (78%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HEALTH CARE ACCESS (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); SALES FIGURES (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (76%); COMPUTER CRIME (74%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (74%); DATA SECURITY (74%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (74%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (72%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); EXECUTIVES (54%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (50%)

COMPANY: PAYPAL INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (53%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (53%); SIC6099 FUNCTIONS RELATED TO DEPOSITORY BANKING, NEC (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



469 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 766 words

HEADLINE: Big Science Role Is Seen In Global Warming Cure

BYLINE: By JOHN M. BRODER and MATTHEW L. WALD

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Steven Chu, the new secretary of energy, said Wednesday that solving the world's energy and environment problems would require Nobel-level breakthroughs in three areas: electric batteries, solar power and the development of new crops that can be turned into fuel. 
 Dr. Chu, a physicist, spoke during a wide-ranging interview in his office, where his own framed Nobel Prize lay flat on a bookcase, a Post-it note indicating where it should be hung on the wall. 
 He addressed topics that included global warming, renewable energy sources like solar and wind power, the use of coal and a proposed repository for nuclear waste at Yucca Mountain in Nevada. 
 Dr. Chu said a ''revolution'' in science and technology would be required if the world is to reduce its dependence on fossil fuels and curb the emissions of carbon dioxide and other heat-trapping gases linked to global warming. 
 Solar technology, he said, will have to get five times better than it is today, and scientists will need to find new types of plants that require little energy to grow and that can be converted to clean and cheap alternatives to fossil fuels. 
 Dr. Chu, who once called coal ''a nightmare'' in the way it is currently used, said the United States must also lead the world in finding a way to burn the fuel cleanly, because other countries with big coal reserves, like India and China, will not turn away from coal. 
 But Dr. Chu said such developments were not impossible. At the turn of the last century, he noted, scientists like Fritz Haber and Carl Bosch made Nobel-winning discoveries that allowed the development of cheap nitrogen fertilizers, saving Europe from starvation.
 ''I think science and technology can generate much better choices,'' Dr. Chu said. ''It has, consistently, over hundreds and hundreds of years.'' 
 Dr. Chu said members of Congress who are drafting legislation to limit emissions of global warming gases had not yet sought his advice, although he added, ''I would expect that they might.''
 He said that while President Obama and Congressional Democratic leaders had endorsed a so-called cap-and-trade system to control global warming pollutants, there were alternatives that could emerge, including a tax on carbon emissions or a modified version of cap-and-trade.
 Dr. Chu said reaching agreement on legislation to combat climate change would be difficult in the current recession because any scheme to regulate greenhouse gas emissions would probably cause energy prices to rise and drive manufacturing jobs to countries where energy is cheaper.
 ''The concern about cap-and-trade in today's economic climate,'' Dr. Chu said, ''is that a lot of money might flow to developing countries in a way that might not be completely politically sellable.'' 
 But, he said, he supports putting a price on carbon emissions to begin to address climate change.
 The Energy Department is involved with efforts as varied as developing nuclear weapons and sequencing the human genome. Dr. Chu said the department's nuclear weapons program, which the White House is considering moving to the Defense Department, should be more tightly coupled to science in critical tasks like safeguarding nuclear materials and detecting nuclear proliferation. 
 One major decision facing his department is what to do about Yucca Mountain, a site 100 miles from Las Vegas chosen by Congress for burial of high-level radioactive waste. Mr. Obama and the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, have opposed the project. 
 Dr. Chu said the political difficulties in trying to obtain a license for the Yucca Mountain site should serve as a guide in searching for other nuclear waste repositories in the future. ''There are political realities,'' he said. 
 Last year, the Nuclear Regulatory Commission, which has the final say, began work on an application from the Energy Department for a license for the project. Dr. Chu said the Energy Department should continue to answer questions from the Nuclear Regulatory Commission about the application and then let the commission make a decision. 
 Dr. Chu would not say whether the department would open the site if allowed to do so. But, he said, ''you can put a hold on'' preparation. 
 The electric utilities, he noted, expected the department to live up to contracts signed in the 1980s for it to dispose of the nuclear waste. 
 Dr. Chu said he was still adjusting to his surroundings and title after most of a career spent as an academic scientist. Asked whether he preferred to be called ''Dr. Chu'' or ''Mr. Secretary,'' he answered, ''Steve is fine.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Energy Secretary Steven Chu called for Nobel-level work.(PHOTOGRAPH BY BRENDAN SMIALOWSKI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOLAR ENERGY (91%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); AWARDS & PRIZES (89%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (88%); NOBEL PRIZES (78%); WIND ENERGY (78%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (78%); CLIMATE CHANGE (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BIOFUELS (77%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (77%); FERTILIZERS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (70%); COAL INDUSTRY (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); RECESSION (66%); LEGISLATION (66%); US PRESIDENTS (65%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (61%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

PERSON: STEVEN CHU (91%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



470 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Mugabe Swears In His Rival as Prime Minister of Zimbabwe

BYLINE: By CELIA W. DUGGER; A reporter in Harare, Zimbabwe, contributed to this article.

DATELINE: JOHANNESBURG 

 BODY:
After months of violence, negotiation and reluctant compromise, Zimbabwe's president, Robert Mugabe, on Wednesday swore in his nemesis, Morgan Tsvangirai, as prime minister of a power-sharing government in which Mr. Mugabe still dominates the repressive state security forces.
 Mr. Tsvangirai has fought Mr. Mugabe's authoritarian rule for a decade as opposition leader, but he said he would now work with him to end a raging cholera outbreak, curb hyperinflation ravaging the economy, get children back to school and feed a famished population. 
 ''I, Morgan Richard Tsvangirai, do swear that I will well and truly serve Zimbabwe in the office of prime minister of the Republic of Zimbabwe, so help me God,'' he declared, standing opposite Mr. Mugabe beneath a white tent on the grounds of Zimbabwe's statehouse in Harare.
 The success of this improbable partnership -- the working-class former union leader, Mr. Tsvangirai, who never went to college, and the university-educated liberation hero, Mr. Mugabe -- is still very much in doubt.
 Mr. Tsvangirai's decision to accept the role of prime minister constituted an ambiguous coda to almost a year of bitter confrontation. Mr. Tsvangirai, 56, bested Mr. Mugabe, 84, in the first round of presidential elections last March, but dropped out of a discredited June runoff because of state-sanctioned attacks on his supporters.
 Thousands of Mr. Tsvangirai's partisans cheered him wildly at a rally on Wednesday, but their enthusiasm was tinged with anxiety and anger. Waving or even throwing trillion-dollar notes in the air, they vented their outrage at one of the most deeply despised members of Mr. Mugabe's government, Gideon Gono, the governor of the nation's Reserve Bank. His penchant for printing money has stoked runaway inflation and rendered the salaries of teachers, nurses and other public servants so worthless they cannot even afford bus fare to go to work.
 ''Gono, Gono, Gono must go,'' they chanted.
 Mr. Tsvangirai may find their urgent demand for change difficult to deliver, with Mr. Mugabe still wielding executive power and Mr. Gono still in charge of the Reserve Bank. Mr. Tsvangirai dropped his demands for exclusive oversight of the police, agreeing to share control. Mr. Mugabe maintained his grip on other elements of the security forces.
 However, Mr. Tsvangirai's decision on Tuesday to appoint his party's secretary general, Tendai Biti, as finance minister, sent a clear signal that his party, the Movement for Democratic Change, would not remain quiet when the cabinet met.
 Mr. Biti, a lawyer and former student leader, resisted the decision to govern with Mr. Mugabe and has criticized Mr. Mugabe's policies and the repression of his critics even as Mr. Biti himself was facing treason charges punishable by death. Those charges were withdrawn by a judge only last week.
 The United States and Europe -- whose aid is essential to rebuilding the ruined economy -- are dubious about whether Mr. Mugabe will let Mr. Tsvangirai restore the rule of law and depoliticize the delivery of food and other basic services. They have said they will not lift sanctions on Mr. Mugabe and senior officials in his party until they see progress.
 The signs this week were not auspicious. Officials in Mr. Tsvangirai's party said in recent days that they had an understanding with Mr. Mugabe's party, ZANU-PF, that the government would free about 30 opposition and human rights advocates abducted in recent months, but as of Wednesday night they were still jailed.
 About a dozen of those abducted and their doctors have submitted affidavits to the court attesting to torture at the hands of state security agents. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai, speaking to his supporters on Wednesday, denounced the continued detention of the activists, saying, ''For too long, Zimbabwe has endured violent political polarization. This must end today.''
 In another sign of the authoritarian reflexes of Mr. Mugabe's government, the riot police broke up a peaceful demonstration on Tuesday of some 600 members of Women of Zimbabwe Arise, arresting eight women and two human rights lawyers, who remained in jail Wednesday evening.
 Mr. Tsvangirai's participation in the government made some Zimbabweans worry that he would be neutralized and absorbed into Mr. Mugabe's party, as was Joshua Nkomo, the leader of a rival nationalist movement during Zimbabwe's struggle for independence in the 1980s. 
 ''I know it's a marriage of convenience, but Tsvangirai must be very careful because Mugabe is a schemer,'' said Moses Mutandadzi, 34, a civil servant at the Tsvangirai rally on Wednesday. ''This agreement will not last.''
 His fears were not unfounded. After the swearing-in ceremony, a veteran ZANU-PF official who belongs to the party's politburo said of Mr. Tsvangirai, speaking on the understanding that he would not be quoted by name: ''He will not last. I swear to you. We just want to buy time.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Months of negotiations ended with Morgan Tsvangirai, left, joining President Robert Mugabe's government in Zimbabwe. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEXANDER JOE/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (93%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (68%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); CAPITAL CRIMES (65%); TREASON (60%); GOVERNORS (57%); TROPICAL DISEASES (56%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARARE, ZIMBABWE (79%) ZIMBABWE (99%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



471 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 855 words

HEADLINE: Iran's Inner America

BYLINE: By ROGER COHEN

DATELINE: TEHRAN 

 BODY:
 The young Revolutionary Guardsman, in his light tan uniform, was all smiles. ''I had longed to see a real American,'' he said, extending a hand.
 We were standing near the shrine to Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the man who inspired the Islamic Revolution whose defense is the mission of the powerful Iranian Revolutionary Guards.
 ''And, what do you think?'' 
 ''On the surface, great,'' Mohammad Piri, 21, said. ''But your government has done things that make me pessimistic.''
 Thirty years of noncommunication create a lot of mistrust. The mistaken U.S. shooting down in 1988 of an Iran Air Airbus, killing 290 people, is often cited. Conspiracy theories abound. That the radical Sunni Taliban was an American creation designed to discomfort Shiite Iran is a near universal conviction.
 Another Guardsman, Jaafar Dehghani, 22, stepped forward. ''We can defend our soil with an M-1 rifle,'' he said. ''We have God on our side.'' He pointed to the hundreds of thousands of graves of young soldiers killed defending Khomeini's Islamic Republic in the 1980-88 Iran-Iraq war. ''If I'd been alive then, I'd be lying here.''
 Iran, on the 30th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution, is full of defiance and suspicion of President Obama's motives in reaching out to Tehran. But it is equally full of longing. Most people are under 30. Like these soldiers, they thirst for contact with the outside world and, above all, an America that looms with all the power of myth.
 The Great Satan is great also in his power to exert fascination. ''Death to America'' has become background noise, as interesting as piped elevator music.
 The revolution freed Iranians from the brutality of the shah's secret police, Savak, and delivered a home-grown society modeled on the tenets of Islam in place of one pliant to America's whim. But like all revolutions, it has also disappointed. Freedom has ebbed and flowed since 1979. Of late, it has ebbed.
 Beneath the hijab, that is to say beneath the surface of things, frustrations multiply. Women sometimes raise their hands to their necks to express a feeling of suffocation. Hard-pressed men, working 12-hour days to make enough to get by, are prone to hysterical laughter with its hint of desperation.
 Competing pressures bear down on President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, and behind him the supreme leader, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei. They know that with unemployment at 14 percent (and rising), inflation at 26 percent, oil revenues expected to plunge by about two-thirds this year, and the country's oil and gas infrastructure in desperate need of modernization, opening to the West and its technology makes sense.
 They also know Iran is composed of two worlds: the surface and the subterranean. The former is placid; the latter is hungry for more of the freedom the revolution promised. This, too, speaks for an engagement that might over time end Iran's bipolar state.
 On the other hand, a revolutionary government that deprives itself of its great enemy is one that has lost the core of its galvanizing propaganda. Opening equals risk.
 This is the background to Ahmadinejad's offer to ''hold talks based on mutual respect'' with a United States he continued to criticize. It came in response to Obama's best statement on Iran to date -- one devoid of threats and one that spoke of the dangers, but not the unacceptability, of a nuclear Iran.
 Mutual respect, a phrase Obama also used, begins with that. As Iranians often note, carrots and sticks are for donkeys.
 The young soldiers pointed to how the United States backed Saddam Hussein in the Iran-Iraq war, another act of American perfidy. ''Everyone was with Saddam,'' Dehghani said. ''Except Syria,'' I suggested, which prompted a guffaw.
 ''The Arabs are chickens,'' he said. ''Just look at what Egypt did about Gaza. Those big-bellied Arabs, you take up a stick and they run away.''
 Scratch the surface and there's no love lost between Persians and Arabs, another reason to be careful in distinguishing Iranian rhetoric, which can seem monolithic, from Iran's many-shaded reality.
 Dehghani offered me a bowl of Ash, a soup of noodles, chickpeas and vegetables. ''Why not try to do something about your own country rather than going around the world waging war?'' he asked.
 I told him I thought Obama was trying to do just that. Then Dehghani told me that his father wanted him to stay in the Revolutionary Guards because there's money to be made -- Ahmadinejad has channeled funds and jobs their way -- but he was more interested in starting his own business.
 That's typical enough. Iranians are property-buying, car-mad, entrepreneurial consumers with a taste for the latest brands. Forget about nukes. Think Nikes.
 A few days after this meeting, I found myself on the Tehran subway. A bunch of youths started smiling and pointing. ''This guy's an American!'' they exclaimed. There was no menace, only curiosity.
 A young woman in a black hijab was standing near me. Abruptly, she looked me straight in the eye and said in English: ''Where are you from?''
 ''New York.''
 ''Oh.'' And she smiled.
 America, think again about Iran. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TALIBAN (77%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); CONSPIRACY (74%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (58%); IRAN AIR (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (57%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD (57%); ALI KHAMENEI (57%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (72%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (79%); IRAN (72%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



472 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 315 words

HEADLINE: British Bank Chief's View Is Bleaker Than Economists'

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
The governor of the Bank of England said Wednesday that the already stumbling British economy was in a ''deep recession'' and could shrink by as much as 4 percent in the first half of the year. 
 The dire outlook went beyond the forecasts of some of the country's most pessimistic economists, and was a further reminder that the bank's aggressive slashing of rates since October, to 1 percent, from 5 percent, had not stimulated growth.
 The bank chief, Mervyn King, said as much at a news conference, where he introduced the bank's quarterly inflation report. ''The bank rate doesn't have to go to zero, because we're getting to the point where it doesn't make a great deal of difference where it is,'' he said.
 He added that the bank would take extra steps to ensure that credit markets loosened, like buying government debt, a strategy commonly referred to as quantitative easing.
 ''We now will be moving to a world in which we would be buying a range of assets, certainly including gilts, to ensure that the supply of money will grow at an adequate rate,'' he said.
 Mr. King added that the economy could worsen if efforts to revive the banking sector failed.
 His comments halted what had been a brief rally of the pound against the dollar and the euro. The pound sank as much as 3 percent versus the dollar as currency traders digested the news that the British economy might continue to lag behind economies in Europe as well as that of the United States. On Wednesday afternoon, the pound was trading at $1.44.
 The pound has been hit hard by a weak economy, a plummeting housing market and a banking sector that remains in deep trouble.
 Mr. King's remarks added to a climate of public gloom in Britain about the country's economic prospects. This week, a senior minister in the government of Prime Minister Gordon Brown said that the global recession was the worst in 100 years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); RECESSION (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); EURO (71%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (67%)

COMPANY: BANK OF ENGLAND (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (58%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (58%)

PERSON: GORDON BROWN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



473 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: Security Talks About Iraq Not Needed, Iran Signals

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS; Reporting was contributed by Marc Santora, Mohamed Hussein and Riyadh Mohammed from Baghdad, and an Iraqi employee of The New York Times from Mosul.

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
On a visit to Iraq on Wednesday, Iran's foreign minister ruled out holding new security talks with the United States and Iraq, saying improved security made them unnecessary. He spoke on a day when a car bomb and a series of smaller explosions killed at least 18 people here in Baghdad and wounded dozens.
 The foreign minister, Manouchehr Mottaki, arrived in Baghdad a day after Iran's president raised the possibility of direct talks with the United States. Mr. Mottaki's remarks, however, suggested that Iran was not yet prepared to cooperate with the Obama administration on American operations in Iraq, which Iran bitterly opposes. 
 ''We can say that this government is totally capable of restoring security totally to Iraq,'' he said, referring to the Iraqi authorities, during a news conference at the Foreign Ministry. ''On this basis, there is no place for such talks under the current circumstances.''
 Two hours after the news conference, a bomb hidden in a parked car exploded in a market near one of Baghdad's busiest bus stations in Baya, a predominately Shiite neighborhood in southwestern Baghdad, according to witnesses and American and Iraqi officials. At least 16 people died, and more than 40 were wounded, Interior Ministry officials said. 
 The bombing was the deadliest in Baghdad since a suicide bomber killed 40 people in an attack on a procession of Shiite pilgrims on Jan. 4. 
 Despite a strikingly reduced American military presence in Baghdad and other cities in recent months, dozens of American soldiers in armored vehicles arrived swiftly and joined Iraqi security forces in setting up a cordon around the market and terminal. 
 Sgt. Benjamin Lower, 22, from Los Banos, Calif., said it was the first major attack he had witnessed since he arrived for his second tour in Iraq nearly a year ago.
 ''To be honest,'' he said, ''I haven't seen anything like this in a long time.'' 
 The force of the blast, which an American commander at the scene estimated involved 200 pounds of explosives, hurled the car's wreckage dozens of yards, where the debris landed on people waiting for buses. ''I saw bodies shredded,'' said one young man, who would identify himself only as Ameer.
 The United Nations special representative in Iraq, Staffan de Mistura, linked the car bombing to the annual Shiite pilgrimage to Karbala to commemorate the end of the mourning period for Imam Hussein, the grandson of the Prophet Muhammad. Hundreds of thousands of Shiites have already begun the pilgrimage, traveling by foot or bus in a journey across Iraq that can take days, even weeks.
 The bombing followed at least five smaller attacks by improvised bombs around Baghdad over the course of an unusually violent day. Those attacks were aimed at the police, government officials and Shiite pilgrims, killing at least 2 and wounding more than 20.
 In the northern city of Mosul, separate attacks on Wednesday killed four police officers, while a senior leader of the Iraqi Islamic Party, Ahmed Fatthi al-Jaburi, was assassinated as he left a mosque after evening prayers.
 Meanwhile, Mr. Mottaki said his visit to Iraq, scheduled to last three days, was intended to deepen political and economic relations between the countries. He also announced the appointment of Iranian consuls in three Iraqi cities: Karbala, Sulaimaniya and Erbil.
 He echoed remarks on Tuesday by Iran's president, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, who said his country was prepared to test President Obama's pledge to engage in diplomacy, though he called for ''talks based on mutual respect.'' Mr. Mottaki said it was up to Mr. Obama to fulfill his campaign pledges, which he said would be ''good news.''
 Iraq's foreign minister, Hoshyar Zebari, also welcomed the prospect of a thaw in American-Iranian relations. ''We have welcomed the new trends of the American administration regarding the dialogue with the Islamic republic,'' he said.
 The two men seemed at odds, however, over the future of the American military mission. The United States has held three rounds of talks on security with Iraq and its neighbors, including Iran, but Mr. Mottaki dismissed them as unnecessary. He also repeated Iran's calls for a withdrawal of foreign forces, arguing that Iraq should now provide its own security.
 Mr. Zebari, however, said that Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton told him that the Americans would not leave hastily.
 ''We have been reassured by new administration that there will not be a major change or a quick disengagement or a quick pullout from Iraq,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: American soldiers after a car bombing in Baghdad. Though several bombs exploded Wednesday, security has largely improved. ''I haven't seen anything like this in a long time,'' a soldier said. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HADI MIZBAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); BOMBINGS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGIOUS PILGRIMAGES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); IMPROVISED EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (72%); BUS STATIONS & TERMINALS (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); WITNESSES (71%); ARMED FORCES (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); GRANDCHILDREN (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (98%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (98%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



474 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: In Court With Con Ed, a Glimpse of Life During a Downturn

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
One woman pleaded poverty and said she was considering applying for public assistance to escape her $4,000 debt. Another man, who lives off disability payments after hurting his back working at a hospital, said he owed $5,000 because a tenant in his home had siphoned electricity to a neighbor. A third defendant said her electric meter was in the basement that had been closed off when landlord was trying to rid it of rats.
 These were just a few of the defenses Con Edison's customers offered in civil court one recent Thursday in Brooklyn. They came after months of warning letters, calls, turn-off notices and visits by company representatives to remove the meter. But while others in similar situations end up without power, these utility customers were in court because Con Ed workers had been unable to retrieve the meters from their homes or businesses.
 In each borough, such Con Edison cases -- along with those of people being sued by credit card companies, debt collectors and the gas company -- are heard by one judge on a particular day, and the docket provides an intriguing window into how the economic downturn is affecting everyday life. 
 The high price of fuel and the tough times have compounded problems for Con Edison, which saw the number of customers in arrears for more than 60 days jump 12 percent last year. In 2008, the utility filed 29 percent more cases against its customers who did not provide the company access to their meter, while the number of people who had their electricity turned off rose 22 percent.
 Many of the customers on the court's cramped 11th floor did not dispute their debts, but said they did not have the money to repay them all at once. Leon Z. Mener, Con Edison's lawyer, and Neal DeSimone, a senior customer service representative, sat with them on a bench in front of an elevator to work out repayment plans.
 ''Right now, you owe $5,000,'' Mr. DeSimone told Ivan Bannister, 55, who said a boarder in his Bedford-Stuyvesant home ran a wire from his second-floor room to a nearby house and siphoned off electricity for about a year. ''Can you come up with $500?''
 ''I'll try to get you something by Wednesday,'' Mr. Bannister said. 
 The judge, Sylvia Ash, ultimately agreed on a plan that required Mr. Bannister to pay $500 from his next disability check and $200 a month after that.
 The number of customers on deferred-payment programs like the one that Mr. Bannister entered into has risen 19 percent in 2008, to 165,000 (about 5 percent of the company's customers).
 Even so, Con Edison tries to strike a delicate balance between pushing too hard to collect what it is owed and being pushed over.
 ''We don't want the customers going out of business,'' said Robin Segur, a section manager in customer operations, ''because we lose the customer and we lose the money they owed us.'' He added: ''Although we aggressively pursue the collection of money we're owed, we're not in the practice or the business of shutting people off.''
 But some customers dispute the charges on their bill, which can lead to legendary showdowns, like one involving a man who has battled Con Edison in court since 1986. (The utility mentioned this epic fight, but would not identify the man because of confidentiality rules.)
 Other customers have more modest arguments. Joseph Cirnigliaro from Bensonhurst has disputed how much Con Edison has been charging him for electricity in the building where his family lives. Two years ago, he noticed that the bill seemed too high. So he called Con Edison, which sent a worker who, Mr. Cirnigliaro said, admitted that the meter was running too fast.
 Mr. Cirnigliaro paid $1,700, but the company says he still owes $2,700. The utility, he said, agreed to deduct $574 to cover the amount that he was overcharged, but Mr. Cirnigliaro wants the company to cut the bill in half.
 ''It's a fast meter,'' he said, thumbing through a stack of receipts, statements and memos at the courthouse. 
 Mr. Mener, Con Edison's lawyer, declined to reduce the bill further, adding that the meter was tested and found to be accurate.
 ''He just arbitrarily wanted me to take half off,'' Mr. Mener said. ''We're here to work out a deferred payment program, but our bills are based on meters and we can't be in the position of adjusting someone's bill just because he wants to make a deal.''
 These face-offs in court are the end of the line for Con Edison and its customers -- a long line. The utility sends as many as five warning letters over a 90-day period before trying to turn off a customer's electricity. The company also calls customers and will sometimes visit their homes or businesses to try to persuade them to pay. 
 Despite many customers' fears, Con Edison cannot shut off electricity on a whim. Utilities must follow rules established by the state's Public Service Commission, which strengthened its guidelines in 1981 after a rash of customers without power started fires because they used candles and extension cords to light their homes.
 For instance, utilities cannot turn off electricity when the temperature is below freezing, or at homes on Fridays (because residential customers would not be able to contact the commission over the weekend).
 Businesses that fall behind on their payments are often asked for a deposit equal to two months' typical charges. If they pay their bills on time for the following three years, that money is returned with interest.
 Sometimes, though, customers in payment programs stop paying, which prompts another round of warning letters. Mr. Mener said that some customers do this deliberately, and repeatedly, to buy themselves time.
 But some customers, because of personal calamity or indifference, ignore all these warnings. That is when Con Edison informs them an employee, accompanied by a city marshal, will soon arrive to remove the electric meter.
 ''Some people don't think it's a crisis until they come home at 5 p.m. and the lights are off,'' said Robert D. Smith, who has worked in Con Edison's law department since 1972.
 Still, every case is slightly different, and there is a lot of room for confusion and mishaps. Warning letters get lost, customers are hospitalized and even negotiated repayment plans can be misunderstood, sinking customers further into debt. 
 Some customers also do not realize they can protest in court -- and that they do not need lawyers to do so. 
 ''There does come a time when it's the end of the rope, but there are times when people, in fear, agree to pay too much,'' said Gerald A. Norlander, executive director of the Public Utility Law Project, an advocacy group for energy users based in Albany. ''They get into a trap.''
 Mr. Norlander said he expects to see a wave of terminations in the spring, when the government's heat assistance program for low-income residents runs out. 
 Some customers, like Joy Davidson, 63, may not have even that long.
 She owes Con Edison more than $4,000, a debt that grew after her office-cleaning business dried up. She has since been hit by a car, leaving her with medical problems, and her husband lost his job, too. The gas was shut off in her home in Bushwick last fall, and the space heaters she now uses have driven up her debt faster.
 After Con Edison threatened to remove her electric meter, Ms. Davidson went to court to plead her case on Jan 29. Con Edison agreed to give her an additional 30 days, and send her an updated statement that she can take to the welfare office. But with no job and little in the bank, she is struggling.
 ''When you don't have something, it's hard to get anything,'' she said. 
 ''I'm scared to death. What am I going to do if they turn out my lights?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Joy Davidson, 63, owes Con Ed more than $4,000 and sees no prospect of paying the debt.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD PERRY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLECTION AGENCIES (78%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (78%); BACK DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); CREDIT COLLECTIONS (78%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (77%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (77%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (52%)

COMPANY: CONSOLIDATED EDISON INC (92%)

TICKER: ED (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4924 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (92%); SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (92%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



475 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: Escaping The Bust Bowl

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

 BODY:
In a moment, we'll come to a two-step solution to the banking mess: First, tar and feather America's 100 leading bankers; and, second, take over insolvent banks and distribute shares to members of the public (without ever using the term ''nat...'' -- oh, never mind).
 But first, let's look at the problem. President Obama and Treasury Secretary Tim Geithner stumbled badly in introducing the bank bailout. But the larger conundrum is that a bailout is both: A) urgent and essential; and B) unfair and unpopular. 
 I was The Times's Tokyo bureau chief during much of Japan's ''lost decade'' of the 1990s, and one of the lessons of that debacle was the need to attack a major downturn with Colin Powell's doctrine of ''overwhelming force.'' The neo-Hoovers criticizing today's stimulus package make perfectly valid points about this or that flaw in the stimulus package. But the alternative is perhaps three million fewer jobs and the national economy looking like a balloon losing air.
 Another thing: those railing against the stimulus are often the same folks who inherited an economy producing budget surpluses and transformed it into today's fiscal catastrophe. In rural Oregon where I grew up, we were taught that if you've made a huge mess in someone else's living room, it's not polite to denounce the cleanup.
 Japan also showed that you can't fix an economy without fixing the banks. The term ''zombie banks'' was popularized then, referring to banks that were half dead but always allowed to stagger on. They must be put out of their misery.
 Yet Japan also underscored that you can't resolve a crisis when the public is more interested in punishing banks than rescuing them. That's why I suggested tarring and feathering a group of prominent bankers. Populist rage then would be satisfied, and we could get on with reviving the banks.
 Not feasible, you say?
 A more plausible approach might be the one that some White House aides unsuccessfully argued for: tougher curbs on executive compensation. The Obama administration in theory limits certain compensation for top executives in companies receiving taxpayer dollars to $500,000, but the plan has loopholes big enough to drive a Mercedes through. 
 Yes, troubled banks might lose good people to hedge funds that can pay more because they're not bound by these curbs. But that upsets me less than the idea of single mothers working multiple jobs so that their tax dollars can underwrite million-dollar bonuses at companies getting taxpayer assistance.
 Tom Peters, a management expert, suggests capping the pay of C.E.O.'s receiving bailouts at that of a four-star general. As for the concern that the executives would quit, who cares? Mr. Peters writes that if all the top executives of the Fortune 500 companies were exiled to Elba, ''performance of their companies would not on average deteriorate.''
 As Representative Barney Frank asked the bankers testifying on the Capitol Hill dunk-tank on Wednesday about their bonuses: ''Why do you need to be bribed to have your interests aligned with the people who are paying your salary?''
 Senator Claire McCaskill, a Democrat of Missouri, had it right in her recent legislative proposal: cap compensation for all employees at companies receiving bailouts at the salary of the American president, which is $400,000 a year. 
 The administration should also uproot subsidies in the tax code for excessive executive compensation. Stratospheric compensation is unhealthy enough -- why subsidize it? The Institute for Policy Studies estimates that these subsidies cost taxpayers $20 billion annually.
 A tough stand on these issues might help give Mr. Obama the political space to bail out the banks; otherwise, it's hard to see why the public would support a bailout of the size necessary.
 As for the nature of the bailout, President Obama pointed to Sweden's resolution of its bank crisis as a solution. ''They took over the banks, nationalized them, got rid of the bad assets, resold the banks and, a couple years later, they were going again,'' he told ABC News on Tuesday. ''So you'd think looking at it, Sweden looks like a good model.''
 Mr. Obama then suggested that it wouldn't work in the United States, partly for cultural reasons. But a broad range of experts believe that some variation of nationalization is the only way to revive the banks quickly without squandering vast amounts of taxpayer dollars. Even the managing director of the International Monetary Fund suggested that Washington think of the Swedish model.
 America's horror of ''nationalization'' could be defused by handing out shares to all American households. President Bush used to talk about building an ''ownership society.'' Well, giving shares in big banks to all American households would be a terrific way to do that.
 For many Americans, it would be the first time they directly owned stock -- and, finally, something good could come from the banking Bust Bowl of 2009. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUDGETS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (64%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (57%) JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



476 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 350 words

HEADLINE: Novartis Buys Rights To a Drug To Thin Blood

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK

 BODY:
Novartis has obtained the worldwide rights to an anticlotting drug that could eventually compete with Plavix, the world's second-best-selling medicine behind the cholesterol pill Lipitor. 
 In a deal expected to be announced Thursday, Novartis would pay $75 million initially to Portola Pharmaceuticals, a privately held biotechnology company based in South San Francisco, Calif. 
 The drug, elinogrel, is still in the second of three phases of clinical trials, so it is not yet clear how effective it will be in preventing heart attacks and strokes. And even if a successful Phase 3 trial is completed and federal regulators approved the drug, it would be unlikely to reach the market before 2013 or later. 
 Yet based on how it works, Portola and Novartis say, it might be faster than Plavix. And its effects might be more reversible. Patients taking Plavix who need an operation sometimes have to wait several days until the drug is out of their system to avoid the risk of excessive bleeding. 
 Plavix, sold by Bristol-Myers Squibb and Sanofi-Aventis, had sales of $7.3 billion in 2007, according to IMS Health, a research company.
 But it could soon face competition. An advisory committee to the Food and Drug Administration last week recommended approval of prasugrel, a blood thinner developed by Eli Lilly and Daiichi Sankyo. 
 Prasugrel has some of the same drawbacks as Plavix, according Dr. Charles Homcy, Portola's chief executive. But AstraZeneca has a reversible drug that is closer to reaching the market than Portola's drug, Dr. Homcy said. All the drugs work by keeping platelets from sticking together. 
 For Novartis, the move represents a push into a new area of cardiovascular medicine. It is now a leader in drugs for high blood pressure, led by Diovan, which has sales of more than $5 billion a year. But Diovan will lose patent protection in 2012. 
 Besides the initial $75 million payment, Portola will be eligible for up to $500 million in milestone payments from Novartis and a double-digit royalty on sales of the drug. Novartis will pay for the final-stage trials. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); ANTICOAGULANTS (92%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (90%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (90%); CLINICAL TRIALS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (79%); CHOLESTEROL (78%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (78%); APPROVALS (77%); CARDIOLOGY (75%); HEART DISEASE (75%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (75%); HYPERTENSION (73%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (72%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (72%); US FDA APPROVALS (71%); STROKES (70%); EXECUTIVES (64%); PATENTS (50%)

COMPANY: NOVARTIS AG (92%); SANOFI SA (91%); ASTRAZENECA PLC (90%); ELI LILLY & CO (90%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (90%); IMS HEALTH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (55%)

TICKER: NVS (NYSE) (92%); NOVN (SWX) (92%); SNY (NYSE) (91%); SANF (BIT) (91%); SAN (PAR) (91%); GCVRZ (NASDAQ) (91%); AZN (STO) (90%); AZN (NYSE) (90%); AZN (LSE) (90%); LLY (SWX) (90%); LLY (NYSE) (90%); LEL (LSE) (90%); BMY (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (92%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3851 OPHTHALMIC GOODS (92%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



477 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1429 words

HEADLINE: House and Senate in Deal For $789 Billion Stimulus

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE; Robert Pear, Kate Phillips and Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
House and Senate leaders on Wednesday struck a deal on a $789 billion economic stimulus bill after little more than 24 hours of rapid-fire negotiations with the Obama administration, clearing the way for final Congressional action later this week. 
 The package of spending increases and tax relief, intended to spur an economic recovery and create jobs by putting money back in the pockets of consumers and companies, ended up smaller than either the House or Senate had proposed. 
 Many Democrats would have preferred a larger bill, but agreed to pare back, including cuts to favored education and health programs, to win three crucial Republican votes in the Senate. 
 ''Legislation is the art of compromise, consensus building, and that's what we did,'' the Senate majority leader, Harry Reid of Nevada, said in announcing the accord. 
 The House was poised for a final vote as early as Friday, with the Senate to follow, clearing the way for President Obama to sign the bill by Monday. The White House is considering a prime-time bill signing ceremony, and on Wednesday asked the television networks if they would air the event.
 In a statement, the president thanked Congress for agreeing to a measure that he said would save or create 3.6 million jobs. 
 ''I'm grateful,'' Mr. Obama said, ''for moving it along with the urgency that this moment demands.'' 
 The deal reflected a calculated gamble by Mr. Obama in the first weeks of his term. To win Republican votes, the final stimulus package is considerably leaner than what many economists say is now needed to jolt the economy, given its grave condition. 
 But it is unclear if Mr. Obama will be able to claim credit for bringing change to Washington by winning bipartisan support for his first major piece of legislation. Not a single House Republican voted for the bill when it came to the floor two weeks ago, and despite many compromises in the Senate, only three Republicans came on board. 
 The final bill includes $507 billion in spending programs and $282 billion in tax relief, including a scaled-back version of Mr. Obama's middle-class tax cut proposal, which would give credits of up to $400 for individuals and $800 for families within certain income limits. It will also provide a one-time payment of $250 to recipients of Social Security and government disability support.
 House Democrats, angry over some cuts, particularly for school construction, initially balked at the deal and delayed a final meeting on Wednesday between House and Senate negotiators.
 Democratic officials said Speaker Nancy Pelosi felt that Mr. Reid went too far by announcing a deal before it was vetted by her office and discussed by House members in an emergency caucus meeting, setting off the last-minute flare-up. 
 Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference that the delay helped House Democrats win some final concessions, including an agreement to let states use some money in a fiscal stabilization fund for school renovations. ''There is no question that one of our overriding priorities in the House was a very strong commitment to school construction,'' she said. ''That's still in the bill.'' 
 But they soon relented and the meeting got under way in a packed Lyndon B. Johnson Room on the Senate side of the Capitol. 
 Despite the show of pique, for Democrats the stimulus bill is the most prominent display yet that they now fully control Washington. Their ability to push the package forward represented a turnabout from years of losing battles under President George W. Bush. For Republicans, it underscored the limits of their diminished ranks. 
 Even trimmed to $789 billion, the recovery measure will be the most expansive unleashing of the government's fiscal firepower in the face of a recession since World War II. 
 And yet it seemed almost trifling compared with the $2.5 trillion rescue plan for the financial system -- a combination of loans to banks and incentives to bring private capital into the banking system -- announced on Tuesday by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner. 
 Although the final legislative language was not immediately available, lawmakers said the bill contained more than $150 billion in public works projects for transportation, energy and technology, and $87 billion to help states meet rising Medicaid costs.
 Despite intense lobbying by governors around the country, the final deal slashed $25 billion from a proposed state fiscal stabilization fund, eliminated a $16 billion line item for school construction and sharply curtailed spending to provide health insurance for the unemployed. 
 In driving down the total cost -- from $838 billion for the Senate stimulus bill and $820 billion for the House-passed measure -- lawmakers also reduced the Senate's proposed tax incentives for buyers of homes and cars, which hold big public appeal. 
 The final agreement retained a $70 billion tax break to spare millions of middle-income Americans from paying the alternative minimum tax in 2009. Some Democrats decried the provision as a costly addition that would not lift the economy and that Congress would have approved, regardless of the recession. 
 After huddling in Ms. Pelosi's office on Tuesday until nearly midnight, top White House officials and Congressional leaders had all but ironed out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the stimulus by noon on Wednesday. 
 Even before the last touches were put to the bill, some angry Democrats said that Mr. Obama and Congressional leaders had been too quick to give up on Democratic priorities. ''I am not happy with it,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. ''You are not looking at a happy camper. I mean they took a lot of stuff out of education. They took it out of health, school construction and they put it more into tax issues.'' 
 Mr. Harkin said he was particularly frustrated by the money being spent on fixing the alternative minimum tax. ''It's about 9 percent of the whole bill,'' he said, ''Why is it in there? It has nothing to do with stimulus. It has nothing to do with recovery.'' 
 But even as Congressional leaders and top White House officials went through the package with a carving knife, it was clear that the three Republicans who agreed to support the bill in the Senate wielded extraordinary power, and along with conservative Democrats, had put a firm stamp on the stimulus package. 
 For instance, negotiators opted to keep many of the Senate's reduced spending provisions, but they were careful to maintain an additional $6.5 billion for medical research that was inserted at the insistence of Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, who is a cancer survivor. He was one of the three Republican supporters of the recovery package. 
 ''I think it is an important component of putting America back on its feet,'' Mr. Specter said, though he added that it was still a difficult vote ''in view of the large deficit and national debt.'' 
 The Senate bill came together only after a bipartisan group of centrist senators, led by Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, reached a deal to trim the cost of the package to $838 billion from more than $920 billion. 
 ''These aren't easy times, obviously for America,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who was also a member of that group. ''Given the gravity of the circumstances economically, I thought it was important to be part of a process that could yield a consensus-based solution.'' 
 But the majority of Republicans continued to criticize the stimulus measure on Wednesday as a bloated and ill-designed spending bonanza by Democrats on favored projects that would not help lift the economy out of recession but would permanently expand the federal government and plunge future generations of Americans deep into debt. 
 ''Yesterday the Senate cast one of the most expensive votes in history,'' said the Republican leader, Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky. ''Americans are wondering how we're going to pay for all this.''
 Indeed, the formal House-Senate conference meeting, usually an elaborate parliamentary ritual with reams of legislative paperwork strewn across cluttered conference tables, instead served mostly as a live, televised forum for some of the most powerful Democrats and Republicans in Congress to trade barbs.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, complained that despite Mr. Obama's call for bipartisan cooperation, Republicans had largely been shut out. ''We didn't have a chance to negotiate,'' Mr. Grassley said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senators Susan Collins, Harry Reid, Arlen Specter, Olympia J. Snowe and Joseph I. Lieberman after the stimulus agreement.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAUCUSES (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); POLITICS (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (76%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); CONSTRUCTION (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); HARRY REID (78%); ARLEN SPECTER (58%); JOE LIEBERMAN (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (57%); NANCY PELOSI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



478 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: Markets Slightly Higher After a Sell-Off

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
A day after fleeing stocks in a fierce sell-off, the bears on Wall Street stayed mostly at bay on Wednesday.
 Stock prices rose modestly as investors tried to get a better grip on Washington's newly announced plans to stabilize the banking system with up to $2.5 trillion in public and private money. 
 The major stock indexes all closed slightly higher as lawmakers in Washington announced they had reached a deal on a $789 billion economic stimulus plan. President Obama has called the package critical to pushing back a wave of job losses, which reached 598,000 in January. 
 Shares of major financial companies and regional banks, which were pummeled on Tuesday, struggled to regain some ground. Morgan Stanley rose 10 percent, to $22.91 a share, and shares of Citigroup and Bank of America also posted gains.
 The Dow Jones industrial average gained 50.65 points or 0.64 percent, to end at 7,939.53, but it was still hovering close to its lowest levels of the year. The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 0.8 percent, or 6.58 points, to 833.74. The Nasdaq index was up 0.4 percent, or 5.77 points, at 1,530.50.
 The stock market fell more than 4.5 percent on Tuesday after Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner sketched out plans to inject more capital into banks, mitigate foreclosures and encourage hedge funds and private equity investors to buy up the distressed mortgage-related assets weighing down banks. Investors said Mr. Geithner's approach was short on details and raised more questions than it answered.
 Among the most pressing concerns was how the government would value these hard-to-sell assets, and how it would entice private investors to buy them. Investors also worried that bank shares could be further diluted if the banks had to take on additional government investments. 
 ''The market doesn't like uncertainty,'' said Bill Schultz, chief investment officer at McQueen, Ball & Associates. ''How do we get comfortable with the markets going forward if we're seeing uncertainty from the government?''
 Underscoring the breadth of the global downturn, the government reported that the United States trade deficit narrowed to $39.9 billion in December as overall trade volume diminished. The total value of imported and exported goods and services in December was $308 billion, down 12 percent from December 2007.
 With the recession showing no signs of having reached a bottom and major banks shaky, analysts said the stock and bond markets were looking to Washington for guidance more than ever. Investors pushed share prices up in anticipation of Mr. Geithner's announcement, and stocks plummeted when he failed to deliver a step-by-step road map to recovery.
 ''Everybody's just sort of sitting around, waiting for the meat on the bones'' of the government plans, said Dan Greenhaus, an analyst in the equity strategy group at Miller Tabak & Company. ''How long can you keep waiting on the sidelines until the government does something?''
 In credit markets, jitters about the banking rescue plan outweighed growing concerns about vast new government spending programs, and Treasury prices rose for a second day. The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note was up 17/32, at 104 26/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.75 percent, down from 2.82 percent late Tuesday. 
 The Mortgage Bankers Association reported that applications for home mortgages fell 25 percent last week, and that applications for refinancing fell 30 percent. Although the weekly survey is volatile, economists said the drop could reflect uncertainty about the housing market and the direction of mortgage rates.
 European markets closed slightly higher while in Hong Kong, the Hang Seng index closed down 2.5 percent.
 Following are the results of Wednesday's Treasury auction of a record $21 billion in 10-year notes: 

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) Chart details line graph for daily activity. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); BONDS (78%); EXPORT PRICES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); FORECLOSURE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); IMPORT TRADE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); BOND MARKETS (65%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (64%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (60%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (57%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%); HOWARD SCHULTZ (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



479 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 758 words

HEADLINE: What's On Today

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
8 P.M. (Fox) THE 40TH NAACP IMAGE AWARDS Halle Berry and Tyler Perry are hosts of this ceremony, broadcast live from the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles, celebrating the accomplishments of people of color working in music, television, film and literature -- and the organization's 100th anniversary. Jennifer Hudson, above, and Seal are scheduled to perform; Sean Combs, Taraji P. Henson, Keke Palmer, Regina Taylor and Kerry Washington are among the presenters. Al Gore and Wangari Muta Maathai will each be honored with the Chairman's Award; Russell Simmons is the recipient of the Vanguard Award.
 7 A.M. (CBS) THE EARLY SHOW Katie Lee Joel concocts a Valentine's Day party for single women. 
 9 A.M. (Fox) THE MORNING SHOW WITH MIKE AND JULIET The makeup artist Bobbi Brown offers tips on romantic looks for Valentine's Day.
 10 A.M. (55); 3 P.M. (NBC) THE ELLEN DeGENERES SHOW The comedian Steve Harvey discusses the theory behind his relationship book, ''Act Like a Lady, Think Like a Man.'' 
 8 P.M. (13) IT'S THE ECONOMY, NY! Andrew Ross Sorkin of The New York Times continues his examination of the nation's economy and its impact on local residents.
 8 P.M. (Cartoon Network) CHOWDER Sergeant Hoagie tries to solve a crime threatening to ruin his hot date in this first episode after a hiatus. In the second-season premiere of ''The Marvelous Misadventures of Flapjack,'' at 8:30, hearts start popping up when Flapjack sees Sally Syrup.
 8 P.M. (CBS) SURVIVOR: TOCANTINS In the 18th installment of this reality series, two teams of castaways will confront scorching heat, torrential downpours and animals that would prefer to eat rather than be eaten in the interior of Brazil. The last man or woman standing wins $1 million.
 8 P.M. (CNBC) HOUSE OF CARDS This two-hour investigation of the global financial collapse traces its origins to efforts to revive the American economy after the 9/11 attacks.
 9 P.M. (Animal Planet) ANIMAL ARMAGEDDON Scientists estimate that 99.9 percent of the animal species that have existed on earth, including straight-shelled nautiloids, above, are now extinct. This new series uses recent research and scientific theories to recreate some of the most horrific disasters in the planet's history, starting with the burst of gamma rays that may have triggered the first mass extinction 450 million years ago. 
 9 P.M. (MTV) MAKING THE BAND 4 The members of a broken Danity Kane face the possibility that the group can't be fixed. And Sean Combs vents his frustration at the bad boys of Day26. 
 9:30 P.M. (NBC) 30 ROCK Liz (Tina Fey) insists that she and Dr. Drew (Jon Hamm) have their first official date on Valentine's Day. Jack (Alec Baldwin) spends his own lovers' holiday in church with Elisa (Salma Hayek).
 10 P.M. (Bravo) THE MILLIONAIRE MATCHMAKER Patti Stanger, left, a third-generation expert in matters of the heart, extends her formerly all-male, high-end matchmaking services to female heiresses and gay millionaires. This second season begins as she prepares Brett and David for relationships with the help of personal shoppers, date coaches and therapists.
 10 P.M. (Discovery) TREASURE QUEST With the discovery of the H.M.S. Victory under its belt, the Odyssey Marine Exploration team turns its attention to a wreck carrying lead ingots worth their weight in gold. 
 10 P.M. (NBC) ER Eriq La Salle, who played Dr. Peter Benton on the series from 1994 to 2002, directs this episode with Louis Gossett Jr.
 10 P.M. (Science) WHAT DARWIN DIDN'T KNOW On the 200th anniversary of Charles Darwin's birth and the 150th anniversary of the publication of his ''Origin of Species,'' Armand Marie Leroi, an evolutionary biologist, examines some of the questions posed by Darwin's theory of natural selection and the discoveries that resolved these puzzles. This program caps a daylong biology-based tribute to Darwin. Sciencechannel.com will present evolution-based games, puzzles and information.
 10 P.M. (SoapNet) GREG BEHRENDT'S WAKE-UP CALL With the film version of ''He's Just Not That Into You,'' the book he wrote with Liz Tuccillo, in theaters, Mr. Behrendt comes to the rescue of Courtney and Will, who called off their wedding because she thinks he's too irresponsible and he thinks she's too rigid. This season finale is part of SoapNet's Sugar-Free Valentine's programming, which promises romance without the goo.
 10 P.M. (USA) BURN NOTICE Michael (Jeffrey Donovan) gets trapped with that troublemaker Jason Bly (Alex Carter) during a bank robbery. KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); REALITY TELEVISION (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (78%); HISTORY (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (73%); SCIENCE NEWS (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); FILM (72%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (72%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (71%); ZOOLOGY (67%); ANIMALS (67%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (84%)

PERSON: HALLE BERRY (73%); TYLER PERRY (73%); SEAN (DIDDY) COMBS (57%); AL GORE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (91%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



480 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; LEADING OFF; Pg. 

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: Clouds Gather Over the Sportscape

BYLINE: By LYNN ZINSER

 BODY:
There is a feeling in the sports world that 103 more shoes are ready to drop. And while they will not quite be as fancy or expensive as that Alex Rodriguez loafer, together they could really kick up a storm. The Pig Pen-like cloud is hanging specifically over baseball, but it has a way of blotting out the sun over other sports as well.
 Over in the N.F.L., for example, Brett Favre is retiring. Again. For now. Until he changes his mind. Again. We think. Check back in an hour, when maybe things won't seem so bad. 
 O.K., in baseball, they will still seem bad.
 The fallout is still flooding in after Rodriguez's admission/apology/bloodletting on Monday, with the focus turning to what happens now with the other 103 supposedly anonymous positive tests from 2003, which rest in the hands of 11 appellate court judges in California. Marvin Miller, proving he can still muster an antimanagement tirade at age 91, says the main problem is that the players' association agreed to this pesky drug testing in the first place. If it seems a bit old school to excuse the players for actually taking the drugs, well, Miller is nothing if not old school.
 Meanwhile, Astros pitcher Roy Oswalt, who is angry and wants all the tainted numbers thrown out of baseball, says he still considers Hank Aaron the career home run leader and says of A-Rod: ''I feel like he cheated me out of the game.''
 Yahoo's Jeff Passan would like to see a little more heat directed toward baseball's commissioner, Bud Selig, and the head of the players' association, Donald Fehr, and Fox Sports's Mark Kriegel wants an explanation from Mark McGwire, who seems to have some pivotal role in this mess.
 And if that all is not gloom enough for you, click over to The New York Post and contemplate the potential seediness of a tell-all book by Darryl Strawberry, in which the drugs likely to be involved are not performance-enhancing.
 The N.B.A. seems like a pleasant enough escape, if you could avoid Cavaliers Coach Mike Brown's tirade on the foul called on LeBron James with a tenth of a second left in a loss to the Pacers. He called it ''the worst call I've ever been a part of.'' Check it out for yourself on the NBA.comhighlights.
 And if you need a laugh, consider that Madison Square Garden has called last week Dream Week, because of the heroics of James and the Lakers' Kobe Bryant. Probably Nightmare Week, which it was for the Knicks, seemed a bit less marketable.
 It was a bit of a dream come true on Tuesday for Richard Zednik, the Florida Panthers forward who celebrated the first anniversary of having his carotid artery slashed in a game by scoring two goals including the game-winner in overtime over Toronto. That injury was one of the most horrific things in hockey, making the sight of Zednick back in good form heartwarming.
 In another fighting-the-gloom moment, Kentucky's basketball team fought off disaster for a cathartic victory over Florida on Tuesday. If you do not think that is significant, you have never been to Kentucky.
 Elsewhere, we have some clashing between politics and sports. In Chicago, there has been some opposition to the city's spending on its 2012 Olympic bid in light of the current economic slide, as detailed by The Wall Street Journal. And in Washington, the former-quarterback-turned-Congressman Heath Shuler is finding his former career gives his current antagonists plenty of fodder for insults.
 Congress seems reasonably certain that Shuler did not take performance-enhancing drugs. Then or now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASEBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BASKETBALL (89%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); DRUG TESTING (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (68%); JUDGES (68%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%); APPEALS COURTS (53%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (65%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (65%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (65%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (89%); KOBE BRYANT (58%); LEBRON JAMES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (76%); FLORIDA, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (76%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



481 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: The Stump Theory

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS

 BODY:
On Tuesday, a 10-year-old Sussex spaniel named Stump won Best in Show at the Westminster Kennel Club, becoming the oldest dog to win the title in the show's 133-year history. 
 Yet another sign of the emerging trend of 2009:
 Old is in. 
 This is not exactly what we were expecting from the Age of Obama. When a 47-year-old becomes president by trouncing a 72-year-old opponent, there's every reason to think that the tide is turning youthward. 
 For a minute or so, that seemed to be the case. The most high-profile cabinet job, Treasury secretary, went to Timothy Geithner, 47. Over at the bank bailout, a 35-year-old was in charge of the Office of Financial Stability. Hillary Clinton, 61, is headed to Bangalore and Beijing, leaving a 42-year-old replacement in her Senate seat. There was almost no one left in Washington who knew what Sputnik was, let alone the words to ''The Ballad of Davy Crockett.'' 
 Now, less than a month into the new administration, we've got generational backlash. Everybody who watched Geithner explain how he was going to rescue the banking system thought he sounded like a callow youth. Where's gravitas when you need it? Time to bring on Paul Volcker (81). 
 Meanwhile, the great national heroes are US Airways pilot Sully Sullenberger (58) and flight attendants Donna Dent (51), Sheila Dail (57) and Doreen Welsh (58). Admit it, when you get on a plane these days, you feel worried if the crew members don't look as though they're receiving bulletins from the AARP.
 The movie star du jour is Mickey Rourke, 56. Rourke has truly been preparing for this moment all his life, since thanks to some interesting lifestyle changes, he has looked 56 since around 1987.
 Is this a baby-boomer plot? In 1972, The Times's Russell Baker noted that the people he had always thought of as ''the kids'' did not seem to be reproducing. Baker decided that the Woodstock generation was conspiring to cut the birth rate so they would always be in the majority and could ''go on being the kids for the rest of their lives.''
 And what do you know? Mick Jagger is still touring.
 My own personal theory is that we're witnessing a defense mechanism triggered by the current economic unpleasantness. 
 Since it appears that nobody is ever going to be able to afford to retire, we're moving into an era in which having your car fixed or your tonsils removed by a 75-year-old will need to seem normal. Meanwhile, young people are going to have to stay in school and keep their heads down since their elders have no intention of creating any job openings in the near future. So it's better if we readjust our thinking and start regarding everybody as 20 years younger than the calendar suggests. Then you will feel much better when the 80-year-old postman delivers your mail and it includes a request for money from your 38-year-old offspring doing post-post-post-doctoral work at Ohio State.
 At least this will be good news for anybody under the age of 40 who gets into a jam. If the Olympic swimmer Michael Phelps and the Yankee slugger Alex Rodriguez have drug issues, who cares? In the new adjusted way of viewing the country, Phelps is just a toddler and Rodriguez is barely in puberty.
 And in their place, we have Stump. You may have missed his great star turn on Tuesday night. Strangely, the Westminster Kennel Club Dog Show does not get as much attention as, say, the Super Bowl, even though there are way more Americans who own dogs than play football. Perhaps if Bruce Springsteen (59) had done a half-time show at Westminster involving huge amounts of jumping around and a crotch-first slide into the camera, things would be different.
 Stump, whose hobbies are sleeping and sleeping, is actually Champion Clussexx Three D Grinchy Glee, but nobody his age can remember all that. After a refreshing workout that involved a short walk around the driveway, he trotted onto the stage and wiped the floor with his younger competition, the most notable of which was a poodle that was conceived with the 25-year-old semen of a long-dead champion named Snapper.
 Stump would be around 70 in human years, but Snapper -- wow. Even given the fact that it was frozen, Snapper's seed has to have been the equivalent of at least 150.
 And so it goes. This week at the Grammy Awards, every other prize went to Alison Krauss, the 37-year-old bluegrass star, who had made the canny career choice of pairing up with the former Led Zeppelin singer Robert Plant, 60. ''In the old days, we would have called this selling out,'' Plant said as he scooped up his five awards.
 Maybe not selling out is going to come back into fashion, too. But if there's nobody left doing any buying, does it still count? 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DOGS (90%); BABY BOOMERS (87%); LIFESTYLE TRENDS (77%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); CONSPIRACY (73%); TRENDS (72%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (69%); AIRLINES (69%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (69%); BANK FAILURES (69%); BAILOUTS (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (61%)

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (54%)

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (54%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (76%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (71%); BARACK OBAMA (56%); MICK JAGGER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KARNATAKA, INDIA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%); INDIA (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



482 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 806 words

HEADLINE: Oil Industry Is Stressing Cooperation On Climate

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS and JAD MOUAWAD

DATELINE: HOUSTON 

 BODY:
Confronted with a sharp change of priorities in Washington, international oil executives are expressing an eagerness to work with President Obama to fashion new policies to tackle global warming. 
 At an industry conference here this week, the executives struck a conciliatory tone on how to limit the emissions that are contributing to climate change, with many of them sounding like budding conservationists as they stressed energy efficiency and the need to develop renewable fuels. 
 At the same time, they declared that the country would still need oil for a long time, and sought to persuade the new administration of the need for more drilling off the nation's coasts. 
 On tackling global warming, a subject that has long divided the industry, some executives said they supported a tax on carbon, while others favored a trading system like the one adopted by Europe. Almost all of them seemed reconciled to the United States' adopting some kind of climate policy, and said they were eager to work with the new administration to devise an effective energy strategy.
 ''President Obama comes to office with a strong commitment to tackle climate change,'' said Tony Hayward, the chief executive of BP. ''Suddenly the challenges many of us have been wrestling with for a long time -- the importance of energy security in providing economic security, and tackling the issue of climate change in a way that is commercially viable -- are center stage.''
 During his election campaign, Mr. Obama frequently criticized big oil companies, expressed skepticism about offshore drilling, and pledged to try to replace hydrocarbons with more renewable fuels. He has made energy and environmental policy a cornerstone of both his national security and economic efforts. 
 The executives strongly urged the administration to open up the continental shelf for offshore drilling at the very time that the interior secretary, Ken Salazar, announced that the government would review and probably scale back the Bush administration's plan to give oil and gas drillers new rights.
 Exxon Mobil, which had long been skeptical of global warming, offered its own suggestions. One of the company's top executives, Michael J. Dolan, said that Exxon would back a tax on carbon, while criticizing a so-called cap-and-trade approach.
 Under the cap-and-trade formula, which has considerable momentum in Washington, the government would set a ceiling on how much carbon dioxide could be emitted into the atmosphere each year. It would then give or sell permits that companies would be allowed to trade to meet their limit. Emitting carbon dioxide at present involves no penalties in the United States, meaning that companies have little incentive to curb their pollution.
 Mr. Dolan, a senior vice president at Exxon, said that a carbon tax would be simpler and less subject to manipulation than a trading system. ''A carbon tax reduces policy risks for businesses and investors in a way that cap-and-trade schemes do not,'' Mr. Dolan said during his address at the industry conference, organized by Cambridge Energy Research Associates, a consulting firm. 
 ''In addition,'' he said, ''by reducing other taxes -- such as income or excise taxes -- we can make a carbon tax revenue-neutral and offset the impact of higher taxes on the economy.''
 His European counterparts, meanwhile, offered a different approach, favoring the sort of cap-and-trade system that has already taken hold in Europe.
 Jeroen van der Veer, chief executive of Royal Dutch Shell, said the key was to assign a cost to carbon. ''I don't lose any sleep if the United States or anyone else gets a carbon tax,'' Mr. van der Veer said. ''The world is helped by pricing carbon dioxide, whichever way you do it.'' 
 A cap-and-trade system establishes a clear environmental goal by setting an upper limit on emissions, something a carbon tax does not necessarily do, he said. Meanwhile, the possibility of trading carbon permits provides companies with an economic incentive to invest in technologies that reduce emissions. He said that a cap-and-trade system had worked well in the United States for cutting the emissions that cause acid rain.
 But he added that higher fuel taxes largely explain why European vehicles are far more efficient than American ones.
 ''Both can work, and even coexist,'' he said. ''They both price CO2,'' or carbon dioxide.
 Daniel Yergin, the chairman of Cambridge Energy Research and the organizer of the conference, said oil companies recognized that major policy changes were coming, and that they need to be a part of the debate.
 ''They are not arguing about basic philosophy anymore, but about practical steps,'' he said. ''We're moving into a new era of policy making that will have very important and far-reaching implications for energy markets.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Jeroen van der Veer, left, of Royal Dutch Shell, and Tony Hayward of BP at this week's oil industry conference in Houston.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY MICHAEL STRAVATO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); CLIMATE CHANGE (90%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); EMISSIONS CREDITS (89%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (89%); OIL EXTRACTION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%)

COMPANY: EXXON MOBIL CORP (74%)

TICKER: XOM (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (74%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (74%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (74%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%); TONY HAYWARD (65%); KEN SALAZAR (58%); JEROEN VAN DER VEER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



483 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 942 words

HEADLINE: Measuring a Victory

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
It is a quick, sweet victory for the new president, and potentially a historic one. The question now is whether the $789 billion economic stimulus plan agreed to by Congressional leaders on Wednesday is the opening act for a more ambitious domestic agenda from President Obama or a harbinger of reduced expectations.
 Both the substance of his first big legislative accomplishment and the way he achieved it underscored the scale of the challenges facing the nation and how different a political climate this is from the early stages of recent administrations. 
 While it hammered home the reality of bigger, more activist government, the economic package was not the culmination of a hard-fought ideological drive, like Lyndon B. Johnson's civil rights and Great Society programs, or Ronald Reagan's tax cuts, but rather a necessary and hastily patched-together response to an immediate and increasingly dire situation. On the domestic issues Mr. Obama ran and won on -- health care, education, climate change, rebalancing the distribution of wealth -- the legislation does little more than promise there will be more to come.
 In cobbling together a plan that could get through both the House and the Senate, Mr. Obama prevailed, but not in the way he had hoped. His inability to win over more than a handful of Republicans amounted to a loss of innocence, a reminder that his high-minded calls for change in the practice of governance had been ground up in a matter of weeks by entrenched forces of partisanship and deep, principled differences between left and right. 
 In the end, Congress did not come together to address what Mr. Obama has regularly suggested is a crisis that could rival the Great Depression. What consensus has been forged so far is likely to be tested in the months to come as he faces scrutiny over the effectiveness of the stimulus package and the likelihood that he will have to ask Congress for substantially more money to heal the fractures in the financial system. 
 So this was hardly a moment for cigars. 
 If this is the 21st-century version of Franklin D. Roosevelt's 100 Days, Mr. Obama seems to be pursuing it more as an urgent but imposed necessity than as a self-selected mission. 
 While he has deployed his political capital freely to win approval of the package and to begin pushing his version of a financial-system rescue, he has left little doubt that he is eager to move on to the rest of his domestic agenda. At his news conference on Monday night, Mr. Obama said with a hint of exasperation that a costly economic rescue package ''wasn't how I envisioned my presidency beginning.'' Regardless of the government's budgetary straits, Mr. Obama has signaled that he sees his other signature initiatives not just as salvageable but as more urgent than ever.
 Yet since Election Night, when he warned of ''setbacks and false starts'' and called for ''a new spirit of sacrifice,'' he has assiduously managed the politics of the moment with an eye toward tempering expectations and limiting the risk to himself and his party. 
 In his own telling, the legislation Congress is about to send him is imperfect and may not work. His political standing, he suggested to an audience in Florida on Tuesday, could tumble if voters do not see results in the next two years. 
 It is a sharp and calculated shift from the expansive promises, explicit and implied, that carried him to the White House.
 ''He has been very consistent, really since the night of his election victory, that it took a long time to get into this and it will take a long time to get out of it,'' said William Galston, a domestic policy aide in the Clinton White House who is now a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution, the liberal-leaning research organization. ''And there's some evidence that the American people are prepared to be patient.''
 But Mr. Galston said Mr. Obama may not yet have fully absorbed the difficulties he faces in pressing for expensive policy initiatives to make health care more affordable and accessible, address global warming, provide more money for education and promote research into alternative energy sources.
 ''The president hasn't done as good a job of preparing the nation for the tradeoffs necessary to reconcile the hope agenda with the fear agenda,'' Mr. Galston said. ''I'd be surprised if a Congress still reeling from sticker shock in terms of the stimulus and the financial rescue are willing to pony up for a full-bore reform of the health system.''
 David Winston, a Republican pollster, said that whatever big goals Mr. Obama and the base of the Democratic Party remain eager to achieve, voters for the most part are going to be focused on one thing: whether the economic measures sponsored by the new administration prove effective in halting and reversing job losses.
 ''He's going to have to fit other issues into the larger narrative of the economy,'' Mr. Winston said.
 Mr. Obama has long since begun trying to do just that. He has been framing rising health care costs not just as a social issue, but as one affecting the viability of American industry. Cleaning up the environment and weaning the economy from its dependence on oil are opportunities to create new, well-compensated jobs. Education is an investment in the economy's long-term competitiveness.
 But those assertions will run up against a variety of countervailing forces: a rapidly rising national debt, a strain of populist anger, a smaller but energized Republican minority and divisions among Democrats about priorities, to name a few. Getting past them promises to be as tricky for Mr. Obama as was this first victory. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Members of the House and the Senate working on the final version of the stimulus on Wednesday. The fragile consensus, and the president's agenda, face many tests in coming months.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHEN CROWLEY/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 President Obama and Gov. Tim Kaine on Wednesday at a parkway project in Springfield, Va., that could get stimulus money.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A26) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TAX LAW (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); GREAT DEPRESSION (68%); APPROVALS (62%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); TIM KAINE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



484 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 938 words

HEADLINE: In Pakistan, U.S. Special Envoy Finds Discontent

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ

DATELINE: LAHORE, Pakistan 

 BODY:
The American special envoy, Richard C. Holbrooke, wound down his whistle-stop tour of Pakistan on Wednesday with a brief visit to the lawless tribal areas, and then dinner with liberal intellectuals at a rooftop restaurant here in Lahore.
 He had come to listen, not to lecture, Mr. Holbrooke said. What he heard was a familiar list of requests for more money and arms from Pakistan's top leadership, as well as a litany of complaints about American airstrikes in Pakistan's tribal areas using Predator drones. 
 Mr. Holbrooke's trip to Pakistan, and his four-day tour of Afghanistan, which is scheduled to begin Thursday, was part of a top-to-bottom review of American policy in the region ordered by President Obama. 
 The challenge for the new administration is how to persuade a Pakistani military fixated on its archenemy India to reorient its troops to fight the Qaeda and Taliban insurgency that is engulfing the country.
 Washington also wants to convince the poorly organized and almost bankrupt civilian government, led by President Asif Ali Zardari, that it must support the military in its counterinsurgency efforts by providing proper governance and development.
 As part of his tour in the capital, Islamabad, Mr. Holbrooke met with Mr. Zardari; the military chief, Gen. Ashfaq Parvez Kayani; and the head of Inter-Services Intelligence, Lt. Gen. Ahmed Shuja Pasha. 
 Officials familiar with the conversations say Mr. Holbrooke was faced with universal opposition to the Predator strikes, which American officials say have helped disrupt the Qaeda network. 
 The Pakistanis insist that the drone strikes have killed civilians, further turned public feeling against the United States, and represent an infringement of their sovereignty.
 What, if anything, the Obama administration plans to do about the protests over the missile attacks was not clear, officials said.
 A retired Pakistani general, Talat Masood, who attended a dinner in honor of Mr. Holbrooke at the American Embassy on Tuesday night, said he got the impression that there may be some effort by the Americans to make the drone strikes more palatable by conducting them as a joint operation.
 The foreign minister, Shah Mahmood Qureshi, called the attacks ''counterproductive'' and said that Pakistan and the United States would form a joint team of officials to review policy differences, including the missile attacks.
 As well as voice opposition to the missile strikes, General Kayani asked for more equipment for the army's counterinsurgency efforts, which the Pakistanis have long asserted they have been denied by Washington. ''We are crying hoarsely,'' General Kayani's spokesman, Maj. Gen. Athar Abbas, said of the request that was made to Mr. Holbrooke.
 Mr. Zardari, who is presiding over a crumbling economy on life support from the International Monetary Fund, made a major pitch for immediate American economic assistance, officials said.
 On Wednesday morning, Mr. Holbrooke flew in a helicopter over the mountainous border between Afghanistan and Pakistan, where supplies for American and NATO troops in Afghanistan have come under attack from militants in recent months.
 He was then flown over the Bajaur and Mohmand areas of the tribal belt, where the Pakistani Army is fighting the Taliban.
 He landed at Ghalanai, the small town that serves as the capital of Mohmand, and heard from the government's chief representative, Amjad Ali Khan, how the civilian authorities were using the persuasion of local tribes to bring young men who had joined the Taliban back into the fold.
 But as the government was showing Mr. Holbrooke its best efforts against the insurgents, a car bomb killed a popular provincial legislator in Peshawar, the chaotic capital of the North-West Frontier Province. The politician, Alam Zeb Khan, was driving to inspect a development project in the city, his supporters said, when a remote-controlled bomb blew up his car.
 For a sense of how the insurgency is affecting people, Mr. Holbrooke met in Peshawar with a group of women from nongovernment organizations. 
 A young woman who lived in Swat, an area where the army has virtually lost control to the Taliban, told Mr. Holbrooke how the Taliban had killed her husband. The women of Swat, she told him, were confined to their houses, were not allowed to go shopping, and lived in fear of the Taliban, who spread their message through FM radio.
 Though Mr. Holbrooke was accompanied by the deputy commander of the United States Central Command, Maj. General John R. Allen, the high-profile visit by a civilian envoy could change the tone of the conversation with Pakistan, said Ahmed Rashid, the author of a recent book on Pakistan and Afghanistan, called ''Descent into Chaos,'' who attended the dinner with Mr. Holbrooke in the old town in Lahore.
 ''This is a complete sea change in what Pakistan is used to,'' said Mr. Rashid, who was invited to Washington just before the inauguration to attend a small foreign policy dinner with Mr. Obama. 
 ''There is a suspicion in the American establishment that the Pakistani Army has found it easier to pull the wool over the eyes of the American military. It will be harder to do that with the civilians.''
 On Thursday, before leaving for Afghanistan, Mr. Holbrooke is scheduled to meet Nawaz Sharif, the leader of the Pakistan Muslim League-N who served as prime minister twice in the 1990s. 
 Mr. Sharif holds some sympathies with the Islamic parties, and, as a rival of Mr. Zardari's, he is considered an important figure for the Americans because he would like to maneuver his way to power in the coming year.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); BOMBINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); TALIBAN (78%); UNMANNED MILITARY AIRCRAFT (75%); FOREIGN POLICY (74%); ARMED FORCES (73%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); ARMIES (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (64%)

PERSON: RICHARD HOLBROOKE (90%); ASIF ALI ZARDARI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PAKISTAN (96%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



485 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 922 words

HEADLINE: Obama Weighs Adding Troops in Afghanistan as Overall Strategy Waits

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER; Eric Schmitt contributed reporting from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
President Obama is facing a choice on whether to grant commanders' requests for additional troops in Afghanistan before he has decided on his new strategy there.
 While the decision is expected to be the first significant military move of his presidency, defense officials said that Mr. Obama could choose a middle ground, deploying several thousand more troops there in the coming months but postponing a more difficult judgment on a much larger increase in personnel until after the administration completes a review of Afghanistan policy.
 The officials said that Mr. Obama may deploy one or two additional brigades, between 3,500 and 7,000 soldiers. 
 But he has other options, and several administration officials said it was also possible -- though less likely -- that he could postpone any deployments until after his review was complete. Such a move would not find much favor with commanders in Afghanistan, who have a standing request for an additional three brigades, or more than 10,000 soldiers. 
 It is also possible that Mr. Obama will fill the request for all three brigades, administration officials said. 
 Mr. Obama's military commanders want additional brigades in place by late spring or early summer as part of an effort to counter growing violence and chaos in Afghanistan, particularly before presidential elections that are expected to take place there in August.
 Robert M. Gates, the defense secretary, said Tuesday that he had presented options to Mr. Obama that ''give him several ways of going forward,'' and added that he expected a determination ''in the course of the next few days.''
 Referring to the additional brigades being sought by commanders, Geoff Morrell, the Pentagon press secretary, said Mr. Obama ''could make a decision about none, one, two or all of them.''
 ''There are clearly people asking, 'Do we need to make a decision on all of them now, or can we wait until we've decided on our new strategy?' '' he said. ''However, there does need to be a decision made about a couple of brigades sooner rather than later if you want them on the ground in time to make a difference in the security situation for the national election in late August.''
 Mr. Gates and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, met Wednesday with Mr. Obama at the White House, but a senior administration official said no decisions had been made. 
 Mr. Obama made clear during the presidential campaign that he intended to increase troop levels in Afghanistan and reduce them in Iraq. But while still reviewing Afghanistan strategy, he also has not announced a decision on the pace of troop withdrawals from Iraq.
 Defense officials say that Mr. Obama cannot satisfy the request from Gen. David D. McKiernan, the top American commander in Afghanistan, for an additional 30,000 troops there without withdrawing a substantial number of those forces directly from Iraq. But they said Mr. Obama did have the latitude to deploy to Afghanistan at least two more brigades, and possibly more, before he decided on Iraq.
 ''This is the first time that this president has been asked to deploy large numbers of troops overseas,'' Mr. Gates said Tuesday. ''And it seems to me a thoughtful and deliberative approach to that decision is entirely appropriate.''
 The determination on the troop deployment took on even more importance on Wednesday after Taliban suicide bombers struck government buildings at three sites in Kabul, killing at least 20 people. 
 Coming on the eve of a scheduled visit to Kabul by Richard C. Holbrooke, Mr. Obama's special representative to Pakistan and Afghanistan, the attack underscored the deteriorating security in Afghanistan.
 ''Obviously, we are reminded today of the brutal tactics that extremists like the Taliban wish to employ,'' said Robert Gibbs, the White House spokesman. ''It hardens our resolve.''
 ''But,'' Mr. Gibbs said, ''it also hardens our resolve to get the next steps in Afghanistan right.'' He called it ''imperative that we get the review process done correctly.''
 The Obama administration has been distancing itself from Afghanistan's president, Hamid Karzai, with officials complaining that he has not done enough to crack down on corruption and the drug trade that has fueled the Taliban insurgency. 
 Mr. Obama spoke Monday at a news conference about the urgent need to seek out fighters for Al Qaeda and the Taliban in their havens across the border with Pakistan. On Wednesday, he called Asif Ali Zardari, the Pakistani president, and they discussed counterterrorism and economic development, the White House said in a statement.
 Administration officials have indicated that they may seek to refocus United States military efforts in Afghanistan on counterinsurgency. But the administration has not come up with a plan yet for how to coordinate the rest of its Afghanistan strategy with European allies and NATO.
 Russia Might Add to Aid
 MOSCOW -- Russia's foreign minister, Sergey V. Lavrov, said Wednesday that Russia would consider expanding its assistance to NATO in Afghanistan. 
 Russia already delivers nonmilitary cargo to Afghanistan to help NATO, and in response to a question at a news conference about whether Russia would be open to shipping weaponry, Mr. Lavrov did not reject the idea.
 ''Additional steps are possible,'' he said, without offering details. He noted, ''Last April and May, we discussed the possibility of using Russian military cargo planes to deliver supplies to coalition forces with our NATO colleagues.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ROBERT M GATES (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AFGHANISTAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



486 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 12, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 554 words

HEADLINE: Report Faults Homeland Security's Efforts on Immigration

BYLINE: By GINGER THOMPSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
An immigration policy group said Wednesday that the Department of Homeland Security's immigration mission has been undermined by wasteful spending along the southern border, law enforcement efforts that focused on snaring illegal workers rather than high-risk criminals, and an often hostile bureaucracy that discourages people eligible for legal entry from playing by the rules. 
 A new report, largely a portrait of dysfunction, comes when President Obama faces increasing pressure from Hispanic groups, who played a critical role in his election, to break with the aggressive immigration enforcement strategies of the Bush administration. Those groups have called on the president to push for comprehensive legislation that balances law enforcement with the opening of new legal pathways to citizenship.
 In its report, the nonpartisan Migration Policy Institute cautioned that such legislative action remained ''politically complex and sensitive,'' an assessment that came after discussions with high-level immigration officials who served under either President Bill Clinton or President George W. Bush or are now working in Mr. Obama's administration. The report reflects the views of its authors.
 The report's authors offered 36 recommendations that they said would allow the new administration to deliver on its promise to make change without being forced into a politically costly fight in Congress.
 For example, the report calls on the Department of Homeland Security to suspend the construction of a security fence along the Mexican border, which the Government Accountability Office found has cost nearly $4 million per mile, until a review can be made of its effectiveness in preventing illegal crossings, as well as its impact on the environment, commerce and relations among border communities.
 The report also recommends that the Homeland Security Department rely less on workplace raids and favors expanding employment verification systems. 
 ''Not only are we not talking about comprehensive immigration reform, we are not talking about anything that requires further restructuring,'' said Doris Meissner, an author of the report and former commissioner of the Immigration and Naturalization Service. 
 During his campaign, Mr. Obama promised Hispanic groups that he would push for comprehensive changes in immigration policy, and he named a team to work on the topic during the transition. Two weeks ago, the homeland security secretary, Janet Napolitano, issued a directive calling for a broad review of immigration policies that touched on many of the concerns raised by the report released Wednesday. 
 A Hispanic leader close to the transition immigration team said that its discussions had been ''vigorous,'' with several aides warning the president that the recession had made immigration an even thornier issue, and others arguing that no plan for economic recovery would work in the long term if it did not include laws to regulate the status of some 12 million illegal workers.
 ''The conventional wisdom is that the economy makes this a difficult issue,'' said Janet Murguia, president of the National Council of La Raza. ''I think there's also some countervailing wisdom that says how can you have a debate on jobs without talking about the 12 million people who are here without documents?''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (93%); NATIONAL SECURITY (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); US PRESIDENTS (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); BORDER CONTROL (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); FOREIGN LABOR (89%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (93%); US GOVERNMENT ACCOUNTABILITY OFFICE (54%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%); BILL CLINTON (72%); JANET NAPOLITANO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 12, 2009



487 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2202 words

HEADLINE: Inside the Times

 BODY:
International
NEAR SRI LANKA'S WAR ZONE, THE INJURED STRUGGLE TO COPE
At least 100,000 civilians are trapped behind the front lines of Sri Lanka's civil war. The government has barred reporters from the conflict zone, but the toll of the fighting on civilians was on full display in the crowded wards of the municipal hospital in Trincomalee, an eastern port city 40 miles from the front lines. PAGE A6
Pope Rejects Denial of Holocaust A8
BRITAIN TURNS BACK DUTCHMAN 
A Dutch member of Parliament, Geert Wilders, who has compared the Koran to Hitler's ''Mein Kampf,'' was detained by immigration officials at Heathrow Airport in London and forced to fly right back to Holland. His deportation had been ordered by Britain's home secretary on the grounds that his presence in Britain endangered public safety. PAGE A8
VENEZUELAN JEWS ON EDGE
Episodes of anti-Semitic vandalism in Venezuela, the desecration of a synagogue in Caracas and government pressure on Jewish leaders to retract criticism of President Hugo Chavez in relation to the attack has infused a sense of dread into Venezuela's Jewish communities. PAGE A8
ISRAEL ALLOWS GAZAN EXPORTS
For the first time in about a year, Israel allowed the export of 25,000 carnations from Hamas-run Gaza, Israeli officials said. The flowers, destined for Europe, could portend a possible thaw in commercial relations in the context of a cease-fire. PAGE A6
CHINA MAKES ARRESTS AFTER FIRE
In a spate of arrests, Beijing officials blamed the state-run television network for a Monday fire that destroyed part of the 520-foot-high futuristic skyscraper that was part of CCTV's new $1.1 billion headquarters, sometimes described as an architectural symbol of China's rising power. PAGE A10
China to Investigate Company A10
Mexico City Journal: Free Viagra A15
Attacks in Mosul and Karbala Kill 13 A14
Hijacked Arms Ship Limps Into Port A12
CITING URGENT THREAT TO U.S.
The new director of national intelligence told Congress that global economic turmoil and the instability it could ignite had passed terrorism as the most urgent threat facing the United States. PAGE A14
DRAFT OF NEANDERTHAL GENOME
Scientists in Germany announced that they have reconstructed the genome of Neanderthals. The genome, when fully analyzed, is expected to shed light on critical aspects of human evolution. PAGE A12
national
ATTEMPTS TO BRING COURTS
Up to Speed With the Web
Pacer, the government-run system to access electronic court records, is nothing like Google. Created in the bygone days of screechy telephone modems, it is cumbersome, arcane and not free. But a small group of open-government advocates is determined to push the court system into the 21st century by republishing court documents on the Web, where anyone can just Google it. PAGE A16
A COWGIRL'S JOURNEY OF FRIENDS
After losing her job and subsequently her home in Miami, Donna Byrne packed everything she owned, including her two horses, and set out for a ranching town 160 miles north. Ms. Byrne has become a minor celebrity and a magnet for generosity, as what began as a lonely trek turned into a team effort of horse lovers nationwide offering a helping hand. PAGE A16
NO LINK FOR AUTISM AND VACCINE
In a blow to arguments that vaccines lead to autism, a special court ruled against three families seeking compensation from the federal vaccine-injury fund. More than 5,000 similar claims have been filed with the fund. PAGE A16
New Hampshire May Close Courts A17
TRACKING BIRDS WHILE THEY FLY
For scientists, tracking birds as they fly 60 miles an hour has been an intractable problem. Now researchers think they have solved it with a novel device -- a tiny bird backpack that contains sophisticated sensors and that weighs less than a dime. PAGE A17
Inquiry on Hospitals and Tax Breaks A17
MOVING TO FINISH THE STIMULUS PLAN
Congressional leaders moved swiftly to schedule votes in the House and Senate on the $789 billion economic stimulus plan while lawmakers spent much of the day hammering out the final details of the legislation. PAGE A20
MEDICARE BLOW TO COLON PROCEDURE
Medicare has tentatively decided not to pay for virtual colonoscopies, dealing a setback to a technique that some medical experts recommend as a more tolerable alternative to the conventional colonoscopy in screening for cancer. PAGE A18
Obituaries
SHIRLEY JEAN RICKERT, 82
She starred in several ''Our Gang'' film comedies as a child and later became a burlesque performer. PAGE A23
New York
WINDS BRING DISRUPTION AND DEATH
Three people were killed, more than a dozen were injured, flights and trains were delayed and tens of thousands of homes and businesses lost power as winds that gusted up to 60 miles an hour howled across the New York metropolitan area. PAGE A25
Softer Attacks on Governor's Budget A25
Investing, With Bonds Back to 1868 A25
Business
AMERICA COULD STAND TO LEARN
A Lesson From Japan's History
Japan has been there, done that when it comes to economic crisis, and if you distill the advice of its veterans, it is simply: more money, faster. Japan tried and failed using all of the steps the United States is taking, which were signs along a road to ruin and 15 years straight years of falling real estate prices. Alarmingly, students of that debacle see a similar fate in the United States' future. Page B1
FEWER WORDS FROM OUR SPONSORS
Fox is about to expand its initiative called ''Remote-Free TV'' against that odious quality of television viewing, the commercial. On its drama ''Fringe,'' and starting Friday, on ''Dollhouse,'' there are four to six fewer minutes of commercial interruptions an hour. The hope it that viewers will be less likely to channel surf while waiting for the show to resume, but does it work? Page B3
REPACKAGING A TOUCHY SUBJECT
The governments of England and Ireland have, in effect, nationalized banks. But instead of giving such a touchy subject an equally touchy name, they've been careful to commit to keeping banks in private hands and are referring to the moves as more of a restructuring. Never mind the increased amount of control they have gotten. Page B4
THE SLIDE OF AN INDUSTRY, AND TOWN
Janesville, Wis., can be looked at as a microcosm of the plight of many who work in manufacturing. When the town's General Motors plant closed, 2,500 lost their jobs. While the workers are receiving substantial compensation packages, when that coverage ends, many will not be able to find jobs that pay comparable wages. For many, the future means hoping that, in a year, things will be better. Page B1
CHIEF OF SWISS RE STEPS DOWN
The reinsurance giant Swiss Re announced that its chief executive would step down, despite a vote of confidence and an infusion of cash from Warren E. Buffett. Page B6
Sports
COURT RULING MAY ALTER CONTRACT TALKS FOR BASEBALL DRAFT PICKS
In a decision that could rework negotiations between Major League Baseball draft picks and their teams, an Ohio judge ruled that an N.C.A.A. rule interferes with an athlete's right to legal representation by prohibiting student-athletes from having a lawyer present during contract negotiations. PAGE B9
One Topic at Girardi's Conference B9
TEAM PROGRAMS DRAW SKEPTICISM
Many professional cycling teams, like Lance Armstrong's, Astana, have internal antidoping programs. Still, some antidoping experts say that team's program, and others like it, are virtually useless in proving that a rider is clean. PAGE B13
Congressman Beckons Rodriguez B9
DID PHELPS'S STATUS SPUR ARRESTS?
The fallout from a party in November where Michael Phelps was photographed with a marijuana pipe included eight arrests on Saturday, attorneys for two of the eight arrested said. Both lawyers argued that the police investigation has been an excessive allocation of resources fueled by Phelps's celebrity status. PAGE B12
Gordon Hopes to Make Some Noise B11
Replacing Brett Favre B12
Escapes
SHORT STAYS, LASTING LOVE,
Kindled at Weekend Homes
Romance at a vacation or weekend home often has the evanescent quality of shipboard flings. But an enduring connection sparked at such retreats isn't completely the province of make believe. PAGE D1
Away
A Very Little Slice of Heaven
Vacation means leaving the front door to his Key West cottage open -- not just unlocked, but flung wide open. The cottage is where Murphy Davis comes to recharge from his busy work life in Sag Harbor, N.Y. PAGE D1
PARTIES AT YOUR WEEKEND HOME
Being able to entertain a big group at a weekend home and actually doing it are two different things. Steve Bailey offers some advice for having everyone up for the weekend. PAGE D2
High & Low D2
UNDER SAIL ON A FROZEN HUDSON
One-hundred years ago, dozens of ice yacht races on the Hudson River regularly drew large crowds. Now, the sport is kept alive by a small but dedicated group of enthusiasts. PAGE D5
Weekend
LIKE PEE-WEE FOOTBALL, AT OSCARS,
You Get a Prize Just for Competing
When some people say they are thrilled just to be nominated for an Oscar, they really mean it, David Carr writes. And we should be thrilled along with them, he adds. Even if a nominated film or actress never makes it to the podium, the spectacle-rich Oscars have the collateral effect of elevating impressive works. PAGE C1
Theater Review
Russians After Many Red Bulls
Austin Pendleton's production of ''Uncle Vanya,'' which opened at the Classic Stage Company, is in perpetual-motion. The actors playing Chekhov's characters are always pacing or running or jumping, and the impression ''is less of people running after elusive dreams than of actors running after elusive roles,'' Ben Brantley writes. PAGE C1
Film Reviews
Lesser-Known Mob Just as Brutal
What matters in the world of ''Gomorrah'' -- Matteo Garrone's film about the Camorra, the largest of Italy's crime gangs with 7,000 members -- is that people kill other people casually, as if taking out the garbage. And unlike so many Hollywood crime movies, there is no thrilling violence in ''Gomorrah;'' there is only grotesque violence and waste, Manohla Dargis writes. PAGE C1
A BAD BANK, MORALLY, NOT FISCALLY
''The International,'' a sleek travelogue thriller about the villainy of banks directed by Tom Tykwer, is so undistinguished, A. O. Scott writes, that the moments you remember best are those that you wish another, more original director had tackled. PAGE C8
RETAIL THERAPY'S LIMITATIONS
''Confessions of a Shopaholic,'' based on two popular novels by the British author Madeleine Wickham, is the story of an excessive shopper. Everything you think might happen does. But the cute title and premise aside, the film registers more as a story of female self-improvement, Manohla Dargis writes. PAGE C14
Television Reviews
Jerk Pitcher in Retirement
Will Ferrell and Adam McKay are executive producers of ''Eastbound & Down'' (beginning Sunday on HBO). The show, created by and starring Danny McBride, is tailored to their tastes (read intelligent fraternity humor), but feels like a margarine, not butter, version of ''Talladega Nights: The Ballad of Ricky Bobby,'' Ginia Bellafante writes. PAGE C17
BRAINWASH, RINSE, REPEAT
In Fox's new ''Dollhouse,'' by Joss Whedon, the creator of ''Buffy the Vampire Slayer,'' the body is infinitely perfectible and the mind ever malleable: scientists take a real woman, brainwash her into thinking like a robot and erase her memory after each assignment. Reviewed by Alessandra Stanley. PAGE C19
Art Review
Rethinking a Typecast Painter
''Becoming Edvard Munch'' at the Art Institute of Chicago. Reviewed by Roberta Smith. PAGE C27
Holland Cotter on 'Manzoni: A Retrospective' at Gagosian Gallery C27
Editorial
AFTER THE STIMULUS
While it is beyond the scope of any one piece of legislation to counter the worst recession in modern memory, the $789 billion stimulus and recovery package could have accomplished so much more. The administration's next shot at this puzzle will be President Obama's first budget bill. Page A30
VACCINES EXONERATED ON AUTISM
A federal court issued three verdicts on Thursday that should help end lingering fears that childhood vaccines can and have caused autism. Page A30
MR. TSVANGIRAI'S LEAP OF FAITH
We hope Zimbabwe's new prime minister, Morgan Tsvangirai, will be able to achieve his ambitious and essential goals. If there is any real hope, African leaders must pressure Robert Mugabe -- Zimbabwe's illegitimate president -- to stop tormenting the opposition and let Mr. Tsvangirai do his job. And they must make clear that if Mr. Mugabe does not, they will finally stop protecting him. Page A30
Op-ed
PAUL KRUGMAN
It's early yet, but we're falling behind the curve. America just isn't rising to the challenge of the greatest economic crisis in 70 years. Page A31
DAVID BROOKS
Cognitive scientists distinguish between normal risk-assessment decisions and decisions made amid extreme uncertainty. In 2009, Americans were suddenly thrust into the realm of extreme uncertainty. Economists and policy makers had no way to peer into this darkness. Page A31
THE MAGGOTS IN YOUR MUSHROOMS
Salmonella-tainted peanut butter has sickened 500 people and killed eight -- but how much do we really know about what is in our food supply? In an Op-Ed article, E. J. Levy takes a look at the list of contaminants that the F.D.A. actually allows, including insect eggs, rodent hairs and cigarette butts. Page A31

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (87%); TERRORISM (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); HOLOCAUST (76%); IMMIGRATION LAW (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); HIJACKING (74%); DEPORTATION (74%); VANDALISM (74%); HAMAS (71%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (68%); EXPORT CONTROLS (66%); MODEMS (64%); FIRES (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (54%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (50%)

PERSON: HUGO CHAVEZ (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (78%) SRI LANKA (94%); CHINA (93%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (93%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); NETHERLANDS (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



488 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Retooling in Janesville

BYLINE: By STEVEN GREENHOUSE

 BODY:
JANESVILLE, Wis.-- Kevin Corkhill grew up in a time and place where manufacturing was king. But ever since he was laid off from the gargantuan General Motors plant here, Mr. Corkhill seems bewildered by what the future holds.
He still has not decided whether to try to transfer to another G.M. plant, change occupations or return to school. Visiting the local United Automobile Workers hall recently, Mr. Corkhill stopped by a musty display case to show his 8-year-old son a black-and-white photograph inside -- it was Mr. Corkhill's grandfather carrying an artillery shell made at the plant during World War II.
''My grandfather worked here, and my father worked here,'' he said. ''The one thing my father told me is you work hard to make things better for the next generation, but now I worry we won't be able to do that anymore.''
He turned his head to hide his tears from his son. 
In this city, the loss of the 90-year-old G.M. plant and its 2,500 jobs has created a swirling mixture of anger, confusion, worry and hurt, underscoring how the recession is raising anxiety among workers nationwide. Combined with the shuttering of several nearby suppliers, the G.M. closing meant a loss of 4,000 jobs in this city of 64,000.
Their union contract has given these workers more relief than many.
With few local employers hiring, more than 1,000 of those laid off have returned to school, seeking to reboot their lives by studying welding, nursing, cooking and other fields, thanks, in part, to the contract's tuition assistance.
The contract also provides a substantial financial cushion: 48 weeks of unemployment benefits at three-quarters pay, and health insurance. But when that runs out, it will be hard for them to find jobs paying close to the $28 an hour they averaged assembling Chevy Tahoes and Suburbans and GMC Yukons.
''We found that 76 percent of the laid-off people we've worked with made $20 or more an hour,'' said Robert T. Borremans, executive director of the Southwest Wisconsin Workforce Development Board, which helps retrain and find jobs for laid-off workers. ''There aren't many $20-an-hour jobs in the area. If people need that much to maintain their lifestyle, they'll need to look elsewhere.''
The hope is that things will be better a year from now. ''What surprises me is how resilient and optimistic a lot of people have been,'' said Mr. Borremans, whose agency nearly fills a shuttered Kmart. ''They're willing to work and rebuild.''
Many are moving on. Kimberly Pope, after 30 years at G.M., where she worked as an electrician, has applied to train as a radiology technician. Bill Truman, a laid-off truck driver for a G.M. supplier, is planning to study logistics and warehouse management. Diane Kudrna, one of 800 workers at the recently shuttered Lear factory here that made S.U.V. seats, has become a $12.50-an-hour veterinarian's assistant.
And Robert Phelps, after 13 years at Lear, has plunged into a two-year culinary program at Blackhawk Technical College, eager to pursue his long-deferred dream of opening his own restaurant or catering service. Returning to school became financially possible, he said, only because his wife recently landed a job as a secretary for the school district.
''Things happen for a reason,'' Mr. Phelps said. ''I strongly feel there was some intervention here. The plant shutdown opened up a lot of doors for me.''
Blackhawk Tech's enrollment has jumped by 1,800 over last year, a 23 percent increase.
''One-third to one-half of the people laid off will come our way,'' said Eric Larson, the school's president. ''They're looking for short-term education that will lead to high-wage jobs. My concern is, 'Will the jobs be there once we get them retrained?' ''
John Beckord's job is to help make sure there are jobs. As the president of Forward Janesville, an economic development agency, he is optimistic, boasting that Janesville is centrally located between Milwaukee, Chicago and Minneapolis and has a hard-working, well-educated work force. Janesville just spent $72 million renovating its two high schools, and there are three state colleges within 10 miles.
''You have an eager local government that is willing to roll out the red carpet for companies, not the red tape,'' Mr. Beckord said.
That may not be enough to attract business in a downturn. For that reason, many workers with 20 or more years at G.M. are trying to transfer to other G.M. plants and reach 30 years, which would entitle them to a full pension of $36,000 a year. Problem is, beleaguered G.M. is hiring few transfers.
Workers fear their generous safety net will prove inadequate if the recession is long and deep. What will happen to their families if they cannot find new jobs before their benefits run out?
Some pray that before their 48 weeks of unemployment benefits run out, G.M. will reopen the plant, enabling them to return to their jobs.
Others call that a pipe dream; Mr. Borremans termed it ''reality avoidance.''
Mr. Corkhill, the grandson of the World War II veteran, had hoped to transfer to another plant, but has become pessimistic about his chances. To make ends meet, he has eliminated his telephone landline and cut back on premium cable television.
''I'm very angry about the whole economic picture,'' he said.
The mood was far different last February when a candidate named Barack Obama campaigned at the plant, trumpeting a $150 billion jobs plan and saying that with some retooling and federal aid, ''this plant will be here for another 100 years.''
But soon oil prices soared, the economy swooned and a 40 percent drop in S.U.V. sales sealed the plant's fate.
Ms. Pope, the former G.M. electrician -- proud that she sent her two children to Marquette University and the University of Wisconsin -- worries now that ''there won't be opportunities for people like myself to make a middle-class income because the industrial base is so eroded. The jobs that pay $25, $30 an hour where you can afford to help your kids through college and not worry about money, those jobs are becoming more and more scarce. G.M. gave me a wonderful opportunity and my kids a wonderful opportunity, and I don't see those opportunities around anymore.''
That is why Andy Richardson, president of the U.A.W. local here, and a 24-year G.M. man, hopes to transfer to another plant. He plans to move without his family -- his wife has a good job at a credit union, his two daughters are star athletes, and he thinks selling their house would be impossible.
''I want to be able to come back on weekends or every other weekend,'' he said. ''I'll miss my family.''
He hopes to transfer no more than five hours away, perhaps to Fort Wayne, Ind., or to Lansing, Mich. He, too, tried to hide his tears.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Kevin Corkhill, top, hasn't decided what he will do after being laid off by General Motors. Above, The G.M. plant in Janesville, Wis.(B1)
Robert Phelps, right, in a culinary class. He worked at Lear, an auto supplier, in Janesville for 13 years before being laid off.
 Andy Richardson, head of the U.A.W. local in Janesville, hopes to work at another G.M. plant. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDY MANIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B5) MAP: Janesville lost 4,000 jobs when the G.M. plant closed. Map details Janesville, Wisconsin.(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); EMPLOYEE TUITION ASSISTANCE (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (71%); TUITION FEES (71%); LABOR UNIONS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (71%); WORLD WAR II (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (63%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL UNION UNITED AUTOMOBILE AEROSPACE & AGRICULTURAL IMPLEMENT WORKERS OF AMERICA (59%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



489 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 646 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Agents Scrutinize Texas Firm

BYLINE: By JULIE CRESWELL

 BODY:
For years, R. Allen Stanford, a flamboyant Texas billionaire, richly rewarded the well-heeled clients of his private investment empire.
But now federal authorities are investigating whether those rewards were simply too good to be true.
Several federal agencies, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the F.B.I. and the Internal Revenue Service, have spent ''many months'' looking into the business activities of the Stanford Financial Group, which is based in Houston, and Mr. Stanford's bank based in Antigua, which issues high-yielding certificates of deposit, according to two individuals briefed on the investigations who were not authorized to speak publicly.
The focus of the investigations appears to be how the bank could issue C.D.'s that pay interest rates that are more than twice the national average. 
A spokesman for Stanford Financial said the company had been told by the S.E.C. and by the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, a securities industry oversight group, that ''their visits to our offices were part of a routine examination.''
The spokesman said those visits occurred in January. Embarrassed by their delayed response to multiple opportunities to reveal the $50 billion Ponzi scheme that Bernard L. Madoff is suspected of orchestrating, regulators are turning up the heat on money-management firms that appear to be performing significantly better than their peers.
This is not the first time Stanford's business operations have raised eyebrows.
Stanford, a diversified financial firm that offers a broad array of services, including investment banking and research, holds about $8 billion in deposits at its bank and has about $50 billion in assets in its wealth management affiliate, according to its spokesman.
However, a wrongful-termination suit filed in a state court in Texas last summer alleges the asset sizes may have been inflated. The two former Stanford brokers who filed the suit said they had left the firm amid fears they could be implicated in the various ''unethical and illegal business practices'' they claim to have witnessed.
In their suit, they claim Stanford overstated the asset value of individuals in order to mislead potential investors, failed to file mandatory forms disclosing its clients' offshore accounts, and purged electronic data from its computers in response to an S.E.C. investigation. A lawyer representing the two men did not return a call.
Stanford, which filed a countersuit against the two men seeking repayment of certain loans, denied the men's accusations.
''These allegations were made by disgruntled employees and are totally without merit. Our company follows industry standards in generating marketing and sales plans, we are rigorously managed and fully compliant with all U.S. regulations,'' the company said in a statement.
A colorful and controversial figure, Mr. Stanford has claimed ties to Leland Stanford, the former governor of California who started Stanford University in the 1800s. The university, however, has said there is no genealogical relationship between the two.
Mr. Stanford and his firm have also emerged in recent years as major contributors to various lawmakers, appearing to focus particularly on legislators considering bills that would change offshore banking rules.
And a decade ago, Mr. Stanford told The Associated Press that he had flown a Roman Catholic priest displaying signs of ''stigmata,'' or bleeding wounds on his wrists and ankles, from the tiny Caribbean island of Antigua to New York City on his jet.
Mr. Stanford, who his firm said was unavailable for comment, ranked 205th last year on the Forbes annual list of the richest people in the United States, with an estimated net worth of $2.2 billion. On Antigua, he is akin to royalty, being knighted by the former prime minister, referring to himself as ''Sir Allen Stanford'' on the company's Web site.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Several federal agencies, including the F.B.I. and the I.R.S., have spent recent months looking into the business activities of the Stanford Financial Group, run by R. Allen Stanford.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE SKIPPER/REUTERS)
 The headquarters of Stanford Financial in Houston, which has been sued by two former brokers.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CRAIG HARTLEY/BLOOMBERG NEWS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); AFFLUENT MARKET (89%); LITIGATION (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (76%); ETHICS (75%); LAWYERS (74%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); PONZI SCHEMES (66%); DISMISSALS (63%); GOVERNORS (56%); INTEREST RATES (54%); ECONOMIC NEWS (54%); SALES PLAN (50%); MARKETING PLAN (50%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (84%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (84%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (58%); FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (93%); BERNARD MADOFF (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ANTIGUA & BARBUDA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



490 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1399 words

HEADLINE: SPARE TIMES

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
FOR CHILDREN
LAUREL GRAEBER
B.Y.O.K. (Sunday) Once people become parents, they often leave their B.Y.O.B. days behind. Now 92YTriBeCa, a new satellite of the 92nd Street Y, is offering the perfect substitute: B.Y.O.K., or Bring Your Own Kid. As the title implies, this series is devoted to cross-generational fun, and so on Sunday it will present a concert from Kidrockers, which books events with hot or up-and-coming rock bands whose sound will attract ages 3 to 13 (and parents). Sunday offers two Brooklyn groups, Chairlift and the Bloodsugars. At 1 p.m., 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street, (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org/BYOK; $15. 
'CUCKOO FOR COURTSHIP' (Saturday) Many children cringe at love scenes in movies or television, but most will find the romantic partners in this program thoroughly interesting: they're animals. In celebration of Valentine's Day, the Queens Zoo will teach families about the undying devotion of thick-billed parrots (they mate for life), the elaborate courtship dance of the sandhill crane and the wooing rituals of other species. From 10 a.m. to noon, 53-51 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 271-1500, queenszoo.com; $20 for one adult and one child; $16 for members (includes zoo admission).
'DEAR EDWINA' (Friday through Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) What if Ann Landers had been a child -- and she could sing? Then she might have been Edwina Spoonapple, the young heroine of this charming new musical by Zina Goldrich and Marcy Heisler (''Junie B. Jones''). Edwina is an advice columnist who delivers her counsel tunefully, and this show details her quest to be in a festival. (Through April 19.) Friday at 4 p.m.; Saturday at 1, 4 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m. and 1 and 4 p.m.; Monday at 1 and 4 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday at 1 p.m.; DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dearedwina.com; $39.
'THE FESTIVAL OF THE VEGETABLES' (Saturday and Sunday) Children don't always welcome vegetables, but they should make an exception for these: they're stars in a theater-dance-music piece about the produce-filled dreams of a toddler who falls asleep in a grocery store. Written by Michael Kosch and choreographed by his wife, Rachael Kosch, the production, for ages 5 and older, includes a brussels sprout that chases strollers and a red cabbage that's a Romeo. At 11 a.m., Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302, metropolitanplayhouse.org; $12; $10 for children 12 and younger.
'GOLLY GEE WHIZ' (Saturday and Sunday) It's no accident that the main characters in the opening production of Tada! Youth Theater's season are named Judy and Mickey. This musical, a revival from 1999, captures the high spirits of 1930s pop culture, when stars like Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney were all the rage. The action takes place in 1939 in Happyville, where the teenage residents decide to boost the economy by putting on a show. (Maybe it will give audience members a few ideas.) Saturday and Sunday at 2 and 4 p.m., 15 West 28th Street, Manhattan, second floor, (212) 252-1619, Ext. 128, tadatheater.com; $20; $8 for ages 15 and under; premium tickets (with preferred seating), $25 and $15.
'HARRY THE DIRTY DOG' (Saturday through Wednesday) Manhattan Children's Theater has revived this 45-minute show, which is a delight for ages 3 to 8 and a source of solace to parents. After all, what if all their bath-hating toddlers were dogs? The play, adapted by Karen Abbott from Gene Zion's book of the same title, follows the adventures of the title character, a usually amiable mutt who has a strong antipathy for soap and water. (Through Feb. 22.) Saturday through Monday at noon and 2 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 11 a.m.; 52 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com; $20.
'JAZZ-A-MA-TAZZ GOES GREEN!' (Sunday) The saxophonist Hayes Greenfield will lead an interactive tour of the jazz scene, including numbers from his most recent release, ''Music for a Green Planet,'' whose environmentally themed tunes are based on children's songs. Young listeners (the concert is recommended for ages 4 to 10) are encouraged to clap, call out responses and, yes, dance. At noon, Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, near Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 614-0505, bowerypoetry.com; $10.
KIDS WEEK (Saturday through Thursday) The U.S.S. Intrepid has been back in New York Harbor for a while, but now children will really feel that their ship has come in: this aircraft carrier turned museum has reinstituted its Kids Week, a winter break celebration with events, displays and workshops. Highlights include ''Science in the Circus,'' Ringling Brothers shows, on Saturday and Sunday; sports themes on Monday and Wednesday; exhibits from the New York Hall of Science on Tuesday; and workshops and performances by Rosie's Broadway Kids on Thursday. (Through Feb. 22). Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum, Pier 86, 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, (212) 245-0072, intrepidmuseum.org. Free with museum admission: $19.50; $15.50 for 62+, veterans and college students; $14.50 for ages 6 to 17; $7.50 for 2 to 5; free for under 2, retired and active-duty military and members.
'THE LIFE AND WORK OF GEORGE WASHINGTON CARVER' (Friday through Thursday) A bean may not seem very intriguing on a child's plate, but offer it under a microscope, and this lowly legume becomes exciting. That's just one of the learning opportunities presented by this program in the Everett Children's Garden at the New York Botanical Garden, which celebrates Carver (1864-1943), the pioneering African-American botanist. Children can also conduct experiments, explore an exhibition about his life and plant a soybean to take home. (Through Feb. 22.) On Tuesday and Wednesday the Botanical Garden will also celebrate Black History Month with ''Hooray for Martin Luther King,'' an interactive children's show at 1 p.m. in the Arthur and Janet Ross Lecture Hall. Carver program hours: Friday, 1:30 to 4:30 p.m.; Saturday through Thursday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. Combination tickets (includes the grounds, the children's garden and other displays): $13; $11 for ages 62+ and students; $5 for 2 to 12; free for under 2.
MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (Monday through Thursday) Winter break is a time for movies, and this museum will engage children in making them as well as watching them. Daily workshops at noon and 2 p.m. will teach them how to create their own stop-motion animations and share them online (recommended for ages 8 and older). Young visitors can also enjoy ''Behind the Screen,'' a permanent exhibition on the film industry (10 a.m. to 5 p.m.), and daily screenings of ''The Wrong Trousers,'' an animated film featuring that lovable pair the inventor Wallace and his faithful dog, Gromit (1 and 3 p.m.). 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us. Workshops: $5 materials fee; reservations, (718) 777-6820. Screenings are free, though a $5 contribution is suggested.
JUSTIN ROBERTS AND THE NOT READY FOR NAPTIME PLAYERS (Saturday) Mr. Roberts, once the leader of the indie-rock band Pimentos for Gus, is now doing indie for the youngest rockers. At this concert he and his band will play tunes from his latest album, ''Pop Fly,'' as well as the CD preceding it, which has a title all families can relate to: ''Meltdown.'' At 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org. Tickets in advance: $25; $15 for children. Day of show: $27 and $17. Members: $20; $10 for children.
'A YEAR WITH FROG AND TOAD' (Saturday and Sunday) Along with Oscar and Felix -- or, for young audiences, Bert and Ernie -- Frog and Toad are among the arts world's great Odd Couples. This musical, by the brothers Robert Reale (music) and Willie Reale (book and lyrics), brings to life their friendship, first imagined by Arnold Lobel in his 1970s series of children's books. A scaled-down version of the show that ran on Broadway in 2004, ''Frog and Toad'' has found a perfect home in Atlantic for Kids, the children's wing of the Atlantic Theater Company. (Through March 1.) At 10:30 a.m., Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (646) 216-1190, atlantictheater.org; $15; $10 for under 12 and members.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); FAMILY (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); CHOREOGRAPHY (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (72%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (72%); POP & ROCK (71%); DANCE (71%); MUSICAL THEATER (71%); WRITERS (71%); ADVICE COLUMNS (69%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (63%); THEATER (53%)

ORGANIZATION: THE 92ND STREET YOUNG MEN'S & YOUNG WOMEN'S HEBREW ASSOCIATION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



491 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; NEWS ANALYSIS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1258 words

HEADLINE: Ailing Banks And U.S. Aid

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR; Eric Dash contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Some of the nation's large banks, according to economists and other finance experts, are like dead men walking.
A sober assessment of the growing mountain of losses from bad bets, measured in today's marketplace, would overwhelm the value of the banks' assets, they say. The banks, in their view, are insolvent.
None of the experts' research focuses on individual banks, and there are certainly exceptions among the 50 largest banks in the country. Nor do consumers and businesses need to fret about their deposits, which are federally insured. And even banks that might technically be insolvent can continue operating for a long time, and could recover their financial health when the economy improves.
But without a cure for the problem of bad assets, the credit crisis that is dragging down the economy will linger, as banks cannot resume the ample lending needed to restart the wheels of commerce. The answer, say the economists and experts, is a larger, more direct government role than in the Treasury Department's plan outlined this week. 
The Treasury program leans heavily on a sketchy public-private investment fund to buy up the troubled mortgage-backed securities held by the banks. Instead, the experts say, the government needs to plunge in, weed out the weakest banks, pour capital into the surviving banks and sell off the bad assets.
It is the basic blueprint that has proved successful, they say, in resolving major financial crises in recent years.
Japan endured a lost decade of economic stagnation in the 1990s before it adopted such measures from 2001 to 2003.
The Swedish government took tough steps in 1992 and Washington did so in 1987 to 1989 to overcome the savings and loan crisis.
''The historical record shows that you have to do it eventually,'' said Adam S. Posen, a senior fellow at the Peterson Institute for International Economics. ''Putting it off only brings more troubles and higher costs in the long run.''
Of course, the Obama administration's stimulus plan could help to spur economic recovery in a timely manner and the value of the banks' assets could begin to rise.
Absent that, the prescription would not be easy or cheap. Estimates of the capital injection needed in the United States range to $1 trillion and beyond. By contrast, the commitment of taxpayer money is the $350 billion remaining in the financial bailout approved by Congress last fall.
Meanwhile, the loss estimates keep mounting.
Nouriel Roubini, a professor of economics at the Stern School of Business at New York University, has been both pessimistic and prescient about the gathering credit problems. In a new report, Mr. Roubini estimates that total losses on loans by American financial firms and the fall in the market value of the assets they hold will reach $3.6 trillion, up from his previous estimate of $2 trillion.
Of the total, he calculates that American banks face half that risk, or $1.8 trillion, with the rest borne by other financial institutions in the United States and abroad.
''The United States banking system is effectively insolvent,'' Mr. Roubini said.
For its part, the banking industry bridles at such broad-brush analysis. The industry defines solvency bank by bank, and uses the value of a bank's assets as they are carried on its books rather than the market prices calculated by economists.
''Our analysis shows that the banks have varying degrees of solvency and does not reveal that any institution is insolvent,'' said Scott Talbott, senior vice president of government affairs at the Financial Services Roundtable, a trade group whose members include the largest banks.
Edward L. Yingling, president of the American Bankers Association, called claims of technical insolvency ''speculation by people who have no specific knowledge of bank assets.''
Mr. Roubini's numbers may be the highest, but many others share his rising sense of alarm. Simon Johnson, a former chief economist at the International Monetary Fund, estimates that the United States banks have a capital shortage of $500 billion. ''In a more severe recession, it will take $1 trillion or so to properly capitalize the banks,'' said Mr. Johnson, an economist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology.
At the end of January, the I.M.F. raised its estimate of the potential losses from loans and other credit securities originated in the United States to $2.2 trillion, up from $1.4 trillion last October. Over the next two years, the I.M.F. estimated, United States and European banks would need at least $500 billion in new capital, a figure more conservative than those of many economists.
Still, these numbers are all based on estimates of the value of complex mortgage-backed securities in a very uncertain economy. ''At this moment, the liabilities they have far exceed their assets,'' said Mr. Posen of the Peterson institute. ''They are insolvent.''
Yet, as Mr. Posen and other economists note, there are crucial issues of timing and market psychology that surround the discussion of bank solvency. If one assumes that current conditions reflect a temporary panic, then the value of the banks' distressed assets could well recover over time. If not, many banks may be permanently impaired.
''We won't know what the losses are on these mortgage-backed securities, and we won't until the housing market stabilizes,'' said Richard Portes, an economist at the London Business School.
Raghuram G. Rajan, a professor of finance and an economist at the University of Chicago graduate business school, draws the distinction between ''liquidation values'' and those of calmer times, or ''going concern values.'' In a troubled time for banks, Mr. Rajan said, analysts are constantly scrutinizing current and potential losses at the banks, but that is not the norm.
''If they had to sell these securities today, the losses would be far beyond their capital at this point,'' he said. ''But if the prices of these assets will recover over the next year or so, if they don't have to sell at distress prices, the banks could have a new lease on life by giving them some time.''
That sort of breathing room is known as regulatory forbearance, essentially a bet by regulators that time will help heal banking troubles. It has worked before.
In the 1980s, during the height of the Latin American debt crisis, the total risk to the nine money-center banks in New York was estimated at more than three times the capital of those banks. The regulators, analysts say, did not force the banks to value those loans at the fire-sale prices of the moment, helping to avert a disaster in the banking system.
In the current crisis, experts warn, banks need to get rid of bad assets quickly. The Treasury's public-private investment fund is an effort to do that.
But many economists and other finance experts say that the government may soon have to take on troubled assets itself to resolve the credit crisis. Then, they say, the government could wait for the economy to improve.
Initially, that would put more taxpayer money on the line, but in the end it might reduce overall losses. That is what happened during the savings and loan crisis, when the troubled assets, mostly real estate, were seized by the Resolution Trust Corporation, a government-owned asset management company, and sold over a few years.
The eventual losses, an estimated $130 billion, were far less than if the assets had been sold immediately.
''The taxpayer money would be used to acquire assets, and behind most of those securities are mortgages, houses, and we know they are not worthless,'' Mr. Portes said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: An Estimate: Adding Up Bank Losses: Analysts say they believe that banks will have more losses, but estimates vary of how much. Here is a breakdown by RGE Monitor, a consulting firm started by Nouriel Roubini, an economics professor at New York University. RGE's total estimated bank losses are $1.7 trillion to $1.8 trillion.(Source: RGE Monitor) Chart details bar graphs. (pg. A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (88%); SAVINGS & LOANS (78%); PUBLIC PRIVATE INVESTMENT PROGRAM (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); CATASTROPHIC LOSSES (77%); BAILOUTS (76%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); HISTORY (71%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (66%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (66%); APPROVALS (64%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (78%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWEDEN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



492 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; STOCKS & BONDS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 663 words

HEADLINE: Shares Bounce Back From Steep Losses

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY; Matthew Saltmarsh contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Just as Wall Street was peering over the abyss, stocks staged a last-minute turnaround.
The major indexes were diving Thursday afternoon; the Dow sank to its lowest levels in three months. But in the last hour of trading, Reuters reported that the Obama administration was working on a plan to subsidize mortgage payments to keep struggling homeowners out of foreclosure.
The market turned on a dime as jumpy investors seized on the report as an excuse to push shares sharply higher. 
The Dow Jones industrial average regained nearly 240 points in the final hour to close down just 6.77 points, or 0.1 percent, at 7,932.76.
The broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, which had come in sight of its late-November lows, raced back and closed higher by 1.45 points, or nearly 0.2 percent, at 835.19. The technology-heavy Nasdaq finished up 11.21 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,541.71.
''Indecision is breeding nervousness, nervousness is breeding volatility, and that's what we're seeing,'' said Anthony Conroy, head equity trader at BNY ConvergEx Group.
Analysts said they were happy to see that the major indexes had not fallen below the lows they hit on Nov. 20, but they conceded that the fundamentals of the financial market and the economy were still the same at day's end. Investors are still pessimistic about the scope of the recession, and they still worry that the government's $790 billion stimulus and its plans to shore up the banking system may not work.
''This is something we're going to have to work through, and that's what people are nervous about -- there's not that quick-fix answer,'' Mr. Conroy said.
Financial stocks were still a drag on the market on Thursday. Shares of Citigroup, Bank of America, Wells Fargo and PNC Financial Services were lower.
The downward turn on Thursday added to steep losses over the previous two days, when investors reacted negatively to the federal government's latest moves to shore up the banking system and address the hard-to-sell assets weighing down banks.
On Tuesday, Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner outlined sweeping measures whose price tag could total $2.5 trillion, but investors said the plans were short on details.
''The world had been looking to Geithner and the U.S. Senate for a cure-all,'' said Michael Holland, chairman of Holland & Company, an investment firm. ''They vote instantaneously, and they voted a global thumbs-down. And it's feeding on itself.''
At a hearing in Washington on Wednesday, Mr. Geithner said the Obama administration would move quickly to develop the latest bank bailout plans, but he defended the lack of specificity, saying he did not want to introduce a fully designed program prematurely.
With most of the fourth-quarter corporate earnings reports already out, analysts said that Wall Street increasingly would look to Washington for cues on how to move. Despite some improvement in bank-to-bank borrowing rates and in the market for high-quality corporate debt, credit markets remain tight and banks are still skittish about lending.
''Nothing can really improve until credit begins to flow,'' said David Darst, chief investment strategist of Morgan Stanley's global wealth management group.
Markets were lower at the close of trading in Europe.
''Today we have seen quite broad-based selling,'' said Espen Furnes, a fund manager at Storebrand Asset Management in Oslo. ''There is a more cautious stance after what has happened this week and some disappointing earnings.''
Still, Mr. Furnes also sounded a note of cautious optimism.
''There are people out there with cash who want to buy in, but they need more encouragement and more stability,'' he said, adding that the market is not experiencing the volume of selling that was seen last fall.
The Treasury's 10-year note rose 2/32, to 99 23/32. The yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 2.79 percent, from 2.82 percent late Wednesday.
Following are the results of Thursday's Treasury auction of 30-year bonds:

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Sources: Associated Press
Bloomberg)
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.
Tax-Exempt Yields: Average yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, plotted weekly.(Source: The Bond Buyer)
 Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities.(Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); FORECLOSURE (76%); BANK FAILURES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (69%); BAILOUTS (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (64%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); CONVERGEX INC (55%); PNC FINANCIAL SERVICES GROUP INC (52%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); PNC (NYSE) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (55%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



493 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1228 words

HEADLINE: 2nd Pick to Run Commerce Dept. Withdraws Bid

BYLINE: By JEFF ZELENY; Jackie Calmes and David Stout contributed reporting from Washington, and Helene Cooper from East Peoria, Ill.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Senator Judd Gregg of New Hampshire abruptly withdrew Thursday as the nominee for commerce secretary, saying he had ''irresolvable conflicts'' with President Obama over his economic stimulus plan and a concern over what many fellow Republicans believe is the politicization of the 2010 census.
The departure of Mr. Gregg is the latest setback to a White House that has struggled to fill several top positions and to fulfill Mr. Obama's pledge of building a bipartisan administration. He is the third prospective cabinet secretary -- the second for the Commerce Department -- to remove his name from consideration.
''I'm a fiscal conservative, as everybody knows, a fairly strong one,'' Mr. Gregg told reporters at a news conference in the Capitol. ''And it just became clear to me that it would be very difficult, day in and day out, to serve in this cabinet or any cabinet.'' 
''It was my mistake, obviously, to say yes,'' he added.
But the political fallout is left to the White House, which now has a string of appointees who have stepped aside over vetting problems, unpaid taxes or philosophical differences with Mr. Obama. Since the president took office last month, not a week has passed without the White House responding to a personnel crisis.
Mr. Gregg said he alerted Mr. Obama to his decision ''several days ago,'' but administration officials said the senator's withdrawal had taken them off guard.
The White House sought to contain the political fallout, issuing a terse statement and pointing out that Mr. Gregg had said he would ''support, embrace and move forward with the president's agenda.''
Mr. Obama, traveling in Illinois, told reporters that he had spoken to Mr. Gregg on Wednesday but that he did not know he planned to withdraw until Thursday. He said that the senator had had a ''change of heart'' and that he intended to keep his pledge of a bipartisan cabinet.
''I am going to keep working at this,'' said Mr. Obama, adding that the American people were ''desperate'' for Democrats and Republicans to work together.
Mr. Gregg would have been the third Republican in the cabinet. The others are Defense Secretary Robert M. Gates and Transportation Secretary Ray LaHood.
The appearance by Mr. Gregg at his news conference in the Capitol was one of the few he had made in public all week. Senators assumed that he was preparing for his confirmation hearings, but he was huddled with his wife, Kathy, and a small circle of advisers trying to determine how he could undo his decision last week to join the Obama administration.
Mr. Gregg did not vote on the administration's $789 billion economic stimulus plan the first time it came up in the Senate. He declined to tell reporters on Thursday how he would vote when the bill came up for final passage, but he expressed his disagreement with the policy by criticizing the plan in his withdrawal statement.
''It has become apparent during this process,'' Mr. Gregg said, ''that this will not work for me, as I have found that on issues such as the stimulus package and the census, there are irresolvable conflicts for me.''
''We are functioning,'' he added, ''from a different set of views on many critical items of policy.''
The White House signaled last week that it would exert greater control over the Census Bureau, in part because of a concern among minority groups over Mr. Gregg's leading the Commerce Department. Then, in response to complaints by Republicans, the administration said that it would work closely with the director of the census, but that the census would not be under the direction of the White House.
The Senate majority leader, Harry Reid, Democrat of Nevada, had recommended Mr. Gregg for commerce secretary. The White House accepted Mr. Reid's suggestion, in part, because the president had said he wanted his cabinet to be filled with a variety of viewpoints.
Mr. Gregg praised Mr. Obama for this in his news conference. ''He has been a person who has reached out and aggressively reached out, across the aisle,'' the senator said. ''And I immensely respect that, and I immensely respect him.''
The roster of fallen cabinet nominees also includes Tom Daschle, who stepped aside last week as the nominee for health and human services secretary because of questions about unpaid taxes, and Gov. Bill Richardson of New Mexico, who withdrew from consideration as commerce secretary because of an investigation into state contracts.
Mr. Obama's choice for chief performance officer, Nancy Killefer, pulled her name from consideration because of unpaid payroll taxes for a household employee. Gen. Anthony C. Zinni was offered the position of ambassador to Iraq, but the opportunity was retracted.
Mr. Gregg will remain in the Senate and said he would help Mr. Obama accomplish some pieces of his agenda, like reworking Social Security. ''I do believe, genuinely, that I can be even more effective for this presidency in the Senate,'' Mr. Gregg said.
Mr. Gregg added that he would not seek re-election to a fourth term in 2010, making him the fifth Republican senator to announce plans to retire next year.
Rahm Emanuel, the White House chief of staff who had been a strong proponent of Mr. Gregg's nomination, sought to play down his decision to withdraw. ''It is better that it happened now,'' Mr. Emanuel said, ''than when you have someone in the government.''
Among the responsibilities facing the next commerce secretary is oversight of the government's multibillion-dollar rescue of the Detroit automakers Chrysler and General Motors.
Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, a West Virginia Democrat who is the chairman of the Commerce Committee, said he wished that Mr. Gregg had ''thought through the implications of his nomination more thoroughly before accepting this post.''
Later in the day, Mr. Gregg said the census had been ''only a slight issue'' in his decision to withdraw. But the census has been a major issue between Republicans and Democrats for years, and Mr. Gregg has been involved in the dispute. A decade ago, he resisted efforts by President Bill Clinton to increase financing for the 2000 census.
In recent days, Republicans have been upset by suspicions that the Obama administration sought to assert more direct control over the census, a prospect they called troubling given that the president's chief of staff, Mr. Emanuel, is a former Democratic congressman who helped his party win a majority in the House.
''We respectfully request that you reconsider and reverse your administration's plans to transfer control of the Census Bureau and the 2010 census to the White House staff,'' the House Republican leader, John A. Boehner of Ohio, wrote Thursday in a letter to the president.
The census has huge implications social and political. It is used to distribute federal money to states and cities based on population, and to redraw Congressional districts -- determining how many seats in the House that growing states will pick up at the expense of states with relatively stagnant populations.
White House officials said they did not have any leading contenders for commerce secretary. It could be difficult, they feared, to attract a strong candidate who would be the third person selected for the post.
The administration did have one key position filled Thursday when the Senate, by voice vote, confirmed Leon E. Panetta to run the Central Intelligence Agency.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FEB. 3, 2009: President Obama with Senator Judd Gregg.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
DEC. 3, 2008: Mr. Obama with Bill Richardson, his first choice.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A1)
 ''It just became clear to me that it would be very difficult'' to serve in this cabinet, Senator Judd Gregg said Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); PRESS CONFERENCES (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (70%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (90%)

PERSON: JUDD GREGG (91%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%); ROBERT M GATES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 26, 2011



494 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Even After the Deal, Tinkering Goes On

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN; Reporting was contributed by Michael Cooper in New York, and Carl Hulse, Jeff Zeleny and Kate Phillips in Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Congressional leaders moved swiftly on Thursday to schedule votes in the House and Senate on the $789 billion economic stimulus plan, while lawmakers spent much of the day hammering out the final details of the legislation. 
 Even as clerks were still drafting the measure, a broad array of industries and interest groups scrambled to calculate winners and losers in the final stimulus deal and in some cases engaged in fierce down-to-the-wire lobbying efforts for further adjustments.
 At some points on Thursday, there was confusion among top White House and Congressional officials over whether certain provisions were in the bill -- a bit discomfiting for House Democrats, who had promised at least 48 hours of public review before a vote. At 10:45 p.m., the final text was posted to a House Web site. 
 Among the last-minute changes on Thursday was a slight expansion of a tax break for businesses favored by the Senate Republicans who provided crucial votes for the bill. The provision lets companies claim refunds by applying current losses to prior profitable years.
 Another late insertion was a $3.2 billion tax break specifically intended for the failing auto giant General Motors that allows it to claim refunds for taxes paid in earlier, profitable years. General Motors and Chrysler received a multibillion dollar federal bailout in December to prevent them from collapsing. 
 The stimulus bill also includes limits on pay and bonuses for executives of companies that have received rescue money from the Treasury's financial system bailout program. The caps would apply not only to companies that get help in the future, but also to those that already accepted bailout money. 
 And while many initiatives were scaled back as Congress and the White House sought to cut the overall cost, there were some surprise increases, including a quadrupling of money for high-speed rail projects to $8 billion. 
 The White House pushed for the added money in the final rapid-fire negotiations, seeing it as a tangible way to create jobs and benefit different parts of the country. It also added a futuristic element to legislation that has been criticized as lacking forward vision. 
 Even before the legislative text was completed, the House majority leader, Representative Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland, scheduled a vote for Friday afternoon. Senate leaders were planning to vote later on Friday. 
 At the same time, Mr. Obama traveled to East Peoria, Ill., to continue his campaign-style effort to build public support for the stimulus plan. He appeared at a plant owned by Caterpillar, the heavy-equipment manufacturer that recently announced it would lay off 22,000 employees. 
 Republican opponents in Congress continued to criticize the stimulus package as a bloated spending bill that they said would fail to lift the economy but would saddle future generations with mountains of debt. Some said it was not too late to change course. 
 ''This bill has only gotten worse,'' the Senate Republican leader, Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, said. ''In my view, and in the view of my Republican colleagues, this is not the smart approach. The taxpayers of today and tomorrow will be left to clean up the mess.''
 Democrats, meanwhile, were exultant. 
 ''It will create millions of jobs, do so in a way that brings stability to the economy, does so to inspire confidence in people,'' Speaker Nancy Pelosi said at a news conference.
 For some of the key players in the stimulus deal, the negotiations continued nearly 24 hours after Congressional leaders and the White House announced that they had reached a deal on the package of tax cuts and new spending. 
 After yet another round of intense talks, Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, secured a deal allowing businesses with up to $15 million in gross receipts to make use of a tax break that allows current losses to be carried back over five years. 
 In scaling back the overall stimulus bill, from $838 billion in the Senate and $820 billion in the House, the White House and Congressional leaders had limited the provision to firms with up to $5 million in gross receipts, prompting intense lobbying by business leaders. 
 The expansion of the so-called net operating loss carry-back provision were just one of the many changes to the measure that became clear on Thursday. 
 One of the biggest changes was the increase for high-speed rail. Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, a key backer of the bill, introduced a high-speed rail bill in the fall. Ms. Snowe was a co-sponsor of that bill.
 The addition was cheered by transit advocates, who had been dismayed that the stimulus deal included only $8.4 billion for mass transit. ''After decades of looking on with envy at efficient bullet trains overseas, American high-speed rail is finally leaving the station,'' John Krieger of the U.S. Public Interest Research Group said in a statement.
 The money would only be a small down payment, though, toward bringing high-speed rail to fruition. Californians voted in November to approve $10 billion in borrowing to begin building a high-speed rail line; the state currently estimates that the project will cost $45 billion to complete.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); LOBBYING (79%); APPROPRIATIONS (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); LAYOFFS (72%); AUTOMAKERS (71%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (50%)

COMPANY: GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%)

TICKER: GM (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (55%)

PERSON: STENY HOYER (59%); BARACK OBAMA (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (51%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



495 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; 4A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Starbucks to Sell Instant Coffee

BYLINE: By REUTERS

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES 

 BODY:
Starbucks is moving into the instant coffee market as it works to shake off its reputation as a seller of expensive coffee drinks. 
 The company, based in Seattle, plans to unveil Via instant coffee on Tuesday and make it available next month.
 Starbucks says Via was in development for 20 years and replicates the taste of its coffee. Three single-serve Via packets will cost $2.95, and 12 packets will be $9.95.
 The move pits the company, which already sells its coffee beans in grocery stores and in its own shops, against giant food sellers with established instant coffee brands, including Nestle, the maker of Nescafe, and Kraft Foods, the maker of Sanka.
 Instant coffee, which Starbucks says has a $17 billion global market, was more popular decades ago in the United States and remains a staple in parts of Europe and Asia.
 ''Starbucks is trying to go where the customer is,'' Tom Forte of the Telsey Advisory Group said.
 Starbucks is ''giving a customer an opportunity to experience the brand at a lower price point,'' Mr. Forte said. ''The company is being aggressive in trying to generate sales in an increasingly weak economic environment.''
 Since its business began slowing in late 2007, Starbucks has closed more than a thousand stores, cut staff and reworked its menus.
 Last year, it rolled out loyalty programs and began offering discounts on purchases -- particularly during its slow afternoon hours.
 Sharon Zackfia, an analyst at William Blair & Company, said she would keep her expectations in check.
 ''I don't think it's going to move the needle much one way or another,'' she said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COFFEE (90%); COFFEE & TEA (90%); COFFEE MARKETS (90%); COFFEE & TEA STORES (90%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); LAYOFFS (78%); COFFEE & TEA MFG (78%); CONVENIENCE FOODS (78%); FOOD MFG (75%); SINGLE SERVING BEVERAGES (73%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (71%); BRANDING (70%); SALES & SELLING (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (66%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (64%)

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%); WILLIAM BLAIR & CO LLC (66%); NESTLE SA (57%); MONDELEZ INTERNATIONAL INC (57%)

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%); NESN (SWX) (57%); MDLZ (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (66%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (66%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (66%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (66%); NAICS312112 BOTTLED WATER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311920 COFFEE & TEA MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311514 DRY, CONDENSED & EVAPORATED DAIRY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311351 CHOCOLATE & CONFECTIONERY MANUFACTURING FROM CACAO BEANS (57%); NAICS311991 PERISHABLE PREPARED FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311821 COOKIE & CRACKER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311513 CHEESE MANUFACTURING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (92%) WASHINGTON, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%); ASIA (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



496 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; INSIDE ART; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1165 words

BYLINE: By CAROL VOGEL

 BODY:
After he had collected things as curious as antique locks, the Detroit developer Gilbert Silverman started to embrace art of the avant-garde. ''All I could afford was very late, contemporary art,'' he recalled. ''I liked Dada, but it was too expensive.'' 
 On a trip to Japan in 1970 he discovered the work of the so-called Fluxus artists: an anti-art movement made up of a loose international collective of young writers, musicians and artists in the early 1960s that included figures like Nam June Paik, Christo, Claes Oldenburg, Yoko Ono and George Brecht. The work was fun and engaging, so much so that Fluxus art soon became a 30-year, all-consuming passion for Mr. Silverman and his wife, Lila. 
 ''I've found material all over the world: Japan, Czechoslovakia, Germany, France, the United States,'' he said. Now Mr. Silverman, 84, and his wife have decided to give their entire Fluxus collection to the Museum of Modern Art, where he is an honorary trustee. The gift consists of about 3,000 works in many different mediums, like printed ephemera, multiples, drawings, sculptural objects, photographs and films. It also includes more than 4,000 files -- artists' correspondence, notebooks and scrapbooks as well as documents and photographs related to Fluxus performances and events -- and a reference library of more than 1,500 books and catalogs. 
 ''I've been attached to three museums: the Modern, the Detroit Institute of Art and the Israel Museum,'' Mr. Silverman said. ''But the Modern is the Mount Everest of the contemporary art museums, and I wanted it to be available to the public. It just makes sense.'' Once the collection is inventoried, it will be available at MoMA to scholars from all over the world. 
 For the museum the gift shores up its collections in an important chapter in the history of modern art, one that has clear roots in New York, said Peter Reed, MoMA's senior deputy director for curatorial affairs. ''It is a whole sector of the 1960s and early '70s that has not been a part of our narrative in the way American Pop Art and Minimalism has,'' he added. 
 AROMATIC INSTALLATION
 Imagine monumental, amorphous shapes of gossamer-thin fabric sacks that resemble massive teardrops or cow udders or even human intestines. Now picture them hanging from a ceiling in a bizarre cobweblike environment. That's what will emerge when the Brazilian artist Ernesto Neto takes over the cavernous drill shed at the Park Avenue Armory from May 15 through June 14. 
 The work of Mr. Neto, 44, who has created similar projects in Paris and Malmo, Sweden, will not only be tactile and visual but also aromatic. The membrane-like sacks are filled with a total of 1,800 pounds of pungent spices: turmeric and cumin, ginger, black pepper and clove.
 His largest such installation to date, Mr. Neto's commission is the start of what will be an annual program of site-specific contemporary art projects at the armory. ''The space will give artists an unprecedented opportunity to create large-scale work,'' said Rebecca Robertson, president of the Park Avenue Armory, who saw Mr. Neto's work at the Pantheon in Paris in 2006, an installation she described as ''a little bit heart stopping.''
 The new project has been financed in part with a $200,000 Rockefeller innovation grant and includes educational programs. 
 Mr. Neto said that when he came to New York to see the armory, he was overwhelmed not only by its scale but also by the raw state of the drill shed. ''It's a very kind of romantic space that is one city block,'' he said in a telephone interview from his home in Rio de Janeiro, explaining that this work will be divided into sections and floor pieces so that people will be able to walk through it. 
 ''I am trying to create a space where you have different experiences that you move through,'' he said. The pendulous sacks, he added, will be created to give the viewer the feeling that ''everything is falling down.'' 
 This isn't the first monumental project in the drill shed that has been installed under Ms. Robertson's watch. In September 2007 the artist Aaron Young created ''Greeting Card,'' a theatrical piece consisting of 10 motorcycle stunt riders performing for seven minutes on 288 panels of painted plywood covering the floor, the patterns from their ride creating colorful swirls and zigzags on the panels. 
 ''Greeting Card'' was organized by the nonprofit Art Production Fund, which presents art installations. Mr. Neto's project has been put together by Ms. Robertson and Tom Eccles, the armory's consulting curator and executive director of the Center for Curatorial Studies and Art in Contemporary Culture at Bard College. 
 ''You wouldn't encounter something like this anywhere else in New York,'' Mr. Eccles said. ''It's what the city needs -- a space where you can try out something daring.'' 
 AUCTION OF A BRETON 
 Christie's decision last month to merge two departments -- 19th-century European paintings with old masters -- has left an opening for Sotheby's. ''Now there are few other places to come and see just 19th-century paintings that are not the Impressionists,'' said Polly Satori, director of the Sotheby's 19th-century European art department. (Ms. Satori, it should be noted, ran Christie's 19th-century European art department from 1987 until 2000.)
 ''But we're not a museum, we're a business,'' she added. ''And in 2008 Sotheby's sold $41 million worth of 19th-century paintings. It's a good business. Ten of those works brought more than $1 million.'' 
 On April 24, when the auction house holds its 19th-century sale, Ms. Satori anticipates the audience will be eager to visit its York Avenue galleries. One of the attractions will be ''Washerwomen of the Breton Coast,'' an 1870 landscape by the French realist Jules Breton.
 The painting, which depicts a seascape with laundresses working by the water's edge, once belonged to Edwin Denison Morgan, governor of New York during the Civil War era and a United States senator who died in 1883. After the sale of his estate in 1886 the painting disappeared and was known to scholars only as a black-and-white image in books and monographs. 
 Much to Ms. Satori's surprise, the painting recently turned up in a Paris apartment, where the owner had hung it in his dining room since the 1950s. (No records of where he bought it exist, Ms. Satori said, nor can he remember where it came from.) Now Sotheby's is selling the painting, and experts there say it could fetch $400,000 to $500,000. 
 ''There's a real fan club for this artist,'' Ms. Satori said, adding that the price of the canvas was estimated conservatively given the tough economic climate. Several factors make the work particularly desirable, among them its large size -- more than 4 by 6 feet -- and its inclusion of several figures, something that was unusual for Breton. It is also a painting that he exhibited in the Paris Salon of 1870. ''That shows it was something he was proud of,'' she added. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Museum of Modern Art has received a collection of Fluxus art, including several versions of Fluxus 1, by various artists.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THE MUSEUM OF MODERN ART) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); WRITERS (75%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (70%); MOUNTAINS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (56%) NEW YORK, USA (71%); HIMALAYAS (53%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%); FRANCE (71%); GERMANY (56%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



497 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 421 words

HEADLINE: Israel Opens the Gaza Border for 25,000 Carnations, Bound for Europe

BYLINE: By ISABEL KERSHNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
Just in time for Valentine's Day, Israel allowed the export of a shipment of flowers from Hamas-run Gaza on Thursday for the first time in about a year, Israeli officials said. 
 The flowers, destined for Europe, are hardly a token of affection between Israel and the Islamic rulers of the Palestinian enclave, but they could portend a possible thaw in commercial relations in the context of a cease-fire. 
 The shipment of 25,000 carnations passed through the Kerem Shalom cargo terminal on the Israel-Gaza border at the Dutch government's request, according to Maj. Peter Lerner, a spokesman for the Israeli Defense Ministry agency that handles Palestinian civilian affairs. They are scheduled to be flown from Ben-Gurion Airport on Friday. 
 Gaza does not have a functioning airport or seaport, and it has no commercial crossing on its border with Egypt, so all exports have to pass through Israel. 
 When asked about the potential for additional exports, Major Lerner said, ''There are no further activities scheduled, but we will be reviewing the situation from time to time.''
 ''Basically it is a Palestinian decision -- whether they want to send flowers or rockets,'' he said.
 The gesture came less than a month after Israel ended its 22-day military offensive against Hamas in Gaza, which Israeli officials said was primarily intended to stop the firing of rockets into Israel. There has been a trickle of rocket and mortar fire since both sides began separate cease-fires on Jan. 18. Egypt is trying to broker broader understandings for a mutual cease-fire. 
 The main demand by Hamas is for an opening of the Gaza border crossings and the lifting of the embargo that Israel has imposed on the area since the Hamas takeover in June 2007. The blockade has crushed Gaza's economy. 
 Israel permits a flow of humanitarian aid into Gaza and recently increased the amount of goods going in to up to 200 truckloads a day. But almost no exports have been allowed.
 In November 2007, Israel announced that it would allow the export of some agricultural produce from Gaza, mainly flowers and strawberries destined for Europe. That move was part of an effort to create a positive atmosphere leading up to the American-sponsored peace gathering at Annapolis, Md., later that month. 
 The exports were cut short in 2008 by repeated attacks by Palestinian militants on the border crossings. Major Lerner said the last shipment of flowers was before Valentine's Day last year. 
 Gaza used to export about 60 million flowers a year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gazans prepared flowers on Thursday for shipment to Europe, the first export of flowers Israel has allowed in about a year.(PHOTOGRAPH BY IBRAHEEM ABU MUSTAFA/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); HAMAS (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); EXPORT CONTROLS (89%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (78%); AIR FREIGHT (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); HARBORS & PORTS (73%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (69%); RELIGION (57%)

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (50%) MARYLAND, USA (79%); MARYLAND USA (50%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (97%); EGYPT (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



498 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 976 words

HEADLINE: Chinalco to Invest $19.5 Billion in Rio Tinto

BYLINE: By JULIA WERDIGIER. 
Bettina Wassener contributed reporting from Hong Kong.

 BODY:
LONDON -- The Aluminum Corporation of China agreed on Thursday to invest $19.5 billion in the mining group Rio Tinto, taking advantage of lower valuations to guarantee access to iron ore resources. It was China's largest purchase overseas.
 Under the deal, the company, known as Chinalco, will buy $7.2 billion worth of bonds convertible into Rio Tinto stock and pay $12.3 billion in cash for stakes in Rio Tinto's aluminum, iron ore and copper assets in the United States, Australia and Chile. 
 Chinalco, which is state-controlled, would own 18 percent of Rio Tinto if the bonds were converted, but the transaction, which is subject to the approval of regulators in five countries, is likely to confront opposition from politicians worried about the Chinese group's influence on the company.
 For Rio Tinto, the deal provides a much-needed cash injection as it seeks to reduce $39 billion of debt amassed through its 2007 purchase of the Canadian aluminum maker Alcan. The company pledged to reduce debt by $10 billion this year, but efforts have been hampered by sagging profits and lower raw material prices. 
 For China, which is the biggest consumer of iron ore and is always interested in guaranteeing an advantageous price for its steel industry, the deal offers direct access to raw materials at a time when prices are low but might rebound once demand recovers.
 ''This is all part of the recycling of financial reserves around the world,'' said Justin Urquhart Stewart, co-founder of Seven Investment Management in London. ''Rio shareholders may feel upset as they're being bypassed for people who have money but in the long run it's good news to have a large client as a shareholder.''
 The investment illustrates China's ability to invest large sums at a time when other investors are limited by recession. China's government agreed to pump more than $580 billion into its economy to sustain growth, an investment that is also likely to keep demand for steel and iron ore high. 
 ''With the portfolio of these global assets, Chinalco will be better positioned to serve its customers in China and globally,'' Xiao Yaqing, Chinalco's president, said in a statement. 
 Chinalco already owns 9 percent of Rio Tinto, which is based in London. The two companies started discussions about a further investment in the middle of last year, Rio Tinto's chief executive, Tom Albanese, said on Thursday. Mr. Albanese said that it would have been ''extremely challenging'' to raise the same amount of cash through a rights issue in the current markets.
 But some analysts criticized Rio Tinto's willingness to give up more of the company to Chinalco, saying it would limit the company's flexibility in the future and upset some shareholders, whose investments suffered after Rio's stock plummeted 64 percent over the last 12 months. Rio Tinto's shares dropped 1.8 percent in London Thursday morning.
 Separately on Thursday, the company reported a 50 percent drop in its net income last year after taking a write-down at its aluminum unit because of falling prices.
 Even though Thursday's deal with China received unanimous support from Rio Tinto's board, it provoked a row earlier this month when Rio's chairman-elect, Jim Leng, quit less than a month after his appointment because of a disagreement over ways to reduce debt.
 Mr. Albanese defended the agreement with Chinalco, saying that the investment ''would have been attractive before the downturn and is double so today.'' He said the investment represents a premium of 124 percent to the current market enterprise value and represents ''superior value for Rio shareholders.''
 Mr. Albanese embarked on a cost-cutting program last year that included job cuts, asset sales and the reduction of capital investments. But he came under attack from some investors last year for not pursuing a takeover offer by an Australian rival BHP Billiton, which ultimately withdrew its offer in November, citing Rio Tinto's debt. The bid prompted Chinalco's initial investment last year as the Chinese company grew increasingly concerned about a possible combination of Rio Tinto and BHP, which would have created an iron ore giant with larger pricing power.
 Mr. Albanese said on Thursday that Chinalco's investment was as attractive as BHP's offer last year. But concerns remain about how much control Chinalco will ultimately have over Rio Tinto and its assets. 
 Rio Tinto sought to address some of these concerns Thursday, stressing that although Chinalco would be entitled to nominate two new nonexecutive directors to add to Rio's current 15-member board, ''independent nonexecutive'' directors would continue to make up a majority of the Rio Tinto board.
 In addition, Rio Tinto said it ''retains operational control of the joint venture assets, with clear governance arrangements and continued commercial marketing of joint venture product while maintaining its commitment to best practice and sustainable development.''
 Meanwhile, the Australian government signaled a degree of opposition to the deal. 
 Australia's treasurer, Wayne Swan, said Thursday that the government would revise its foreign ownership laws to treat convertible debt as though it were equity, a change that effectively tightens the regulations. Chinalco and Rio Tinto said they did not take the move as a ''negative signal'' and declined to comment on how confident they were that the transaction would receive government approval.
 Rio Tinto's net income fell to $3.7 billion last year, from $7.3 billion in 2007. Excluding some one-time items, underlying earnings rose 39 percent, to $10.3 billion, from $7.4 billion.
 For the deal, Chinalco hired advisers from Nomura Holdings, the Blackstone Group, China International Capital and JPMorgan Chase, while Rio Tinto worked with the Credit Suisse Group and Morgan Stanley.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MINES & MINING (91%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); IRON MINING (90%); COPPER MINING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); BONDS (78%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); POLITICS (74%); EXECUTIVES (70%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); APPROVALS (69%); IRON & STEEL MILLS (65%)

COMPANY: ALUMINUM CORP OF CHINA LTD (96%); RIO TINTO GROUP (92%)

TICKER: K3HD (SGX) (96%); ACH (NYSE) (96%); 2600 (HKSE) (96%); RIOS (BRU) (92%); RIO (NYSE) (92%); RIO (LSE) (92%); RIO (ASX) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%); NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212210 IRON ORE MINING (92%); NAICS212112 BITUMINOUS COAL UNDERGROUND MINING (92%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (92%)

PERSON: TOM ALBANESE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) CHINA (95%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



499 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'THE CALLER'; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 708 words

HEADLINE: Awaiting Payback For Blowing The Whistle

BYLINE: By STEPHEN HOLDEN

 BODY:
In ''The Caller,'' a corporate crime drama that runs fatally amok, Frank Langella plays Jimmy Stevens, a world-weary senior executive and numbers cruncher who blows the whistle on his company's fiscal corruption and then waits for the lethal consequences. The EN Corporation, the evil energy enterprise for which he works, has conducted dirty business in Latin America that has involved the killing of protesters. In its pure malevolence it resembles Ultima National Resources, the environmental octopus poisoning West Virginia in this season's ''Damages.''
 Describing his responsibilities, Jimmy says, ''They wanted me to make it all up, and they didn't want to know that I was making it all up.'' Those words might also describe the role of William Hurt's energy consultant in ''Damages,'' not to mention the origins of our present-day banking crisis. 
 In his stoic acceptance of his imminent assassination Jimmy resembles Mr. Langella's character Leonard Schiller, the once-eminent novelist in ''Starting Out in the Evening'' who continues to write despite deteriorating health and his knowledge that his time has passed. 
 Whether playing Jimmy or Schiller or Richard M. Nixon in ''Frost/Nixon,'' Mr. Langella projects the tragic self-knowledge of an older man reassessing his life more acutely than any other actor today. As these characters contemplate the void, every ounce of personal experience weighs heavily on their hunched shoulders and adds an extra bass note to their sad, rumbling voices. 
 Not content to be a corporate thriller, ''The Caller,'' directed by Richard Ledes from a screenplay he wrote based on a story by Alain Didier-Weill, a French psychoanalyst and author, aspires to be an existential puzzle with all the heavy baggage that implies. As actions are replaced by portentous, disconnected symbols and new characters are belatedly shoehorned into the story, the sins of EN are forgotten and the film turns into an impenetrable essay on guilt, memory and the fear of death that even Mr. Langella's gravity cannot salvage. 
 To ensure he has someone at his side in his final moments, Jimmy, disguising his voice and calling himself John Doe, hires the retired New York police detective Frank Turlotte (Elliott Gould) to follow him during his last two weeks. Frank, unaware that the man who hired him and the man he is following are the same person, develops an uneasy friendship with Jimmy that culminates in a final rendezvous in the Red Hook section of Brooklyn. Talk about heavy-handed symbols: in one scene where they share a park bench, both happen to be carrying copies of the same book, Frances A. Yates's ''Art of Memory.''
 Mr. Gould's eccentric gumshoe, who suggests a more decrepit version of his shambling Philip Marlowe in ''The Long Goodbye,'' is an avid bird watcher. And the movie is punctuated with loaded images of Frank's latest avian obsession, the peregrine falcon, swooping through the Manhattan sky. 
 The third element of the story, woven sporadically (and enigmatically) throughout ''The Caller,'' involves Jimmy's traumatic childhood in France during World War II when he and another boy found themselves alone in the Normandy woods ministering to a dying soldier. Back in the present Jimmy visits his ailing mother at an assisted-living center. Midway through the movie we are suddenly introduced to Jimmy's girlfriend Eileen (Laura Harring), a morose nightclub singer with a precociously curious young daughter (Anabel Sosa). 
 The extent to which ''The Caller'' has lost its bearings becomes painfully obvious late in the film when recurrent shots of the Statue of Liberty (of all hackneyed images) are used to connect the French flashbacks with American present. Did I say ''The Caller'' is pretentious? 
 THE CALLER
 Opens on Friday in Manhattan. 
 Directed by Richard Ledes; written by Mr. Ledes, based on a story by Alain Didier-Weill; director of photography, Stephen Kazmierski; produced by Linda Moran and Rene Bastian; released by Belladonna Productions. At the Quad Cinema, 34 West 13th Street, Greenwich Village. Running time: 1 hour 32 minutes. This film is not rated. 
 WITH: Frank Langella (Jimmy), Elliott Gould (Turlotte), Laura Harring (Eileen) and Anabel Sosa (Lila). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Frank Langella, left, and Elliott Gould develop an uneasy friendship in ''The Caller,'' a corporate crime drama. (PHOTOGRAPH BY WALTER THOMSON/OLIVE PRESS CINEMA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CORPORATE WRONGDOING (90%); WRITERS (87%); CORRUPTION (78%); DRAMA LITERATURE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); FILM DIRECTORS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) LATIN AMERICA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: Caller, The (Movie); Caller, The (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



500 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Fed Calls Gain in Family Wealth a Mirage

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The leap in wealth that Americans thought they were enjoying over the last several years has already turned out to be a mirage, according to new estimates by the Federal Reserve. 
 In its triennial survey of consumer finances, released Thursday, the Fed found that the median net worth of American households increased by a seemingly healthy 17 percent between the end of 2004 and the end of 2007. 
 But the gains were wiped out by the collapse in housing and stock prices last year. Adjusting for those declines, Fed officials estimated that the median family was 3.2 percent poorer as of October 2008 than it was at the end of 2004. The new survey offers one of the first glimpses of how American families were positioned financially as the roof fell in on the economy, and it provides some sense of how much wealth has been destroyed since then. Indeed, the destruction of wealth is still in full swing: housing prices are still falling, more than two years after the bubble peaked.
 The survey suggests that the boom years were not all that wonderful even before the crisis set in. And it indicates that many households will have to greatly increase savings rates, which were below 1 percent, to make up for some of the lost wealth.
 Adjusted for inflation, the median household income actually edged down slightly over the three years ending in 2007. The mean, or average, household income jumped by a respectable 8.5 percent.
 But a growing share of that income came from investment profits rather than from wages and salaries. And the wealth that Americans were building was overwhelmingly in the form of paper profits that vanished as quickly as they had appeared.
 Fed analysts estimated that 35.8 percent of the average family's assets in 2007 were in ''unrecognized capital gains,'' such as gains in the market value of houses that people had yet to sell. Slightly more than half of those unrecognized gains came from real estate, and the second biggest source was increases in the value of business assets.
 The Fed's estimates, which are based on a survey of 4,422 households, are in line with estimates that economists have made about the aggregate plunge in wealth since the housing bubble began to deflate in 2006. 
 Dean Baker, co-director of the Center for Economic Policy Research, estimated that the United States had lost $6 trillion in housing wealth since the peak of the bubble. 
 The Case-Shiller index of housing prices in 20 major cities, considered one of the most accurate barometers of such prices, has declined about 25 percent since mid-2006. On top of that, Mr. Baker estimated, an additional $6 trillion evaporated as a result of the plummeting stock market, for a total loss of $12 trillion since 2006.
 ''I'm actually surprised that you didn't see higher values on stock holdings,'' Mr. Baker said, noting that the median value of household stocks, adjusted for inflation, was slightly lower in 2007 than it was in 2001.
 ''Even when we were near the peak of the bubble, things didn't look that good, and they're looking worse today,'' he said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (77%); AVERAGE EARNINGS (77%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (76%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (76%); HOUSING BUBBLE (76%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (65%)

COMPANY: BAKER CO INC (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS337214 OFFICE FURNITURE (EXCEPT WOOD) MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2522 OFFICE FURNITURE EX. WOOD (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



501 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; YOUR MONEY; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1063 words

HEADLINE: What's In the Bill For You

BYLINE: By RON LIEBER

 BODY:
All the talk the last couple of days about the stimulus bill was about compromise and slimming down. What is left, though, is a huge spending bill, with well over $100 billion in tax breaks and handouts for individuals. 
 And most of us will be able to use at least one of them, though it will be difficult to get much money immediately, unlike the stimulus checks that went out last year. 
 What follows is a list of some of the biggest provisions in the bill that will hit you directly in the wallet. Keep in mind that the language in the measure isn't quite final and the Senate and House still have to vote to approve it. 
 INCOME TAX In 2009 and 2010, there is a tax credit of up to $400 for individuals and $800 for married couples filing their taxes jointly. You calculate your credit, subtracted from other federal taxes you owe, by taking 6.2 percent of your earned income. 
 Your eligibility for this credit begins to phase out if you're an individual with an adjusted gross income over $75,000 or a couple with income higher than $150,000. 
 Employers may end up adjusting tax withholdings on paychecks so that this credit trickles into your bank account over the course of the year. People who are self-employed can adjust their quarterly tax filings to account for the credit.
 This credit is refundable, according to a summary of the stimulus bill that the Senate Finance and House Ways and Means committees released Thursday. That means that even if you have no federal income tax liability, you will still get the money.
 UNEMPLOYMENT Normally, you pay federal income taxes on federal unemployment benefits. In 2009, however, you won't have to pay taxes on the first $2,400 in benefits you receive. 
 HEALTH INSURANCE If you get fired, your company is required, thanks to a law known as Cobra, to allow you to pay to keep your health insurance, generally for up to 18 months. 
 The problem is, it can cost you $1,000 a month or more to keep the coverage.
 Now, the federal government will subsidize 65 percent of the premium for up to nine months. To be eligible, you need to have been forced out of your job between Sept. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2009. Also, your income in the year you receive the subsidy cannot be more than $125,000 for individuals or $250,000 for married couples filing their taxes jointly. 
 If you lost your job after Sept. 1, 2008, and declined Cobra coverage, you'll now get another chance. Call your former company in the next two months to find out how this will work.
 You need not keep an eye on the mail for a subsidy check from the government, according Kathryn Bakich, senior vice president in Washington of the Segal Company, a benefits consulting firm. Instead, your former employer will collect the money from the government. 
 SOCIAL SECURITY In 2009 a number of retirees and disabled people, including Social Security recipients, will receive a $250 refundable tax credit. The money would arrive within 120 days of the bill's signing. 
 CAR BUYER TAX DEDUCTION For the rest of 2009, you'll be able to deduct the state and local sales and excise taxes you pay on the purchase of a new (not used) car, light truck, recreational vehicle or motorcycle. 
 This will be an ''above-the-line deduction,'' according to Clint Stretch, the managing principal of tax policy at Deloitte L.L.C. in Washington. That means that you can take it regardless of whether you itemize other deductions on your tax return. 
 Mark Luscombe, principal tax analyst for CCH, a tax information service, notes that state sales taxes alone can run 6 to 7 percent, before any county or local tax kicks in. That said, if you trade in a vehicle, your taxable purchase price may be lower. 
 Eligibility for this tax break begins to phase out for single people with adjusted gross income over $125,000 or $250,000 for married couples filing jointly. And the deduction does not apply on spending above $49,500. 
 PELL GRANT According to a summary from the office of House Speaker Nancy Pelosi, the maximum Pell Grant will increase by $500, to $5,350 in 2009 and $5,550 in 2010. The grants are generally for low-income students. 
 HIGHER EDUCATION TAX CREDIT This credit covers up to $2,500 of the cost of college tuition and other related expenses in 2009 and 2010. You'll need to spend at least $4,000 in a single year to get the full credit. The credit begins to phase out for individual taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes over $80,000 or $160,000 for married couples filing jointly. 
 Forty percent of the credit is refundable, which benefits low-income students paying their way through school (who may owe no federal income taxes).
 529 PLAN EXPANSION When you withdraw money from a 529 college savings plan, you can use it for tuition, room, board, books and other college expenses. In 2009 and 2010, families can also use the money for computers and computer technology, which could include educational software and Internet service for students living at home.
 FIRST-TIME HOME BUYER CREDIT First-time home buyers are eligible for a refundable tax credit equal to 10 percent of the purchase price of their home, up to $8,000, if they made the purchase after Jan. 1, 2009, but before Dec. 1, 2009. 
 Unlike a similar credit that Congress provided last year, you don't have to pay this one back over 15 years. The new credit, however, does phase out for individuals with incomes over $75,000 or married couples with incomes over $150,000 who file their taxes jointly. Also, you forfeit the credit if you sell the house within three years. 
 TRANSIT ACCOUNTS If you commute to work via public transportation, your employer may allow you to set aside pretax money from your paycheck to pay for the bus, train or parking. Currently, you can put aside only $120 a month for mass transit while those who drive and park can save $230. This year and next, those who take mass transit will also be able to put aside $230 each month.
 A.M.T. PATCH Each year, Congress creates a temporary fix to keep millions of people from paying the alternative minimum tax. This year, the patch is part of the stimulus bill. ''If you didn't pay the A.M.T. last year, you probably won't this year,'' said Mr. Stretch of Deloitte. ''For most people, this is a nonevent. They didn't even realize they were in danger of being shot in the head by the A.M.T.''

CORRECTION-DATE: February 17, 2009

 CORRECTION:
The Your Money column on Friday, about provisions in the stimulus bill that will benefit consumers, referred incorrectly in some editions to the duration of changes liberalizing the use of 529 college savings accounts and increasing the amount of money commuters can set aside for transit costs. Both changes are effective in 2009 and 2010; they are not permanent. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Under the proposed stimulus bill, buyers of new cars and light trucks through the rest of 2009 can deduct sales taxes.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RICK RUNION/THE LEDGER)
 First-time homebuyers would be eligible for a tax credit equal to 10 percent of the purchase price, up to $8,000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY JOE RAEDLE/GETTY IMAGES)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPROPRIATIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); INCOME TAX (89%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (86%); MARRIAGE (78%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (74%); APPROVALS (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%)

COMPANY: SEGAL CO (60%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



502 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 3267 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times: For Children

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
FOR CHILDREN
 LIVING HISTORY DAY
 The fresh-faced contestants stand poised, thumbs on their hand-held buzzers. A dapper gentleman faces them, ready to test their knowledge. The eager audience whispers. You can almost hear an announcer's voice booming, ''This is ...''
 ''Jeopardy!''? Well, not quite. The ''Don't Know Much About the Presidents Quiz Show'' is for younger competitors (anyone who's finished fourth or fifth grade) and more modest prizes (books instead of cash). But everyone is still likely to leave wiser after the contest, a highlight of the latest Living History Day at the New-York Historical Society. 
 ''I grew up with 'Jeopardy!' '' said Kenneth C. Davis, who at 2 p.m. on Saturday will become the society's Alex Trebek. ''I always felt I learned more from Art Fleming and Don Pardo than from my history teachers,'' he added, referring to that show's first host and announcer. Mr. Davis (above with contestants from a previous appearance), author of the ''Don't Know Much About'' book series, will group players into two teams of four. When a team gets five correct answers, the round will be over, and the losing competitors will be replaced by new challengers. 
 ''It's a way to humanize these people who are too often entries in an encyclopedia to kids,'' Mr. Davis said of the presidents. And what could be more humanizing than all-too-human foibles? Potential questions include ''Which president was accused of having a gaming table in the White House?'' and ''Which president was so fat that he got stuck in the White House bathtub?'' 
 Mr. Davis, whose ''Don't Know Much About the Presidents'' (HarperCollins) was recently reissued with a new page devoted to our latest commander in chief, also promised to offer ''questions about Obama, personally and specifically.''
 Those who aren't history whizzes can relax. Unlike Mr. Trebek, Mr. Davis does not deduct points for wrong responses. And unlike some quizzes children might have recently encountered, this one is all about fun. (Living History Day, including Civil War re-enactors portraying members of the 67th New York Infantry, Saturday, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, 212-873-3400, nyhistory.org. Free with admission: $10; $7 for 65+ and educators; $6 for students; free for 12 and under and members.) LAUREL GRAEBER 
 'ADVENTURES WITH DORA AND DIEGO' (Friday through Thursday) The young Latino stars of the Nickelodeon animated television series ''Dora the Explorer'' and ''Go, Diego, Go!'' have taken their expeditions into new territory at the Children's Museum of Manhattan, whose exhibition has separate Dora and Diego environments, including Diego's Animal Rescue Center and Dora's Fiesta. Intended for ages 2 to 6, the interactive, bilingual displays are designed to teach language, science and music skills, as well as facts about Latin America. From 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, (212) 721-1223, cmom.org. Free with museum admission: $10; $7 for 65+; free for under 1 and members. 
 'THE AFRICAN DRUM' (Wednesday and Thursday) Shadow Box Theater's multimedia presentation of traditional African tales features characters that include a talking leopard, a wise loon and a turtle that is just as resourceful as the hero of ''The Tortoise and the Hare.'' All are shadow puppets, manipulated behind a lighted screen. (Through Feb. 26.) At 10:30 a.m. and 1 p.m.; the Theaters at 45 Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 724-0677, shadowboxtheatre.org; $10. 
 'ARCHAEOLOGY ZONE: DISCOVERING TREASURES FROM PLAYGROUNDS TO PALACES' (Sunday through Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists can dress in costume. (Through June 15.) From 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m. (until 8 p.m. on Thursdays), the Jewish Museum, 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. Free with admission: $12; $10 for 65+; $7.50 for students; free for under 12 and members. 
 B.Y.O.K. (Sunday) Once people become parents, they often leave their B.Y.O.B. days behind. Now 92YTriBeCa, a new satellite of the 92nd Street Y, is offering the perfect substitute: B.Y.O.K., or Bring Your Own Kid. As the title implies, this series is devoted to cross-generational fun, and so on Sunday it will present a concert from Kidrockers, which specializes in just that. Kidrockers books events with hot or up-and-coming rock bands whose sound will attract ages 3 to 13 (and parents). Sunday offers a double bill of Brooklyn groups, Chairlift and the Bloodsugars. At 1 p.m., 200 Hudson Street, at Canal Street, (212) 601-1000, 92ytribeca.org/BYOK; $15. 
 'BUILDING BRAINSTORM' (Friday through Thursday) The next generation of budding architects can try out their designs at this new exhibition at the Brooklyn Children's Museum. The bilingual display (English and Spanish) invites children to build model high-rises, houses and crawl-through spaces while devising solutions to architectural and engineering challenges. The fun also includes working with textures and materials. (Through May 3.) Next week, during public school winter break, the museum will also offer daily programs in the series Untold Stories: Heroes, Heroines & Innovators, all celebrating Black History Month. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heights, (718) 735-4400, brooklynkids.org. Free with admission: $7.50; free for members and under 1. 
 'CENICIENTA' ('CINDERELLA') (Saturday) The heroine could easily lose her glass slipper dancing the tango in this Latin-flavored musical from Teatro SEA, presented in an easily understood combination of English and Spanish. The production also features a surprise: an unexpected character who fills in for the ill fairy godmother. (Through March 28.) At 3 p.m., Los Kabayitos Puppet and Children's Theater, Clemente Soto Velez Cultural Center, 107 Suffolk Street, at Rivington Street, Lower East Side, (212) 529-1545, sea-online.info; $15; $12.50 for 2 to 12; free for under 2. 
 'CUCKOO FOR COURTSHIP' (Saturday) Many children cringe at love scenes in movies or television, but most will find the romantic partners in this program thoroughly interesting: they're animals. In celebration of Valentine's Day, the Queens Zoo will teach families about the undying devotion of thick-billed parrots (they mate for life), the elaborate courtship dance of the sandhill crane and the wooing rituals of several other species. From 10 a.m. to noon, 53-51 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, (718) 271-1500, queenszoo.com; $20 for one adult and one child; $16 for members (includes zoo admission). 
 'DEAR EDWINA' (Friday through Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) What if Ann Landers had been a child -- and she could sing? Then she might have been Edwina Spoonapple, the young heroine of this charming new musical by Zina Goldrich and Marcy Heisler (''Junie B. Jones''). Edwina is an advice columnist who delivers her counsel tunefully, and this show details her quest to be in a festival. (Through April 19.) Friday at 4 p.m.; Saturday at 1, 4 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at 11 a.m. and 1 and 4 p.m.; Monday at 1 and 4 p.m.; Wednesday and Thursday at 1 p.m.; DR2 Theater, 103 East 15th Street, Manhattan, (212) 239-6200, dearedwina.com; $39. 
 'ELMO MAKES MUSIC' (Friday through Monday) Young fans of ''Sesame Street'' know that the monsters living there are usually lovable rather than scary. And in this production they're musical too. This latest edition of ''Sesame Street Live'' features the cuddly monster Elmo and his neighbors helping out a new music teacher who's lost her instruments; the gang comes up with some unusual improvised replacements. Friday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 10:30 a.m. and 2 and 5:30 p.m.; Monday at 10:30 a.m. and 2 p.m.; WaMu Theater at Madison Square Garden, (800) 745-3000, sesamestreetlive.com; $15 to $70. 
 'THE FESTIVAL OF THE VEGETABLES' (Saturday and Sunday) Children don't always welcome vegetables, but they should make an exception for these: they're stars in a theater-dance-music piece about the produce-filled dreams of a toddler who falls asleep in a grocery store. Written by Michael Kosch and choreographed by his wife, Rachael Kosch, the production, for ages 5 and older, includes a brussels sprout that chases strollers and a red cabbage that's a Romeo. At 11 a.m., Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (212) 995-5302, metropolitanplayhouse.org; $12; $10 for children 12 and younger. 
 'GOLLY GEE WHIZ' (Saturday and Sunday) It's no accident that the main characters in the opening production of Tada! Youth Theater's season are named Judy and Mickey. This musical, a revival from 1999, captures the high spirits of 1930s pop culture, when stars like Judy Garland and Mickey Rooney were all the rage. The action takes place in 1939 in Happyville, where the teenage residents decide to boost the economy by putting on a show. (Maybe it will give audience members a few ideas.) Saturday and Sunday at 2 and 4 p.m., 15 West 28th Street, Manhattan, second floor, (212) 252-1619, Ext. 128, tadatheater.com; $20; $8 for ages 15 and under; premium tickets (with preferred seating), $25 and $15. 
 'HARRY THE DIRTY DOG' (Saturday through Wednesday) Manhattan Children's Theater has revived this 45-minute show, which is a delight for ages 3 to 8 and a source of solace to parents. After all, what if all their bath-hating toddlers were dogs? The play, adapted by Karen Abbott from Gene Zion's book of the same title, follows the adventures of the title character, a usually amiable mutt who has a strong antipathy for soap and water. (Through Feb. 22.) Saturday through Monday at noon and 2 p.m.; Tuesday and Wednesday at 11 a.m.; 52 White Street, near Church Street, TriBeCa, (212) 352-3101, theatermania.com; $20. 
 'HOUSE ABOUT IT' (Friday through Thursday) This exhibition gives new meaning to playing house. Created by the Staten Island Children's Museum, the show, whose centerpiece is a child-size house under construction, introduces young visitors to all aspects of the building trades. Activity stations include an architect's office, a space to examine foundation materials and a workbench to practice sawing and drilling. The house offers opportunities for tiling and shingling, and a dollhouse lets young decorators ponder fabrics and furnishings. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; 1000 Richmond Terrace, Livingston, (718) 273-2060, statenislandkids.org. Free with admission: $5; free for members. 
 'JAZZ-A-MA-TAZZ GOES GREEN!' (Sunday) The saxophonist Hayes Greenfield will lead an interactive tour of the jazz scene, including numbers from his most recent release, ''Music for a Green Planet,'' whose environmentally themed tunes are based on children's songs. Young listeners (the concert is recommended for ages 4 to 10) are encouraged to clap, call out responses, assist in demonstrations and, yes, dance. At noon, Bowery Poetry Club, 308 Bowery, near Bleecker Street, East Village, (212) 614-0505, bowerypoetry.com; $10. 
 KIDS WEEK (Saturday through Thursday) The U.S.S. Intrepid has been back in New York Harbor for a while, but now children will really feel that their ship has come in: this aircraft carrier turned museum has reinstituted its Kids Week, a winter break celebration with events, displays and workshops. Highlights include ''Science in the Circus,'' Ringling Brothers shows, on Saturday and Sunday; sports themes on Monday and Wednesday; exhibits from the New York Hall of Science on Tuesday; and workshops and performances by Rosie's Broadway Kids on Thursday. (Through Feb. 22). Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m. Intrepid Sea-Air-Space Museum, Pier 86, 46th Street and 12th Avenue, Clinton, (212) 245-0072, intrepidmuseum.org. Free with museum admission: $19.50; $15.50 for 62+, veterans and college students; $14.50 for ages 6 to 17; $7.50 for 2 to 5; free for under 2, retired and active-duty military and members. 
 'THE LIFE AND WORK OF GEORGE WASHINGTON CARVER' (Friday through Thursday) A bean may not seem very intriguing on a child's plate, but offer it under a microscope, and this lowly legume becomes exciting. That's just one of the learning opportunities presented by this program in the Everett Children's Garden at the New York Botanical Garden, which celebrates Carver (1864-1943), the pioneering African-American botanist. Children can also conduct experiments, explore an exhibition about his life and plant a soybean to take home. (Through Feb. 22.) On Tuesday and Wednesday the Botanical Garden will also celebrate Black History Month with ''Hooray for Martin Luther King,'' an interactive children's show at 1 p.m. in the Arthur and Janet Ross Lecture Hall. Carver program hours: Friday, 1:30 to 4:30 p.m.; Saturday through Thursday, 10 a.m. to 4:30 p.m. Bronx River Parkway (Exit 7W) and Fordham Road, Bedford Park, the Bronx, (718) 817-8700, nybg.org. Combination tickets (includes the grounds, the children's garden and other displays): $13; $11 for ages 62+ and students; $5 for 2 to 12; free for under 2. 
 MUSEUM OF THE MOVING IMAGE (Monday through Thursday) Winter break is a time for movies, and this museum will engage children in making them as well as watching them. Daily workshops at noon and 2 p.m. will teach them how to create their own stop-motion animations and share them online (recommended for ages 8 and older). Young visitors can also enjoy ''Behind the Screen,'' a permanent exhibition on the film industry (10 a.m. to 5 p.m.), and daily screenings of ''The Wrong Trousers,'' an animated film featuring that lovable pair the inventor Wallace and his faithful dog, Gromit (1 and 3 p.m.). 35th Avenue at 36th Street, Astoria, Queens, (718) 784-0077, movingimage.us. Workshops: $5 materials fee; reservations, (718) 777-6820. Screenings are free, though a $5 contribution is suggested. 
 'PETER PAN AND ADVENTURES IN NEVERLAND' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) New York might seem like a Neverland to many, and it is indeed the setting of Zakiyyah Alexander's new, Americanized adaptation of J. M. Barrie's classic. Presented by the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater as a puppet musical (Daryl Kojak composed the score), it also features a Tiger Lily who's a native of India. (Through June.) Friday at 10:30 a.m.; Saturday and Sunday at 1 p.m.; Tuesday through Thursday, 11 a.m. and 1 p.m. (with an additional 2:30 p.m. show on Wednesday); 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park, (212) 988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org; $8; $5 for 18 and under. Reservations required. 
 'PINKALICIOUS, THE MUSICAL' (Saturday and Sunday) It's time to think pink again. This show for ages 4 to 12, from Vital Children's Theater, is in yet another revival, so if you missed it earlier, you can catch it now at the Bleecker Street Theater. Elizabeth and Victoria Kann have adapted their children's book, in which the pink-obsessed title character finds out that sometimes being in the pink can be too much of a good thing. (John Gregor wrote the score and some of the lyrics.) (Through April 26.) At 1 p.m., 45 Bleecker Street, at Lafayette Street, East Village, (212) 239-6200, vitaltheatre.org; $29.50. 
 PRESERVATION DETECTIVES' FAMILY TOURS (Sunday) The Lower East Sidehas transformed over the last century, but the past still comes vibrantly alive in many of its corners. One is the Eldridge Street Synagogue, the landmark 1887 building where many Jewish immigrants worshiped. Now the Museum at Eldridge Street, the organization that restored the synagogue, is leading a family tour every Sunday. Children 5 to 10 can view artifacts, learn neighborhood and cultural lore and this month design a three-dimensional community space. At 1 p.m., 12 Eldridge Street, between Canal and Division Streets, (212) 219-0302, eldridgestreet.org; $10; $8 for students and 62+; $6 for ages 5 through 18. 
 JUSTIN ROBERTS AND THE NOT READY FOR NAPTIME PLAYERS (Saturday) Mr. Roberts, once the leader of the indie-rock band Pimentos for Gus, is now doing indie for the youngest rockers. At this concert he and his band will play tunes from his latest album, ''Pop Fly,'' as well as the CD preceding it, which has a title all families can relate to: ''Meltdown.'' At 11 a.m. and 1 p.m., Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, (212) 864-5400, symphonyspace.org. Tickets in advance: $25; $15 for children. Day of show: $27 and $17. Members: $20; $10 for children. 
 'TAOUB' (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday and Thursday) You can think of this as a collection of magic carpet rides, though the carpet is a taoub, or enormous flowing sheet. The members of Groupe Acrobatique de Tanger, a company of Moroccan acrobats, use the taoub in a presentation of physical skill and ancient street arts. Recommended for ages 6 and older, this production at the New Victory Theater also incorporates live Arabic music and film projections. Friday at 7 p.m. (includes a post-show discussion with the performers); Saturday at 2 and 7 p.m.; Sunday at noon and 5 p.m.; Wednesday at 2 p.m.; Thursday at 7 p.m.; 209 West 42nd Street, Manhattan, (646) 223-3010, newvictory.org; $12.50, $25 and $35 (members, $8.75 to $24.50). 
 TENNIS LESSONS(Saturdays and Sundays) Aspiring Venus Williamses and Andy Roddicks can get into the swing of things long before summer at this free program, sponsored by the New York Junior Tennis League. Open to children ages 6 through 18, the sessions, held in all five boroughs through March, include not only tennis instruction but also special events and a concluding tournament. Tennis equipment is available for loan; parents must register their children onsite. More information and a full list of locations:(347) 417-8157, nyjtl.org. 
 'TREASURE ISLAND' (Saturday, Sunday and Wednesday) Yo, ho ho and a bottle of rum. Well, this production won't emphasize rum, but it will offer plenty of pirate antics. A musical adaptation by Michael Sgouros and Brenda Bell, the show, recommended for ages 5 and older, is presented by Literally Alive Children's Theater, which brings books to the stage. A preshow workshop includes a discussion of Stevenson's novel and an art project, the making of a treasure chest. Workshops at 10 a.m., shows at 11, with an additional evening workshop (6 p.m.) and performance (7 p.m.) on Wednesday. Players Theater, 115 Macdougal Street, near Bleecker Street, Greenwich Village, (212) 352-3101, literallyalive.com; $25; $20 for children; workshop, $5 for children, free for adults. 
 'A YEAR WITH FROG AND TOAD' (Saturday and Sunday) Along with Oscar and Felix -- or, for young audiences, Bert and Ernie -- Frog and Toad are among the arts world's great Odd Couples. This musical, by the brothers Robert Reale (music) and Willie Reale (book and lyrics), brings to life their friendship, first imagined by Arnold Lobel in his 1970s series of children's books. A scaled-down version of the show that ran on Broadway in 2004, ''Frog and Toad'' has found a perfect home in Atlantic for Kids, the children's wing of the Atlantic Theater Company. (Through March 1.) At 10:30 a.m., Linda Gross Theater, 336 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (646) 216-1190, atlantictheater.org; $15; $10 for under 12 and members. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (76%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); WRITERS (70%); ARMED FORCES (61%); ANIMATED TELEVISION (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



503 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; MOVIE REVIEW 'CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC'; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 654 words

HEADLINE: When Retail Therapy Can't Cure What Ails You

BYLINE: By MANOHLA DARGIS

 BODY:
Like the flailing American economy, ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' wants to eat its cake -- or, rather, cling to its consumer-based culture -- and have its spiritual redemption too. (Talk about timing!) Based on a pair of popular novels by the British author Madeleine Wickham, writing under the lucrative pen name Sophie Kinsella, the story tracks the credit card ups and downs of an extreme shopper, Rebecca Bloomwood (Isla Fisher), who just can't say no to every bright bauble and designer doodad she sees. For her, buying is something of a blood sport as well as a panacea for whatever -- the movie is a bit bashful about saying what -- ails her. 
 Though it tries mightily to live up to its cute title and premise with soft laughs and sticky predicaments, ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' largely registers as a classic story of female self-improvement. Though the final destination on this particular road to self-actualization hasn't much changed since the 18th century, when Mary Shelley's mother, Mary Wollstonecraft, raised an early feminist flag (women ''must marry advantageously, and to this object their time is sacrificed, and their persons often legally prostituted''), ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' paves the way with rather less contempt for its female characters than most recent so-called chick flicks. If nothing else, the director P. J. Hogan actually seems to like Rebecca, which is understandable, given that she's played by the professionally adorable Ms. Fisher.
 A gifted physical comedian whose top-heavy frame always seems to be listing forward, as if she were anxious to get to the next scene, Ms. Fisher plays Rebecca as a lovable dingbat who's not remotely as silly as her towering heels suggest. A fool for fashion, though not for men, Rebecca works as a journalist, which might seem like another laughable Hollywood fantasy if her magazine didn't fold soon after the story begins. Left without a steady paycheck and with terrifying credit card bills, she lands a position at a financial magazine run by the swoony Luke Brandon (Hugh Dancy), who inexplicably gives her a dollars-and-sense column that becomes a hit with readers who clearly should have looked elsewhere for advice.
 Everything you think might happen does, for the most part painlessly. Rebecca learns and laughs, kisses and cries ,while wearing candy-colored, sometimes unfortunately coordinated outfits. The appealing supporting cast includes John Goodman and Joan Cusack as her parents, and, as her best friend, Krysten Ritter, whose pillowy lips and crack timing suggest that she might be moving into lead roles sometime soon. 
 If the producers are smart, they should make sure to tap both Ms. Fisher and Ms. Ritter for the inevitable sequel, which, while certainly improbable and probably inadvisable, might inspire one of those Depression-era follies in which all a girl needed was a catchy song and gold-digger dreams. 
 ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' is rated PG (Parental guidance suggested). A little kissing and a lot of shopping.
 CONFESSIONS OF A SHOPAHOLIC
 Opens on Friday nationwide. 
 Directed by P. J. Hogan; written by Tracey Jackson, Tim Firth and Kayla Alpert, based on the books ''Confessions of a Shopaholic'' and ''Shopaholic Takes Manhattan,'' by Sophie Kinsella; director of photography, Jo Willems; edited by William Goldenberg; music by James Newton Howard; production designer, Kristi Zea; produced by Jerry Bruckheimer; released by Touchstone Pictures/Jerry Bruckheimer Films. Running time: 1 hour 40 minutes. 
 WITH: Isla Fisher (Rebecca Bloomwood), Hugh Dancy (Luke Brandon), Krysten Ritter (Suze), Joan Cusack (Jane Bloomwood), John Goodman (Graham Bloomwood), John Lithgow (Edgar West), Kristin Scott Thomas (Alette Naylor), Fred Armisen (Ryan Koenig), Leslie Bibb (Alicia Billington), Lynn Redgrave (Drunken Lady at Ball), Julie Hagerty (Hayley) and Christine Ebersole (TV Show Host). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Isla Fisher, center, and Hugh Dancy, right, in the comedy ''Confessions of a Shopaholic,'' directed by P. J. Hogan.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROBERT ZUCKERMAN/WALT DISNEY PICTURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WRITERS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); FILM GENRES (74%); FILM (74%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

TITLE: Confessions of a Shopaholic (Movie); Confessions of a Shopaholic (Movie)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



504 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 739 words

HEADLINE: After Losing Job, a Woman on Horseback Finds Friends on the Road

BYLINE: By LYNN WADDELL and DAMIEN CAVE; Lynn Waddell reported from Dade City, Fla., and Damien Cave from Miami.

DATELINE: DADE CITY, Fla. 

 BODY:
On a chilly morning nearly two weeks ago, Donna Byrne packed everything she owned onto one horse, climbed atop another, and set out for Ocala, a ranching town 160 miles north. 
 She said she lost her job in Arcadia a few months ago, could not afford the rent, and hoped to pick up some work in Ocala before riding on to Amarillo, Tex.
 ''I take one day at a time,'' said Ms. Byrne, 44, a thin, rugged woman who said she had ridden bulls and branded calves in Montana. ''I don't worry about anything.'' 
 But what began as a lonely, quixotic trek has turned into a team effort, with horse lovers nationwide offering to help with rides, money, room and board, veterinarians and temporary work. By Wednesday, when she reached this small farm town, Ms. Byrne had become a minor celebrity and a magnet for generosity. 
 People along roads with gas stations and fast food restaurants have given her $200 in cash. One man put new shoes on her horses, and after her story appeared Tuesday in The Tampa Tribune, the offers really started pouring in. 
 On the bulletin boards online at FLAhorse.com, a Florida horse-lovers site, a network formed to distribute a relay of rides and free room and board that could get her and her horses near the Texas border. 
 Teri Fox volunteered to drive them to her home in Live Oak, Fla. She said she was moved to act because her own horses had kept her sane through tough times: when she was a struggling, single mother of three; or 10 years ago when her 13-year-old son died in a go-cart accident.
 ''Horses are my therapy,'' Ms. Fox said. ''I understand her attachment to her horses.''
 Ms. Byrne's adventure has also attracted those who long for the road. ''She's a little bit of a free spirit, and I glory in her spunk,'' said Sherri Dean, a former rodeo competitor who owns nine quarter horses on a farm in Lamont, Fla. She said she offered to drive Ms. Byrne and her horses part of the way because it touches ''the romantic in all of us.'' 
 ''I work for a law firm now,'' Ms. Dean said, ''and I'd love to tell them, 'I'm not going to be here tomorrow, I'm riding my horse to Texas.' '' 
 Not everyone has been so supportive. Some former neighbors in Arcadia, a quiet ranching town about 60 miles southeast of Tampa, said they had often wondered about Ms. Byrne's judgment because she rode on busy roads and tied her horse up at the bicycle rack outside of Wal-Mart. 
 Some who have volunteered to help said they were especially concerned about Tonto and Jay, the 7-year-old quarter horses Ms. Byrne said she bought four months ago.
 Her trip is clearly dangerous. Horses can be easily injured on long journeys, even without the risk of becoming roadkill. 
 Ms. Byrne herself has been struggling. When Craig Lentz of Dade City caught up with Ms. Byrne at a grocery store in Zephyrhills on Wednesday, she had a nasty cough and a dislocated shoulder. After trailing her horses to the Lentz family's five-acre farm, Mr. Lentz took her to an emergency room where she got a splint for her arm and a prescription for about $100 in antibiotics that she did not fill. 
 ''I may not have made the choice she did, but I'm not going to judge her,'' said Deborah Lentz, Mr. Lentz's wife. ''You lose your job, your place to live, what do you do? I respect her more for not sitting at home and trying to draw unemployment.''
 At the Lentzes, in Wrangler jeans and covered in a blanket on a recliner, Ms. Byrne alternated between taciturn and childlike. She seemed to enjoy the attention she had received; she said she stayed up until 1 a.m. Wednesday to watch a rerun of the local news that featured a short segment on her journey. 
 She said she has been riding horses since she was 15 and that she has no family. She has been married once -- ''about six months and he beat the hell out of me,'' Ms. Byrne said. 
 In Arcadia, she said she had worked at a farm and lost her job, could not find other work and did not qualify for unemployment. Her horses are her only transportation, and her pets. ''When it comes down to it,'' Ms. Byrne said, ''the horses eat before I do.''
 She has already spent several nights sleeping along the highway. The Lentz family says she can stay as long as she wants, but Ms. Byrne said she intends to saddle up again for Ocala and then Texas as soon as she can. 
 ''I've been wanting to ride across the country,'' she said. ''But losing my job kind of pushed me into it a little early.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Donna Byrne and her horses Tonto, left, and Jay had made it to Riverview, Fla., by Tuesday. She hopes to find work in Texas.(PHOTOGRAPH BY PAUL LAMISON/NEWS CHANNEL 8 -- TAMPA TRIBUNE, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSES (90%); EQUESTRIAN SPORTS (89%); DISMISSALS (77%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (72%); RESTAURANTS (67%); FAST FOOD (53%); SINGLE PARENTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AMARILLO, TX, USA (92%); TAMPA, FL, USA (90%) FLORIDA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



505 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 339 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Tsvangirai's Leap of Faith

 BODY:
One can only wonder what Robert Mugabe was thinking as his political rival and now partner, Morgan Tsvangirai, was sworn in Wednesday as Zimbabwe's prime minister. In his inaugural speech, Mr. Tsvangirai promised a virtual revolution: rule of law, political freedoms, independent news media, economic reform, food for needy Zimbabweans regardless of party affiliation. 
 Nothing could be further from the horrors that Mr. Mugabe has wreaked on his suffering country: political chaos, economic collapse, desperate food shortages, violence, a fierce cholera epidemic that has killed nearly 3,500 people. 
 We hope the national unity government will allow Mr. Tsvangirai to achieve his ambitious and essential goals. But like many others, we are skeptical that Mr. Mugabe -- Zimbabwe's illegitimate president -- and his henchmen will allow it.
 Mr. Mugabe stole last year's election after Mr. Tsvangirai won the first-round vote. The best solution would have been an end to Mr. Mugabe's rule. But with Mr. Mugabe refusing to resign and key African leaders refusing to push him out, Mr. Tsvangirai apparently decided that the power-sharing deal was his best chance to rescue his foundering country.
 If there is any real hope, African leaders -- especially South Africa's -- must pressure Mr. Mugabe to stop tormenting the opposition and let Mr. Tsvangirai do his job. And they must make clear that if Mr. Mugabe does not, they will finally stop protecting him. 
 The United States, Europe and others must continue providing humanitarian aid to help Zimbabwe cope with the cholera epidemic and feed its people. But they are right to hold back major development aid and maintain sanctions until Mr. Mugabe and his henchmen show they are serious about keeping their commitments. 
 Mr. Tsvangirai must also remain clear-eyed about Mr. Mugabe's reprehensible ways and not be seduced by the limited power he has managed to negotiate. Zimbabwe desperately needs an end to its horrors and deserves the hopeful future Mr. Tsvangirai has promised. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); FOOD CRISES & SHORTAGES (77%); FOOD CHARITIES (77%); TROPICAL DISEASES (75%); ECONOMIC POLICY (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); EPIDEMICS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (65%)

PERSON: MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ZIMBABWE (96%); AFRICA (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SOUTH AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



506 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 2507 words

HEADLINE: Film Series and Movie Listings

BYLINE: By THE NEW YORK TIMES

 BODY:
Film Series
 DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT (Friday through Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art's annual survey of international nonfiction filmmaking this year includes more than 30 titles. A few highlights from the first week of programs: ''The Flower Bridge,'' Thomas Ciulei's study of the major migration that is undermining the social structure of Moldova (Friday and Saturday); ''Super, Girls!,'' Jian Yi's look at a hugely popular Chinese television show modeled on ''American Idol'' (Saturday and Sunday); ''Exotic Exoticism: Plant Wars,'' Asio Liu's account of the nonnative plants that have been introduced in Taiwan and their effect on the local ecology (Monday); ''Barcelone ou la Mort,'' in which the filmmaker Idrissa Guiro follows one Senegalese man as he tries to emigrate to the Canary Islands (Thursday); and ''A Horse Is Not a Metaphor,'' Barbara Hammer's first-person account of living with cancer (Thursday). (Through Feb. 25.) Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr) 
 FADED GLORY: OSCAR MICHEAUX AND BLACK PREWAR CINEMA (Saturday through Thursday) This exhaustive retrospective devoted to the pioneering African-American filmmaker Oscar Micheaux and his contemporaries in the ''race film'' movement of the 1920s, '30s and '40s continues. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)
 OSCAR'S NOMINATED SHORTS (Saturday) Robert Osborne of Turner Classic Movies hosts a noon screening of all 10 of the Oscar-nominated films in the animated and live-action short categories. The program, without Mr. Osborne, will be repeated at 4 p.m. Academy Theater, Lighthouse International, 111 East 59th Street, Manhattan, oscars.org; sold out. (Kehr)
 SHINJUKU ECSTASY: INDEPENDENT FILMS FROM THE ART THEATER GUILD OF JAPAN (Wednesday) Established as a distributor of European art films in Japan in 1961, the Art Theater Guild began producing Japanese features of an ambitious avant-garde/political bent in 1967. The guild became a production home to some of the most important Japanese directors of the postwar era, including Nagisa Oshima (''Death by Hanging''); Yoshishige (Kiju) Yoshida (''Eros + Massacre''); and Shuji Terayama, whose 1971 experimental study of a young man adrift in a chaotic society, ''Throw Away Your Books, Let's Go Into the Street,'' opens this 12-film series . The program continues through March 1; highlights include Toshio Matsumoto's 1969 ''Funeral Parade of Roses'' (next Friday); Susumu Hani's 1968 ''Inferno of First Love'' (Feb. 24) and Shohei Imamura's 1967 film ''A Man Vanishes'' (Feb. 28). At 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org; $11. (Kehr)
 MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'BRIDE WARS' (PG, 1:34) Die, Bridezilla, die! (Manohla Dargis) 
 'CADILLAC RECORDS' (R, 1:48) This rollicking and insightful celebration of Chicago blues serves as a group portrait of a remarkable, volatile constellation of artists, including Muddy Waters (the impressive Jeffrey Wright), Chuck Berry (Mos Def) and Etta James (Beyonce Knowles). This movie is crowded and sprawling, and if it rambles sometimes, that's just fine. (A. O. Scott)
 'CHE' (R, 4:17, in Spanish and Englishshown in two parts 2:09 and 2:08) Nearly four and a half hours long and spanning more than a decade, ''Che'' surely deserves the overworked, frequently misapplied label of epic. But it's a narrow epic, and while Benicio Del Toro, in the title role, offers a performance that's technically flawless, the movie is politically naive and dramatically inert. (Scott)
 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. (Dargis)
 'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (Scott) 
 'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis) 
 'FANBOYS' (PG-13, 1:30) This road comedy, set in 1998, about ''Star Wars'' geeks on a car trip to break into George Lucas's ranch has enough funny moments to amuse cultists. (Best bits: battles with ''Star Trek'' fans.) But it is constructed on some awfully tired conventions, and over all feels as if it were years too late. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. (Dargis)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. (Stephen Holden)
 'GRAN TORINO' (R, 1:56) Once again Clint Eastwood shows everyone how it's done, with a sleek muscle car of a movie set in that industrial graveyard called Detroit about a racist who befriends a besieged Hmong family next door. (Dargis) 'HAPPY-GO-LUCKY' (R, 1:58) Happiness is a complicated, difficult matter, and for the bopping bloom at the center of Mike Leigh's generous, expansive new film -- a gurgling stream of giggles, laughs and words played by a glorious Sally Hawkins -- it's also a question of faith. (Dargis)
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. (Dargis) 
 'HOTEL FOR DOGS' (PG, 1:40) Children and dogs: those two magic words distill the appeal of this cuter-than-cute, sweeter-than-sweet family film about animal-loving kids who embark on a crusade to rescue all the stray pooches in a fictional city. (Holden)
 'I'VE LOVED YOU SO LONG' (PG-13, 1:55, in French) The French novelist Philippe Claudel, making his debut as a director, shows sobriety and restraint in this story of a woman making her way back into normal life after serving a prison sentence for the murder of her son. Kristin Scott Thomas gives a remarkable lead performance, and Elsa Zylberstein as her sister is nearly as good. A climactic plot twist cheapens and diminishes the film somewhat, but it is still, for the most part, a powerful and subtle melodrama. (Scott)
 'LAST CHANCE HARVEY' (PG, 1:38) Dustin Hoffman and Emma Thompson don't make a lot of sense as a screen couple, but there's something irresistible about watching two people fall in love, even in contrived, sniffle- and sometimes gag-inducing films like this one. (Dargis)
 'LET THE RIGHT ONE IN' (No rating, 1:54, in Swedish) A charming and chilling Swedish love story directed by Tomas Alfredson about a lonely boy and the girl next door who may just happen to be a vampire. (Dargis)
 'LITHUANIA AND THE COLLAPSE OF THE USSR' (No rating, 4:46, shown in four parts) A weirdly compelling if almost unclassifiable and nearly five-hour work from the filmmaker, poet, archivist and cinematic avenging angel Jonas Mekas that consists almost entirely of bits and pieces of news programs -- almost all dedicated to Lithuanian independence -- shot off a color television with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'LUCK BY CHANCE' (No rating, 2:26, in Hindi and English) This enjoyable Bollywood offering spends a lot of its time wittily satirizing Bollywood itself as it tells the story of two young actors finding and losing romance as they try to attain movie fame. Farhan Akhtar is a find as the male lead; Zoya Akhtar, his sister, wrote and directed. (Genzlinger) 
 'MAN ON WIRE' (PG-13, 1:34) Philippe Petit's 1974 tightrope walk between the towers of the World Trade Center might have seemed, at the time, like a crazy stunt, but James Marsh's beautiful documentary understands it as a work of art. (Scott)
 'MEDICINE FOR MELANCHOLY' (No rating, 1:27) The day after a one-night stand, two young, black San Franciscans (Wyatt Cenac and Tracey Heggins) muse on matters of love, race and urban life in Barry Jenkins's modest, witty and self-assured first feature. (Scott) 
 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. The large supporting cast is also excellent, and includes James Franco as Milk's lover and campaign manager, Scott Smith, and Josh Brolin as Dan White, Milk's colleague on the Board of Supervisors and also his murderer. (Scott)
 'MY BLOODY VALENTINE 3D' (R, 1:41) Adding an extra dimension to the fondly remembered 1981 Canadian slasher about a rogue slayer in a small mining town, ''My Bloody Valentine 3D'' blends cutting-edge technology and old-school prosthetics to produce gore you can believe in. And if the gas-masked villain is less than terrifying, his pursuit of a naked young woman (Betsy Rue) is inspired. If there were an award for acting full-frontally while wearing sky-high stilettos, Ms. Rue would surely teeter away with it. (Jeannette Catsoulis)
 'NEW IN TOWN' (PG, 1:36) In this flat romantic comedy Renee Zellweger plays a corporate shark from Miami dispatched to an underperforming branch in New Ulm, Minn., where the folksy locals (including Harry Connick Jr.) thaw her frozen heart. (Holden) 
 'NOTORIOUS' (R, 2:02) The legend of Biggie Smalls, the Brooklyn-born rapper who was murdered in 1997, is given the full epic-melodrama-biopic treatment in this uneven, rarely dull film, among whose producers are Smalls's mother, Violetta Wallace, and his friend and mentor Sean Combs. Those two important figures are played by Angela Bassett and Derek Luke, while Smalls is impersonated by Jamal Woolard, whose faithful mimicry compensates for some of his limitations as an actor. (Scott)
 'OUR CITY DREAMS' (No rating, 1:27) Chiara Clemente's lyrical documentary profiles five female artists who have found inspiration and haven in New York City. From Ghada Amer's vast, embroidered canvases to the arresting woodcuts of Swoon, the movie makes smooth transitions among styles, mediums and personalities to produce a compelling meditation on the intersection of location and imagination. (Catsoulis) 
 'PAUL BLART: MALL COP' (PG, 1:30) Fat people are funny. Fat people who run into things are funnier. Fat people who run into things and have humiliating working-class jobs? Stop, you're killing me! (Nathan Lee)
 'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, invariably rushed and only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
 'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Catsoulis) 
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
 'REVOLUTIONARY ROAD' (R, 1:59) Sam Mendes directs Kate Winslet and a fine Leonardo DiCaprio in a waxworks edition of the corrosive, furiously unsentimental novel by Richard Yates about an unhappy marriage in the mid-1950s. (Dargis)
 'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
 'SYNECDOCHE, NEW YORK' (R, 2:04) To say that Charlie Kaufman's feature debut is one of the best films of the year or even the one closest to my heart is such a pathetic response to its soaring ambition that I might as well pack it in right now. (In other words: Go!) (Dargis)
 'UNDERWORLD: RISE OF THE LYCANS' (R, 1:32) Michael Sheen howls up a storm in this prehistory to the first two ''Underworld'' flicks, which rewinds to when the werewolves rebelled against their vampire masters. (Dargis) 
 'THE UNINVITED' (PG-13, 1:27) Regrets only. (Scott)
 'VICKY CRISTINA BARCELONA' (PG-13, 1:36) A rueful comedy from Woody Allen about two young American women (Scarlett Johansson and Rebecca Hall) who, during a summertime European idyll, savor numerous Continental delicacies, some provided by the equally alluring Javier Bardem and Penelope Cruz. (Dargis)
 'WALTZ WITH BASHIR' (R, 1:27) Ari Folman's animated documentary about Israeli soldiers haunted by memories of the 1982 Lebanon war is part memoir, part dream, part combat picture and altogether amazing. (Scott)
 'WENDY AND LUCY' (R, 1:20) In Kelly Reichardt's latest film Michelle Williams plays Wendy, a lonely young woman who encounters a run of bad luck while drifting through Oregon and Washington with her dog, Lucy. At first glance the film seems like little more than an extended anecdote, but underneath this plain narrative surface is a lucid and melancholy inquiry into the current state of American society. (Scott) 
 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (76%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (73%); REALITY TELEVISION (73%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); THEATER COMPANIES (71%)

COMPANY: LIGHTHOUSE INTERNATIONAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) JAPAN (90%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); TAIWAN (76%); SENEGAL (76%); CANARY ISLANDS (75%); SPAIN (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



507 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 431 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks New Powers to Fight Tax Evasion

BYLINE: By LYNNLEY BROWNING

 BODY:
The Justice Department is seeking expanded powers to prosecute offshore tax evasion and other financial crimes, including those related to the mortgage industry and potential misuse of government bailout money. 
 The efforts, which have gained traction in recent weeks, could give the agency tougher prosecutorial tools to combat fraud amid the economic downturn. As part of the effort, the agency has thrown its weight behind a Senate antifraud bill that, if passed, would make it easier for the agency to apply money-laundering statutes in cases of suspected tax evasion, particularly those involving offshore accounts. 
 A top Justice Department official laid out the aims on Wednesday in comments at a Senate Judiciary Committee hearing on the bill, known as the Fraud Enforcement and Recovery Act of 2009. 
 Money-laundering statutes generally carry stiffer penalties, are regarded more seriously by courts and make it easier for prosecutors to force defendants to forfeit assets and make restitution, said Robert G. Morvillo, a white-collar criminal defense lawyer in New York.
 The Justice Department also wants to amend the criminal code to include broader definitions of financial institutions and mortgage lenders, and to extend bank-fraud statutes to nonbank companies, particularly private mortgage lenders like Countrywide. 
 It is also pushing Congress to amend the current major fraud statute to apply to any illegal transactions under the $700 billion Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP, and to the multibillion-dollar stimulus package.
 The antifraud bill was introduced last week by Patrick J. Leahy, Democrat of Vermont, the committee's chairman, and Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, a senior member. The bill also seeks money to hire more prosecutors and investigators in various agencies.
 Rita M. Glavin, acting assistant attorney general of the Justice Department's criminal division, told the hearing that ''due to the rapid globalization'' of the financial system, ''we have seen the development of a troubling growth of income tax evasion'' that often involves ''the same methods and mechanisms as money-laundering schemes,'' according to a transcript. At the hearing, Neil M. Barofsky, the special inspector general for TARP, also supported the efforts by the Justice Department.
 The National Association of Criminal Defense Lawyers, a trade group, and the Heritage Foundation, a conservative research organization, have criticized the efforts. They denounced the proposed changes as overreaching in a joint letter on Wednesday to the committee.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (92%); TAX FRAUD (92%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (92%); FINANCIAL CRIME COUNTERMEASURES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); MONEY LAUNDERING (89%); LAWYERS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (94%)

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (57%); PATRICK LEAHY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



508 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Q & A; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Bill and You: Readers' Questions

BYLINE: By TARA SIEGEL BERNARD

 BODY:
The final draft of the $787 billion economic stimulus bill includes a variety of tax breaks and benefits for individuals. The bill weighs in at a whopping 1,073 pages, so many readers responded to our invitation to submit questions on how the bill may affect them. Selected questions and answers follow. 
 Benefits for Buying a Car
 Q. I am a single-income household making less than $75,000 a year. I recently had to turn in a leased vehicle that was at the end of the lease as of 1-29-09. I purchased a NEW car on 1-16-09 from the same dealership I had been leasing from. Will I qualify for the stimulus package refund? -- Laura Stone, Greenville, S.C. 
 Q. Does the car-buyer tax deduction cover cars bought starting in November 2008, as in the Senate bill, or starting when the bill is enacted? --Whitney Muse, Philadelphia
 A. Unfortunately, the car deduction goes into effect for purchase on or after the day the bill is signed, according to Clint Stretch, the managing principal of tax policy at Deloitte L.L.C. in Washington. As Mr. Stretch noted, it may be a slow weekend for car sales. Congress passed the bill Friday, and President Obama is expected to sign the bill by Monday.
 After the bill is signed, you will be able to take a deduction for state and local taxes, as well as excise taxes, paid on a new (but not used) vehicle, up to $49,500. The tax break is an above-the-line deduction, which means that you can take the deduction, even if you do not itemize other deductions on your tax return. The deduction begins to phase out for single tax filers with adjusted gross income of more than $125,000, or $250,000 for married couples filing jointly. Remember, the break applies to most vehicles, as long as they weigh no more than 8,500 pounds. That means sport utility vehicles, light trucks, motorcycles and even motor homes qualify, according to CCH, a tax information service.
 Extended Health Benefits
 Q. Can you tell me if the House provision regarding the long-term employees (10 years or age 55) and their eligibility for Cobra made it into the final bill? I can't find any references to it, which I guess says something. -- George Baker, Boise, Idaho
 Q. Does it still contain the provision that those forced out of their jobs after Sept. 1, 2008, and did not elect Cobra, will have an additional 60-day period to elect Cobra? -- Dennis S., San Diego
 A. For those unfamiliar with Cobra, it's the law that requires your company to provide you with health benefits for up to 18 months or so after you are fired or leave your job voluntarily. Unfortunately, it's not free. It can often cost more than $1,000 a month, especially if you are seeking coverage for your entire family.
 A provision in the House bill would have made Cobra health benefits available to workers on the job for more than 10 years and those older than 55 until they were eligible for Medicare, but it was not included in the final draft. 
 The period in which Cobra benefits can be requested was extended, however, and the stimulus bill eases the cost burden. To summarize, I'll point you to Ron Lieber's most recent Your Money column.
 The federal government will subsidize 65 percent of the premium for up to nine months. To be eligible, you need to have been forced out of your job between Sept. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2009. Also, your income in the year you receive the subsidy cannot be more than $125,000 for individuals or $250,000 for married couples filing their taxes jointly. 
 If you lost your job after Sept. 1, 2008, and declined Cobra coverage, you'll now get another chance. Call your former company in the next two months to find out how this will work.
 More on Cobra
 Q.I was laid off in September 2007. My Cobra is expiring April 1 of this year. Why did they only include a portion of 2008? I need help on this. Any suggestions? -- Martha W. 
 A. To keep the cost of the bill under control, Congress had to set certain limits. That's probably why they couldn't extend the Cobra subsidy too far back. Individuals may extend their Cobra coverage beyond the 18-month period if they become disabled, according to the Department of Labor Web site. But if you're perfectly healthy, you may have to shop for insurance on your own. If that's the case, I'd recommend reviewing Your Money's Health Insurance primer, which outlines several options for buying coverage.
 Tax Credits and Rebates
 Q. I am a retired federal worker collecting a federal pension that is taxable. Will I receive the income tax credit of $400? -- Mel Shrader, Mesa, Ariz.
 Q. Will people who derive all of their income from annuity payments receive the tax credit, or only those people who have ''earned income''? -- Arnold
 Q. Could you explain exactly who is, and who is not, eligible for the $400/$800 tax rebates? What about married couples that file together? I made $40,000 and my wife made $35,000 last year. Will we each get the full amount, or will we get a reduced amount? -- Michael W.
 A. The operative word in the ''Making Work Pay'' tax credit is ''work.'' For 2009 and 2010, this provision provides a tax credit of up to $400 for working individuals and $800 for married couples filing their tax returns jointly. You can calculate your credit by taking 6.2 percent of your earned income (and subtract it from the other federal taxes you owe). The credit begins to phase out at income levels of $75,000 for individuals and $150,000 for married couples filing jointly. Since the credit is ''refundable,'' you'll get money back even if you have no federal income-tax liability.
 The bill also provides a one-time payment of $250 in 2009 to retirees and disabled people receiving Social Security benefits. A separate $250 credit is also provided to certain government retirees who are not eligible for Social Security. If you are also eligible for the income-tax credit, however, it would be reduced by $250, according to Mark Luscombe, principal analyst at CCH.
 Home Buyers' Credit
 Q.Is the tax credit for first-time home buyers in the stimulus bill only for homes purchased in 2009 or does it also apply to homes eligible for the $7,500 interest-free loan enacted last year? The information currently online seems to give conflicting accounts. -- Ellen Rozan, Chapel Hill, N.C.
 A. The latest bill provides first-time home buyers with a refundable tax credit of up to $8,000 for purchases made after Jan. 1, 2009, but before Dec. 1, 2009. The credit phases out for single taxpayers with adjusted gross incomes that exceed $75,000 (or $150,000 for married couples filing jointly). If you sell the home within three years, you'll forfeit the credit. 
 First-time home buyers who made purchases between April 9 and Dec. 31, 2008, however, will continue to be covered by the original credit enacted last year for first-time home buyers. It's delivered in the form of a refundable tax credit equal to 10 percent of the home price, up to $7,500. But it really amounts to an interest-free loan from the government because you need to pay back the amount you receive over 15 years (or earlier, if the home is sold). The income limits that apply to the new credit, which you do not need to pay back, also apply here, according to Maureen McGetrick, a tax partner with BDO Seidman in New York.
 More on Home Buying
 Q. I recently got married. I have never owned a home, but my wife owns one with her brother, which she will deed to him when we buy a house together. Can I get the home buyers' tax credit by buying the home in my name, then adding her name to the deed later? -- Hank Y.
 A. That's a tricky one. Since you are married, that means both you and your spouse have to meet the ''first-time home buyer'' requirement, which means that neither of you owned a principal residence for three years, Ms. McGetrick said. If the home your wife owns with her brother is considered an investment property and not a principal residence, it won't affect your eligibility for the credit, she said. But be sure to check with a tax adviser regarding the specifics of your situation.
 Co-Signers and the Tax Credit
 Q.I was curious about the provision in the newly formulated stimulus plan for first-time home buyers. I am in the process of purchasing my first home, and because of credit restraints I had to have my mom as a co-signer. Is this going to affect my eligibility for the tax credit? -- Ryan, Manchester, N.J.
 A. If your mother is simply serving as a co-signer, you will probably still be able to claim the entire credit on your own. The Internal Revenue Service issued guidelines on how to allocate a similar credit (the $7,500 credit mentioned above) among unmarried taxpayers. And Ms. McGetrick expects the same general rules to apply to the latest tax break. 
 The allocation of the tax credit should be ''based on the underlying economics of the transaction,'' she said, including how much each party contributed to the down payment, who is responsible for paying the mortgage and the ownership interests of the parties involved. It may be more beneficial for one person to take the credit, so keep that in mind. Whatever you decide, seek the counsel of a tax adviser.
 Alternative Minimum Tax
 Q. What are the changes in the A.M.T. that are part of the stimulus package? -- Eugene Monaco, Albany.
 A. Every year, Congress typically passes what's become known as the alternative minimum tax ''patch,'' which shields millions of taxpayers from paying the more onerous A.M.T. by increasing the amount of exempt income. This year, the patch was included in the stimulus bill. For 2009, the amount of exempt income is increased to $46,700 for single filers, up from $46,200 in 2008, according to CCH. And for married couples filing joint returns, it rises to $70,950 from $69,950.
 Reading the Stimulus Bill
 Q. Where can I read the stimulus bill and is there anything in there about your 401(k)?
 A. Most people have watched their 401(k)'s drop like a rock, but there's nothing in the bill addressing the accounts specifically. If you want to try to figure out how long it might take for your account to recover, check out Your Money's Comeback Calculator.
 You can find links to the bill here, but you may want to caffeinate before diving in. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); US CONSOLIDATED OMNIBUS BUDGET RECONCILIATION ACT (89%); EXCISE TAX (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (76%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (73%); MARRIAGE (50%)

COMPANY: DELOITTE LLP (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOISE, ID, USA (76%); GREENVILLE, SC, USA (56%) IDAHO, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, SC, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



509 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; TODAY IN BUSINESS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 420 words

 BODY:
AN EXPENSIVE PRESCRIPTION Many economists say the government needs to do more, and quickly, to address the financial crisis by eliminating the weakest banks and selling off toxic assets. News Analysis: Steve Lohr. 
 LESSONS IN CRISIS HISTORY Experts on Japan's ''lost decade'' see parallels between the way that debacle was handled and the actions that the United States government has taken to address the credit crisis. [B1.] 
 FORGING NEW PATHS The closing of the 90-year-old General Motors plant in Janesville, Wis., cost 2,500 jobs. Some of those workers are training for new careers, but many are unsure how to find jobs with similar pay. [B1.] 
 C.D. INVESTIGATION R. Allen Stanford, a Texas billionaire, is said to be under investigation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the F.B.I. and the Internal Revenue Service over high-yielding certificates of deposits at his bank. [B1.] 
 CHARTER'S BANKRUPTCY PLAN Charter Communications, the cable TV company whose chairman is Paul Allen, left, said that it would file for bankruptcy protection to try to restructure its $21 billion in debt. [B6.] 
 SPOTLIGHT ON GEITHNER At the Group of 7 meeting, Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, will meet with European officials who have taken a different tack in dealing with banks amid the economic downturn. [B4.] 
 TOYOTA OUTLINES CUTS Toyota expects to offer buyouts for factory workers and may cut workweeks and executive compensation to reduce costs. The measures will affect about 18,000 employees in United States plants. [B5.] 
 INTERNET PRIVACY CONCERNS The Federal Trade Commission has let the Internet industry regulate its privacy practices, but the agency complained that the companies were not adequately explaining their policies to users. [B5.] 
 NEW LEADER AT SWISS RE Jacques Aigrain, the chief executive of the insurance giant Swiss Re, will step down and be replaced by his deputy, Stefan Lippe. [B6.] 
 MORGAN WORKER IN CHINA FIRED Morgan Stanley fired a high-ranking executive working for its real estate subsidiary in China. The company said the person might have violated the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act. [B6.] 
 SURPRISE SHIFT IN MARKETS The Dow had sunk to its lowest levels in three months, but a news report in the last hour of trading abruptly turned the day around. [B8.] 
 GOOGLE CLOSES RADIO AD UNIT In 2006, Google's chief executive, Eric E. Schmidt planned to build a thriving radio advertising business. But the project, Google Audio Ads, is being shut down. [B3.] 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TOXIC ASSETS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CREDIT CRISIS (90%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (88%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (87%); EXECUTIVES (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORK WEEK (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (75%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (75%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (72%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (71%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTERNET PRIVACY (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (69%); CORRUPTION (69%); INSURANCE (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (67%); RADIO ADVERTISING (64%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (64%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (61%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (83%); SCHWEIZERISCHEN RUECKVERSICHERUNGS-GESELLSCHAFT AG (SWISS RE) (66%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (57%); CHARTER COMMUNICATIONS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (56%); INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (56%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (83%); SREN (SWX) (66%); MS (NYSE) (58%); GM (NYSE) (57%); CHTR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (83%); NAICS524130 REINSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (66%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (66%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (56%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (56%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (75%); ROBERT ALLEN STANFORD (73%); PAUL ALLEN (68%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CHINA (92%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



510 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Offers Glimpse Of Obama's Battle Plan

BYLINE: By CARL HULSE and JEFF ZELENY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The House speaker, Nancy Pelosi, was not happy, and she did not mind showing it.
 Obama administration officials and Senate leaders were about to jettison money dedicated to school construction from the economic stimulus bill to placate key Republicans, and House Democrats felt aggrieved. So, Democrats said, Ms. Pelosi lit into Phil Schiliro, chief Congressional lobbyist for the Obama administration and a former senior Capitol Hill aide, and had words for Rahm Emanuel, her former lieutenant, who is now President Obama's chief of staff.
 The tension on Wednesday afternoon was smoothed over, partly with the help of a phone call to the speaker from the president. But it was evidence that even with the new White House team's extraordinarily deep Congressional experience, there have been slips as the administration learns how to exert power on Capitol Hill.
 Some of the missteps have been tactical, and fairly easily straightened out. It would have been wiser, administration officials concluded later, to have made sure that a House leader was on hand for the pivotal final negotiations on the $789 billion economic package given that many House Democrats had made clear they disliked the idea of cuts being made by the Senate. 
 Others were more fundamental, leaving the White House to live with the consequences. Some members of Congress said Mr. Obama's team would have also been better off taking a much stronger hand in writing the original House bill, keeping out provisions that Republicans would later use to portray it as stuffed with pork and programs that had little to do with the economy, though top administration officials said they had sound strategic reasons for not doing so. 
 ''Once you relegate it to someone else, you lose control,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe of Maine, one of the three Republicans who worked with the White House to win passage of the bill. ''They really needed to guide it and nurture it.''
 The negotiations over the largest economic rescue plan since the New Deal offered a window into how the relationship between the White House and Congress will take shape over the next four years, with a West Wing filled with more alumni of the House and Senate than any recent administration.
 Not only are the president and vice president alumni of Congress, but so are their top aides and their top aides' aides. 
 Mr. Emanuel worked closely with Ms. Pelosi while he was a member of the Democratic leadership team in the House, and he was Mr. Obama's main ambassador to her as the White House sought to convince House Democrats that they would have to compromise on the stimulus bill.
 Another top White House aide, Pete Rouse, was among the best-connected senior aides in the Senate before moving to the other end of Pennsylvania Avenue. Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. worked to build support for the bill through private meetings and when he ran into lawmakers in the Senate gym, where he still maintains a locker and routinely exercises.
 By combining this intimate familiarity with Congress and its personalities with a speed-dial approach to negotiations, administration officials and lawmakers say they have achieved a series of rapid victories, putting them on the verge of winning approval of an economic plan that retains Mr. Obama's original core principles. The president has already signed into law an expansion of children's health care and a wage antidiscrimination law and avoided a showdown over bank bailout funds.
 ''In 21 days, we have gotten two major pieces of legislation and two pretty significant ones,'' said Mr. Emanuel, who has been in the Capitol almost as much as when he served in the House.
 In the first month of his presidency, Mr. Obama has demonstrated a hands-on approach in guiding the economic stimulus bill through complicated terrain. He met with lawmakers in the Capitol, made dozens of phone calls and held several private meetings with Republicans and Democrats in the Oval Office, the residence of the White House and aboard Air Force One.
 Even as the economic plan neared a clinching deal on Tuesday evening, Ms. Snowe's cellphone rang. Mr. Obama was on the line -- yet again -- offering a word of thanks for keeping the legislation afloat. Senator Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, also received a call that night from the president.
 ''He's a good vote counter and in this business you'd better be,'' said Mr. Nelson, who was among the small group who helped forge a compromise in the Senate. 
 The power of a presidential phone call, though, had its limits.
 Senator Richard G. Lugar, Republican of Indiana, said Mr. Obama had called him twice to personally appeal for support of the economic package. One of the calls came just after the president returned from visiting a town in Indiana with one of the highest unemployment rates in the state.
 ''I told him I was sorry to inform him of this, but I was going to vote no,'' Mr. Lugar said in an interview.
 Some lawmakers believe it was a mistake for the administration to cede so much responsibility to House Democrats for putting the initial bill together. It resulted in a measure that came under fire from Republicans and even some Democrats for focusing too heavily on traditional Democratic spending priorities, and it had to be stripped of some initiatives like contraception and restoring the National Mall after critics highlighted the spending.
 ''Hopefully they have learned from this lesson because the bill got off to a less than stellar start,'' Ms. Snowe said. 
 But White House officials pointed to several reasons why they did not consider writing their own bill and sending it to Congress for fast-track approval by the Democratic majority. 
 Mr. Obama, they said, had not even taken office when the House began working on the legislation. Moreover, they said, if the new administration put a full plan on the table, it would inevitably have been picked apart by both parties. And Mr. Obama directed his staff members to set a respectful tone, keeping in mind that Republicans would be needed on future issues like energy and health care reform.
 But after the House and the Senate each had worked through the bill, the White House stepped in aggressively this week and took control of the measure. In an Oval Office meeting, the president admonished his team to get the bill finished. Recognizing that they would have to assert more authority if they wanted to get the bill finished rapidly, administration officials carried the outlines of a compromise to Capitol Hill and pushed for its adoption. 
 Publicly, at least, Congressional Democrats seemed to come out of their first sustained engagement with the new White House content with the balance of power. On Thursday, Ms. Pelosi had nothing but praise for the outcome and noted that the final version was mostly a product of the House. ''It's a major accomplishment for us all,'' she said.
 While Democrats are learning, they say that Republicans should be taking note as well, observing that while Mr. Obama is willing to reach out to them, he is also ready to try to put on political pressure as he has through his nationally televised news conference and appearances around the country.
 ''His hand is open,'' Mr. Emanuel said, ''but if you shake it, it has a very firm grip.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Speaker Nancy Pelosi, with Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner on Wednesday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Rahm Emanuel, President Obama's chief of staff, who worked closely with Ms. Pelosi.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MANNIE GARCIA/BLOOMBERG NEWS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); LOBBYING (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); NANCY PELOSI (90%); RAHM EMANUEL (78%); PETE ROUSE (58%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (58%); JOE BIDEN (58%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



511 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: In Japan's Stagnant Decade, Cautionary Tales for America

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

DATELINE: TOKYO 

 BODY:
The Obama administration is committing huge sums of money to rescuing banks, but the veterans of Japan's banking crisis have three words for the Americans: more money, faster.
 The Japanese have been here before. They endured a ''lost decade'' of economic stagnation in the 1990s as their banks labored under crippling debt, and successive governments wasted trillions of yen on half-measures. 
 Only in 2003 did the government finally take the actions that helped lead to a recovery: forcing major banks to submit to merciless audits and declare bad debts; spending two trillion yen to effectively nationalize a major bank, wiping out its shareholders; and allowing weaker banks to fail.
 By then, Tokyo's main Nikkei stock index had lost almost three-quarters of its value. The country's public debt had grown to exceed its gross domestic product, and deflation stalked the land. In the end, real estate prices fell for 15 consecutive years. 
 More alarming? Some students of the Japanese debacle say they see a similar train wreck heading for the United States. 
 ''I thought America had studied Japan's failures,'' said Hirofumi Gomi, a top official at Japan's Financial Services Agency during the crisis. ''Why is it making the same mistakes?''
 Many American critics of the plan unveiled Tuesday by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner said the plan lacked details. Experts on Japan found it timid -- especially given the size of the banking crisis the administration faces. 
 ''I think they know how big it is, but they don't want to say how big it is. It's so big they can't acknowledge it,'' said John H. Makin, an economist at the American Enterprise Institute, referring to administration officials. ''The lesson from Japan in the 1990s was that they should have stepped up and nationalized the banks.''
 Instead, the Japanese first tried many of the same remedies that the Bush administration tried and the Obama administration is trying -- ultra-low interest rates, fiscal stimulus and ineffective cash infusions, among other things. The Japanese even tried to tap private capital to buy some of the bad assets from banks, as Mr. Geithner proposed. 
 One reason Japan's leaders were so ineffectual for so long was their fear of stoking public outrage. With each act of the bailout, anger grew, making politicians more reluctant to force real reform, which only delayed the day of reckoning and increased the ultimate price tag. Japanese taxpayers are estimated to have recouped less than half what it cost the government to bail out the banks.
 A further lesson from Japan is that the bank rescue will determine the fate of the wider economy. While President Obama has prioritized his stimulus plan, no stimulus is likely to succeed unless the banking sector is repaired. 
 The Japanese crisis of the 1990s and early 2000s had roots similar to the American crisis: a real estate bubble that collapsed, leaving banks holding trillions of yen in loans that were virtually worthless.
 Initially, Japan's leaders underestimated how badly the real estate collapse would hurt the country's banks. As in the United States, a policy of easy money had fueled both stock and real estate speculation, as well as reckless lending by banks.
 Many in Japan thought that low interest rates and economic stimulus measures would help banks recover on their own. In late 1997, however, a string of bank failures set off a crippling credit crisis.
 Prodded into action, the government injected 1.8 trillion yen into Japan's main banks. But the injections -- too small, poorly planned and based on little understanding of the extent of the banking sector's woes -- failed to stem the growing crisis.
 Fearing more bad news if banks were forced to disclose their real losses, Japan's leaders allowed banks to keep loans to ''zombie'' companies on their balance sheets.
 Japan, instead, experimented with a series of funds, in part privately financed, to relieve banks of their bad assets.
 The funds brought limited results at best, says Takeo Hoshi, economics professor at the University of California, San Diego. For one thing, the funds were too small to make an impact. The depository for bad loans had no orderly way to sell them off. And the purchases that did take place failed to recapitalize banks because the bad assets were priced so low.
 So far, the Obama administration's plan avoids the hardest decisions, like nationalizing banks, wiping out shareholders or allowing banks to collapse under the weight of their own bad debts. In the end, Japan had to do all those things. 
 Economists say these blunders meant Japan's financial system did not start to recover until late 2002, six years after the crisis broke. That year, the government of the reformist leader Junichiro Koizumi ordered a tough audit of the country's top banks. 
 Called the Takenaka Plan after Heizo Takenaka, who headed the government's financial reform efforts, the move finally brought the full extent of bad loans to light. Initially, banks lashed out at Mr. Takenaka. ''The government can't order bank management to do this and that,'' Yoshifumi Nishikawa, president of the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, complained to the press in October 2002. ''It's absolutely absurd.''
 But Mr. Takenaka stood firm. His rallying cry, he said in an interview on Wednesday, was, ''Don't cover up. Don't distort principles. Follow the rules.''
 ''I told the banks clearly, 'I am in a position to supervise you,' '' Mr. Takenaka said. ''I told them I am not open to negotiation.'' 
 It took three more years to finally get the majority of bad loans off the banks' books. Resona Bank, which was found to have insufficient capital, was effectively nationalized. 
 From 1992 to 2005, Japanese banks wrote off about 96 trillion yen, or about 19 percent of the country's annual G.D.P. But Mr. Takenaka's toughness restored faith in the banks.
 ''That was a turning point in the banking crisis,'' said Mr. Gomi of the Financial Services Agency, who worked with Mr. Takenaka on the audits.
 By then, other factors had fallen into place that aided economic recovery, including a boom in exports to the United States and China. 
 (Those very share holdings would come back to haunt banks, as the recent market sell-off batters their balance sheets. And as the economy worsens, bad loans are again on the rise, the Financial Services Agency said Tuesday.)
 The United States will probably not be able to count on growing demand for its products, since the global economy is worsening. 
 ''The way things are going right now,'' said Mr. Hoshi, ''the U.S. taxpayers' burden will keep going up and up.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Heizo Takenaka, seen in 2002, headed the Japanese efforts that, though resisted, exposed the full extent of bad bank loans.(PHOTOGRAPH BY YOSHIKAZU TSUNO/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE)(B4) CHART: On the Mend: It took Japan a decade to fix its bank loan problems.(Source: Financial Services Agency, via T. Hoshi and A. K. Kashyap)(B1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TOXIC ASSETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); DEFLATION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (73%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (69%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (68%); PRICE INCREASES (67%); INTEREST RATES (50%)

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (53%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%) JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



512 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Global Economic Crisis Poses Top Threat to U.S., Spy Chief Warns

BYLINE: By MARK MAZZETTI

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The new director of national intelligence told Congress on Thursday that global economic turmoil and the instability it could ignite had outpaced terrorism as the most urgent threat facing the United States. 
 The assessment underscored concern inside America's intelligence agencies not only about the fallout from the economic crisis around the globe, but also about long-term harm to America's reputation. The crisis that began in American markets has already ''increased questioning of U.S. stewardship of the global economy,'' the intelligence chief, Dennis C. Blair, said in prepared testimony.
 Mr. Blair's comments were particularly striking because they were delivered as part of a threat assessment to Congress that has customarily focused on issues like terrorism and nuclear proliferation. Mr. Blair singled out the economic downturn as ''the primary near-term security concern'' for the country, and he warned that if it continued to spread and deepen, it would contribute to unrest and imperil some governments. 
 ''The longer it takes for the recovery to begin, the greater the likelihood of serious damage to U.S. strategic interests,'' he said. 
 Mr. Blair also used his testimony to deliver a withering critique of the Afghan government's inability to halt the spread of the Taliban, and he said corruption in Kabul and throughout the country had bolstered support for the Taliban and warlords. 
 The stark assessment of the security picture in Afghanistan laid bare the obstacles facing the Obama administration as it aims to direct more American troops and attention toward quelling the violence in the country. 
 Mr. Blair delivered his assessment to the Senate Intelligence Committee, in what was the new administration's first public recitation of the national security challenges facing the United States. 
 In a departure from recent years, when the heads of several intelligence agencies joined the director of national intelligence to deliver the testimony on the threats facing the nation, Mr. Blair faced the committee alone, a sign that the Obama administration plans for him to take on a more public role at the top of the intelligence pyramid. 
 Mr. Blair reiterated the oft-stated idea that no significant improvement in Afghanistan was possible unless Pakistan gained control of its own border areas, but he said that Pakistan's government was losing authority over that territory and that even more developed parts of Pakistan were coming under the sway of Islamic radicalism. 
 He linked Pakistan's problems, in part, to the fact that it was among the countries most badly hurt by the economic crisis. Already, he said, roughly a quarter of the world's nations have experienced ''low-level instability such as government changes'' as a result of the current slowdown in the global economy. 
 American officials say Pakistan's tribal areas remain home to the core leadership of Al Qaeda, though Mr. Blair said that its leadership had been battered in recent months by what he called ''a succession of blows as damaging to the group as any since the fall of the Taliban in 2001.'' The attacks have been carried out by C.I.A. remotely piloted aircraft, which Senator Dianne Feinstein, the California Democrat who is the Intelligence Committee's chairwoman, said were operating out of a base in Pakistan.
 Still, American intelligence officials have long said that dismantling Al Qaeda's haven in Pakistan would take more than a campaign of airstrikes against the group's leadership.
 But Mr. Blair also spread around the blame for Afghanistan's problems. A day after a brazen attack by Taliban gunmen in Kabul, the Afghan capital, Mr. Blair named the American-backed government of President Hamid Karzai as part of the problem in Afghanistan. 
 ''Kabul's inability to build effective, honest, and loyal provincial- and district-level institutions capable of providing basic services and sustainable, licit livelihoods erodes its popular legitimacy and increases the influence of local warlords and the Taliban,'' Mr. Blair said.
 Speaking about North Korea, he cited renewed concern among American intelligence officials that the country could be using a covert uranium enrichment program to produce fissile material that could be used to build nuclear weapons. American intelligence officials have previously estimated that the North has harvested enough plutonium for six or more bombs, although it has never been clear whether the North built the weapons.
 Officials in Washington believe that North Korea is preparing for another long-range missile test, in an attempt to demonstrate an ability to threaten cities along the West Coast of the United States.
 Iran is another nation that Mr. Blair cited as getting closer to mastering advanced missile technology, one aspect of what he told senators at the hearing was Iran's ''dogged development of a deliverable nuclear weapon.'' 
 He repeated the assessment made by Bush administration officials that Iran was likely to be using thousands of centrifuges to enrich uranium to produce material for a nuclear weapon. (Iran says its nuclear program is for energy generation.) But he said that a political decision ultimately awaited Iranian leaders about whether or not to turn Iran into a full-fledged nuclear power. ''I don't think it's a done deal either way,'' he said at the hearing. 
 Mr. Blair's focus on the world economy was a surprise to some senators. At one point, he assured one senator that he had no plans to turn the focus of American intelligence agencies away from threats like Iran and North Korea. ''I won't be turning satellites to look at G.D.P. accounts,'' he said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A cemetery in Kabul, Afghanistan. Multiple attacks by the Taliban in Kabul on Wednesday underscored the Afghan government's inability to halt the insurgency.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LYNSEY ADDARIO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Dennis C. Blair, the director of national intelligence, outlined a variety of security threats during his testimony on Thursday.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CRISIS (92%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); TERRORISM (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); TALIBAN (90%); TESTIMONY (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (64%); RELIGION (50%)

PERSON: DENNIS BLAIR (90%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); PAKISTAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



513 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 843 words

HEADLINE: The Worst-Case Scenario

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
Between 1990 and 2007, the total mortgage debt held by Americans rose from $2.5 trillion to $10.5 trillion. This rise was part of a societal credit bubble that burst in 2008. To cushion the pain of that collapse, federal authorities decided to replace private debt with public debt. 
 In 2008, the Bush administration increased spending by about $1.7 trillion, and guaranteed loans, investments and deposits worth about $8 trillion. In 2009, the Obama administration spent $800 billion on a stimulus package, $1 trillion on a second round of bank bailouts and committed another trillion on health care reform and other bailout plans. 
 Americans generally welcomed the burst of public activism. In ''Democracy in America,'' Alexis de Tocqueville wrote about what happens to a people beset by anxiety: ''The taste for public tranquility then becomes a blind passion, and the citizens are liable to conceive a most inordinate devotion to order.''
 In normal times, Americans would have been skeptical of proposals to double or triple the size of federal programs, but amid the economic fear, that skepticism fell away. Wall Street traders hungered for a huge federal bailout replete with strings. Economists produced models that assumed that government could efficiently spend huge amounts of money, and these models were accepted.
 The Obama administration was staffed with moderates who found that there was no reward for moderation. Liberals attacked them for being tepid. Republicans attacked them because it was enjoyable to see Democrats attacked. Over time, the administration drifted left and created what you might call Split Level Technocratic Liberalism. 
 President Obama defended spending initiatives in broad terms. He had enormous faith in the power of highly trained experts and based his arguments on models and projections. The actual legislation was cobbled together by Democratic committee chairmen, often acting beyond the administration's control. 
 During 2010, the economic decline abated, but the recovery did not arrive. There were a few false dawns, and stagnation. The problem was this: The policy makers knew how to pull economic levers, but they did not know how to use those levers to affect social psychology. 
 The crisis was labeled an economic crisis, but it was really a psychological crisis. It was caused by a mood of fear and uncertainty, which led consumers to not spend, bankers to not lend and entrepreneurs to not risk. No amount of federal spending could change this psychology because uncertainty about the future remained acute. 
 Essentially, Americans had migrated from one society to another -- from a society of high trust to a society of low trust, from a society of optimism to a society of foreboding, from a society in which certain financial habits applied to a society in which they did not. In the new world, investors had no basis from which to calculate risk. Families slowly deleveraged. Bankers had no way to measure the future value of assets.
 Cognitive scientists distinguish between normal risk-assessment decisions, which activate the reward-prediction regions of the brain, and decisions made amid extreme uncertainty, which generate activity in the amygdala. These are different mental processes using different strategies and producing different results. Americans were suddenly forced to cope with this second category, extreme uncertainty. 
 Economists and policy makers had no way to peer into this darkness. Their methods were largely based on the assumption that people are rational, predictable and pretty much the same. Their models work best in times of equilibrium. But in this moment of disequilibrium, behavior was nonlinear, unpredictable, emergent and stubbornly resistant to Keynesian rationalism.
 The failure to generate a recovery led to a collapse of public confidence. President Obama's promises of 3.5 million jobs now seemed a sham and his former certainty a delusion. The political climate grew more polarized. That meant it was impossible to tackle entitlement debt. That and the economic climate meant it was impossible to raise taxes or cut spending or do anything to reduce the yawning deficits. Federal deficits were 15 percent of G.D.P. and growing. 
 Far from easing uncertainty, the exploding deficits led to more fear. The U.S. could not afford to respond to new emergencies, like hurricanes or foreign crises. Other nations sensed American overextension. Foreign debt-holders grew nervous. Interest rates rose. Congress indulged its worst instincts, erecting trade barriers, propping up doomed companies. Scholars began to talk about the American Disease, akin to the British Disease of the 1970s. 
 The nation had essentially bet its future on economic models with primitive views of human behavior. The government had tried to change social psychology using the equivalent of leeches and bleeding. Rather than blame themselves, Americans directed their anger toward policy makers and experts who based estimates of human psychology on mathematical equations. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC BUBBLE (90%); BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); PSYCHOLOGY (87%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); LIBERALISM (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (70%); BEHAVIOR & COGNITION (60%); HEALTH CARE REFORM (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



514 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 484 words

HEADLINE: Obama Takes His Lobbying For Stimulus To Illinois

BYLINE: By HELENE COOPER

DATELINE: EAST PEORIA, Ill. 

 BODY:
President Obama brought his economic recovery road show to a Midwestern industrial giant Thursday, calling on Republicans in Congress to pass the stimulus package and telling workers at the Caterpillar plant here that the recovery effort could bring back some of their jobs. 
 Mr. Obama said the $789 billion package would set off spending that benefited companies like Caterpillar, a heavy-equipment maker that has already announced layoffs of some 22,000 employees. The House and Senate are expected to vote this week on the final plan.
 ''Once Congress passes this plan and I sign it into law,'' Mr. Obama said, ''a new wave of innovation, activity and construction will be unleashed all across America.'' 
 The efforts, he said, would include ''rebuilding our crumbling roads and bridges'' and ''repairing our dangerous dams and levees so we don't face another Katrina.''
 ''Think about all the work out there to be done,'' he continued. ''And Caterpillar will be selling the equipment that does the work.''
 Mr. Obama is setting up Caterpillar as an example for any job-saving benefits of his stimulus package. The company said in January that it would reduce its payroll by 16 percent. White House officials said the company had signaled that it would be open to rehiring many workers if orders for earthmovers and other heavy equipment improved. 
 In many ways, Caterpillar's fortunes are directly tied not only to the Obama stimulus package but also to similar ones elsewhere, as other countries make plans to start building bridges, highways and other public works to help create jobs.
 The White House is depending on Caterpillar to get the ball rolling with rehiring workers so it can assert a direct benefit of the stimulus package. The high-profile visit by Mr. Obama was intended in part to pressure the company to rehire workers in plants here and across the United States.
 Mr. Obama told Caterpillar employees that the company's chief executive, Jim Owens, had told him aboard the plane en route to Peoria that he would rehire laid-off employees. 
 But Mr. Owens, who introduced Mr. Obama, did not make such a pledge during the afternoon event, and he told reporters later that he thought the company might even have to lay off more employees before the economy began to turn around later this year or next.
 Mr. Obama used the event to try to round up another Republican vote for his stimulus package. He singled out from the crowd Representative Aaron Schock of Illinois, who recently won the Congressional seat vacated by Ray LaHood, a Republican who is now transportation secretary. 
 ''Aaron's still trying to make up his mind about our recovery package,'' Mr. Obama told the crowd, laughing. ''We know that all of you are going to talk to him after our event, because he's a very talented young man. I've got great confidence in him to do the right thing for the people of Peoria.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, at a Caterpillar plant in Illinois on Thursday, said the company, which makes heavy equipment, would benefit from the $789 billion stimulus plan up for votes in Congress.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); LOBBYING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); EXECUTIVES (79%); US PRESIDENTS (79%); VOTERS & VOTING (79%); JOB CREATION (78%); CONSTRUCTION EQUIPMENT (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); DAMS & RESERVOIRS (69%); FLOOD CONTROL (69%)

COMPANY: CATERPILLAR INC (92%)

TICKER: CTA (LSE) (92%); CATR (PAR) (92%); CAT (SWX) (92%); CAT (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS333131 MINING MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS333111 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (93%); JAMES W OWENS (59%); RAY LAHOOD (58%); AARON SCHOCK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



515 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Question of Control Over Banks Awaits Treasury Secretary at Group of 7 Meeting

BYLINE: By LANDON THOMAS Jr.

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
When Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner arrives in Rome for the first official meeting with his Group of 7 counterparts, he will be a bit of an outlier.
 Ireland injected 7 billion euros into its two largest banks Wednesday. In return, it gained the right to appoint four directors, limit executive pay, set lending parameters, require the suspension of home foreclosures, as well as an option to buy a 25 percent equity stake at fire sale prices some time in the future. The government already owns 75 percent of Anglo Irish bank. 
 In Britain, four of the country's most troubled financial institutions -- two of them were officially nationalized -- are already under the de facto control of a newly formed government holding company. 
 Officials are pushing Lloyds Bank and the Royal Bank of Scotland, among others, to pare bonuses and increase lending to British homeowners and businesses.
 Both countries' actions conform to a growing sense in Europe that the best way to revive banks is to put them on the tightest possible leash. But in an interview in advance of the Friday and Saturday G-7 meetings, a senior Treasury official reiterated that the Obama administration is committed to the proposition that banks must remain in private hands. 
 ''We are not seeking control of financial institutions,'' he said. ''We are seeking to restructure them.''
 Other countries are confronting similar challenges to the United States in different ways.
 To be sure, government control of banks in Britain and Ireland are more a result of the desperate times for financial institutions in those countries than bold insight on the part of policy makers. But with this mix of investment and influence, these governments are, however reluctantly, overcoming the bugaboo of nationalization even as they steer clear of the term and its negative associations.
 ''The N word is a difficult word,'' said Richard Portes, an economist at London Business School. ''But you need to exercise control in order to get bad assets off the books. The question is, both in the U.K. and the U.S.: What degree of control?''
 The market capitalization of the top American banks is collectively below $500 billion, and the International Monetary Fund is estimating that financial write-downs will rise to $2.2 trillion. As a result, a number of analysts say, the Obama administration will be forced to concede that even with recent capital injections, some large banks may become insolvent.
 With the full force of the international spotlight focused on Mr. Geithner this weekend, he is facing increased pressure not only to add meat to the skeletal outline of his bank plan, but to demonstrate to a skittish global economy that the Obama administration is ready to take charge.
 ''There is a vacuum to be filled,'' said Morris Goldstein, a policy analyst at the Peterson Institute for International Economics in Washington. ''The United States, as the largest global player, needs to lead the show.''
 The Irish plan, the most recent policy salvo from a government that has been under withering pressure to address the sick condition of its banks, may provide some guidance. But it is no panacea, either.
 ''Injecting the first 7 billion euros is a de facto nationalization,'' said Brian Lucey, a finance professor at Trinity College Dublin. ''And nationalization of the whole Irish banking system is a strong probability.''
 Unlike banks in Europe and the United States, Irish banks were not great originators or holders of securitized mortgage assets. But they lent with abandon to residential and commercial property owners and now face a rising tide of nonperforming loans.
 According to the terms of the recapitalization, the Irish government will receive preferential shares paying 8 percent interest and a warrant to take a 25 percent stake in the banks in five years, at today's low prices. That would allow the Irish taxpayer to profit from any improvement in the bank's value.
 That could be a long wait. Write-downs of Irish banks will be significant. Bank of Ireland, warned on Thursday that it would report a loss for the second half of this year and estimated bad loan charges of 4.5 billion euros through 2011. Allied Irish Banks is expected to write off a similar figure.
 Such a figure dwarfs the companies' respective market valuations -- 600 million euros for Bank of Ireland and about 1 billion for Allied Irish, a reflection of the extreme pessimism in the market.
 Both banks have equity capital ratios of about 6 percent, in line with other major European banks.
 In Britain, the home lenders Northern Rock and Bradford & Bingley are fully nationalized, but the government's control of R.B.S. and Lloyds is less overt, though its influence, by most accounts, is just as strongly felt.
 UK Financial Investments is pushing R.B.S., for example, to be a more aggressive local lender. And as the uproar over bonuses has grown here, the body has worked closely with its hand-picked chief executive, Stephen Hester, to cut back on payouts.
 The G-7 meeting will mostly be an opportunity for finance ministers to compare notes on the global crisis and their differing solutions. But for Mr. Geithner, it will also be an opportunity to explain the Obama administration's plan.
 ''Coming to the exam unprepared is unacceptable,'' said Ed Yardeni, an independent market analyst. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: British officials are pushing the Royal Bank of Scotland to pare bonuses and increase lending to homeowners and businesses.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAN KITWOOD/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); NATIONALIZATION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); FORECLOSURE (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (77%); BANK FAILURES (77%); EURO (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (76%); HOMEOWNERS (76%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); MARKET CAPITALIZATION (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%)

COMPANY: ROYAL BANK OF SCOTLAND GROUP PLC (69%); IRISH BANK RESOLUTION CORP LTD (IBRC) (57%); LLOYDS BANKING GROUP PLC (56%)

TICKER: RBS (NYSE) (69%); RBS (LSE) (69%); RBS (AMS) (69%); LYG (NYSE) (56%); LLOY (LSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (69%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (56%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (91%) UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRELAND (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



516 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Failure To Rise

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
By any normal political standards, this week's Congressional agreement on an economic stimulus package was a great victory for President Obama. He got more or less what he asked for: almost $800 billion to rescue the economy, with most of the money allocated to spending rather than tax cuts. Break out the Champagne!
 Or maybe not. These aren't normal times, so normal political standards don't apply: Mr. Obama's victory feels more than a bit like defeat. The stimulus bill looks helpful but inadequate, especially when combined with a disappointing plan for rescuing the banks. And the politics of the stimulus fight have made nonsense of Mr. Obama's postpartisan dreams. 
 Let's start with the politics.
 One might have expected Republicans to act at least slightly chastened in these early days of the Obama administration, given both their drubbing in the last two elections and the economic debacle of the past eight years. 
 But it's now clear that the party's commitment to deep voodoo -- enforced, in part, by pressure groups that stand ready to run primary challengers against heretics -- is as strong as ever. In both the House and the Senate, the vast majority of Republicans rallied behind the idea that the appropriate response to the abject failure of the Bush administration's tax cuts is more Bush-style tax cuts. 
 And the rhetorical response of conservatives to the stimulus plan -- which will, it's worth bearing in mind, cost substantially less than either the Bush administration's $2 trillion in tax cuts or the $1 trillion and counting spent in Iraq -- has bordered on the deranged. 
 It's ''generational theft,'' said Senator John McCain, just a few days after voting for tax cuts that would, over the next decade, have cost about four times as much. 
 It's ''destroying my daughters' future. It is like sitting there watching my house ransacked by a gang of thugs,'' said Arnold Kling of the Cato Institute.
 And the ugliness of the political debate matters because it raises doubts about the Obama administration's ability to come back for more if, as seems likely, the stimulus bill proves inadequate. 
 For while Mr. Obama got more or less what he asked for, he almost certainly didn't ask for enough. We're probably facing the worst slump since the Great Depression. The Congressional Budget Office, not usually given to hyperbole, predicts that over the next three years there will be a $2.9 trillion gap between what the economy could produce and what it will actually produce. And $800 billion, while it sounds like a lot of money, isn't nearly enough to bridge that chasm.
 Officially, the administration insists that the plan is adequate to the economy's need. But few economists agree. And it's widely believed that political considerations led to a plan that was weaker and contains more tax cuts than it should have -- that Mr. Obama compromised in advance in the hope of gaining broad bipartisan support. We've just seen how well that worked.
 Now, the chances that the fiscal stimulus will prove adequate would be higher if it were accompanied by an effective financial rescue, one that would unfreeze the credit markets and get money moving again. But the long-awaited announcement of the Obama administration's plans on that front, which also came this week, landed with a dull thud.
 The plan sketched out by Tim Geithner, the Treasury secretary, wasn't bad, exactly. What it was, instead, was vague. It left everyone trying to figure out where the administration was really going. Will those public-private partnerships end up being a covert way to bail out bankers at taxpayers' expense? Or will the required ''stress test'' act as a back-door route to temporary bank nationalization (the solution favored by a growing number of economists, myself included)? Nobody knows.
 Over all, the effect was to kick the can down the road. And that's not good enough. So far the Obama administration's response to the economic crisis is all too reminiscent of Japan in the 1990s: a fiscal expansion large enough to avert the worst, but not enough to kick-start recovery; support for the banking system, but a reluctance to force banks to face up to their losses. It's early days yet, but we're falling behind the curve.
 And I don't know about you, but I've got a sick feeling in the pit of my stomach -- a feeling that America just isn't rising to the greatest economic challenge in 70 years. The best may not lack all conviction, but they seem alarmingly willing to settle for half-measures. And the worst are, as ever, full of passionate intensity, oblivious to the grotesque failure of their doctrine in practice.
 There's still time to turn this around. But Mr. Obama has to be stronger looking forward. Otherwise, the verdict on this crisis might be that no, we can't. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL DEBATES (73%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



517 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1801 words

HEADLINE: Details of a Trimmer Stimulus Emerge

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN and CARL HULSE; David Stout contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
The new stimulus package seemed to defy Washington's peculiar laws of physics, where numbers that go up don't often come back down.
 But by producing a compromise with a sticker price of about $789 billion -- less than the amount approved in either the House or the Senate -- Congress appears to have ensured quick passage. Indeed, the Senate may begin debate on the package Thursday and may even pass it before the House, which would endorse it by the end of the week.
 The stimulus bill initially passed by the House had a projected cost of $820 billion, on the high end of the White House's recommended range. The Senate then went even higher, to $838 billion. And yet Congressional leaders and the Obama administration have settled on a final deal that lopped nearly 4 percent off the House bill and nearly 6 percent from the Senate version. 
 Not that the compromise satisfied all Congressional leaders. ''This bill was meant to be a stimulus that was timely, targeted and temporary,'' Senator Mitch McConnell of Kentucky, the Republican minority leader, said Thursday on the Senate floor. ''Unfortunately, it appears to be none of the above.'' 
 Since winning the White House and control of Congress, Mr. McConnell went on, ''Democrats have been making up for lost time with a government spending spree on the taxpayer credit card.''
 The reductions in the two versions came after more than 24 hours of direct, rapid-fire negotiations between Congress and the administration, and after weeks of debate over the particulars in the legislation that helped officials quickly find the areas where they could pare back. All sides had to give, and some programs dropped like stones. 
 That included even President Obama's signature middle-class tax cut proposal, which he initiallypromised would give individuals up to $500 and families up to $1,000. In the end, those numbers fell to $400 for individuals and $800 for couples, lopping about $30 billion from the cost of the original plan. 
 Social security and disability recipients will get a one time payment of $250, down from an original proposal of $300. 
 One of the single biggest reductions was a cut of $25 billion from a state fiscal stabilization fund that will largely be used for education. The House had proposed $79 billion; the Senate reduced it to $39 billion. The final agreement fell in between, with an added adjustment demanded by House Democrats that will allow states to use some of that money for the renovation and repair of school buildings. 
 That agreement came only after senators who were crucial to the deal insisted on removing a separate line-item that would have provided $16 billion for school construction. 
 And while the cuts were designed to meet the demands of centrist senators, including three crucial Republicans who insisted on a smaller bill, it was far from clear if the reductions would ultimately be seen as either good politics or good economics.
 Some economists have warned that the package may be too small, given the grave condition of the economy. And, as Mr. McConnell's remarks underscored, the cut of nearly $50 billion from the Senate proposal was not enough to quiet conservative critics who have said the package is still bloated and will only burden future generations of taxpayers.
 Other cuts could be found throughout the huge package of tax breaks and new government spending. The Senate had proposed a $15,000 tax incentive for all home buyers, a generous morsel that had real estate brokers smiling. But the final deal falls back to a House proposal that would provide much less money and would limit the provision to first-time home buyers within certain income limits. 
 Although details were still being worked out, officials said that eligible first-time homebuyers would be able to claim a credit of $8,000. 
 The House and Senate negotiators also agreed to scale back spending intended to help provide health insurance to the unemployed. The House originally proposed that the government subsidize 65 percent of private insurance, under a law known as Cobra, for one year after the loss of a job. The final deal calls for a 60 percent subsidy, and for only nine months. The House had also wanted to let states offer temporary Medicaid coverage to jobless individuals who did not qualify for Cobra coverage. That proposal was eliminated entirely. 
 The bill did, however, retain an extension of unemployment benefits, and a Senate provision exempted the first $2,400 of jobless benefits from federal taxes. It also retained a $70 billion provision to protect millions of middle income taxpayers from having to pay the alternative minimum tax in 2009. 
 As the House and Senate prepared for final votes on the measure, hoping to get the bill on President Obama's desk for his signature by Monday, a broad array of industries and interest groups were trying to calculate the winners and losers within the 700-odd pages of legislation.
 The deal reflected a calculated gamble by Mr. Obama in the first weeks of his term. To win Republican votes, the final stimulus package is considerably leaner than what many economists say is now needed to jolt the economy, given its grave condition.
 But it is unclear if Mr. Obama will be able to claim credit for bringing change to Washington by trying to win bipartisan support for his first major piece of legislation. Not a single House Republican voted for the bill when it came to the floor two weeks ago, and despite many compromises in the Senate, only three Republicans came on board.
 House Democrats, who are angry over some cuts, particularly for school construction, initially balked at the deal, and delayed a final meeting on Wednesday between House and Senate negotiators.
 Democratic officials said that Speaker Nancy Pelosi felt that Mr. Reid went too far by announcing a deal before it had been vetted by her office or discussed by House members in an emergency caucus meeting, setting off the last-minute flare-up.
 Ms. Pelosi said at a news conference on Wednesday that the delay helped House Democrats win some final concessions, including the agreement to let states use some money in a fiscal stabilization fund for school renovations. ''There is no question that one of our overriding priorities in the House was a very strong commitment to school construction,'' she said. ''That's still in the bill.''
 But they soon relented, and the meeting got under way in the packed Lyndon B. Johnson Room on the Senate side of the Capitol.
 Despite the House Democrats' show of pique, the stimulus bill is the most prominent display yet that their party now fully controls Washington. Their ability to push the package forward was a major change from the years of losing battles during President George W. Bush's tenure. For Republicans, it underscored the limits of their party's diminished ranks.
 Even trimmed to $789 billion, the recovery measure will be the most expansive unleashing of the government's fiscal firepower in the face of a recession since World War II.
 And yet it seemed almost trifling, compared with the $2.5 trillion rescue plan for the financial system -- a combination of loans to banks and incentives to bring private capital into the banking system -- that was announced on Tuesday by Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner.
 Although the final legislative language of the stimulus bill was not immediately available, lawmakers said it contained more than $150 billion in public works projects for transportation, energy and technology, and $87 billion to help states meet rising Medicaid costs.
 After huddling in Ms. Pelosi's office on Tuesday until nearly midnight, top White House officials and Congressional leaders had all but ironed out the differences between the House and Senate versions of the stimulus by noon on Wednesday.
 Even before the last touches were put to the bill, some angry Democrats said that Mr. Obama and Congressional leaders had been too quick to give up on Democratic priorities. ''I am not happy with it,'' said Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. ''You are not looking at a happy camper. I mean they took a lot of stuff out of education. They took it out of health, school construction and they put it more into tax issues.''
 Mr. Harkin said he was particularly frustrated by the money being spent on fixing the alternative minimum tax. ''It's about 9 percent of the whole bill,'' he said, ''Why is it in there? It has nothing to do with stimulus. It has nothing to do with recovery.''
 But even as Congressional leaders and top White House officials went through the package with a carving knife, it was clear that the three Republicans who agreed to support the bill in the Senate wielded extraordinary power, and along with conservative Democrats, had put a firm stamp on the stimulus package.
 For instance, negotiators opted to keep many of the Senate's reduced spending provisions, but they were careful to maintain an additional $6.5 billion for medical research that was inserted at the insistence of Senator Arlen Specter, Republican of Pennsylvania, who is a cancer survivor. He was one of the three Republican supporters of the recovery package.
 ''I think it is an important component of putting America back on its feet,'' Mr. Specter said, though he added that it was still a difficult vote ''in view of the large deficit and national debt.''
 The Senate bill came together only after a bipartisan group of centrist senators, led by Susan Collins, Republican of Maine, and Ben Nelson, Democrat of Nebraska, reached a deal to trim the cost of the package to $838 billion from more than $920 billion.
 ''These aren't easy times, obviously for America,'' said Senator Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, who was also a member of that group. ''Given the gravity of the circumstances economically, I thought it was important to be part of a process that could yield a consensus-based solution.''
 But the majority of Republicans continued to criticize the stimulus measure on Wednesday as a bloated and ill-designed spending bonanza by Democrats on favored projects that would not help lift the economy out of recession but would permanently expand the federal government and plunge future generations of Americans deep into debt.
 Indeed, the formal House-Senate conference meeting, usually an elaborate parliamentary ritual with reams of legislative paperwork strewn across cluttered conference tables, instead served mostly as a live, televised forum for some of the most powerful Democrats and Republicans in Congress to trade barbs.
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, complained that despite Mr. Obama's call for bipartisan cooperation, Republicans had largely been shut out. ''We didn't have a chance to negotiate,'' Mr. Grassley said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TAX LAW (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (62%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (62%); CONSTRUCTION (62%)

PERSON: MITCH MCCONNELL (56%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



518 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1118 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Funds Offer Relief to City and State

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HALBFINGER; William Neuman contributed reporting.

 BODY:
New York State and New York City officials expressed a measured sense of relief on Thursday as they began totaling the vast sums of money for Medicaid, education, transportation and housing that could soon begin flowing here as part of the federal stimulus package.
 While the anticipated aid, more than $21 billion, would close much of the city's $4 billion budget gap and significantly narrow the state's $14 billion deficit, Gov. David A. Paterson warned that the state deficit was widening by the day. And fiscal watchdogs cautioned against treating the money as a bailout, saying that the underlying financial problems facing local and state governments would become less manageable if they were not addressed quickly.
 ''Even with the stimulus package, there will be some very tough decisions, some very difficult cuts, and some pain that we will try to distribute evenly, and share the sacrifice throughout the state,'' Mr. Paterson said on a conference call with Senator Charles E. Schumer.
 Mr. Schumer briefed the governor and reporters late in the day, shortly after important elements of the package, like education-funding formulas, were pinned down in Congress and the bill neared final passage. Mr. Schumer boasted that the stimulus made for a rare instance in which the balance of payments between New York and Washington went in New York's favor. 
 ''In the dark cloud looming over our economy, this package is a silver lining,'' he said in the call. ''It doesn't mean that if you're a county executive or a mayor, or a governor for that matter, you can put up your feet and say, 'Oh, we don't have to make difficult choices.' But it does mean that instead of using a meat ax, we can use a rapier.''
 By increasing the federal government's share of Medicaid costs in New York to 57 percent from 50 percent, the stimulus package would provide $12.6 billion in budget relief over 27 months: $2.8 billion of that (or about $1.3 billion a year) to New York City, $8.6 billion to the state, and the rest to the state's 57 other counties.
 City officials, who had yet to see the fine print in the stimulus bill, called the Medicaid number ''fabulous'' if true, saying that it had been the Bloomberg administration's highest priority and that they had budgeted for only $1 billion a year in such relief.
 But the added Medicaid assistance from Washington quickly set off a new skirmish between the governor and New York's hospitals and health care workers, who said that it should be used to undo Mr. Paterson's planned Medicaid cuts.
 Daniel Sisto, president of the Healthcare Association of New York, said in a statement that not doing so would be tantamount to ''cashing in health care services for children, the elderly and disabled in order to avoid raising taxes on the wealthy.'' The stimulus package would also provide $2.7 billion to New York State for a fiscal stabilization fund to prevent or make up for its cuts to education aid, which could cause widespread teacher layoffs.
 The state has already threatened to cut about $770 million in education financing for New York City. But Mr. Schumer and Mr. Paterson said the fund's money would more than cover that shortfall.
 City officials lamented that any extra money would be distributed according to the usual state school-aid formula, which they have said favors suburban districts. But an additional $1.8 billion in federal money would be distributed directly to school districts in ways that favor the city: $1 billion to help schools in high-poverty areas meet the requirements of the reform law known as No Child Left Behind, and $800 million for special education.
 The state would also receive $1 billion in highway financing and $1.3 billion for transit projects, nearly all of which would go to the Metropolitan Transportation Authority. The authority has said it planned to spend about $500 million of the money on the Fulton Street Transit Center in Lower Manhattan. The project, plagued by soaring costs and delays, involves the renovation of a tangle of interconnected subway stations and the construction of an architecturally ambitious glass building above them.
 The authority has a long list of other projects that could get some of the stimulus money, including subway and commuter rail station renovation and improvements to behind-the-scenes infrastructure like rail yards and shops.
 One thing the stimulus bill would not do is save riders from a planned fare increase or service cuts. The bill contains money only for capital projects, not for operating expenses like salaries.
 The authority is still hoping that state lawmakers will pass a rescue plan, including a new payroll tax and tolls on the East River and Harlem River bridges, to help it close a $1.2 billion deficit this year. The rescue would lower a planned increase in fare revenues from 23 percent to 8 percent and avert planned service cuts.
 The state could also eventually benefit from $8 billion included in the stimulus package for high-speed rail service, since the New York City-to-Buffalo route is one of the handful of eligible projects, according to Senator Schumer. 
 New York would also get more than $500 million for public housing assistance, of which $390 million would go to the city's housing authority to pay for capital improvements, including overhaul of the troubled elevators in many buildings. The authority could also win still more money in competitive grants, officials said.
 On a smaller scale, the stimulus includes $96 million in grants to hire police officers -- which could pay for about 400 New York City recruits, according to Representative Anthony D. Weiner. 
 And it includes $75 million for the city and $20 million for the state for homelessness prevention and programs like short-term rental assistance or helping those on the verge of eviction pay their rent.
 ''That's a real step forward, because you want to keep those homeless episodes as brief as possible or prevent them in the first place,'' said Ted Houghton, executive director of the Supportive Housing Network of New York.
 But he expressed dismay that the package did not include more money for low-income housing construction, ''when New York State has over $2 billion worth of shovel-ready affordable-housing development ready to go over the next 12 months.''
 The state comptroller and other budget watchdogs warned state and city officials to use their newfound financial breathing room to align spending with revenue.
 ''The crisis has been delayed -- and made worse a year from now,'' said Nicole Gelinas of the Manhattan Institute. ''It's only good if the city takes this as kind of bridge financing to a vastly different future.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); MEDICAID (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); HEALTH CARE (83%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); COUNTIES (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); BALANCE OF PAYMENTS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (67%)

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (79%); DAVID PATERSON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



519 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 674 words

HEADLINE: Google Ends Its Project For Selling Radio Ads

BYLINE: By MIGUEL HELFT

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
Google entered the radio advertising business with grand ambitions three years ago. On Thursday, those ambitions fizzled. 
 Google said it was ending its radio project, Google Audio Ads, because it had failed to live up to expectations. Up to 40 people are expected to lose their jobs.
 It was the second time in two months that Google had killed a program meant to expand its advertising business offline, suggesting that the appeal of Google's automated model for selling ads may be far more limited than the company once hoped. 
 The company had planned to revolutionize the way radio ads were bought and sold. In 2006, Eric E. Schmidt, the chief executive, said he foresaw a day when Google would have more than 1,000 employees serving a thriving radio advertising business. 
 ''While we've devoted substantial resources to developing these products and learned a lot along the way, we haven't had the impact we hoped for,'' Susan Wojcicki, a vice president for product management, wrote on a blog announcing the end of Audio Ads.
 Ms. Wojcicki said Google would apply some of its radio advertising technologies to selling ads on online audio programs. She also said that Google would try to find jobs for most of the people involved in the radio ads program but that up to 40 people might be laid off. A Google spokesman declined to say how many people worked on the radio initiative.
 The announcement on Thursday also highlighted Google's efforts to cut costs and focus on fewer, more promising projects as its core search advertising business has slowed sharply during the recession. 
 Three weeks ago, Google ended its Print Ads program, which sold spots in newspapers. Only one of Google's offline advertising initiatives survives -- the more ambitious effort to sell TV ads. Ms. Wojcicki said Google would continue to invest in it.
 While Google has had middling success so far in TV advertising, analysts say, the company is not likely to give up on the effort quickly, because the market is so large and the initiative could help YouTube, Google's video site. 
 Google is selling a relatively limited number of ads on the Dish Network, some cable networks owned by NBC Universal and a small cable provider in Northern California. But Google has not reached deals with any of the major cable companies. 
 ''Clearly the TV industry isn't queuing up to be helpful,'' said Jeffrey Lindsay, an analyst with Sanford C. Bernstein & Company. 
 Google Audio Ads had faced challenges since it began in 2006, when Google acquired dMarc Broadcasting, a radio advertising technology company. The next year, the dMarc founders left Google amid culture clashes and a chilly reception to Google in the radio industry. Many radio stations feared that Google would turn their advertising business into a commodity. Some refused to do business with Google, while others offered Google only small slivers of their air time. 
 In April 2007, Clear Channel Radio, the largest radio station owner in America, agreed to let Google sell about 5 percent of its advertising space. The agreement included prime-time spots in major markets. Still, the program did not take off, as Google was not able to persuade a large number of its online advertisers to also advertise on radio.
 ''With the exception of Clear Channel, this is an insignificant event for radio stations,'' said David Bank, an analyst with RBC Capital Markets. Mr. Bank added that even for Clear Channel, the deal fell short of expectations. 
 A Clear Channel spokeswoman said it was ''disappointed that Google is ending the program.'' 
 Google paid $102 million in cash for dMarc, but the agreement included additional payments of up to $1.1 billion based on the radio ads initiative achieving certain performance targets. Google declined to say whether it had made any additional payments. Still, the company invested heavily in the Audio Ads program and hired several prominent radio ad sales employees. 
 Google said it planned to sell the software that automates broadcast radio programming.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RADIO ADVERTISING (94%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (85%); ADVERTISING RESEARCH (78%); PRINT ADVERTISING (78%); NEWSPAPER ADVERTISING (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (67%); CABLE TELEVISION (67%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (67%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (60%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%); SANFORD C BERNSTEIN & CO LLP (61%); NBC UNIVERSAL INC (53%); DISH NETWORK CORP (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%); DISH (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%); NAICS525920 TRUSTS, ESTATES & AGENCY ACCOUNTS (61%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (61%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (61%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (53%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (53%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (52%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: ERIC E SCHMIDT (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



520 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 865 words

HEADLINE: Taiwan's Low Profile May Aid Its Goals

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: TAIPEI, Taiwan 

 BODY:
America's new secretary of state is preparing to visit Beijing with an agenda that barely mentions Taiwan -- and that is fine with the president of Taiwan.
 President Ma Ying-jeou said here on Thursday that he was glad to have reduced tensions with mainland China and that he was not concerned that Taiwan was low on Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton's list of priorities.
 The lessening of tensions with the mainland ''is good news for everyone, we are not dissatisfied with the fact they did not mention Taiwan,'' President Ma said in an hourlong interview at the presidential palace. 
 Asked what Mrs. Clinton could do on relations between mainland China and Taiwan, long a top priority for Beijing, Mr. Ma asked for little help. ''America can play a constructive role in encouraging the status quo,'' he said.
 But having largely removed relations between Taiwan and the mainland as a potential flash point since he took office last May, Mr. Ma mapped out changes that he wanted from Washington. A free-trade agreement between Taiwan and the United States topped the list, followed by visa-free access for Taiwanese travelers to the United States and a bilateral extradition treaty.
 Beijing officials have viewed Taiwan as a renegade province ever since the Nationalists retreated to the island upon losing China's civil war to the Communists in 1949. The reunification of mainland China and Taiwan has long been the mainland's top goal in relations with the United States, Taiwan's closest ally.
 But senior administration officials have signaled that Mrs. Clinton's priorities for the Beijing leg of her Asia trip next week involve climate change, energy, North Korea, Tibet, Iran and economic issues.
 Mr. Ma also said he planned to push further this year for close economic relations with mainland China, even while acknowledging disappointment with the number of mainland tourists who have been allowed by Beijing to visit Taiwan. The Taiwanese government has set a limit of 3,000 a day, but actual arrivals have been closer to 500 or 600 a day.
 Recent moves to let mainland tourists stay up to 15 days instead of 10, and come in groups of as few as 5 people instead of 10, could help increase their numbers, Mr. Ma said. His administration has also opened up charter flights, shipping and investment, and he said Thursday that he wanted regularly scheduled flights to the mainland by the middle of this year as well.
 He won elections last March by promising that closer relations with the mainland would secure Taiwan's economic future. But the global economic downturn has led to a plunge in the island's exports; many investment bank economists now predict that Taiwan's economy will shrink this year, although the Taiwanese government still forecasts very slow growth.
 Mr. Ma said the economy would grow if Taiwan's main export markets recovered. In the meantime, the government has already distributed shopping vouchers worth $110 to each citizen and is rapidly stepping up spending on roads, bridges and schools and other infrastructure projects that Mr. Ma promised to build during his election campaign a year ago.
 ''This is high time to go fiscal -- let's get fiscal,'' he said. 
 All three of Mr. Ma's goals in relations with the United States face uncertain futures.
 American and Taiwanese officials held detailed discussions last year on a possible trade and investment framework agreement, which would be considerably narrower than a free trade agreement.
 Stephen M. Young, the director of the American Institute in Taiwan, which unofficially represents the United States government here in the absence of full diplomatic relations between the governments in Taipei and Washington, said in public remarks in November and December that policy makers were focusing on a trade and investment framework agreement, and there has been no sign of any change by the Obama administration.
 Mr. Ma's top aide for relations with mainland China, Lai Shin-yuan, who played a central role in talks in 2000 and 2001 that brought Taiwan and the mainland into the World Trade Organization, said there had been little detailed discussion on the Taiwanese side of a free trade agreement.
 Ms. Lai added that in her opinion, there was little enthusiasm in Taiwan for the broad dismantling of Taiwanese restrictions on imports of American food that the United States would be likely to demand as part of any free trade agreement.
 Mr. Ma also asked that the United States allow Taiwanese citizens to visit without obtaining visas first. Britain agreed this week to allow Taiwanese citizens to visit and stay for up to six months without a visa.
 Mr. Young has said publicly that the United States has concerns about this because Taiwan has too few controls in place to prevent the issuance of genuine passports to people who are not citizens of the island.
 Mr. Ma and Ms. Lai also said that they wanted an extradition treaty with the United States that would allow Taiwan's authorities to pursue fugitives accused of financial crimes who have fled across the Pacific. The Bush administration did not take a position on this question, and neither has the Obama administration.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Ma Ying-jeou of Taiwan said the easing of tensions between Taiwan and China was ''good news for everyone.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY CHAO-YANG CHAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERVIEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (71%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (68%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (66%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (62%); AIRLINES (60%); EXTRADITION (52%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAIPEI, TAIWAN (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (94%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (91%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (78%); XIZANG, CHINA (58%) TAIWAN (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (95%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TIBET (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



521 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 538 words

HEADLINE: N.A.A.C.P. Calls for Economic Equity

BYLINE: By IAN URBINA

DATELINE: BALTIMORE 

 BODY:
The N.A.A.C.P. celebrated its centennial Thursday by calling on the Obama administration and Congress to spend more on education, establish a nine-month moratorium on foreclosures and ensure that the stimulus package is distributed equitably. 
 Federal lawmakers must guarantee fair hiring practices for new jobs at a time when black unemployment -- consistently higher than it is for whites -- is in double digits, the group said in a 38-page report describing its policy goals for the year.
 The report also calls for legislation to protect black homeowners from predatory lending, since many black borrowers were issued high-cost mortgages and about 10 percent of black families will be affected by foreclosure.
 ''The election of Barack Obama is a momentous victory and one that we have worked to achieve for at least five decades,'' Benjamin T. Jealous, the organization's president, said. ''We celebrate the breaking of glass ceilings. But our real job is to uplift the grass roots.
 ''And since this is still a country in which it's harder for a black man with no criminal record to get a job than it is for a white man with a criminal record, we have a lot of work left to do.''
 Founded in 1909 by W.E.B. Du Bois and Ida B. Wells-Barnett to fight the lynchings of blacks, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People is the most recognized organization in the civil rights establishment. It has more than 1,200 active branches. 
 The organization has been influential in every major civil rights issue of the last century -- the landmark 1954 Brown v. Board of Education desegregation case, the Montgomery bus boycotts of the mid-1950s and passage of the 1964 Civil Rights Act and the 1965 Voting Rights Act.
 But in recent years it has been battered by financial and political problems as well as questions of how best to move forward.
 In 2007, the organization laid off more than a third of its staff because of a budget shortfall. The group's reputation was also diminished in the mid-1990s when it fired its president for using organization money to settle a sexual harassment claim against him.
 The organization currently has 250,000 paid members. At its height in 1964 -- 10 years after the Brown decision -- it had 600,000.
 The organization has long been faulted as being out of touch with the concerns of younger African-Americans. But in selecting Mr. Jealous, 36, an activist and former news executive, the 64-member board voted last year to bring in its youngest president, breaking with a tradition of picking ministers and political leaders. 
 ''The world has changed,'' said John Powell, director of the Kirwan Institute for the Study of Race and Ethnicity at Ohio State University, adding that the N.A.A.C.P. needs to keep adjusting to the current hurdles facing blacks. Mr. Powell said that focusing on economic issues, like Du Bois did, should be a priority.
 Mr. Jealous said he could not agree more.
 While the organization is scrutinizing recent police shootings in five states, including the killing early New Year's Day of an unarmed reveler by a transit officer in Oakland, Calif., Mr. Jealous said, it also suing 15 banks, charging that predatory lending was aimed at blacks.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2009

 CORRECTION:
An article on Friday about the N.A.A.C.P.'s centennial omitted four of the group's founders. Besides W.E.B. DuBois and Ida Wells-Barnett, the N.A.A.C.P. includes Henry Moscowitz, Mary White Ovington, Oswald G. Villiard and William E. Walling among the original founders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOCIAL JUSTICE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); FORECLOSURE (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (89%); CIVIL RIGHTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); ELECTION LAW (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PREDATORY LENDING (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (72%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); BOYCOTTS (68%); ETHNICITY (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



522 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: After the Stimulus

 BODY:
While it is beyond the scope of any one bill to counter the worsening recession, the $789 billion stimulus and recovery package that Congress approved this week could have accomplished more than it did.
 The bill is, for the most part, a step in the right direction. But political wrangling, including President Obama's futile pursuit of bipartisanship, rendered it smaller and less focused than it needed to be.
 It was especially lamentable that the stale politics of Washington ended up including $70 billion for relief from the alternative minimum tax. The relief is necessary, but it has nothing to do with stimulus or recovery. It is a perennial issue that Congress should have handled in another bill. To include it in the stimulus package -- and stay beneath a self-imposed $800 billion spending limit -- lawmakers had to ditch far more effective measures, such as aid to states for education and health care. 
 Still, there is merit in the bill. It significantly bolsters financing for unemployment benefits and food stamps, generally the most efficient and powerful forms of stimulus. It helps some unemployed workers pay for health coverage. It expands significantly the number of low-income working families who can qualify for a tax credit of up to $1,000 per child. It pays for highways, bridges and other projects. 
 The final version also has jettisoned some of the most wasteful proposals of Senate Republicans, including $39 billion for a tax credit for home buyers that was largely a windfall for people prepared to buy a home anyway. 
 All told, the package is projected to boost demand enough to create about 3.5 million jobs. That's not enough; the economy is currently coming up short by more than five million jobs. But it could take the edge off what is sure to be a painful downturn. 
 The real question is what the Obama administration does for a follow-up. Unless the stimulus is accompanied by a successful twin effort to stem foreclosures and stabilize the banks, the downward pull of falling home prices and constrained credit will be too great to overcome.
 Unfortunately, after a botched rollout this week of their bank bailout plans, administration officials will likely need another few weeks to develop a coherent proposal -- and weeks thereafter to vet and implement it. 
 They need not, and should not, wait to start a foreclosure-prevention effort, but it's not clear whether Mr. Obama's team understands the scale of the effort required. Earlier this week, Treasury Secretary Timothy Geithner suggested that some $50 billion from the bank-bailout funds may be used on foreclosure prevention. That is the low end of the estimate that had been floated.
 The administration also appears to be waffling in its support for passing new legislation that would allow bankrupt homeowners to have their mortgages modified under court protection. To be powerful, an anti-foreclosure effort must include both carrots, like interest-rate subsidies that would make it easier for lenders and borrowers to agree on modified loan terms, and sticks, including the option for a bankruptcy court judge to impose a settlement on lenders who aren't doing enough to prevent unnecessary foreclosures. 
 The administration's next shot at advancing its economic aims will be Mr. Obama's first budget. The new president should stop courting Republicans who have shown no interest in compromise or real economic fixes. The budget resolution is immune from filibustering. If every Republican wants to vote against it, Mr. Obama should leave them to explain that decision to voters who are in danger of losing their jobs or their houses or both.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RECESSION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BAILOUTS (89%); FORECLOSURE (89%); REAL ESTATE (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (87%); NEW ISSUES (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICS (77%); HOMEOWNERS (75%); FAMILY (73%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (70%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); HEALTH INSURANCE (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); BANK FAILURES (66%); HOME PRICES (64%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (61%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (77%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



523 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; SPORTS OF THE TIMES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: Seeking More Than 'Sorry' From Rodriguez

BYLINE: By WILLIAM C. RHODEN. 
E-mail: wcr@nytimes.com

 BODY:
A year ago Representative Elijah E. Cummings was giving Roger Clemens a stern tongue-lashing in reaction to Clemens's testimony before a Congressional committee investigating steroid use in professional sports.
 Afterward, Cummings, Democrat of Maryland, said he felt comfortable that Major League Baseball was moving in the right direction. Strict tests were in place; the list of banned substances was exhaustive. But now Cummings is confronted by the blockbuster news that Alex Rodriguez, baseball's greatest star, used performance-enhancing drugs for three seasons beginning in 2001.
 Earlier this week, Cummings, a senior member of the House Committee on Oversight and Government Reform, sent a letter to Rodriguez inviting him to participate in Powered By ME!, a Maryland-based awareness campaign aimed at teaching youngsters about the dangers of anabolic steroids and performance-enhancing substances. 
 Last year, the Orioles' Brian Roberts, who in 2007 admitted using steroids, spoke to 350 high school athletes as part of the program.
 Cummings wants A-Rod to go beyond a television apology. ''It's not enough to say, 'I'm sorry,' '' Cummings said in a telephone interview.
 ''He needs to say, 'Listen, this is not good for you; I made a mistake, I was wrong. Yes, I made some money, but it's not worth it. You can destroy your body. You can destroy your mind. Destroy your life.' I'm glad that he came forward, but I think that a mere admission is not enough.''
 If Rodriguez agrees to go to Baltimore, Cummings will no doubt invite him to travel to Washington to meet with his committee staff to expand on comments he made during his interview with ESPN.
 Specifically, what was the climate in baseball between 2001 and 2003, and were players tipped off about impending drug tests?
 Why the concern with an admission over results that are six years old?
 The issue is not when, but who?
 ''When you have a person who is the No. 1 earner in the major leagues to first of all be involved and then to lie about his involvement, and then to come back years later to say that he was involved, I believe that it still has a tremendous impact on young people and it may have the wrong impact,'' Cummings said.
 ''They see a major league player who cheated, who lied, who violated league policy and became a multimillionaire.''
 Cummings is concerned that young competitive athletes will be less concerned with Rodriguez's apology than with trying to find out what drugs he used.
 The more disturbing element is the double standard for the rich and famous.
 Rodriguez will apologize, tear up and dance away to spring training without missing a check.
 ''I live in the inner city; the guys on my street, when they get caught with drugs, you know where they go?'' Cummings said. ''To jail. In droves.''
 The A-Rod leak raises more questions than it answers. The question of confidentiality, the question no one seems to be interested in exploring: How deep and wide was this so-called steroid era?
 ''It does make me wonder whether we have gotten to the bottom of all of this,'' Cummings said.
 How will we get to the bottom of baseball's steroid era? Certainly not through the incessant finger-pointing that A-Rod's outing has ignited.
 The only way to close this chapter is for Major League Baseball to go through a deep and intensive soul-searching. It need to hold its own scaled-down version of South Africa's Truth and Reconciliation hearings after apartheid was abolished in the early 1990s.
 Promise amnesty. Call every owner past or present, every baseball executive past or present, every manager, coach, player, trainer, agent, clubhouse boy, every scoop-sniffing journalist since the 1950s.
 Let scientists testify about the evolution of performance enhancement in each generation; we'll find that baseball never has really had a pure era. Perhaps that's why this vast hearing will never be held: there are certain illusions we all would like to cling to. We'll discover that the bad guys weren't so bad and the good guys weren't so good.
 ''I don't think that's a bad idea,'' Cummings said. ''It would be difficult to do because a lot of people we would want to come forward to help us would probably refuse to.''
 Critics say why waste resources on exploring baseball's dark side. Play ball. There's an economy to fix.
 But our dual national pastimes -- Wall Street and Major League Baseball--have been slammed into the rocks by ambition and unchecked greed.
 How does a nation regain a sliver of its innocence?
 Through truth and reconciliation.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elijah E. Cummings of Maryland at drug hearings in 2008.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SLOAN/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STEROIDS (91%); ILLICIT STEROID USE (91%); DRUGS IN SPORTS (90%); BASEBALL (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (78%); ATHLETES (77%); DRUG TESTING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: MAJOR LEAGUE BASEBALL (58%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (56%)

PERSON: ELIJAH E CUMMINGS (94%); ALEX RODRIGUEZ (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (58%) MARYLAND, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



524 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1517 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
MOVIES
 Ratings and running times are in parentheses; foreign films have English subtitles. Full reviews of all current releases, movie trailers, showtimes and tickets: nytimes.com/movies.
 'BRIDE WARS' (PG, 1:34) Die, Bridezilla, die! (Manohla Dargis) 'THE CLASS' (No rating, 2:08, in French, with English subtitles) An artful, intelligent, heartfelt fiction film from the director Laurent Cantet about modern French identity and the attempt to transform young students of all sizes, shapes and colors into citizens through talk, talk, talk. (Dargis)
 'THE CURIOUS CASE OF BENJAMIN BUTTON' (PG-13, 2:47) A hothouse blossom of romance, intrigue and breathtaking digital effects from David Fincher (''Zodiac,'' ''Fight Club''). Brad Pitt stars as a man who ages backward, but it is Cate Blanchett who provides the film's delicate, graceful emotional center of gravity. (A. O. Scott) 
 'DOUBT' (PG-13, 1:44) Adapted by John Patrick Shanley from his stage play, this drama about a Roman Catholic priest suspected of child molestation stars a tamped-down Philip Seymour Hoffman as the accused and an energetic, often wackily comic Meryl Streep as his accuser. (Dargis) 
 'FANBOYS' (PG-13, 1:30) This road comedy, set in 1998, about ''Star Wars'' geeks on a car trip to break into George Lucas's ranch has enough funny moments to amuse cultists. (Best bits: battles with ''Star Trek'' fans.) But it is constructed on some awfully tired conventions, and over all feels as if it were years too late. (Neil Genzlinger) 
 'FROST/NIXON' (R, 2:02) It's twinkle (Michael Sheen) versus glower (Frank Langella) in Ron Howard's amusing, facile edition of the Peter Morgan theatrical smackdown. 
 (Dargis)
 'FROZEN RIVER' (R, 1:37) Venturing deep into the trenches where hard-working Americans struggle to put food on the table, Courtney Hunt's powerful, somber film evokes a perfect storm of present-day economic and social woes. Playing an impoverished mother of two who smuggles illegal aliens across the Canadian border, Melissa Leo gives an awards-worthy performance. 
 (Stephen Holden)
 'HE'S JUST NOT THAT INTO YOU' (PG-13, 2:12) And neither am I. 
 (Dargis) 
 'LITHUANIA AND THE COLLAPSE OF THE USSR' (No rating, 4:46, shown in four parts) A weirdly compelling if almost unclassifiable and nearly five-hour work from the filmmaker, poet, archivist and cinematic avenging angel Jonas Mekas that consists almost entirely of bits and pieces of news programs -- almost all dedicated to Lithuanian independence -- shot off a color television with a video camera. (Dargis) 
 'LUCK BY CHANCE' (No rating, 2:26, in Hindi and English) This enjoyable Bollywood offering spends a lot of its time wittily satirizing Bollywood itself as it tells the story of two young actors finding and losing romance as they try to attain movie fame. Farhan Akhtar is a find as the male lead; Zoya Akhtar, his sister, wrote and directed. (Genzlinger) 'MEDICINE FOR MELANCHOLY' (No rating, 1:27) The day after a one-night stand, two young, black San Franciscans (Wyatt Cenac and Tracey Heggins) muse on matters of love, race and urban life in Barry Jenkins's modest, witty and self-assured first feature. (Scott) 'MILK' (R, 2:08) Gus Van Sant's film about Harvey Milk (1930-78), the San Francisco City supervisor who was one of the first openly gay elected officials in the country, is less a standard biopic than a sharp, lyrical history lesson, touching not only on a crucial decade in the gay-rights movement but also on the rough and tumble of big-city politics and the tricky ways of love. Sean Penn outdoes himself as Milk, balancing his intense conviction with an unusual and welcome playfulness. (Scott)
 'NEW IN TOWN' (PG, 1:36) In this flat romantic comedy Renee Zellweger plays a corporate shark from Miami dispatched to an underperforming branch in New Ulm, Minn., where the folksy locals thaw her frozen heart. (Holden) 
 'OUR CITY DREAMS' (No rating, 1:27) Chiara Clemente's lyrical documentary profiles five female artists who have found inspiration and haven in New York City. From Ghada Amer's vast, embroidered canvases to the arresting woodcuts of Swoon, the movie makes smooth transitions among styles, mediums and personalities to produce a compelling meditation on the intersection of location and imagination. (Jeannette Catsoulis) 
 'THE PINK PANTHER 2' (PG, 1:32) Hoary slapstick routines, invariably rushed and only marginally funny, are all there is in this disorganized hodgepodge of juvenile pranks starring an overstressed Steve Martin. (Holden)
 'PUSH' (PG-13, 2:01) Navigating a Hong Kong bristling with partly constructed skyscrapers, a telekinetic (Chris Evans) and a clairvoyant (Dakota Fanning) hunt for a mysterious suitcase while dodging a pair of Chinese brothers whose screams can pop blood vessels. Paul McGuigan directs with maximum efficiency and minimum reliance on computers, creating a landscape crawling with mind controllers and human bloodhounds. The only ability in short supply is acting. (Catsoulis) 
 'RACHEL GETTING MARRIED' (R, 1:54) Anne Hathaway plays Kym, furloughed from rehab to attend her sister Rachel's wedding. The director, Jonathan Demme, working from a script by Jenny Lumet, takes a fairly conventional family-therapy drama and packs it with exuberant vitality. There is ample sorrow and recrimination at this party, but nonetheless you'll be sorry when it ends. (Scott)
 'THE READER' (R, 2:03) You have to wonder who, exactly, wants or perhaps needs to see another movie about the Holocaust that embalms its horrors with artfully spilled tears and also asks us to pity a death camp guard. Kate Winslet plays the guard; Stephen Daldry directs. (Dargis)
 'SLUMDOG MILLIONAIRE' (R, 2:00) A modern fairy tale from Danny Boyle (''Trainspotting'') about a pauper angling to become a prince, this sensory blowout largely takes place amid the squalor of Mumbai, India, where lost children and dogs sift through trash so fetid that you swear you can smell the discarded mango as well as its peel. (Dargis)
 'THE UNINVITED' (PG-13, 1:27) Regrets only. (Scott)
 'THE WRESTLER' (R, 1:45) Mickey Rourke, with sly, hulking grace, stars as a washed-up wrestler hoping for a comeback. But like its hero, the movie has a blunt, exuberant honesty, pulling off even its false moves with conviction and flair. (Scott) 
 Film Series
 DOCUMENTARY FORTNIGHT (Friday through Monday, and Wednesday and Thursday) The Museum of Modern Art's annual survey of international nonfiction filmmaking this year includes more than 30 titles. A few highlights from the first week of programs: ''The Flower Bridge,'' Thomas Ciulei's study of the major migration that is undermining the social structure of Moldova (Friday and Saturday); ''Super, Girls!,'' Jian Yi's look at a hugely popular Chinese television show modeled on ''American Idol'' (Saturday and Sunday); ''Exotic Exoticism: Plant Wars,'' Asio Liu's account of the nonnative plants that have been introduced in Taiwan and their effect on the local ecology (Monday); ''Barcelone ou la Mort,'' in which the filmmaker Idrissa Guiro follows one Senegalese man as he tries to emigrate to the Canary Islands (Thursday); and ''A Horse Is Not a Metaphor,'' Barbara Hammer's first-person account of living with cancer (Thursday). (Through Feb. 25.) Museum of Modern Art Roy and Niuta Titus Theaters, (212) 708-9400, moma.org; $10. (Dave Kehr)
 FADED GLORY: OSCAR MICHEAUX AND BLACK PREWAR CINEMA (Saturday through Thursday) This exhaustive retrospective devoted to the pioneering African-American filmmaker Oscar Micheaux andhis contemporaries in the ''race film'' movement of the 1920s, '30s and '40s continues. Walter Reade Theater, 165 West 65th Street, Lincoln Center, (212) 875-5600, filmlinc.org; $11. (Kehr)
 OSCAR'S NOMINATED SHORTS (Saturday) Robert Osborne of Turner Classic Movies hosts a noon screening of all 10 of the Oscar-nominated films in the animated and live-action short categories. The program, without Mr. Osborne, will be repeated at 4 p.m. Academy Theater, Lighthouse International, 111 East 59th Street, Manhattan, oscars.org; sold out. (Kehr)
 SHINJUKU ECSTASY: INDEPENDENT FILMS FROM THE ART THEATER GUILD OF JAPAN (Wednesday) Established as a distributor of European art films in Japan in 1961, the Art Theater Guild began producing Japanese features of an ambitious avant-garde/political bent in 1967. The guild became a production home to some of the most important Japanese directors of the postwar era, including Nagisa Oshima (''Death by Hanging''); Yoshishige (Kiju) Yoshida (''Eros + Massacre''); and Shuji Terayama, whose 1971 experimental study of a young man adrift in a chaotic society, ''Throw Away Your Books, Let's Go Into the Street,'' opens this 12-film series . The program continues through March 1; highlights include Toshio Matsumoto's 1969 ''Funeral Parade of Roses'' (next Friday); Susumu Hani's 1968 ''Inferno of First Love'' (Feb. 24) and Shohei Imamura's 1967 film ''A Man Vanishes'' (Feb. 28). At 7:30 p.m., Japan Society, 333 East 47th Street, (212) 715-1258, japansociety.org; $11. (Kehr)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE RATINGS (92%); MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); FILM GENRES (90%); FILM (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); FILM DIRECTORS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); CHILDREN (73%); WRITERS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (66%); RELIGION (66%); SMUGGLING (64%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (60%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (51%); CHILD ABUSE (51%); CHILD SEXUAL ABUSE (51%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (50%)

PERSON: RON HOWARD (79%); MERYL STREEP (59%); BRAD PITT (59%); GEORGE LUCAS (59%); CATE BLANCHETT (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LITHUANIA (66%); CANADA (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2009



525 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Learning Network)

PUB-DATE: February 13, 2009

SECTION: EDUCATION

LENGTH: 2952 words

HEADLINE: Talking About a Revolution

BYLINE: AMANDA CHRISTY BROWN and KRISTIN MCGINN MAHONEY


HIGHLIGHT: In this lesson, students read an article exploring United States-Iran relations on the anniversary of the 30th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution of 1979, research the events of that period and write historical fiction based on photographs of Iran, then and now. (Click here for a companion lesson for Grades 3-5.) 

 BODY:
Overview of Lesson Plan:
In this lesson, students read an article exploring United States-Iran relations on the anniversary of the 30th anniversary of the Islamic Revolution of 1979, research the events of that period and write historical fiction based on photographs of Iran, then and now. (Click here for a companion lesson for Grades 3-5.)
Author(s):
Amanda Christy Brown, The New York Times Learning Network
Kristin McGinn Mahoney , The New York Times Learning Network
Suggested Time Allowance:
Three to five class periods 
Resources/Materials:
-computers with Internet access and a projector, if desired and available, or copies of photographs from the slide shows cited below
 -copies of the article "Iran Offers 'Dialogue With Respect' With U.S." (one per student) 
 -copies of the Scholastic Upfront article "1979: Iran's Islamic Revolution" or the handout "Iran Overview" (one per student) 
 -copies of the article "A Million Marchers Rally for Khomeini in Teheran Streets", from The New York Times archives (one per student) 
 -copies of the handout "Stories of the Revolution"
Activities/Procedures:
Click here for a companion lesson for Grades 3-5.
1. Warm-Up/Do Now: 
Note to teacher: Iran is an incredibly complex country and therefore a potentially vast topic of study. This lesson presupposes some basic knowledge about Iran and helps students fill gaps in their knowledge about the events of the 1979 Islamic Revolution and their effects through reading current and historical articles, as well as exploring photographs from the time of the revolution and the present day. Teachers who wish to explore this topic further are encouraged to brainstorm additional questions for research with their students. 
Write the word "Iran" on the board and challenge students, working in pairs, to list at least 10 names, places, adjectives, facts, historical details, etc., that they associate with Iran. (Alternatively, you may wish to use a K/W/L chart.) Once they have finished, call upon students to come up to the board and add them to a common "what we know or think we know about Iran" brainstorm. Ask them to be careful not to repeat items already written on the board by their peers. Next, write "revolution" on the board and call upon students to word-associate from there. 
When students are finished, look at the results. Ask students to discuss why they wrote what they did. Once everyone has shared, ask questions: Do you notice any overlap between these two subjects? Where? Do any details seem to oppose one another? Which ones? Why? Why is Iran in the news right now? What happened there 30 years ago? What do you know about the legacy of this event and its influence on American-Iranian relations? 
2. Article Questions: 
As a class, read and discuss the article "Iran Offers 'Dialogue With Respect' With U.S.", focusing on the following questions: 
 a. What news prompted this article?
 b. Why would President Ahmadinejad make these remarks during a rally celebrating the Islamic Revolution of 1979?
 c. From the third paragraph, what can you infer about the current relationship between the United States and Iran? How was that relationship before the Islamic Revolution in 1979?
 d. What sort of changes does President Ahmadinejad hope for?
 e. According to Saeed Leylaz, an economist and analyst, why would Iran seek ties with the United States now?
 f. What can you infer from this article about Iran's relations with Israel?
 g. Why would what happens in Israel's elections be important in working out a relationship with Iran?
 h. Why are Iran's nuclear ambitions of concern to America and Israel?
 i. How might direct talks with Iran help define President Obama's plans to "remake America's approach to diplomacy"?
 j. What risks are involved with talking directly to the Iranians?
 k. What has President Obama said publicly about possible talks with Iran?
 l. How has his rhetoric changed since being elected president?
 m. Who are the players in Iran's upcoming presidential election?
 n. What impact could this election have on United States-Iranian relations?
 o. Why is the Obama administration in a tight spot here?
 p. Is it possible to move forward diplomatically while carrying on a covert mission to disable the Natanz plant? 
3. Activity: 
Return to this quotation from the article: "That [the Revolution] ended the close relationship between Washington and Tehran and ushered in decades of confrontation that culminated in President Bush's description of Iran in 2002 as part of an 'axis of evil.'" Tell students that today they will be digging into the events of the Islamic Revolution, specifically the events of January and February 1979, in order to better understand Iran and its relationship with the United States. 
Print or display selected photographs from the collection of photographs of the Revolution of 1979 at the Iran Chamber Society . (Note that some of the content of some of these photos is violent and may not be appropriate for your setting, so be sure to preview them in advance.) Ask students to comment on what they notice. The captions will begin to shed light on the events of the period. 
Tell students they will be working in groups to research an aspect of the Revolution of 1979 and will return to some of these photographs with a greater understanding a bit later. To provide context for their research, hand out the following: -copies of the Scholastic Upfront article "1979: Iran's Islamic Revolution" or the handout "Iran Overview" (one per student) 
 -copies of the article "A Million Marchers Rally for Khomeini in Teheran Streets", from The New York Times archives (one per student) 
Then divide students into small groups and assign each group to focus on one of the following topics in their research:
 -The Shah
 -Ruhollah Khomeini
 -Youth in Iran (during the Revolution and today)
 -Women in Iran (during the Revolution and today)
 -the Martyrs
 -Islamic Fundamentalism
 -President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad 
In addition to using the articles you provided, direct students to find one additional article to mine for information on their topic. The following Times Topics pages are excellent places to search:
Iran
Mahmoud Ahmadinejad
Ruhollah Khomeini
Islam
You might also direct students to the Additional Resources that follow this lesson. 
Tell groups to prepare to share 10 important details they learned about their topic with classmates. Depending on class period length and technology access, students may need to complete their research independently at home and share findings with their groups during the next class meeting. If you used the K/W/L chart at the start of class, fill in group findings in the "L" column of the chart. 
When students have completed their research, bring them together to share their findings. Tell students that they will use what they've learned to write a piece of historical fiction to accompany the photograph of their choice. Remind students to take notes so that they will be prepared to write intelligently. 
Once each student group has shared, engage students in a discussion beginning with this quotation from the first chapter of Robin Wright's book, "The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and Transformation in Iran": "The passions once evoked by Ayatollah Khomeini may have waned, even withered, as the tough realities of running a large country with a complex economy have taken precedence. But the idea behind the revolution led by the Imam still had historic importance two decades later - perhaps in some ways even more than when it started. Its significance also extended far beyond Iran, the Middle East, the broader Islamic world and even the 20th century, for one simple reason: It is the last great revolution of the Modern Era." 
Ask students, Why might the Revolution of 1979 be considered "the last great revolution of the Modern Era"? In her book, Ms. Wright compares it to the French and Bolshevik revolutions. In what ways is it similar to these other "great" revolutions, and to the American Revolution? How is it different? 
Continue the discussion by asking: What regime replaced the Shah? What is Islamic fundamentalism? What is theocracy? How is this kind of government different from democracy? Why did the Revolution lead to strained relations with the United States and Bush's characterization of the country as part of the "axis of evil"? How has the Revolution affected the lives of people living in Iran today? For example, how are the circumstances surrounding a woman wearing a hijab in the United States different from those around a woman wearing one in Iran? 
Then, take a look at selected images from The Times's slide show "You Say You Want the Revolution". Invite students to comment on what they see, given the context of what they now know. 
Distribute the handout "Stories of the Revolution". Explain to students that they will be using what they have learned to write a short piece of historical fiction inspired by one of the images they've looked at in class today. This handout will help them plan their stories.
Give students time in class or at home to write their stories and invite students to share them in class to reveal the humanity behind the history of the events of the Revolution of 1979 and life in Iran since then. 
Close class by sharing this with students: According to a post on the blog Global Voices, "Mohmmad Ali Abtahi, a former vice president and reformist politician, says the Islamic Revolution was one of the most important events in human history 'where the flower replaced the bullet.'" Ask: In what way was this Revolution "one of the most important events in human history"? Even though we tend to think of the current regime in Iran as repressive in comparison to our country, what can you infer from this quote about the ways in which the Revolution was positive for Iran? If students have difficulty understanding the ways in which this change was good for Iran, you might share with them the first chapter of "The Last Great Revolution: Turmoil and Transformation in Iran". You can also read The Times review of her book, "Mosque and State". 
4. For Homework or Future Classes: 
Have students polish their writing about the topic or generate further questions for research, or both. Finished pieces might be posted with the photographs that inspired them in the classroom or gathered together in a class book. 
Additionally, have students consider how they might counsel the State Department in its dealings with Iran, now that they have some context for our relationship with this country. The NPR program "On The Couch: Rethinking Iran: Perceptions on U.S.-Iran Relations" provides some more perspectives on relations between the two countries. 
Related Times Resources: 
Additional Times Articles and Multimedia:Op-Ed Video: Those Sexy Iranians Nicholas Kristof reports on fashion trends in Iran.Article: International Sports: A Quiet Revolution in Iran; Beneath Coat and Scarf, Women Discover the Freedom to Play Article on female athletes in Iran. Words of Khomeini: On Islam, the Revolution and a Cease-Fire Excerpts from a statement by the Ayatollah Khomeini in 1988. Iran's Students Chafe as Islam Puts Imprint on Their Futures Article on Iranian university students looking to the future.Review: Book Study as Insubordination Under the Mullahs Review of Azar Nafisi's memoir "Reading Lolita in Tehran."Blog: An Iranian in Paris Guest op-ed posts by Iranian graphic novelist Marjane Satrapi, with drawings.Review: God Looked Like Marx Review of the book "Persepolis" by Marjane Satrapi.Multimedia: Movie Minutes: "Persepolis" Video in which Times film reviewer A.O. Scott reviews "Persepolis."Slide Show: Books - Excerpts from "Persepolis II" Learning Network Resources:Lesson Plan: New Directions for Diplomacy Comparing Obama's Vision for Foreign Policy with the Bush DoctrineLesson Plan: Still Suspicious? Evaluating United States Foreign Policy in Iran in Light of New IntelligenceLesson Plan: A Problem with Authority? Writing Challenging Questions for Today's World LeadersLesson Plan: Somewhere in the Middle Investigating the Geography of the Middle EastLesson Plan: Iranian Uranium? Staging a Mock Summit on Iran's Nuclear ProgramLesson Plan: All for One, and One for Oil? Exploring the Diplomatic Relationships Between and Among Oil Producing NationsLesson Plan: Top Secret Revealed Examining Recently-Uncovered Secrets about the C.I.A. in Iran Archival Material From The Times: "Rights Group Estimates Executions In Iran at 1,000 Since Revolution" Article on a report by Amnesty International. "An Interview With Khomeini" Transcript of Italian journalist Oriana Fallaci's 1979 interview with the Ayatollah Khomeini. "Ayatollah Speaks of Future United States Ties; But, on Anniversary of Revolution, He Also Assails Superpowers" Article on the Ayatollah Khomeini's remarks on the first anniversary of the Iranian revolution. Times Topics:IranMahmoud AhmadinejadRuhollah KhomeiniAli KhameneiMohammad KhatamiIslamBarack Obama Other Resources:National Public Radio Series "Unwrapping Iran" February 2009 series marking the Islamic Revolution with stories, interviews and audio features.State Department's History and Overview of IranIran Chamber Society A comprehensive history of the Revolution and additional resources for in-depth study of Iranian history from 2500 BCE forward.Iranian Students News AgencyPBS Frontline: Terror and Tehran -- Does America's War of Terror Hold Democracy Hostage in Iran?Global Voices Online Blog Site Post: Anniversary of Islamic Revolution and Iranian BloggersChildren of the Revolution 2006 Guardian article about the effects of the Islamic Revolution on teenagers in Iran.The New York Review of Books 1988 article, "Islamic Revolution," by Bernard Lewis
Vocabulary:
diplomacy, parliamentary, covert, tactical, afoot, adversaries, allies, constructive, overtures, flank, caveat, destabilizing, uranium, doctrine, sidestepped, sanctions, subtext, infrastructure, centrifuge, dismantled, conceivable
Extension Activities:
1. Students might be familiar with the Azar Nafisi book "Reading Lolita in Tehran" and with her new memoir, "Things I've Been Silent About," which The Times recently reviewed and provided an excerpt from. The Times also published a review of "Reading Lolita in Tehran" upon its publication. After reading these materials, have students write a personal response to Nafisi's writings and to the reviews. 
2. Show students "The Socks", an excerpt from Marjane Satrapi's "Persepolis II." (Preview this excerpt before class to ensure its content is appropriate -- there is some "off-color" language). Ask students what they notice about the images Satrapi uses in her graphic novel. Engage them in a discussion of whether they think it is effective to use this genre to write about serious subjects. Then, ask them to use what they've learned in their research to write a short graphic representation of one aspect of the Islamic Revolution. 
3. Look at the image of the toppling of the statue of Saddam Hussein on April 9, 2003. Compare it with the image of the toppling of the statue of the Shah in 1979. The images are remarkably similar. What is the symbolism behind each act? While the photos are similar, how are the situations in each country at the time different? What is the relationship between Iran and Iraq? How has the United States played a role in both countries during the latter part of the 20th century and the beginning of the 21st? 
Interdisciplinary Connections:
American History -- Use a Venn diagram to compare and contrast the Islamic Revolution of 1979 with the American Revolution. After recording your thoughts, create a visual representation of what life following the revolution was like for the people of America versus what it has been like for the people of Iran. To what do you attribute the differences? 
Economics -- Read the article "Hard Times Help Leaders in Iran Tighten Grip". Discuss the current economic situation in Iran. What are its causes? How is the current regime using it to their advantage? Who is being harmed? Who is benefiting? What long-term effects do you foresee? Contrast what is happening in Iran with the economic crisis in the United States. How is our government reacting to our situation differently? How is it affecting our citizens? 
Language Arts -- Read Azar Nafisi's Op-Ed piece "Words of War". Why does she assert the importance of poetry during a time of war? Do you agree with her? Write your own personal essay about the role literature has played or can play during a difficult time in your life or in the life of our country. 
Academic Content Standards:
Grades 6-8, 9-12
 Geography Standard 4 -- Understands the physical and human characteristics of place. 
 Geography Standard 10 -- Understands the nature and complexity of Earth's cultural mosaics. 
 Geography Standard 13 -- Understands the forces of cooperation and conflict that shape the divisions of Earth's surface. 
 Language Arts Standard 1 -- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies of the writing process. 
 Language Arts Standard 7 -- Demonstrates competence in the general skills and strategies for reading a variety of informational texts. 
 Language Arts Standard 8 -- Demonstrates competence in speaking and listening as tools for learning.
 World History Standard 43 -- Understands how post-World War II reconstruction occurred, new international power relations took shape, and colonial empires broke up
 World History Standard 44 -- Understands the search for community, stability, and peace in an interdependent world
 World History Standard 45 -- Understands major global trends since World War II 

        
Iran Offers 'Dialogue With Respect' With U.S.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ANNIVERSARIES (93%); RELIGION (91%); HISTORY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); TEACHING MATERIALS & MEDIA (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (78%); WRITERS (77%); INTERNET & WWW (70%) Crises Around the World; Current Events; Fiction; Global Conflicts; Global History; Language Arts; Power and Authority; Reader Response; Revolutions; The Middle East

GEOGRAPHIC: TEHRAN, IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (58%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAN (58%)

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2011



526 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 854 words

HEADLINE: Days of Wine and Roses Are Over This Valentine's

BYLINE: By JENNIFER 8. LEE

 BODY:
Long-stemmed roses are being replaced by homemade cards. Theater tickets are being replaced by Netflix. Personal jewelry is being replaced by personal poems.
And even some preparing to propose on Saturday are seeking a bargain approach: on Yahoo, searches for ''cheap engagement rings'' are ''off the charts'' compared with a year ago, according to Vera Chan, a trend analyst for the company. Other searches that are up over last year include ''cheap lingerie,'' ''free Valentine's Day cards'' and ''homemade Valentine's Day gifts.''
Valentine's Day, a more discretionary holiday compared with birthdays and Christmas, is proving particularly vulnerable to the bursting of the economic bubble. Diamond jewelry sales are down 20 percent to 30 percent. Flower sales are likely to tighten as well, in part because the day falls on a Saturday. 
In the current economic climate, many men say it comes as a great relief not to have to produce a material manifestation of an intangible emotion.
''It has become such an ingrained part of our culture that women expect it and men expect they need to do such things,'' said Marc Matsumoto, 31, a New York marketing manager who was laid off in December.
For Mr. Matsumoto, Valentine's Days past meant splurging on $700 to $1,000 dinners, $400 and $500 dresses from Theory and Eli Tahari, and jewelry from Tiffany's. This year, he and his wife are planning a meal at home. The menu includes foie gras with persimmon port and lobster sous vide with yuzu butter, but they will split the $125 cost.
Angeline Close, a business professor at the University of Nevada, Las Vegas, who has studied consumer attitudes toward Valentine's Day, says the reassessment of the day is forcing it back to its roots. It started out as an intimate card-giving occasion in the mid-1800s but then grew into the second-most-marketed holiday after Christmas.
''It became a card and chocolate,'' Professor Close said. ''Then card, chocolate and roses, and then card, chocolate, roses and a lavish night out.''
Last year, consumers spent an average of $122.98 on Valentine's Day gifts and merchandise, up from $80 in 2003, according to the National Retail Federation. With men, Professor Close said, ''a lot of it had to do with the whole one-upmanship.'' This year, however, the average expense is expected to drop 17 percent, to $102.50 this year, the federation said.
Tim Rhodes, 23, of Snellville, Ga., said he never wanted his wife to feel left out when other men doted on their partners; it seemed like ''you don't love your significant other as much as they love theirs.'' This year, Mr. Rhodes and his wife, Beth, are planning to exchange practical gifts, like boots or a coat, and save their money for their move to Russia to teach English.
Creative, personal and experiential have become the key words. Chadd Bennett, 30, of Seattle, and his wife are forgoing their traditional getaways and jewelry this year, and will instead camp out in their living room and build a fort, harking back to their childhood.
''We can still keep that ritual together,'' Mr. Bennett said. ''It will save us a few hundred bucks, and be a heck of a lot more fun.''
Some men say they are reflecting a perceived shift in women's thinking that they not spend a ''stupid gluttonous amount of money,'' said Brad Wilson, 28, of Chicago, the editor in chief of BradsDeals.com, which offers online shopping deals.
Indeed, Candace Lindemann, 31, an educational consultant from Miller Place, N.Y., pre-emptively drew the line, telling her husband, ''No cut flowers.''
''I think they are expensive for what they are,'' Ms. Lindemann said.
Even if plans include going out, many are finding creative ways to cut corners. Some are using restaurant gift certificates. Others are avoiding the pricey prix fixe dinners and going out for lunch, or dinner during the week.
Susan Jennings, 44, an artist from Manhattan, did both, using a gift certificate for Craft restaurant on Thursday. ''We have zero income,'' Ms. Jennings said. ''We are just living on savings.''
Businesses are adapting in subtle ways. Roses are being sold in bundles of 10 instead of a dozen for a few dollars less. Jewelry companies are pushing less expensive items, like colored stones. Budget restaurants, which have not traditionally been hot spots for lovers, are offering Valentine's Day specials.
The Internet abounds with ideas for frugal options, like playlists burned onto CDs and coupons for household chores. Sheryl P. Kurland, a relationship counselor, had another suggestion: do whatever it is that you did on your first date. The emphasis ''recalls falling in love and nostalgia that's often filled with humor,'' Ms. Kurland said.
Susan Ji-Young Park, 39, of Los Angeles, has seen her income from teaching cooking classes fall sharply lately, so she prepared truffles to send to friends and family, in lieu of $100 orchid arrangements.
The holiday, Professor Close said, may be coming full circle.
''It started as a very pure romantic holiday, until capitalism and marketing spiked it,'' she said. ''We are retreating back a little bit to the original meaning behind the day.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Marc Matsumoto, 31, shops in New York. He and his wife are having Valentine's dinner at home.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIRSTEN LUCE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: A Cheaper Holiday: Average consumer spending on Valentine's Day is expected to be lower than the previous two years, according to a National Retail Federation survey. (Source: BIGresearch) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTMAS (89%); JEWELRY (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); FLORISTS (78%); FINE JEWELRY (78%); JEWELRY STORES (78%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (77%); TRENDS (76%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (74%); RETAILERS (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%)

COMPANY: NETFLIX INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RETAIL FEDERATION (59%)

TICKER: NFLX (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532230 VIDEO TAPE & DISC RENTAL (58%); SIC7841 VIDEO TAPE RENTAL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (53%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (70%); NEVADA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



527 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: Flipping The Switch

BYLINE: By IAN AUSTEN

 BODY:
The bicycle, one of the world's most resolutely human-powered machines, will join the long list of devices that have switched from the manual to the electronic when a new gear system makes its debut this weekend at the Tour of California.
Although the battery-powered derailleur by Shimano promises to bring ease and accuracy to changing gears by enabling riders to shift with a light touch to two electronic switches, traditionalists worry that it may erode the basic tenets of the sport. 
''People choose bicycles precisely because a bicycle's motion requires only human effort, and nothing could be more simple, independent and autonomous,'' Raymond Henry, a cycling historian in St. Etienne, France, wrote in an e-mail message. ''Any source of external energy, however weak, runs counter to this philosophy.''
Whether the gear system becomes the next iPod and redefines bicycle technology or ends up as the sport's version of the eight-track tape will hinge on a number of factors, the most obvious being performance, reliability and cost.
Two earlier attempts at electronic gear changing by a French company, Mavic, often malfunctioned in rain. Another company, Campagnolo, has delayed bringing its version to market because of the economic downturn.
Shimano's version, known as the Dura-Ace Di2 7970, is being used by three professional teams competing in California: Columbia High Road, Garmin Slipstream and Rabobank. About 10 riders will race with the system even though they have used it on only one or two training rides after receiving them late this week.
Bob Stapleton, the owner and general manager of Columbia, said many of his riders had doubts about using bicycles that could literally run out of power. The Di2 system has no manual override if its battery goes dead. That event can be an irritation or a disaster, depending on the terrain and what gear ratio the bike is stuck in. Shimano estimates the battery will last for about 1,000 miles per charge.
''Their careers can be made on the results from one race,'' Stapleton said of his riders. ''So they prize reliability over everything.''
Stapleton, an experienced amateur cyclist, has used the Di2 system extensively and is a convert.
''I think every high-end bike within three years will have this, maybe sooner,'' he said, adding that the system also eliminates much of the maintenance required by mechanical systems.
A full set of components with electronic gears will cost about $1,250 more than the newest mechanical version, which sells for about $2,750. Upgrading an existing Shimano system is expected to cost about $2,200. The system will fit onto nearly all racing bicycles.
Later this year, Giant, the largest bicycle manufacturer in the world, will offer a bike designed to use only electronic parts for about $14,000, which includes the cost of Di2. If consumers fancy the device, it will likely follow the pattern of other new electronics and drop significantly in price over time.
Electronic gear-shifting technology has spent a long time in development. Prototypes of Mavic's first system, the Zap, made a cameo appearance at the 1992 Tour de France and the company introduced its second attempt, the Mektronic, in 1999.
For much of this decade, both Shimano, which dominates bicycle parts the way Microsoft dominates computer software, and its venerable Italian competitor Campagnolo occasionally tested prototype systems on the bikes of pro riders. More often than not, the prototypes were devoid of trademarks, presumably to limit embarrassment if results proved as unfortunate as the Zap.
The Campagnolo and Shimano systems share the basic design of current mechanical derailleurs. That is, a parallelogram that moves the chain back and forth and, in the rear, two spring-loaded wheels to keep the chain taut.
Two paddle-shaped electronic switches that sit behind the brake lever allow riders to shift gears. Tapping either paddle lightly in Di2 sends an electronic signal through a wire to a small motor inside the derailleur, moving the body and thus the chain by turning a worm gear. Even Devin Walton, a spokesman for Shimano, acknowledges that when it comes to the rear derailleur, there is little or no difference in shifting between the electronic and comparable mechanical offerings from the company.
The gains are more obvious, however, with the front derailleur, which moves the chain between the two large, toothed rings on the bicycle's crank.
That is partly because the electronic front derailleur is able to make constant readjustments to reflect changes in the chain's position caused by shifting with the more frequently used rear derailleur. That allows the electronic front derailleur to use a more efficient shifting mechanism, one that would drive riders to the point of distraction with fiddly readjustments on a mechanical system.
Campagnolo has faith in its electronic system and is waiting for an upturn in the economy before launching. ''We've got extremely positive feedbacks concerning shifting quickness, precision and user friendliness,'' Lerrj Piazza, a spokesman for Campagnolo, said.
Because cycling teams rely on sponsorship from companies like Shimano for their financial survival, several riders were reluctant to discuss their concerns about the system, which range from the prospect of battery failures to difficulty shifting gears using the small and very sensitive paddles while wearing gloves. But after a couple of training rides, George Hincapie of Columbia said he agreed with his team owner, Stapleton, about its merits.
''The shifting is amazing,'' he said. ''I was very impressed as soon as I tried it.''
The action of the electronic system is so effortless that, compared with mechanical levers, it leaves users feeling almost disconnected from the bike.
After trying the system, Jonathan Vaughters, the chief executive of Garmin Slipstream, anticipates that initially it will be most widely used on special bicycles used for time trials, races against the stopwatch, and triathlons. Vaughters, a former professional rider, believes that most of the two-second margin by which Chris Boardman won the opening time trial of the 1997 Tour de France was owed to his electronic Mavic derailleur. The device, which worked for that race's 7.3 kilometers, allowed Boardman to maintain his aerodynamic position even while shifting.
If Di2 does prove to be reliable and is a success in the market, do not expect an automatic transmission next. Walton says that such a system, at least for racing bikes, would need to analyze a rider's physical state and well as read his mind.
''There's no way for the system to know when you're about to sprint,'' Walton said. ''When you're in competition, you have to be in control.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Changing Gears Electronically: A look at an electronic gear system that will be used by some teams in the Tour of California, which begins Saturday CHART: REAR DERAILLEUR: Shifts are made using an electric motor and a worm gear. Two small springs keep tension on the mechanism to eliminate rattles. Made primarily from aluminum and carbon fiber reinforced plastic resins
FRONT DERAILLEUR: Automatically makes small adjustments to its position after the rear derailleur shifts to prevent the chain from rubbing against the shifting cage. Its housin contains a miniature computer that operates the shifting system.
BATTERY: Rechargeable lithium-ion battery. Shimano estimates that a full charge should cover a week's worth of riding, even for a professional racing cyclist. It is mounted on a special bracket that fits under the water-bottle cage.
DERAILLEUR ADJUSTER: Allows fine adjustments of the rear derailleur's position to properly align it with the rear sprockets. Also contains a battery-level indicator.
 SHIFT AND BRAKE LEVERS: Two switches behind the brake lever provide gear changes. Slimmer and more ergonomic than mechical models. Made largely from carbon-fiberreinforced plastic resins.(Source: Shimano) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYCLING (89%); MOTORCYCLE & BICYCLE MFG (73%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (51%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (51%)

COMPANY: SHIMANO INC (85%); GARMIN LTD (54%); COOPERATIEVE CENTRALE RAIFFEISEN-BOERENLEENBANK BA (54%)

TICKER: 7309 (TSE) (85%); GRMN (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (85%); NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (54%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); FRANCE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



528 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 963 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Bill Would Bestow New Aid to Many Workers

BYLINE: By CATHERINE RAMPELL

 BODY:
Many part-time, low-income and female workers who have lost their jobs stand to benefit from the federal stimulus bill.
Under the legislation, approved by Congress on Friday, not only would workers who already receive unemployment benefits get some additional money in their checks, but also many workers who have fallen through the cracks could soon be brought into the system. About 500,000 more people could become eligible for benefits, according to the National Employment Law Project.
Each state has its own criteria for who is eligible to receive benefits and how much. But under the stimulus bill, the federal government would offer a $7 billion carrot to states that cover certain categories of workers, like part-timers and people in training programs. A few states, like New York, are already generous with these eligibility guidelines, and others -- eager to get federal assistance -- are likely to expand their coverage in coming months. 
While the vast majority of workers contribute directly or indirectly to the unemployment insurance pot, just 36 percent of people who are out of work actually collect such benefits, according to the Department of Labor.
The percentage is low primarily because large categories of workers do not qualify under the states' rules. Workers must have lost their jobs involuntarily, for example, and most states do not grant benefits to people who are looking only for part-time work.
Labor groups across the country have been lobbying for expanded unemployment insurance coverage for decades. Many states raised their eligibility requirements in the 1980s, partly because their finances had been depleted by a deep recession in the 1970s, and partly because of a national sentiment that, as President Ronald Reagan put it, unemployment benefits were merely ''a prepaid vacation for freeloaders.''
To encourage states to cover more workers, the new stimulus bill offers money in two lumps.
States are eligible for the first installment if the time period they use to determine eligibility includes a worker's recent earnings. (Most states use slightly older pay data from practices before the days of computers.) The change is expected to help more low-wage workers and women, who cycle in and out of the labor force more frequently than others.
The remaining incentives, two-thirds of the stimulus money, go to states that broaden their eligibility requirements.
To qualify, states must provide benefits to people in at least two of these four situations: those who are looking only for part-time work; people who left their jobs for ''compelling family reasons'' (like a child's illness or domestic abuse); people who request extra financing for dependents who qualify for benefits; and workers who had previously exhausted benefits and are now in training programs.
These categories primarily help women, who represent about two-thirds of the part-time work force and are more often primary caregivers.
At least four states -- Maine, New Jersey, New Mexico and New York -- already meet all the requirements, according to the law project. Nineteen states would qualify for just the first third of the funding. Others meet some of the requirements.
California, for example, already provides benefits to many more workers that other states, but because it uses older pay data, it does not yet qualify for the approximately $900 million in incentive money that it might otherwise receive. The state's legislative bodies are now considering a bill to change this.
Many state legislatures have been discussing expanded coverage and could move quickly for the federal financing.
Oregon's state legislators, for example, have considered making more people eligible for several years but found it prohibitively expensive, according to the state's employment department director, Laurie Warner.
She said the recession, the new ability to collect more recent pay data and a desire to cover more low-wage earners have reignited support from the governor and many legislators. The stimulus money does not hurt, either.
The costs of expanded eligibility would quickly exhaust the federal incentives, however. If the Legislature passes all three unemployment bills the governor supports -- two of which are not strictly required by the federal stimulus bill -- the $90 million Oregon expects to receive in federal incentive dollars will probably last no more than three years, she said.
After that, to maintain broader coverage, employers would have to pay higher payroll taxes. The Oregon payroll tax for the state's unemployment insurance trust fund averages 1.97 percent of pay; if finances run low, the highest level under current law is 3.08 percent, she said.
Some businesses and interest groups have opposed the provisions because of the possible long-term effects on state budgets and tax rates.
''This is coming at a time when many states are borrowing heavily because they already have solvency questions with their funds,'' said Douglas J. Holmes, president of UWC-Strategic Services on Unemployment and Workers' Compensation and formerly with the Ohio bureau of employment services. ''They are now placed in a position of making a policy decision guided not by long-term policy considerations but by short-term emergency need.''
Proponents of the legislation point out that states can restrict benefits if the new eligibility requirements become burdensome.
''Nobody has any doubt they'll be back in there when the recession is over to try to crank benefits down again,'' said Representative Jim McDermott, a Democratic from Washington State who sponsored the original legislation upon which the unemployment provisions were based.
''But right now we have a serious crisis in the country, and to get states to modernize is in the workers' best interest.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Unemployed people wait in San Jose, Calif., to talk to a state employment worker on a hotline.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARCIO JOSE SANCHEZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(B4) GRAPHICS: Out of Work, Out of Luck: The unemployment recipiency rate -- the percentage of the unemployed who collect unemployment insurance benefits -- varies widely from state to state. The current stimulus package includes incentives for states to increase their recipiency rates.
UNEMPLOYMENT RECIPIENCY RATE: Percent of unemployed who collect unemployment benefits
 NATIONAL AVERAGE UNEMPLOYMENT RECIPIENCY RATE(Source: U.S. Department of Labor)(B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DISMISSALS (90%); WOMEN WORKERS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); WOMEN (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); APPROVALS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (78%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (74%); LOBBYING (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (82%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



529 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1280 words

HEADLINE: Rainy Days in Paradise

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
Destination clubs came into their own five years ago, as a growing number of affluent travelers sought all the advantages of a fancy second home without the inconvenience of upkeep or the monotony of going back to the same place year after year.
For a one-time deposit of $40,000 to more than $1.5 million -- depending on how luxurious the accommodations and how long the stay -- and annual dues of $3,000 to $100,000, club members would have access to an array of multimillion-dollar properties in prime resort locations --a stone farmhouse in Tuscany, an oceanfront villa in Costa Rica, a slopeside chalet in Aspen, Colo. Before they arrived, the club's concierge would have stocked the refrigerator with the family's favorite foods, arranged airport transfers, booked tee times or made restaurant reservations.
And for a while, the clubs thrived. Many used the hefty deposits and readily available credit to start building their collection of properties. Then, taking advantage of rapidly rising real estate prices, particularly in luxury markets, the clubs used their newly grown equity to take on more debt and acquire more homes. That, in turn, allowed them to lure more members with an increasing portfolio of destinations. 
About 17 clubs opened in 2004 and 2005, alone. By 2007, revenue reached $610 million and membership to 5,900, according to data from Ragatz Associates, a resort consulting firm and SherpaReport.com, which tracks the industry.
But when the economy fell apart, it largely took the destination clubs' business model with it. Home values have dropped, new credit has dried up and membership sales have plummeted, leaving many of the clubs with more bills than income. Several have filed for bankruptcy. Some have asked members for special extra payments to help them survive. And others have made significant cuts in business expenses.
''It really was the confluence of the perfect storm,'' said Richard Keith, chairman of Ultimate Escapes.
The second-largest destination club with 1,200 members, Ultimate Escapes was created by a merger of Ultimate Resort and Private Escapes in 2008. But the merger left the club overloaded with real estate just as the market was taking a turn for the worse. That and a substantial downturn in membership sales led the club to seek a $22 million assessment from members, equal to about a year's dues each, to keep the business going. Early this month, the club said it had received enough payments to continue.
Quintess, the Leading Residences of the World, the third-largest destination club based on members, made a similar move late last year, reducing operating expenses and asking members to pay higher annual dues.
In late January, High Country Club, which was founded in 2005 and quickly grew to about 375 members, filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy, listing hundreds of creditors and debt totaling about $25 million.
Smaller clubs, like the 140-member Portofino and the 150-member Lusso, with residences that averaged more than $3.5 million, also filed for bankruptcy last year. And the exclusive Yellowstone Club World, a collection of properties from Tim Blixseth, the developer of the elite Rocky Mountain ski and golf resort called the Yellowstone Club, never got off the ground.
''It's a very emotional situation to say the least,'' said Nick Copley, president of the SherpaReport.com. ''People have not only lost their money but also lost their vacation.''
Kasey D'Amato, a dermatology physician assistant from Los Angeles, who joined High Country Club last July, paid a $40,000 deposit and about $4,600 in annual dues in exchange for 19 nights of travel a year. She and her husband, Stephen, had two vacations planned -- Easter weekend in Aspen and a May trip to the Turks and Caicos -- when the club went under.
''They just canceled the reservations,'' Ms. D'Amato said. Beyond the lost vacations, she added, ''No one likes to lose that kind of money.''
Unlike time shares, which operate under specific laws, destination clubs are largely self-regulated, although standard contract laws and other consumer protection do apply. Like country club members, destination club members do not own the properties. Rather they pay annual dues for upkeep and access to the homes for a set number of days each year.
This is not the first time the destination club industry has contracted or its viability has been called into question, though this is the most serious situation. In 2006, the Chapter 11 bankruptcy filing by Tanner & Haley, then one of the industry's major players, left more than 800 members as unsecured creditors. Clubs scrambled to demonstrate their soundness and to reassure investors. A few merged to cut expenses and increase membership.
''We've kind of been through this before,'' said Jeff Potter, chief executive of Exclusive Resorts, the largest club, with more than 3,400 members. Stephen M. Case, the co-founder of AOL and head of the investment company Revolution, is the majority owner. To deal with the challenging times, Mr. Potter said, the club has reduced marketing expenses and corporate overhead. But over the seven years the club has been in operation, he said, its model has been tweaked to prepare for ''all kinds of circumstances.''
The current shakeout, club officials say, is simply the industry righting itself in a tough economy, rather than a flawed business model. ''Anytime there's a boom, there are a bunch of people that shouldn't be involved or maybe who are not as responsible that get into it,'' said Ben Addoms, executive vice president of sales and marketing for Quintess.
Quintess has cut operating expenses by about 30 percent, increased dues and has said it plans to reduce the size of its housing portfolio to about 70 homes, from 80.
So-called equity destination clubs, like Equity Estates and Abercrombie & Kent Residence Club, see the industry turmoil as an opportunity. Unlike their counterparts whose members have no ownership stake, equity destination clubs are set up so that members have a stake in the company that owns the homes.
''Members own the club,'' said Jarvis J. Slade Jr., president of the Abercrombie & Kent Residence Club. ''The club owns the homes with no debt.'' With all the problems nonequity clubs are facing, he said, ''The model we chose is resonating more than ever.''
Despite the problems, some members are still fans of the destination club concept.
Having stayed with his wife and two children at upscale properties on South Carolina's elite Kiawah Island; in Stowe, Vt.; and in Manhattan -- never having to worry about going grocery shopping when they arrived or finding tickets to a show -- Jack I. London said he committed to the Ultimate Escapes assessment early. Even if the company were to wind down, said Mr. London, who owns a financial services business in Dover, Mass., ''I still like the concept, and I still would like to remain in a destination club.''
Even members who lost money in clubs that have filed under bankruptcy laws continue to be bullish on the concept. Ms. D'Amato, the High Country Club member, is already comparison shopping for a new club, swapping stories with members at DestinationClubForums.com.
''It's a new industry,'' she said. ''It's still a work in progress. It's a bummer, but we're still open-minded.''
Correction: February 18, 2009, Wednesday
This article has been revised to reflect the following correction: An article on Saturday about financial difficulties that are facing so-called destination clubs, whose members share access to luxury residences in prime resort areas, misidentified the state in which Kiawah Island, one such area, is located. It is in South Carolina, not Georgia.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Stephen and Kasey D'Amato, top, lost money when their club filed for bankruptcy. Another club, Lusso, above, did the same. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
J. EMILIO FLORES FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B1)
In Maui, High Country Club has vacation houses and a private golf course. The club filed for Chapter 7 bankruptcy in January.
 A home in High Country Club's property in Maui. The club, founded in 2005, quickly grew to about 375 members.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY WILLIAM SCHERER)(B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); MERGERS (87%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (79%); RESORTS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AFFLUENT MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (69%); US CHAPTER 7 BANKRUPTCY (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); COSTA RICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



530 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; DIPLOMATIC MEMO; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1149 words

HEADLINE: Gibe by Gibe, French-Czech Feud Impairs Europe's Response to Economic Crisis

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

 BODY:
PRAGUE -- The Czech president, Vaclav Klaus, jokes about Nicolas Sarkozy's desire to be Europe's ''permanent chairperson.'' Mr. Sarkozy, the president of France, says rather patronizingly of the Czechs, ''They're doing what they can.''
It may seem like a round of adolescent insults more suited to high school, but the bitterness between the last holder of the European Union presidency, France, and the current one, the Czech Republic, is damaging the alliance's ability to cope with the severe economic crisis.
The spat, which is both personal and political, highlights the divisions in the 27-nation group between larger countries and smaller ones, between more liberal-minded economies and more statist ones, between nations that use the euro and those that do not, and between Western Europe and Central Europe -- so-called old Europe and new.
The divisions are worsened by the global economic meltdown, which is bringing out protectionist and nationalist talk and decisions that are undermining the idea of a common European market for goods and services, and make the idea of a Europe that wants to be a global player in an Obama era seem more than faintly ridiculous. Mr. Klaus has never cared much for the European Union anyway. 
Mr. Sarkozy, who only reluctantly handed over the revolving European Union presidency at the end of the year, has criticized the Czechs for being both timid and slow in their response to the crisis. The Czech prime minister, Mirek Topolanek, and his aides have accused Mr. Sarkozy of irresponsibility and megalomania. Mr. Klaus added dryly: ''I don't think it's necessary to be overactive and to organize a European summit every weekend.''
The sense of insult runs deep, however. Mr. Sarkozy, who flew into the vacuum of a fading Bush administration to try to organize with Egypt a cease-fire in Gaza, refused to invite the Czechs to an emergency summit meeting on Gaza on Jan. 18 at Sharm el Sheik, Egypt, Czech officials said. Only the largest European nations were invited -- not even the European Union's external relations commissioner, Benita Ferrero-Waldner, was notified.
It was only after the Czechs got the Israelis to invite them to a dinner that evening in Jerusalem after the summit meeting -- and persuaded Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany to take Mr. Topolanek on her plane -- that the French grudgingly relented, the officials said. Mrs. Merkel pushed it also, a Czech official said. ''She felt the E.U. should be there,'' the official said.
French officials do not dispute the account, but they say that Egypt is also to blame. ''Have we handled everything perfectly?'' a senior French official said. ''Of course not. We could have handled it more gently and massaged it. But the Czechs were not an actor and had nothing to say.''
The Czech Republic is a small country, outside the United Nations Security Council, outside the eurozone -- the 16 nations that have adopted the euro as their currency -- new to the European Union and unused to the diplomatic head table, the French official continued.
''There was a vacuum that needed to be filled,'' the official said. ''You don't become an actor just because you have the E.U. presidency. You have to impose an international role for the E.U. -- you have to create the dynamics by your efforts.''
The Czech Republic did, however, handle the recent natural gas crisis between Russia and Ukraine deftly, the French acknowledge, preventing the Bulgarians and Slovaks from breaking European unity.
But then Mr. Sarkozy promised $7.8 billion in state aid to French carmarkers, while calling on them to ''repatriate'' jobs from other, less expensive European Union countries, specifically citing the Czech Republic.
''This is something that's very damaging to both of us,'' Mr. Topolanek said of the spat. But he was not alone in calling Mr. Sarkozy's comments on repatriating jobs ''unbelievable,'' and he said big countries in the eurozone were destroying their own rules about financial stability and limited subsidies.
The European Union and the European Central Bank are struggling to deal with a broad economic crisis that is affecting every European country, some feeling it far worse than others. Under the pressure of the crisis, a collective of shared sovereignties built on the idea of a common market of goods and services is being riven by statist policies and incipient protectionism.
The eurozone itself is being strained by the desire of some countries, like France, to suspend or break budgetary rules and spend their way out of the crisis, and by the poor performance of countries like Greece, Italy and Spain, which have never cared much for the budgetary rules and can neither devalue their currencies nor alter interest rates. The Czechs, like the Germans, are much more cautious about violating European fiscal standards.
''In a time of economic crisis, we see atavistic instincts emerging,'' said the Czech foreign minister, Karel Schwarzenberg, describing the way that individual nations are responding to popular distress by patriotic and protectionist measures and statements and by playing down the unity of Europe.
''I'm most afraid of the slogans of the 1930s'' about the primacy of the nation, he said. ''With these problems, people forget about European thinking, and it's understandable but it's damaging, very damaging to ignore Europe in a crisis, especially as the crisis grows.''
What is ''strange,'' he said, his voice heavy with irony, ''is to hear these slogans from the people who were the proudest defenders of Europe centralization and European values,'' a clear reference to France. Big and small countries are a fact of life, he said. ''But we have to say that the European Union has civilized these relations compared to the early years of the 20th century,'' making the kind of wars in Europe that often followed economic panic seem impossible today, he said.
France, Germany and Britain still dominate the European Union and want to continue to do so, said Alexandr Vondra, the Czech deputy prime minister for European affairs. ''Occasionally they consult others,'' he said, ''but of course the people of small countries know this, and that's why there is hesitation about the Lisbon Treaty,'' which would create a permanent European president and foreign minister, and which the Irish have rejected and the Czechs have not yet ratified. ''People fear more of this power management.''
Mr. Sarkozy, he said, was responding to domestic political and economic pressures, but insults had to be answered. ''I'm not hurt, but he can't expect us to just sit silently,'' Mr. Vondra said. ''We're not a European superpower, but we're 10 million people and he can't just expect us to shut up.''
Mr. Sarkozy, he said, ''is a fountain of ideas, and wants to organize one meeting after another, but we're working hard to make a few of these ideas reality and not bankrupt Europe.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Nicolas Sarkozy of France, left, and Mirek Topolanek, the Czech prime minister, center, were among leaders facing reporters in Jerusalem on Jan. 18.(POOL PHOTO BY ZIV KOREN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); LIBERALISM (70%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (84%)

PERSON: NICOLAS SARKOZY (90%); VACLAV KLAUS (73%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); PRAGUE, CZECH REPUBLIC (90%) EUROPE (99%); CZECH REPUBLIC (99%); ISRAEL (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); EGYPT (93%); GERMANY (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



531 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Party Lines Barely Shift As Package Is Approved

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Congress on Friday approved a $787 billion economic stimulus measure, meeting the crushing mid-February deadline that Democrats had set for adopting the centerpiece of President Obama's early agenda but without quelling partisan divisions in Washington. Not a single House Republican voted for the bill.
The House vote was 246 to 183, with just 7 Democrats joining all 176 Republicans in opposition. In the Senate, the vote, 60 to 38, was similarly partisan. Only 3 centrist Republicans joined 55 Democrats and 2 independents in favor. 
The Senate finally adopted the bill at 10:47 p.m. after what appeared to be the longest Congressional vote in history. The peculiar 5-hour 17-minute process was required because Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, had to return to Washington from his home state after attending a funeral home visitation for his mother, who died Feb. 2.
Under a procedural deal between the parties, the bill needed 60 votes to pass. The vote began at 5:30 p.m., but from 7:07 p.m., when Senator Evan Bayh, Democrat of Indiana, cast his ''aye,'' the tally hung at 59 to 38, until Mr. Brown arrived.
Mr. Obama is expected to sign the bill on Monday.
Among the senators voting against it was Judd Gregg, Republican of New Hampshire, who withdrew this week as the president's nominee for commerce secretary.
Despite the bill's promise of increased unemployment benefits and new health care subsidies, as well as more than $100 billion in aid for states, House Republicans did not break rank. Even those from states hit hardest by the recession opposed the bill, in a rebuke of the new president.
During the debate, the Republican leader, Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, angrily dropped the 1,073-page bill text to the floor with a thump, as he accused Democrats of failing to read the legislation.
''The president made clear when we started this process that this was about jobs,'' Mr. Boehner said after the vote. ''Jobs. Jobs. Jobs. And what it's turned into is nothing more than spending, spending and more spending.''
The $787 billion plan -- a combination of fast-acting tax cuts and longer-term government spending on public works projects, education, health care, energy and technology -- was smaller than Democrats first proposed. But, according to an analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, more than 74 percent of the money will be spent within the next 18 months, a relatively rapid pace that could determine whether the plan succeeds.
The House voted in the afternoon, and Speaker Nancy Pelosi and fellow Democrats cheered on the floor. Ms. Pelosi handed out chocolate bars to her committee chairmen. The label showed a picture of the Capitol and read, ''A stimulus package we can all sink our teeth into.''
At a news conference, Ms. Pelosi and her top lieutenants praised Mr. Obama for completing the legislation so quickly.
''The president requested swift, bold action,'' Ms. Pelosi said. ''The American people are feeling a great deal of pain. They have uncertainty about their jobs, about health care, about the ability to pay for the education of their children, and sad to say in our great country, even to put food on the table. And today we have passed legislation that does take that swift, bold action on their behalf.''
Just four weeks into Mr. Obama's presidency, the Democrats boasted that they had already approved three major bills: a measure to curb pay-discrimination against women in the workplace, a broad expansion of the state children's health insurance program and the stimulus.
''We have yet to pass the 30th day of this administration,'' said the House majority leader, Steny H. Hoyer, Democrat of Maryland. ''And we have passed historic legislation.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: HOUSE: VOTING YES: Nancy Pelosi of California, the House speaker, after the stimulus bill passed the chamber on Friday by a 246-to-183 vote.
SENATE: VOTING YES: Senator Susan Collins of Maine was a rare Republican who supported the $787 billion package, which ran to 1,073 pages. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
HOUSE: VOTING NO: John A. Boehner of Ohio, the Republican leader, criticized the stimulus package as ''spending, spending and more spending.''
 SENATE: VOTING NO Senators Mitch McConnell, the minority leader from Kentucky, left, and John Barrasso of Wyoming, both Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); TAX LAW (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%); INFRASTRUCTURE (50%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (89%); BARACK OBAMA (88%); NANCY PELOSI (78%); SHERROD BROWN (73%); EVAN BAYH (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%); SUSAN COLLINS (58%); MITCH MCCONNELL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



532 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; TAXES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: Cuts for Individuals and Businesses

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
Roughly $282 billion of the stimulus package, or about 35 percent, is made up of tax cuts for individuals and businesses, including tax breaks for buyers of homes and cars. 
The centerpiece is President Obama's ''Making Work Pay'' income tax credit of up to $400 for individuals and $800 for couples in 2009 and 2010. The money will mostly be distributed through reduced paycheck tax withholdings, adding $8 or so a week that officials hope will be spent not saved. Individuals earning up to $75,000 and couples up to $150,000 will qualify for a full credit.
The bill also spares millions of middle-income Americans from the alternative minimum tax in 2009, raising the exemption to $46,700 for individuals and $70,950 for couples.
First-time homebuyers will be able to claim a tax credit of up to $8,000, for purchases made by Dec. 1, 2009.
Individuals earning up to $125,000 and couples up to $250,000 will be able to deduct the sales tax paid on a new car costing up to $49,500. And the bill creates a new $2,500 higher education tax credit, partly refundable for tax-filers who do not pay that much in taxes.
The stimulus package includes an array of business tax breaks, including accelerated depreciation, by 50 percent, of capital assets like new machinery placed in service in 2009.
But a provision that would have allowed businesses to claim tax credits by applying current-year losses to profits earned in the past five years was scaled back so that only businesses with $15 million or less in gross receipts are eligible for it.
DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

GRAPHIC: CHART: Adding Up the $787 Billion Tab: Numbers are compiled from estimates by House and Senate committees and the Congressional Budget Office. Figures are rounded in billions. Chart details the following: $287 billion in tax breaks
$192 billion in direct aid
 $308 billion in discretionary spending 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); CAPITAL EXPENDITURES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); SALES TAX (78%); INCOME TAX (78%); DEPRECIATION (73%); EDUCATION FUNDING (73%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2011



533 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 469 words

HEADLINE: Microsoft Plans to Open Retail Stores

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: SEATTLE 

 BODY:
Microsoft plans to open its own stores despite the economic downturn that has left many retailers struggling.
 The company said Thursday that it had hired David Porter, a 25-year veteran of Wal-Mart Stores, as its corporate vice president for retail stores. Mr. Porter was head of worldwide product distribution at DreamWorks Animation SKG since 2007. 
 Mr. Porter, who is set to start work on Tuesday, is charged with improving the PC-buying experience. The company said his first task would be to set the timing, locations and design of Microsoft-branded retail stores, which will sell computers installed with Microsoft software as well as other company products.
 Microsoft has been working to revive the image of its ubiquitous Windows operating system, starting with a $300 million advertising campaign that began last fall. Vista, the most recent version of the software, was widely criticized for being slow, requiring new and more expensive hardware, and not working with devices like printers and scanners. Vista has also been the subject of a series of snide television ads from Apple. 
 At the same time it introduced upbeat new TV ads last fall, some of which struck right back at Apple, Microsoft posted 144 of its own employees in electronics chain stores around the world to talk with shoppers about Windows.
 The ''Gurus'' seemed to be Microsoft's answer to Apple's in-store ''Genius Bar.'' With its newly announced retail store intentions, the software maker is taking yet another page from Apple's playbook. Apple credits its stores, concentrated mostly in the United States, for helping raise its profile and draw new customers.
 But Microsoft's timing may be off. The recession has socked the retail sector, and purveyors of electronics have been hit hard. Circuit City filed for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection in November and said in January that it would liquidate its 567 United States stores, cutting more than 34,000 jobs. Best Buy laid off thousands of corporate employees in December and reported same-store sales -- a crucial measure of retail health -- sank 6.5 percent.
 Even Apple, whose iPods, iMacs and iPhones draw brand-conscious customers willing to spend more for design, was hit in the holiday quarter by the recession as average sales per store dropped to $7 million, from $8.5 million in 2007.
 Microsoft had no comment on the plight of Apple and the big-box stores, but said its own retail stores can help shoppers make smarter decisions about spending money on technology.
 The company had set up a concept store at its headquarters with displays of Windows computers, Xbox 360 consoles and games and other items. But the company said it was meant to help stores like Best Buy see new merchandising ideas in action, and was not a prototype for stand-alone retail stores.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (93%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); ELECTRONICS & APPLIANCE RETAILING (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); RECESSION (89%); RADIO TELEVISION & ELECTRONICS STORES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (89%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (89%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (79%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); RETAIL SALES (78%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (74%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (74%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (74%); ELECTRONIC GAME EQUIPMENT (73%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); ANIMATION (71%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (67%); SMARTPHONES (67%); BRAND EQUITY (60%); US CHAPTER 11 BANKRUPTCY (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (90%); DREAMWORKS ANIMATION SKG INC (72%); WAL-MART STORES INC (58%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (90%); DWA (NASDAQ) (72%); WMT (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (96%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (96%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (96%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (90%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (90%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (72%); SIC7812 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE PRODUCTION (72%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (58%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



534 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1495 words

HEADLINE: Failed Banks Strain Regulators

BYLINE: By ERIC LIPTON; Steve Friess contributed reporting from Las Vegas, and Ron Nixon from Washington.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
When regulators took over the First National Bank of Nevada last year, they faced a showdown with the Terrible Herbst, the mustachioed cowboy who boasts of being the ''best bad man in the West.''
 This was no real gunslinger, but the name and logo of a chain of gas stations and convenience stores in Nevada that feature slot machines next to candy and beer.
 The family-owned Herbst chain, auditors at the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation concluded, did not generate enough sales at its Reno-area gas stations to support the repayment of a loan, leaving auditors with three bad choices: Move to take over those stations and put the government in the gambling business. Cut off any flow of additional loan money. Or sell the loan at a steep loss.
 The F.D.I.C. faces tough choices like this every day as it struggles to manage $15 billion worth of loans and property left from failed banks. If still-to-be-sold assets from IndyMac Bancorp of California, whose demise last year was the fourth-largest bank failure, are included, the number jumps to $40 billion. 
 The F.D.I.C. inherited the collection of loans and property after the failure of 25 banks in 2008, compared to just three in 2007. Thirteen more have failed this year, including four on Friday night, and no one doubts that more are on the way. The F.D.I.C., which insures bank deposits and ultimately has responsibility for liquidating failed banks, is selling hundreds of millions of dollars worth of loans through eBay-like auction sites.
 DebtX of Boston and First Financial Network of Oklahoma City, for instance, sell loans at auction to investors who typically pay 5 cents to 85 cents for each dollar of outstanding principal, according to Bliss A, Morris, First Financial's president. It is unloading hundreds of houses across the country at bargain basement prices. In November, Lula Smith, 86, of Kansas City, Mo., bought a two-bedroom house across the street from her home for $4,000, one-tenth of its value two years ago.
 ''I am real satisfied with that price, yes sir,'' she said, adding that after about $1,000 in additional costs to repair the house, and some new carpet, her son and daughter-in-law will move in. ''It was a nice little deal, indeed.''
 And -- in the most closely watched tactic -- the F.D.I.C. is negotiating a series of billion-dollar deals with private equity partners who will take over huge batches of loans in exchange for a chunk of the sale proceeds. 
 Even as the solutions to the financial crisis are debated in Congress and among economists, the F.D.I.C., one of the agencies that deals most closely with the nation's banks, has already been transformed.
 The rising tide of foreclosed real estate is so overwhelming that the agency, which had shrunk to a relatively tiny 4,800 employees from as many as 15,000 in the last period of bank meltdowns in the 1990s, is in the midst of a military-scale buildup as it undertakes one of the greatest fire sales of all time. 
 The agency is frantically calling in retirees and holding job fairs, looking to hire as many as 1,500 people. It has rented a high-rise office building in Irvine, Calif., the new headquarters for a West Coast branch of 450 employees who are wrestling with a real estate crisis in one of the hardest-hit regions. It is also budgeted to pay hundreds of millions of dollars for a small army of contractors to augment its staff. ''We are trying to be ready for the inevitable,'' said Mitchell L. Glassman, director of the F.D.I.C.'s division of resolutions and receiverships. 
 The budget for that division is increasing to $1 billion this year, from $75 million last year. Nearly $700 million of the increase is set to go to contractors like RSM McGladrey of Minneapolis, which provides temporary workers to help the agency close banks. These workers come at an hourly rate of $50 to $250. It is a high price, but the F.D.I.C contends the cost is much less than it would have to pay to hire permanent staff. 
 ''It was so painful downsizing after the last banking crisis,'' James Wigand, deputy director of the F.D.I.C. receivership division, said, referring to the layoffs after the last cycle of bank failures. ''We're really trying to avoid going through that again.''
 The blitz by the F.D.I.C. may offer lessons for the Treasury Department, which is separately struggling with an even more monumental challenge: how to help still-operating banks move giant loads of toxic debt off their balance sheets, in the hope that the banks will begin taking risks again and stimulate the economy.
 Tuesday, for example, is the deadline for online bids for $108 million in loans left from the default of Freedom Bank of Bradenton, Fla., which DebtX is selling at auction. 
 Particularly instructive for Treasury may be the partnerships the F.D.I.C. has formed with private equity groups and other profit-seeking investors, who are being given a chance to earn a big return in exchange for their help in managing billions of dollars worth of troubled loans acquired from defunct banks. 
 Last month, the F.D.I.C formed a partnership with a company called Private National Mortgage Acceptance Company, based in Calabasas, Calif., which paid $43 million to take possession of $560 million in loans left from First National Bank of Nevada. Private National, a company set up last year to profit from the bad-debt market, paid the equivalent of 38 cents on the dollar for the 3,800 loans, which were left after another bank took over First National's branches and deposits.
 The company will try to collect payments from borrowers after renegotiating mortgages, or, if necessary, foreclose on loans and sell the property. Private National said it hoped to make an annual profit of more than 20 percent for its investors.
 Despite the small upfront price Private National paid, F.D.I.C. officials said they considered it a good deal. The government will receive, at least initially, 80 percent of any money Private National can generate from the loans. 
 As a bank teeters, the F.D.I.C. swoops in virtually overnight and shifts as many good loans and deposits as possible to a healthy bank. The F.D.I.C. persuades the healthy bank to accept some of the bad loans by agreeing to take a share of certain future losses.
 What is left is a miserable stew of failed real estate projects, vacant land, boarded-up houses and loans to defunct or bankrupt businesses, among other stories of misery from these recessionary times. About 4 percent of the assets from bank closures last year were bad, totaling some $15 billion in loans and property that once belonged to institutions like the Douglass National Bank of Kansas City, Mo., and Sanderson State Bank of Sanderson, Tex. 
 This is the stuff that no healthy bank wanted to buy, losing propositions, or in the diplomatically bureaucratic language of government, ''assets in liquidation.'' 
 The F.D.I.C.'s new workload is bringing back retirees like Gary Halloway, 58, of Spicewood, Tex., who has had assignments in seven states since he returned to work last year as the leader of regulatory SWAT team, moving from one failed bank to another.
 ''I wake up, I don't know where I am, much less which time zone,'' Mr. Halloway said in Jackson, Ga., last month, where he was working out of a former funeral home as he helped close First Georgia Community Bank. 
 Next stop: Houston, to work on the failure of Franklin Bank. ''Sometimes I am driving on the highway and I see a sign and I even forget what state I am in,'' he said.
 For the F.D.I.C staff, the hardest part of taking control of failed banks may be deciding which outstanding loans to cut off, even in cases where perhaps a house development is only half built. Ending a loan almost certainly shuts down a project.
 In the case of Terrible Herbst and its Reno-area gas stations, officials at the F.D.I.C. considered taking the highly unusual step of applying for a temporary casino license, allowing the agency to operate the gas stations and the electronic games after perhaps foreclosing on the nearly $10 million loan, one official involved in the effort said.
 Another option, simply cutting off additional advances of cash from the loan, was ruled out because the business might close, making it nearly impossible to collect any of the outstanding principal. 
 The resolution of the case turned out to be a windfall for Terrible Herbst. The government put the loan on sale, and who should buy it directly from the government but the Herbst family, at a discount of more than 50 percent. 
 The government ate the loss, but at least it collected on some of the bad debt, the F.D.I.C. official involved in the deal said.
 Executives at Terrible Herbst, who said they never formally refused to pay off the loan in full, were hardly disappointed.
 ''It worked out just fine,'' said Sean Higgins, the company's general counsel. ''At least for Terrible Herbst.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A Terrible Herbst station in Las Vegas. The F.D.I.C. determined Reno-area Terrible Herbst stations could not repay a loan.
Terrible Herbst stations offer slot machines as well as gas.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY ISAAC BREKKEN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. A16) CHART: Selling the Banks' Failures: The number of failed F.D.I.C.-insured banks and the extent of their assets in liquidation rose suddenly last year. But these numbers are still overshadowed by those of the late '80s and early '90s, when the savings and loan crisis was raging.(Sources: F.D.I.C. reports, Statistics at a Glance) Chart details ASSETS IN LIQUIDATION: Assets from failed: F.D.I.C.-insured institutions held by F.D.I.C. at year end.
 and F.D.I.C. EMPLOYEES (pg. A16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (89%); AUCTIONS (88%); LIQUIDATIONS (78%); FAMILY COMPANIES (77%); GAS STATIONS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); RETAILERS (72%); CONVENIENCE STORES (72%); GAMING (71%); PRIVATE EQUITY (63%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (84%); ONEWEST BANK FSB (69%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (84%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (84%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (69%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RENO, NV, USA (88%); LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (73%); OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (53%); KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (52%) NEVADA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MISSOURI, USA (71%); OKLAHOMA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



535 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL EDITORIAL OBSERVER; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: What Newspapers Do, Have Done and Will Do

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
Outside the shrinking guild of scribblers, it's disappointingly hard to find much sympathy for the beleaguered newspaper industry. Only 18 percent of Americans believe all or most of what The New York Times publishes, according to a poll last year by the Pew Research Center. If the Internet is putting us out of business, who cares? 
 It matters. The argument that if newspapers go bust there will be nobody covering city hall is true. It's also true that corruption will rise, legislation will more easily be captured by vested interests and voter turnout will fall. 
 In 1981, the Indian economist Amartya Sen argued that the famine caused by China's Great Leap Forward could never have happened in India because the government could not have ignored the plight of its people. ''Newspapers play an important part in this,'' he said.
 From the poorest country to the richest, a welter of academic research since then points to the importance of an independent press -- mostly newspapers -- in disseminating hard-to-get information, mobilizing the public and putting pressure on government and businesses in favor of the public good.
 During the Great Depression, the Federal Emergency Relief Administration doled out more money in counties with more radios. Today, Hispanic voter turnout is higher, relative to the non-Hispanic vote, where there is a local Spanish-language TV station. 
 Companies in countries with a larger daily newspaper circulation are fairer to minority shareholders and have a better record responding to environmental concerns. And a 2000 study by Timothy Besley and Robin Burgess of the London School of Economics proved Sen to be right: governments in India provide more public food and disaster relief in hard times in states where newspaper circulation is higher.
 It's easy to forget the role of an independent press in the development of democratic institutions in the United States. Through much of the 19th century, newspapers were mostly partisan mouthpieces. But as circulation and advertising grew, they shed political allegiances and started competing for customers by investigating shady deals and taking up populist causes. 
 Claudia Goldin and Edward Glaeser of Harvard University and Matthew Gentzkow of the University of Chicago found that between 1870 and 1920, the share of political dailies that claimed to be independent rose from 11 percent to between 40 percent and 60 percent. Corruption, measured by an index of articles mentioning the topic in The Times, plummeted by four-fifths over this period.
 From the creation of the Food and Drug Administration to limits on working hours, a lot of progressive-era reforms might have failed without an independent press. Luigi Zingales of the University of Chicago, Alexander Dyck of the University of Toronto and David Moss of Harvard Business School analyzed muckraking magazines of the period, like McClure's and Collier's. 
 Analyzing Congressional votes on regulatory legislation related to issues covered in these magazines, the researchers found that representatives in districts in which the magazines had larger circulations became more favorable to the populist causes exposed in their articles. Cosmopolitan's 1906 series ''Treason in the Senate'' pushed many senators in 1911 to vote for the 17th Amendment, which mandated that senators be elected by popular vote rather than chosen by governors. It had been soundly rejected in 1902.
 These days, even the harshest newspaper critics admit that citizens need information. They argue that the Internet will empower ordinary people to do the task themselves, better. 
 I'm not so sure. In a recent study, Mr. Gentzkow concluded that the introduction of television in the 1940s and 1950s was responsible for between a quarter and a half of the decline in voter turnout since then, as Americans cut back on local newspapers and radio, which had more political content.
 Some alternatives, like Politico.com and ProPublica, an investigative reporting outfit financed by philanthropy, do original journalism. But they are tiny. Cash-strapped TV stations depend on newspapers for much of their local news coverage. Cable news is increasingly commentary. And rather than a citizen reporter, the Internet has given us the citizen pundit, who comments on: newspaper articles. 
 Reporting the news in far-flung countries, spending weeks on investigations of uncertain payoff, fighting for freedom of information in court -- is expensive. Virtually the only entities still doing it on the necessary scale are newspapers. Letting them go on the expectation that the Internet will enable a better-informed citizenry seems like a risky bet.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VOTERS & VOTING (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (75%); FAMINE (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (71%); SHAREHOLDERS (70%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (68%); DISASTER RELIEF (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); INDIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



536 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S ON TODAY

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (Starz) THE VISITOR (2008) In the role that has earned him an Oscar nomination for best actor, Richard Jenkins (above left, with Haaz Sleiman) plays a widowed, depressed professor of economics at Connecticut College who finds that his Manhattan apartment has been illegally rented to a drummer from Syria (Mr. Sleiman) and his Senegalese girlfriend (Danai Gurira). Writing in The New York Times, A. O. Scott said that Tom McCarthy, the film's director, ''with impressive grace and understatement'' resists ''potential triteness and phony uplift.'' Mr. Scott called Mr. Jenkins's performance one of ''quiet precision'' in which he ''manages at once to deflect and to earn the audience's sympathy, and to convey an inner transformation brought about by a shy, unselfish engagement with other people.''
 NOON (13) THE OPEN MIND Jonathan F. Fanton, president of the MacArthur Foundation, discusses his organization's patterns of giving. 
 7 P.M. (13) THIS OLD HOUSE In Part 4 of this 10-episode Prospect Heights, Brooklyn, renovation, Kevin Costello and Karen Shen inspect the exterior paint job at their house, while Michael Streaman, the contractor, lays down new white oak and cherry flooring. In Red Hook, Stuart Sobczynski, a plaster contractor, demonstrates how he has replicated original plaster moldings.
 8 P.M. (TCM) 31 DAYS OF OSCAR: RACE, GENDER AND ETHNICITY The examination begins with ''Love Is a Many-Splendored Thing'' (1955), starring Jennifer Jones as a Eurasian doctor who falls in love with an American war correspondent (William Holden), followed by ''The King and I'' (1956), with Yul Brynner (above, with Deborah Kerr) as the king of Siam, and Kerr as the British governess hired to teach his children, at 10; ''South Pacific'' (1958), about a Navy nurse (Mitzi Gaynor) who must choose between love and prejudice during World War II, at 12:30 a.m.; and ''Guess Who's Coming to Dinner'' (1967), in which the liberal principles of an aging couple (Spencer Tracy and Katharine Hepburn) are tested when their daughter (Katharine Houghton) announces that she's marrying a black doctor (Sidney Poitier).
 8:30 P.M. (Showtime) THERE WILL BE BLOOD (2007) Daniel Day-Lewis won the Oscar for best actor in 2008 for his role as a California oil prospector who becomes morally bankrupt as his fortune grows. Paul Thomas Anderson directed and wrote the film, which was inspired by Upton Sinclair's 1927 novel, ''Oil!'' Writing in The New York Times, Manohla Dargis said Mr. Day-Lewis gives ''a thrilling performance, among the greatest I've seen, purposefully alienating and brilliantly located at the juncture between cinematic realism and theatrical spectacle.'' 
 9 P.M. (Hallmark) BEFORE YOU SAY 'I DO' (2009) George (David Sutcliffe, right, with Jennifer Westfeldt) is in love with Jane (Ms. Westfeldt), who is wary of marriage because her first husband, Doug, broke her heart. When George wishes he had met Jane before she married Doug, he finds himself sent back in time to just a few days before Jane and Doug's wedding 10 years ago.
 9 P.M. (National Geographic) THE REAL ABRAHAM LINCOLN This latest Lincoln tribute chronicles his ascent to the presidency and his leadership during the Civil War.
 9 P.M. (Sci Fi) SPLINTER (2008) A voracious parasite that feeds on the living traps a couple and an escaped convict in a gas station.
 10 P.M. (Comedy Central) CHRISTOPHER TITUS: LOVE IS EVOL Love is ''evil'' spelled backward, more or less, according to Mr. Titus, who spews here on relationships, divorce and why he hates romance.
 10 P.M. (Fox News) TRILLION WITH A 'T': HOW TO SPEND $1,000,000,000,000 Senators, Capitol Hill staff members and members of interest groups assess the spending bill.
 11 P.M. (Fox) TALKSHOW WITH SPIKE FERESTEN Seth MacFarlane and Andy Richter are the guests.
 11:30 P.M. (NBC) SATURDAY NIGHT LIVEAlec Baldwin hosts; the Jonas Brothers perform.
 MIDNIGHT (21) AUSTIN CITY LIMITS Sarah McLachlan performs songs from ''Closer,'' her collection of greatest hits; Duffy sings works from her debut album, ''Rockferry.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); CELEBRITIES (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); FILM DIRECTORS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (72%); OIL & GAS EXPLORATION (71%); DRYWALL & INSULATION CONTRACTORS (70%); FOUNDATIONS (67%); WORLD WAR II (63%); MARRIAGE (61%); OIL EXPLORATION (60%); LIBERALISM (60%); ETHNICITY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) SYRIA (88%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



537 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1124 words

HEADLINE: Multinational Forces at the Berlin Film Festival

BYLINE: By DENNIS LIM

DATELINE: BERLIN 

 BODY:
The unofficial theme of this year's Berlin International Film Festival was hard to miss, and not just because it was spelled out in the title of the opening-night movie, ''The International.'' A Hollywood action spectacle by the German director Tom Tykwer, this tricked-up tale of a worldwide financial conspiracy has a whiff of accidental topicality. In a news conference last month, the festival's director, Dieter Kosslick, declared the film a virtual documentary of the current economic crisis, which is sexier, if less accurate, than calling it a cliched, paranoid thriller in which the villains happen to be bankers. 
 Still, this flamboyantly jet-lagged movie -- which kicks off in front of the Hauptbahnhof, Berlin's gleaming main train station, before whizzing off to Milan, New York and Istanbul -- was an apt curtain raiser for a festival full of national and linguistic border crossings.
 Film after film in the 59th Berlinale, which began on Feb. 5 and concludes on Sunday, has sounded some version of an internationalist message -- the world is shrinking, the world is flat, we are the world -- as if filmmakers were measuring the worth and seriousness of their work in terms of geographic scope. 
 There was no display of globe-hopping more portentous, or more poorly received, than the Swedish director Lukas Moodysson's ''Mammoth.'' (Boos drowned out applause at the press screening.) This offspring of ''Babel'' and ''Crash'' cross-cuts aggressively between first world privilege and third world despair. On the one hand, there is a charmed Manhattan couple (Gael Garcia Bernal and Michelle Williams), with a precocious daughter and a SoHo loft; on the other, there is their sad Filipino nanny (Marife Necesito), pining for her young sons halfway around the world.
 Several other globalist co-productions were more overtly political. In the somber courtroom drama ''Storm,'' the German director Hans-Christian Schmid shuttles between Sarajevo and Berlin and goes behind the scenes of the United Nations war crimes tribunals at The Hague. In her quest to convict a Serbian Army general, a prosecutor (Kerry Fox) must reconcile her idea of justice, her career ambitions, the backroom deals of her superiors and the safety of her witness, a Bosnian rape victim (Anamaria Marinca of ''4 Months, 3 Weeks and 2 Days'').
 With ''London River,'' the French-Algerian director Rachid Bouchareb (''Days of Glory'') enacts a lesson in cross-cultural understanding in the wake of the London suicide bombings of July 7, 2005. The set-up is rigidly schematic: a churchgoing English widow (Brenda Blethyn) and an African Muslim man (the Malian stage and film veteran Sotigui Kouyate) learn that their grown children, who have disappeared in the attacks, were lovers. The film takes shape as a quietly affirmative portrait of an unbowed, multiethnic city.
 The appetite for seriousness was not confined to the fiction films. The more ambitious documentaries, in looking for the long view and the big picture, were practically state-of-the-world addresses. Michael Winterbottom and Mat Whitecross's '' Shock Doctrine,'' screened as a work in progress, is an adaptation of the Naomi Klein best seller of the same title. It does not illustrate so much as expose the gaps in Ms. Klein's thesis on ''disaster capitalism,'' which connects political repression with the spread of free-market economics.
 A more sophisticated attempt to bring related ideas to cinematic life, ''Encirclement,'' by the French Canadian director Richard Brouillette, enlists a host of economists and intellectuals to trace the rise of neo-liberalism, and, for the most part, to argue the case against it. 
 ''Double Take,'' by the Belgian video artist Johan Grimonprez, may be the most intellectually agile of this year's crop of essay films, and also the least classifiable. Inspired by Jorge Luis Borges, this fiction-documentary hybrid, stuffed with film clips and archival footage, combines Hitchcockian dread and cold war paranoia in a wry meditation on the rise of the image and the commodification of fear.
 A different notion of globalism emerged from the intensely local, even ethnographic dispatches throughout the Forum section, home to the festival's more experimental fare. ''Sweetgrass,'' by Lucien Castaing-Taylor and Ilisa Barbash, scrutinizes the lives of sheep ranchers (and their sheep) in the Montana mountains.
 Cong Feng's ''Doctor Ma's Country Clinic'' spends three and a half hours of screen time in the offices of a rural Chinese doctor. And in ''Mental'' the Japanese director Kazuhiro Soda observes the patients and staff at a mental health clinic.
 While there was plenty of rewarding work tucked away in the noncompetitive sections, critics and buyers were quick to write off this year's Berlinale as a dud. It's true that it was not a good year for business. Sales were sluggish at the European Film Market, which takes place alongside the festival, and it has not helped the mood that the more commercial movies (that is, the ones with the biggest stars) were widely seen as flops, including Rebecca Miller's ''Private Lives of Pippa Lee,'' with Robin Wright Penn and Alan Arkin, and Sally Potter's ''Rage,'' a fashionista satire starring Dianne Wiest, Judi Dench and a cross-dressed Jude Law. 
 Amid the high-concept bids for relevance of the higher-profile titles, some of the festival's most complex and satisfying films were deceptively modest character dramas like ''Everyone Else,'' the second feature by the young German director Maren Ade, whose debut film was ''The Forest for the Trees.'' A depiction of an imploding romance, the film offers a clear-eyed view of the myriad forces, from within and without, that can conspire to unsettle a relationship.
 Two strong American independents that had bypassed the Sundance Film Festival last month to make their world premieres here were Bradley Rust Gray's ''Exploding Girl,'' starring Zoe Kazan and Mark Rendall, an atmospheric story of teenagers losing and finding love over the course of a summer in New York City, and ''Beeswax,'' the third feature by Andrew Bujalski, the D.I.Y. auteur whose critically beloved ''Funny Ha Ha'' and ''Mutual Appreciation'' earned him -- or perhaps saddled him with -- the role of mumblecore godhead.
 ''Beeswax'' centers on twin sisters in Austin, Tex. (played by the real-life twins and nonprofessional actors Tilly and Maggie Hatcher), not so much adrift as actively fumbling their way from uncertainty to a kind of clarity. Like many of the highlights of the 2009 Berlinale, Mr. Bujalski's intimate and unassuming film is, among other things, a reminder that the most specific visions are often the most universal.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Michelle Williams and Gael Garcia Bernal in Lukas Moodysson's ''Mammoth''
Birgit Minichmayr and Lars Eidinger in ''Everyone Else,'' directed by Maren Ade
and Sotigui Kouyate and Brenda Blethyn in Rachid Bouchareb's ''London River.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE/BERLINALE)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY ASSOCIATED PRESS/BERLINALE)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY FLORIAN BRAUN/REUTERS)
Mark Rendall and Zoe Kazan star in Bradley Rust Gray's ''Exploding Girl,'' which had its premiere at the Berlin Film Festival.(PHOTOGRAPH BY CAROLYN DRAKE)
 Renee Zellweger at the premiere of ''My One and Only.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM BRAKEMEIER/EUROPEAN PRESS PHOTO AGENCY)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FILM (92%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (91%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); MOVIE FILMING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); CONSPIRACY (76%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); VISUAL ARTISTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (67%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (66%); WAR CRIMES (65%); ARMIES (65%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (61%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); BOMBINGS (60%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (95%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); SARAJEVO, BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) NEW YORK, USA (77%) GERMANY (95%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (92%); MALI (79%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); UNITED STATES (77%); NETHERLANDS (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



538 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SHORTCUTS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: Trading What You Have for What You Need

BYLINE: By ALINA TUGEND

 BODY:
MANY years ago, when my oldest son was a newborn, we did what many new parents do -- we exchanged baby-sitting services with friends who also had an infant.
 It didn't really work out. I realized that while I was perfectly happy to leave my son with them, I wasn't so eager, after a long day, to take on the chore of caring for someone else's baby.
 Times were pretty flush back then in the '90s and it just seemed easier to pay a baby sitter. My first bartering experience, in other words, was a bust.
 Fast-forward 12 years to my second, admittedly accidental, effort. Last year, I asked a friend, who used to be a professional photographer, to take some photos of our boys. She wouldn't accept pay, so I was going to get her a present. 
 Instead, she asked if I could help edit some of her daughter's college entrance essays. It was a perfect trade -- we were both using our professional skills to offer something that otherwise would have cost a fair amount of money.
 Little did I know then that I was part of a growing community -- offline and online -- that is enthusiastically embracing bartering, particularly in this economy, when it is often more palatable to spend time than money.
 As we all know, exchanging goods and services goes back, well, forever. But being a neophyte barterer, I was surprised, once I started checking around, at the deals some friends, and friends of friends, have negotiated.
 Jane Heyman, an artist in Los Angeles who paints portraits, has traded her work for top-of-the-line haircuts, legal services and even plastic surgery.
 ''I had a show, and the doctor liked my painting of Warhol, which I gave him and got a free nose,'' Ms. Heyman said. ''He liked my work, and I liked his work.''
 She figured it was a good deal -- the plastic surgery would have cost about $7,000, while her work sells for $3,000 to $5,000.
 ''I traded a portrait of an attorney's son for legal services, and painted my pediatrician's children for six months' worth of pediatric care for my daughter,'' she said.
 But Ms. Heyman has also had some deals that didn't work out as she hoped. She bartered a portrait for a personal trainer ''but I wasn't happy with him,'' and regrets trading a painting she did of the Beatles for weekly massages.
 ''They weren't that great and I want the painting back,'' she said. ''I got a little wary after that and decided I would trade only if the services were from people well known and I needed them -- not if it was just frivolous.''
 A friend's haircutter, who preferred to remain anonymous (because who knows what clients might offer if they realized that she sometimes bartered her services), has exchanged her barbering skills for yoga classes, fresh seafood, Web designs, massages, facials, acupuncture, astrology readings, child care, weekend houses, carpentry and Botox.
 ''Obviously I like bartering,'' she said.
 My friend Carol, who works with animals, helped a friend train her dog, and got, in exchange, a complete set of ''very good golf clubs,'' because the friend's husband had bought himself a new set. My friend Gloria, an opera singer, has exchanged singing lessons for Pilates training.
 And if friends want lessons but she doesn't need anything in exchange from them, she may ask them to subsidize part of a scholarship for a needy voice student.
 And that's just between friends and clients. We're not even talking about online yet.
 The ubiquitous Craigslist offers barters for anything (clean my place and I'll give you a free massage, jewelry for high-end catering). But there are many sites that are item-specific and growing quickly.
 Swaptree.com, for example, is a Web site where people trade books (including textbooks), video games, CDs and DVDs online, paying only for shipping. 
 Since it started in 2007, ''we've been able to double the site every three or four months,'' said Greg Boesel, chief executive of the company. ''In January, we grew 40 percent over the previous month.'' 
 Now, he says, they have hundreds of thousands of members, and do thousands of trades a day. Registration is free. The company makes its money through advertising.
 I tried it, offering the DVD ''Little Miss Sunshine'' to trade. Up popped 21,164 items that I could get for the movie. They included 17,188 books, 2,911 CDs, 978 DVDs and 87 video games.
 Wow.
 I have 48 hours to decide if I want to close a deal. And to complete the trade, I would only have to walk as far as my mailbox. Swaptree knows the weight and shipping cost of every item on its site and lets you pay online and print a postal label immediately.
 What if I send out my DVD and don't get anything in return? Or get a scratched copy of ''Vacuuming Completely Nude in Paradise'' (one of the DVDs offered for trade, which I'm sorely tempted to try)?
 ''We use the same trust system as eBay,'' Mr. Boesel said. ''Traders are rated -- the community self-polices.''
 And the site isn't set up just for those looking for older items. When the newest book in the ''Harry Potter'' series was published in 2007, ''it came out on a Saturday, and by Monday, there were 15 online,'' he said.
 Titletrader.com also helps in exchanges of books, DVDs, CDs and games, using a credit system. You can give away an item and once it is received, you get request credits that you can use to get something else on the site. Textswap.com allows college students to trade textbooks. Paperbackswap.com is one of the most popular book-exchange sites. 
 In just a few years, some companies have found that they have had to evolve quickly or face becoming extinct. Lala.com started trading CDs in 2005, but as downloading became more popular, its numbers dropped off.
 ''We really plateaued,'' said John Kuch, a spokesman for the site. 
 So Lala.com has grown into a site with a small CD trading section that was ''grandfathered in,'' Mr. Kuch said, but primarily one where people can buy songs cheaply and legally.
 Some companies were around before the Internet, catering primarily to small businesses, but individuals can join. Bob Meyer, founder of the trade publication BarterNews, estimates that there are 450 such companies, about half of them trading with no upfront costs to the users.
 Itex.com. and International Monetary Systems (ims.com) are publicly traded and two of the largest bartering sites. Itex, founded in 1982, has 24,000 members, said the company spokesman, Alan Zimmelman.
 It works on a nonreciprocal trading system, using Itex accounts and Itex checkbooks. Itex dollars are earned by members who sell their products and services online; Itex charges a 5 to 7.5 percent fee for all trades.
 Last year, the company traded more than $260 million in goods and services, he said, and noted that lately, ''we've seen a huge increase in registration.''
 For instance, Mr. Zimmelman said, he buys coffee with Itex dollars from a roaster in Seattle, which he uses to pay for his optometrist.
 His optometrist is not interested in joining an organized trade group, so the barter stops there. But Mr. Zimmelman says he uses trade whenever he can.
 ''We spend our Itex money before our real money,'' he said.
 As for taxes, he noted that all trades must be treated as ordinary sales -- there is neither a tax advantage nor disadvantage.
 Bartering offers a way to get products or services that we feel we can't or shouldn't pay for in these uncertain times. And for those willing to put in a little time, it's a good way to both clear out old stuff and get new stuff without paying. And I learned one other thing: In my next life I'll become a masseuse. It looks as if people will trade just about anything for a good massage.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Jane Heyman paints portraits -- here of a client's dogs -- and sometimes trades them for goods or services.(PHOTOGRAPH BY STEPHANIE DIANI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD CARE (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (88%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (74%); PHOTOGRAPHY (74%); VISUAL ARTISTS (74%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (64%); COSMETIC & RECONSTRUCTIVE SURGERY (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



539 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 214 words

HEADLINE: Among Economic Analysts and Consumers, Confidence Continues to Fall

BYLINE: By REUTERS

 BODY:
Consumers and professional forecasters have cast off the last remnants of economic optimism, reports showed on Friday, as they confronted the reality of a long and deep recession. 
 The nation's economy will shrink by 5.2 percent in the first quarter on an annualized basis, its worst performance since 1982, according to a quarterly forecasting survey published by the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia.
 Consumer confidence fell to its lowest in three months in early February as sentiment grew increasingly gloomy over an economic downturn that most expect to last up to five years, according to another survey, the Reuters-University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers.
 ''Confidence fell in early February as consumers came to the consensus that the economy would remain in recession throughout 2009,'' the report said. ''Moreover, nearly two-thirds anticipated that the downturn would last five more years.''
 The Reuters-University of Michigan Surveys of Consumers said its index reading of confidence for February tumbled to 56.2, from 61.2 in January.
 The University of Michigan index is near the record low of 51.7 that it hit in May 1980. ''The index was disappointing, reversing all the gains of the past two months,'' said Cary Leahey, an economist at Decision Economics.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); RECESSION (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (59%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF PHILADELPHIA (72%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (72%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



540 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 908 words

HEADLINE: Thirty Years Later, a Return to Stagflation

BYLINE: By PAUL D. RYAN. 
Paul D. Ryan is a Republican representative from Wisconsin.

DATELINE: Washington 

 BODY:
 CONGRESS has made a terrible mistake. Amid a rhetorical debate centered on words like ''crisis,'' ''emergency'' and ''catastrophe,'' it acted too fast. While arguments were made about the stimulus bill's specific components -- taxpayer money for condoms, new green cars and golf carts for federal bureaucrats, another round of rebate checks -- its more dangerous consequences were overlooked. And now the package threatens a return to the kind of stagflation last seen in the 1970s.
 To get a sense of the pressures ahead, we must first assess our fiscal health. We started this year with a projected trillion-dollar budget deficit for the 2009 fiscal year. In 2008, we spent $451 billion just to pay the interest on our debt. 
 With the stimulus bill now becoming law, we're digging even deeper into debt. The headline price tag of $787 billion doesn't include the extra $348 billion it will take to finance the new debt, or what it will cost when Congress extends the spending programs in the bill, as is likely -- as much as $2 trillion more. Add in the billions that are being used to prop up the financial system, and when the dust settles on 2009, with millions of baby boomers retiring and entitlement spending exploding, taxpayers will face a financial nightmare.
 From a global perspective, the picture only looks worse. As we have debated how much money to borrow and spend in hopes of jump-starting our economy, we've ignored the worldwide stimulus binge. China, Europe and Japan are all spending hundreds of billions of dollars they don't have in hopes of speeding up their economies, too. That means the very countries we have relied on to buy our bonds, notably China and Japan, are now putting their own bonds on the global credit markets. 
 American Treasury bonds have been selling briskly on the global credit markets because they have been the calm in the storm of the global credit crisis. This has allowed advocates of borrow-and-spend to argue that for the United States, borrowing is uniquely cheap. But what happens when there is an excess supply of bonds on the worldwide markets? The cost of borrowing will rise. Today we fear deflation, but eventually our fears will turn to inflation. 
 It seems that no one in Washington is discussing what happens when the world begins this gargantuan borrowing spree. How high will interest rates rise? And more fundamentally, who will have the money to buy our bonds? It is possible that the Federal Reserve will succumb to pressure to ''monetize'' our debt -- that is, print new money to buy our bonds. In fact, the Fed is already suggesting that it will buy long-term Treasury securities in order to lower borrowing costs. If it does, then our money supply, which has already increased substantially over the past year, will grow even faster. 
 As Milton Friedman noted, ''Inflation is always and everywhere a monetary phenomenon.'' It is a situation in which too few goods are being chased by too much money. 
 To American families, inflation is a destroyer of savings, a killer of wealth, a crusher of confidence. It calls into question the value of our money. And while we all share in the pain, the people whom inflation hits hardest are elderly people who live on fixed incomes, those in the middle class who are struggling to save for retirement and college and lower-income people who live paycheck to paycheck. 
 Combine high inflation and high unemployment and you have stagflation. Hindsight shows how the pain of the late 1970s and early 1980s could have been avoided, yet we're now again planning to borrow and spend -- and raise taxes -- as President Jimmy Carter did. Soon we may again find ourselves watching a rising ''misery index'' of inflation and unemployment together. If that happens, individual earning power will evaporate, and our standard of living will decline.
 To prevent stagflation, we should enact fiscal policy reforms that apply the lessons we learned from the 1970s. Keynesian stimuli based on borrowing and spending have not worked and will not work. One-time rebate checks do not increase the incentive to expand business operations and create jobs. But marginal cuts in tax rates do. We also must lower our job-killing corporate income tax rate, the highest in the industrialized world after Japan, and ease business worries by making it clear that there will be no tax increases in 2010.
 We should also re-establish the sound dollar. For the past decade, the Federal Reserve has manipulated interest rates and vastly over-expanded the money supply -- and in so doing fueled the housing bubble that precipitated our current crisis. To end uncertainty about the economy, to keep interest rates down, and to give Americans the confidence they need to take risks and ensure future growth, we should make price stability a priority, guaranteeing the value of the dollar.
 Finally, we should tackle the entitlement crisis, which will be a $56 trillion liability that we have not figured out how to pay for. As members of the baby boom generation retire, and health care costs continue to spiral out of control, Social Security, Medicare and Medicaid will collapse. By reforming those programs and bringing their costs down to sustainable levels, we will show the world and the credit markets we are serious about reducing our debt. Then our credit will improve, the cost of necessary borrowing will drop, and we can stave off stagflation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BUDGETS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); DEFLATION (70%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BABY BOOMERS (66%); SALES REBATES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



541 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Science Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 332 words

HEADLINE: Many Americans Unaware of Food Recalls, Survey Finds

BYLINE: By RONI CARYN RABIN

 BODY:
Just about everyone has heard about the recent recall of peanut products, but many Americans don't realize that cakes, snack bars, brownies, cookies and ice cream may also be contaminated with salmonella, a Harvard University survey has found. 
 Of the 93 percent of Americans in the survey who knew of recent recalls, fewer than half knew that some snack bars had been recalled, and fewer than half were aware cakes, brownies and cookies had been recalled. 
 ''I eat protein bars all the time, and I didn't even think about it,'' said Robert J. Blendon, professor of health policy at the Harvard School of Public Health, who designed the survey.
 Only about one-quarter of those surveyed knew that some ice cream brands had been recalled, and less than one-quarter knew plain jars or cans of dry-roasted peanuts had been recalled.
 ''It's logical -- many of the snack bars have the word 'chocolate' in their name,'' said Dr. Blendon. ''They mix the peanuts with chocolate and caramel, so unless you look at the ingredients, you won't realize they are being recalled.''
 He said he was ''popping protein bars over lunch'' as usual until members of his staff insisted he check the list of ingredients as well as the Food and Drug Administration's list of recalled products. 
 The survey also found that one in four of those aware of the recent recalls mistakenly believe that major national brands of peanut butter should be avoided. Major national brands are safe, Dr. Blendon said. ''Peanut butter is an awfully good food at low cost, and you wouldn't want people throwing that out at this economically difficult time.''
 The survey of a nationally representative sample of 1,283 adults was done by the Harvard Opinion Research Program through a grant from the U.S. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.
 It found that more than six in ten Americans said they have only ''some'' or ''very little'' confidence that food manufacturers and government inspections systems could keep food safe.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD RECALLS (93%); POLLS & SURVEYS (93%); PRODUCT RECALLS (92%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (90%); ICE CREAM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FOOD SAFETY (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); BIOLOGICAL CONTAMINANTS (77%); BACTERIA (77%); INSPECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); FOOD SAFETY REGULATION (74%); FOOD INDUSTRY (74%); FROZEN FOODS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (70%); FOOD MFG (50%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); FOOD & DRUG ADMINISTRATION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



542 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 526 words

HEADLINE: Bouncing Baby Bailout

BYLINE: By JEFF JOHNSON. 
Jeff Johnson is a writer.

 BODY:
HERE'S my magic bullet to save our tanking economy: Reverse Inheritance. 
 Allow me to explain. Many Americans have children. Most of these children will one day command a decent salary. So let's permit parents to pre-emptively tap into those future earnings in the form of loans payable now. These loans can then be spent on perms, basketball sneakers and American-made vehicles; and they'll provide much-needed capital for small businesses like laundromats and hoagie shops.
 How would this work, exactly? Well, I have a 4-year-old. An expert from a federal Department of Reverse Inheritance Policy, or D.R.I.P., would subject my son to a series of physical and standardized tests and determine that there will be, say, a five-year period in my son's adulthood when he'll earn $100,000 a year. 
 I, as the boy's parent, would then be entitled to a Reverse Inheritance loan of $50,000 (or 10 percent of the earnings from the aforementioned five-year period). And my child will simply earn $10,000 less per year (plus interest) over that same period, which is thankfully much, much, much farther down the road. (If he has children by then, he'll qualify for a Reverse Inheritance loan, of course, and his wallet won't feel a thing.) 
 For multi-child households, Reverse Inheritance could result in an immediate tidal wave of money -- and that's all we citizens need worry about.
 Other upsides? Reverse Inheritance loans will be taxed, so the government will receive sorely needed funds for new packages of stimuli. The program could also result in a New Deal level of job creation, with hundreds of thousands of census-type inspectors out in the field identifying whether our children will be future hedge fund titans or brilliant scientists, sluggish nonprofit grant writers or poorly paid chimney sweeps.
 Reverse Inheritance loans would initiate spending in every sector. Couples of every stripe will hurl cash at adoption agencies, fertility specialists and surrogates. Singles will spend money on dental work and tanning, as well as lessons in dance and etiquette, in order to get their piece of the pie. Parents will devote vast sums to stimulating their child's earning potential with ''Baby Einstein'' DVDs and 64-packs of crayons -- stimulating the economy in the process. 
 This isn't just about money. Expect to see stronger familial bonds and fewer single-parent homes. After all, what parent would leave, when there are loans to be taken out on children?
 I certainly expect my family to grow closer. My 4-year-old and I are stuck in the archaic roles of child and daddy. But with the prospect of a large R.I. loan, we'll become partners -- him acing his D.R.I.P. exams, me spending his future earnings. Perhaps Reverse Inheritance will be the elephant in the family room, but it's a kind elephant in a very nice family room with a new sofa and flat-screen high-definition television.
 And surely the financial sector will quickly concoct a way for those on the sidelines, or the childless, to buy and sell Reverse Inheritance futures. It's important for all Americans to continue to leverage tomorrow, in myriad ways that make us happier now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BAILOUTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); ADOPTION SERVICES (78%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (78%); PARENTS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ADOPTION (73%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (72%); SMALL BUSINESS (70%); DANCE EDUCATION (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (63%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (62%); BASKETBALL (56%); JOB CREATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



543 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: For Fine Recession Wear, $7,000 Suits From Saks (Off the Rack)

BYLINE: By STEPHANIE ROSENBLOOM

 BODY:
For years, executives of Saks Fifth Avenue have been wooing one of the world's most exclusive men's wear lines. 
 They made trips to Italy, where Kiton apparel is carefully sewn by hand and doled out to retailers in modest quantities. Gradually, they were able to offer a limited selection in places like Beverly Hills and Chicago. Finally, Saks's dream of opening a sumptuous Kiton boutique in New York came true -- just in time for the worst recession in 70 years.
 The retailer is about to find out how many men are left in New York with the money, and the moxie, to pay more than $7,000 for an off-the-rack suit, or as much as $21,025 for the made-to-order version. 
 For the more budget-minded, Kiton sunglasses can be had for $1,395. Trousers are $1,195. And jeans? A mere $795.
 On Monday, the flagship Manhattan store plans to unveil what executives call the crown jewel of the men's department: a 2,000-square-foot boutique devoted to the Italian luxury label. The shop has a floor of Carrara marble and views of the ice-skating rink at Rockefeller Center, perfect for the Feb. 26 cocktail party Saks is throwing for its top customers. The company would not say how much it is spending to open the boutique.
 The people who run Saks are only a tiny bit sheepish about introducing such costly garments at such a dire moment. (Saks, like many stores, has been marking some high-grade merchandise down by 70 percent.) 
 ''These are decisions that are made with significant advance planning,'' said Ronald L. Frasch, president and chief merchandising officer for Saks. He emphasized that he would not undo the decision even if he could.
 ''A store like Saks needs to have the best product available,'' Mr. Frasch said. ''And I do think the man who wants to present himself in a certain way, he's still out there.''
 In a recession, a luxury retailer like Saks must walk a razor's edge between lowering operating costs to survive a slowdown in consumer spending and maintaining its status as a purveyor of elite brands.
 Figures suggest that many consumers are walking around in last year's suits and dresses. Every major department store, high-end to low, is experiencing sales declines, with luxury stores struggling the most. Sales at Saks stores open at least a year, an important measure of retail health, fell 23.7 percent last month. And the company eliminated 1,100 jobs, or about 9 percent of its workers.
 Saks's optimism about Kiton stems from sales of its fall collection, some of which Saks offered in New York for the first time in June. The company declined to provide exact sales figures but said sales of the brand exceeded expectations -- which were high because they were set in spring 2008, well before retail Armageddon. 
 ''We had a very impressive first season with the collection,'' said Tom Ott, senior vice president and general merchandise manager for men's wear and home furnishings at Saks. ''Which just shows that at the end of the day the customer is searching for value. And value isn't just in the price.''
 Kiton -- which employs 330 tailors who create its garments by hand -- produces only a few thousand pieces a year. It takes 25 hours to make a jacket. Fans of Kiton clothes, and it is a devoted cult, say the garments are soft, light and exquisitely made. They are said to fit like a second skin. 
 A suit jacket can supposedly be crushed into the crevice of an airline seat for a long flight, only to shed its wrinkles at the end.
 ''You have to be over a certain income level to even consider'' the Kiton line, said Simon Collins, dean of fashion at Parsons the New School for Design. ''Once you put it on, you can't go back.''
 Small, costly details of tailoring mark the brand. Unlike many suit jackets, Kiton's have ''surgeon's cuffs,'' or buttons that open at the wrist. Some customers keep a couple of them undone as a subtle status symbol. But Mr. Collins, who owns a Kiton jacket, described that as a gauche habit.
 ''It's a really ostentatious thing to do,'' he said. ''The tasteful thing to do is to have them and never open them.''
 Many of Saks's employees have visited Kiton's factories in Italy, enabling them to explain to clients why they are paying so much. 
 Mr. Frasch said he expected the new shop to do well. But not even luxury retailers own crystal balls. ''We are flying blind, and that could be said of any retailer in this industry right now,'' he said. 
 Apparel sales numbers from SpendingPulse, a report by MasterCard Advisors, and from other groups have shown that men's clothing has been doing better than women's -- a trend that has been noted in past economic downturns as men began dressing more formally, perhaps out of fear for their jobs. 
 Walter Loeb, president of Loeb Associates, a retail consultancy, said that while men's clothing was typically the most optional item in a family budget, more men were donning suits and ties nowadays. 
 ''They want to give an image of neatness and being in command of the situation,'' he said. ''In this particular recession, where people are threatened just by the news of unemployment around them, they have to be careful how they behave and how they look.'' 
 The Kiton shop at Saks is not, however, a counterintuitive recession strategy but part of a broader men's department facelift that has been going on for more than two years. Construction and manufacturing delays pushed back its opening. And while the timing may be inauspicious, Mr. Ott said Saks was investing in Kiton for the long term. 
 ''I think at Saks Fifth Avenue, we've been here through tough times before,'' he said. Part of the luxury goods business, perhaps especially in hard times, is playing to customers' fantasies.
 ''You know,'' Mr. Frasch said, ''everybody dreams.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A drawing of the new Kiton suit shop at Saks Fifth Avenue in Manhattan.(B1)
Ronald Frasch, left, Saks president, said he was happy with the Kiton shop despite the recession. Right, Bill Wynne and Kiton suits.
Men can expect to pay more than $7,000 for an off-the-rack Kiton suit or as much as $21,025 for a suit that is made to order.
 Saks says this is a sign of the highest quality. Kiton employs 330 tailors and makes only a few thousand garments a year.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY J.B. REED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLOTHING LABELS (90%); MEN (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LUXURY GOODS (89%); RECESSION (89%); DEPARTMENT STORES (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); READY TO WEAR (77%); SAME STORE SALES (77%); RETAIL SALES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (76%); BUDGETS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); CONSUMER SPENDING (60%); ICE SKATING (51%); WINTER SPORTS (51%)

COMPANY: SAKS FIFTH AVENUE ENTERPRISES (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (58%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



544 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: Downturn Growing Deeper in Europe

BYLINE: By ERIC PFANNER

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
Europe sank even deeper into recession than the United States in the closing months of last year, according to figures published Friday, as finance ministers of leading industrialized nations gathered in one of the worst-affected countries, Italy, for discussions on the crisis.
 The economy of the 16 countries sharing the euro currency declined by 1.5 percent in the fourth quarter, according to the European Union's statistics office. That is even worse than the 1 percent decline in the United States economy during that period, compared with the previous quarter. 
 ''Today's data wipes out any illusion that the euro zone is getting off lightly in this global downturn,'' said Jorg Radeke, an economist at the Center for Economics and Business Research in London.
 Until recently, some economists had thought that Europe might suffer less from the recession, which started in the United States before spreading to most of the rest of the world. While home prices have plunged in some European economies, including Britain, Ireland and Spain, housing markets have held up better elsewhere in Europe. Consumers have also cut back less on their spending in Europe than in the United States.
 But instead, European industry has been walloped as businesses around the world, and particularly in the United States, cut back on new orders to bring down their inventories. That has hit euro-zone countries hard, particularly Germany, which relies on exports to fuel economic growth.
 In Germany, the biggest economy in Europe, the economy shrank by 2.1 percent in the final three months of 2008, compared with the third quarter, when it had already contracted by 0.5 percent, according to the federal statistics office.
 In an effort to arrest the plunge, the lower house of the German Parliament, the Bundestag, approved a 50-billion-euro stimulus plan, which includes new spending measures and tax cuts.
 Germany was not the only European economy to do worse than analysts had expected in the period. In France, output declined by 1.2 percent, while Italy contracted by 1.8 percent.
 The data ''confirm that the recession in the region is deepening at an alarming rate,'' said Jennifer McKeown, an economist at Capital Economics in London.
 For the euro-zone economy, it was by far the worst quarter since the euro was introduced in 1999, and economists said they would have to go significantly further back in time to find a comparable period.
 ''For Europe, as for the rest of the industrialized world, this is surely the worst downturn since the Second World War,'' Mr. Radeke said.
 Drawing precise historical comparisons for the entire euro zone is challenging because of currency fluctuations before the single currency was introduced and because of incomplete or incompatible data from euro-zone members like Slovenia, which was not an independent country until 1991.
 But Ms. McKeown said she had run the numbers for the major euro-zone economies back to 1970 and found only one other quarter that was even close to as bad as the latest one: the fourth quarter of 1974, when the economy was reeling from the oil shock and a plunge in stock prices. In that quarter, the main euro-zone economies fell by a combined 1.2 percent.
 The 1.5 percent decline in the euro-zone economy matches the rate of contraction during the period in Britain, which has been additionally battered by the crisis in the financial sector, on which much of its economy depends.
 The report from Germany on Friday showed a sharp rise in inventories -- indicating that further bad news was in store for the first quarter, economists said.
 That will give finance ministers of the Group of Seven leading industrialized nations, including the new United States Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, plenty to discuss this weekend during meetings in Rome. Among other things, the officials were expected to look at proposals for new financial market regulations and concerns about rising protectionist sentiment in some countries.
 As the officials arrived on Friday, tens of thousands of workers marched through the streets of the Italian capital, snarling traffic and demanding action to ameliorate the crisis. With three consecutive quarters of declining output, Italy has been in a slump longer than some of its neighbors, like France, where the economy actually eked out a small gain in the third quarter.
 ''Compared to other countries, not enough has been done,'' Mauro Bianchi, a representative of the CGIL union, told The Associated Press. ''They are trying to cure a serious illness with aspirin.''
 While Italy is in particularly bad shape, the severity of the downturn across the euro zone was driven home by the report Friday. On an annualized basis, economists said, the 1.5 percent decline in output would amount to a drop of roughly 6 percent -- a significantly bigger fall than the 3.8 percent annual rate of contraction in the United States during the fourth quarter.
 On a year-over-year basis, Europe also performed more poorly than the United States in the fourth quarter, with gross domestic product falling by 1.2 percent from the fourth quarter of 2007, compared with a comparable decline of 0.2 percent in the United States.
 Europe typically lags behind the United States in recovering from recessions, Ms. McKeown said, so any return to growth in the euro zone is probably at least a year away.
 ''We had hoped that the euro zone might not do as badly as the U.S.,'' she said. ''As it turned out, the slump in the industrial sector has completely turned things around.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Timothy F. Geithner, the Treasury secretary, left, with Mario Draghi, the governor of the Bank of Italy, on Friday in Rome.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GENTILE/REUTERS)
 Finance ministers from the seven leading industrialized countries were meeting Friday at the Italian Finance Ministry in Rome. Italy is one of the countries hurt most by the recession.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW MEDICHINI/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MONETARY UNIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO ZONE (90%); RECESSION (90%); STATISTICS (90%); EURO (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (78%); EXCHANGE RATES (77%); EMERGING MARKETS (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FACTORY ORDERS (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); HOME PRICES (67%); TAX LAW (63%); WORLD WAR II (50%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROME, ITALY (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (90%); PARIS, FRANCE (79%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (96%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (94%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%); SLOVENIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



545 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 487 words

HEADLINE: Coal Industry Wins a Round on Mining

BYLINE: By ANDREW C. REVKIN

 BODY:
The latest in a series of federal court rulings on mountaintop coal mining in Appalachia came down firmly on the side of the coal industry on Friday. 
 The ruling, by the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, in Richmond, Va., overturned a 2007 decision that supported environmentalists' claims that the Army Corps of Engineers had improperly issued permits for several such mining operations. 
 For more than a decade, environmental campaigners have tried various legal avenues to fight the mining technique, a form of strip-mining that blasts the tops off mountains and dumps the leftover rock in valleys, burying streams. 
 After Friday's ruling, environmental groups urged President Obama to follow up on statements he had made during his campaign that were critical of mountaintop mining by reversing Bush administration policies intended to expand the practice. 
 Jennifer Chavez, a lawyer at Earthjustice, an environmental law firm that is a plaintiff in the case, called the decision ''a landmark in a bad way,'' that could unleash a burst of new mining. 
 ''There's a big backlog of permits, something like 80 or 90, we hear from our partners in West Virginia,'' Ms. Chavez said. ''We're afraid there's going to be just a floodgate opening.''
 But Luke Popovich, a spokesman for the National Mining Association, said the industry was ''delighted'' and called the ruling ''a sweeping vindication.''
 Mr. Popovich said that the 2007 ruling had resulted in a backlog of mining permits and created uncertainty that was harming the economy in the region. 
 The case, heard by three judges on the federal appeals panel, focused on whether the corps had been too liberal in allowing mining companies to bury streams as long as they created settling ponds and promised to transform drainage ditches into artificial streams that, in theory, might filter out contamination. The corps is responsible for preventing actions that could harm waters in the United States.
 Among other arguments, the plaintiffs contended that the corps had not demonstrated scientifically that the ponds and artificial streams were effective. 
 The ruling said the corps had the expertise and discretion to issue such permits. 
 The mining association says that mountaintop mining in Appalachia produces about 10 percent of all coal mined in the United States and 40 percent of the coal mined in West Virginia and Kentucky. 
 Environmentalists have recently intensified their campaigns against mountaintop mining, arguing that it causes water contamination that is harmful to the residents of the valleys and that the expanding use of coal increases emissions of carbon dioxide, the main heat-trapping gas linked to global warming. 
 In the last months of the Bush administration, the Interior Department issued new rules intended to ease rules governing buffer zones along waterways, a change that could expand the mining method.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Mountaintop coal mining at Kayford Mountain, W.Va. Permits may now come for other sites. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFF GENTNER/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COAL INDUSTRY (92%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); COAL MINING (90%); SURFACE MINING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); MINES & MINING (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (89%); APPEALS (89%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (78%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); EMISSIONS (78%); MINING REGULATION & POLICY (78%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (78%); LAWYERS (78%); HARBOR & PORT OPERATIONS (76%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (76%); LEGAL SERVICES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL INDUSTRY (76%); WATER POLLUTION (75%); RIVERS (75%); MINERAL LEASES (73%); JUDGES (73%); ARMIES (72%); ENGINEERING (71%); CIVIL ENGINEERING (71%); GLOBAL WARMING (62%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: ARMY CORPS OF ENGINEERS (58%); EARTHJUSTICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (73%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



546 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: Rituals of the Rich Meet Realities of the Economy

BYLINE: By GERALDINE FABRIKANT

 BODY:
In Manhattan's most exclusive enclaves, even the longtime rituals of the wealthy are being tested. 
 E.A.T., the Upper East Side version of a coffee shop, for instance, used to do a good business in putting together catered platters for private jets. ''We do a lot of airplane stuff out of the store for people that have their own airplanes,'' said the owner, Eli Zabar, scion of the Zabar clan.
 But, he added the other day: ''They are not going anywhere. The deals that they were out there making are not happening.'' 
 And business is down for the gift baskets that people from California used to send to New Yorkers to celebrate the completion of a deal. ''The Wall Street deals and the film deals are not being made,'' lamented Mr. Zabar, who said he had been doing those baskets for 20 years. ''The music industry is in the pits. So there is no gift basket business.'' 
 And the tourists who used to emulate the rituals of the rich have also stopped showing up. John Barrett, who owns the beauty salon at Berdorf Goodman, said the drop in tourists had been ''devastating.'' E.A.T., too, not far from the Metropolitan Museum of Art, is also feeling the loss of tourists who routinely stood in long lines for Saturday and Sunday brunch and are now gone.
 And the high-end events where the wealthy mingle? Macaroni and cheese is on the menu. 
 ''In the past, clients did not speak about budgets but now they are vocalizing those questions early in the call,'' said Gina Zimmer, vice president for marketing and communications for Restaurant Associates. Restaurant Associates used to suggest macaroni and cheese in a chafing dish for a bar mitzvah, Ms. Zimmer said, but is now selling it to an older audience. 
 And while event organizers used to want ''higher-end meats like lamb or filet,'' she said, now ''they are open to a chicken pot pie.''
 At Hallak Cleaners on Second Avenue, some Upper East Siders used to think nothing of sending in their chauffeurs with an armful of garments. Now, they are cutting back there, too. 
 ''This is the first time we have had a down market in 45 years except for Sept. 11,'' the owner, Joe Hallak, said. ''If people don't go out to eat as much, their clothes don't get dirty. A man may wear a suit one extra time. Or a woman may wear a knit suit an extra time before sending it out.'' He said that his business was down 8 percent this year and that the decline had accelerated since the end of last year. 
 Dry cleaning was once viewed as recession-proof. But David Mindich, of Minda Supply Company a family-owned business that provides cleaning supplies to 6,000 cleaners, said ''in this recession, people are losing their jobs and they are not getting replaced, so there are less customers.'' 
 Spending on flowers is also being trimmed. Take, for example, a recent high-end but private wedding with several dozen guests that Dorothy Wacco of Beautiful Flowers said she recently did. ''The bride wanted to spend over $50,000 for decor and flowers but they cut that budget back to $30,000,'' Ms. Wacco recalled. ''And no one wanted any publicity.'' 
 Even beauty salons are feeling the difference. Mr. Barrett said business at his salon at Bergdorf Goodman was running nearly 10 percent lower for the year that will end Aug. 31. 
 ''We had a lot of women from Bear Stearns and Lehman Brothers, and they are coming, but less often,'' he said. 
 The salon charges $75 for pedicures and $120 and up for haircuts. But people want to look good, he said, and makeup applications, which start at $150, are up 26 percent, he said. ''It probably gives people a lift. They can hide a lot of things, but not their face.'' 
 But if Mr. Barrett is unhappy, there are some beneficiaries as wealthy New Yorkers scale back. ''My shop is not one where they charge $400 for haircut,'' said Concetta Capritto, who owns Tina Hair Salon on First Avenue and 53rd Street. ''We do give a cup of coffee to the clients. For $400 I would give a little caviar,'' she said. ''I ask them how they found me and they tell me: 'Well, I live in the neighborhood.' '' 
 Ms. Capritto added, ''I don't know if they got tired or they could not afford it, but they are coming to me and they are coming back and they are happy.''
 She said most of her customers are women, but there are also some young men who used to work on Wall Street. ''They paid $100 for a haircut and now they pay $25, and they are happy,'' Ms. Capritto said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (77%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (72%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (72%); SPECIAL EVENT PLANNING (69%); MEATS (66%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (54%)

PERSON: JOHN F BARRETT (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



547 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Salt in Our Diet: How Much Is Right?

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re ''A Pinch of Science,'' by Michael Alderman (Op-Ed, Feb. 6), about a campaign by New York City to persuade the makers of processed food to reduce salt content by more than 40 percent over the next 10 years:
 I'm not sure I like the idea of the government's telling me what to eat. No, let me rephrase that: I do not want the government in my kitchen. 
 If I want to eat salt, that's my business. Yes, some people have a problem with salt. Some people also have a problem with cholesterol. Some with sugar. That doesn't mean the government should be sticking its nose in everyone's pie, sampling the soup and telling us what we can eat.
 Too many cooks spoil the broth. The government is one too many for sure.
 Walter Jeffries West Topsham, Vt., Feb. 9, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Cardiovascular disease remains the No. 1 killer of Americans, and the scientific evidence linking a lowered salt intake to a reduced risk for heart disease is overwhelming.
 The American Medical Association applauds the New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene for embarking on a campaign to urge processed-food manufacturers to voluntarily reduce the salt content in their products. 
 The average daily sodium intake for healthy adults should be no more than one teaspoon of salt, or 2,300 milligrams of sodium, yet the average American consumes nearly twice that, with an estimated 75 to 80 percent of the daily intake of sodium coming from processed and restaurant foods.
 A national reduction in the amount of sodium in processed foods is clearly needed and will go a long way toward reducing the incidence of heart disease and stroke in the United States. 
 J. James Rohack Chicago, Feb. 10, 2009
 The writer, a medical doctor, is president-elect of the American Medical Association.
 To the Editor:
 Michael Alderman's Op-Ed article is a thorough look at the scientific reasons for not limiting salt in processed foods by more than 40 percent over the next 10 years as proposed by New York City's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene. But there is yet another reason to quell the department's campaign: the anticipated reaction by the marketplace. 
 Severe reduction of salt levels would dramatically affect the flavor of processed foods, causing manufacturers to use an inexpensive and approved substitute like monosodium glutamate. 
 While MSG is often identified with the benign label ''natural flavors,'' the health risks associated with MSG are potentially far worse for the general public -- and especially for people with multiple sclerosis -- than the unsubstantiated risks of salt.
 Dennis Maneri Southport, N.C., Feb. 6, 2009
 To the Editor:
 Michael Alderman correctly notes that current evidence does not support salt restriction for all people. But public policy is meant to advance the general welfare. It does not necessarily provide all individuals with equal (or even any) benefit, nor must it necessarily impinge on individual medical decisions. 
 All individuals should consult with their doctors regarding their own recommended salt intake, as dictated by their personal health. Many may be advised that salt restriction is unnecessary for them. 
 On the other hand, a significant portion of the population has a medical problem -- for example, liver or kidney disease, heart failure or salt-sensitive hypertension -- for which the value of salt restriction is not disputed. These people find prescribed salt restriction difficult, particularly in harsh economic times, when many must increase their proportionate intake of cheaper (but, alas, salted) processed foods.
 Reducing the salt content of these foods will benefit the health of such people without binding anyone else to a salt-restricted diet. Therefore, it is effective public policy.
 One hopes that public health officials will next turn to the excess phosphorous content of processed foods, which is also potentially injurious, particularly to those with kidney disease.
 Sheldon Hirsch Wilmette, Ill., Feb. 6, 2009
 The writer is co-chief of nephrology at Mercy Hospital in Chicago.
 To the Editor:
 Michael Alderman's Op-Ed article is likely to confuse the public. The evidence concerning the harmful effects of sodium has been characterized as ''overwhelming'' by the American Medical Association and ''conclusive'' by the World Health Organization. 
 Based on the strength and consistency of evidence, the American Public Health Association and representatives of more than 40 other health organizations recommended in 2003 that sodium be reduced by 50 percent in processed and restaurant foods. In 2004, top officials at the National Institutes of Health and I published estimates that high sodium consumption caused at least 150,000 premature deaths a year in the United States. Based on clinical trial data published since then, we almost certainly underestimated the death toll.
 Many European countries are working to reduce sodium in their food supply. The New York City health department is absolutely correct that the food industry here must lower sodium levels in its products to protect the public.
 Stephen Havas Timonium, Md., Feb. 6, 2009
 The writer, a medical doctor, is an adjunct professor in the department of preventive medicine at the Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine and a former vice president for science, quality and public health at the American Medical Association.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JON HAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (89%); FOOD INDUSTRY (89%); HEART DISEASE (87%); CARDIOVASCULAR DISEASE (87%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (87%); FOOD MFG (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CHOLESTEROL (75%); SCIENCE NEWS (73%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); WRITERS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); IMMUNE SYSTEM DISORDERS (69%); STROKES (67%); MULTIPLE SCLEROSIS (67%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN MEDICAL ASSOCIATION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



548 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: Faces Are Familiar, but the Roles Have Changed

BYLINE: By JULIET MACUR

DATELINE: SACRAMENTO 

 BODY:
George Hincapie knew something was up when Lance Armstrong, his longtime friend and former teammate, started asking him questions after one mountain stage of last year's Tour de France.
 It was an inquisition, Hincapie said: How is the race going? How is everybody doing? What do you think of the competition?
 ''Since he retired, he was never as interested in what was going on as he was that day,'' said Hincapie, who raced on Armstrong's team for all seven of Armstrong's Tour de France victories. ''So I said: 'O.K., what's up? Something weird is going on in your head right now.' '' 
 Hincapie had sensed the restlessness in his old friend's voice. And he was right. It was the moment that Hincapie learned of Armstrong's growing desire to emerge from his three-year retirement to race again. 
 Now, at the Tour of California that starts here with a time trial Saturday, the two will play roles they admit are still unfamiliar: they will be competitors, not teammates. 
 They raced against each other at last month's Tour Down Under in Australia -- Hincapie for Team Columbia-Highroad and Armstrong for Astana -- but Hincapie said this race was different.
 ''The stakes have gone up a little bit since Australia because we're both in better shape and we both want to win here in the U.S.,'' said Hincapie, 35, who grew up in Farmingdale, N.Y. ''But it's going to be very, very odd to race against him here. It will be really strange for me because, really, he's like my brother.''
 But for Hincapie, who has known Armstrong since they raced as juniors 20 years ago, Armstrong is the brother who always steals the spotlight. 
 Signs around this town declare: Lance Armstrong Rides Again. At the race's kick-off news conference on Thursday, reporters packed a cavernous room and nearly 20 cameras were rolling when Armstrong strolled in.
 Mayor Kevin Johnson of Sacramento, the former professional basketball point guard, told the crowd, ''I played in the N.B.A. final in 1993, and I've never seen more reporters in a room other than today.'' He said the race's economic impact in Sacramento was expected to be $8.5 million, up from $3.6 million last year, pre-Armstrong. Race organizers are expecting record crowds.
 Steve Johnson, the chief executive of USA Cycling, marvels at Armstrong's allure.
 ''He affects the entire sport, from bottom to top,'' Johnson said. ''Literally, people who never watched cycling before may watch this race because of one person, and that's Lance.''
 But if Armstrong sticks to his word, those people should not expect him to win. 
 Armstrong, 37, has said that his goal is to help his teammate and the two-time defending champion, Levi Leipheimer, win this nine-day race from Sacramento to Escondido in Southern California.
 Last September, on the day Armstrong announced he was coming out of retirement, he was asked what it would be like to work for another rider's victory. He answered that he would not know. ''Never been one,'' he said.
 Hincapie said Armstrong had helped his teammates win races before -- just not the really big ones. So when considering the possibility that Armstrong would help his Astana teammate Alberto Contador, the 2007 Tour de France champion, win the Tour this summer, Hincapie laughed.
 ''I've tried to imagine that,'' he said, ''but I just can't.'' 
 But this season, Hincapie acknowledged, is not like the rest. He said that Armstrong seemed more open and relaxed, and that he actually looked as if he were having fun. Armstrong also looks stronger and leaner than in years past at this point in the season. 
 ''The tough part after taking time off would be forgetting how to ride in a bunch and conserving energy, but he did fine with that in Australia,'' Hincapie said. ''In the past, everything he did was 100 percent for July, 100 percent for the Tour de France, but now it doesn't seem that way.''
 Armstrong will be one of the oldest riders in this race, but he said that would not work against him. When an athlete is in his 30s, he said, it is the mind -- not the body -- that starts weakening.
 ''It says to the body: 'I've been doing this for 20 years now. Can we stop now?' '' he said. ''Fortunately, I've had a couple of breaks. Now the mind is fresh. It says: 'O.K., let's go. Let's do this one more time.' ''
 But Hincapie, who has not taken a break from cycling, is still holding his own. He wants to prove that this season, starting Saturday, in the race's prologue. It is a 2.4-mile time trial, and one of his specialties. 
 Then, in later stages of this race, if he and Armstrong are ever battling for a stage victory, he said he would not see a good friend -- only a nameless rider with a blank face.
 ''Lance has that inner fire to win races, but I wouldn't be here if I didn't have that, too,'' Hincapie said. ''We're totally two different riders, totally two different people, but we are still both here to win. Friendship doesn't really matter at that point.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: George Hincapie, left, with Lance Armstrong, said, ''It's going to be very, very odd to race against'' Armstrong in California.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MONICA M. DAVEY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); ATHLETES (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); CYCLING (78%); MAYORS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (61%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: LANCE ARMSTRONG (93%); KEVIN JOHNSON (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SACRAMENTO, CA, USA (93%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); AUSTRALIA (87%); MOLDOVA, REPUBLIC OF (74%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



549 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: 'Slumdog' Revives Interest In TV Show

BYLINE: By BRIAN STELTER

 BODY:
''Slumdog Millionaire'' is a love story, a fairy tale and an Oscar contender. It is also inadvertently an advertisement for one of the most prominent game shows in television history. 
 The film, which has grossed nearly $80 million in the United States and will compete for best picture at the Academy Awards later this month, has revived interest in ''Who Wants to Be a Millionaire,'' the quiz show popularized by ABC in 1999. ''Slumdog,'' set in India, uses the ''Millionaire'' format as a narrative device, interspersing game show segments with flashbacks to explain the main character's improbable ability to answer all the questions correctly. In doing so, the film acts as a big-screen reminder of one of the biggest television hits of the past decade. 
 ''Slumdog'' may also be a catalyst for a prime-time comeback for ''Millionaire'' on ABC. Talks are continuing between the executive producer Michael Davies and ABC about a revival, perhaps tied to the series's 10th anniversary. 
 ''I couldn't tell you whether 'Slumdog' has done anything to accelerate those conversations, but it certainly hasn't hurt,'' Mr. Davies said in an interview this week. ABC declined to comment on Friday. 
 Tens of millions of viewers were hooked on ''Millionaire'' after it had its premiere 10 years ago. The game show helped start the era of reality programming that now dominates television, from ''Deal or No Deal'' and ''The Biggest Loser'' to ''Survivor'' and ''American Idol.'' After three and a half years and 363 episodes, the ABC edition hosted by Regis Philbin ended in 2002, the same year that a daytime version hosted by Meredith Vieira began being syndicated. 
 ''Millionaire'' remains a mainstay of daytime television, and its repeats are among the highest-rated shows on the cable channel GSN. The format has been licensed or optioned in more than 100 territories; the show recently went into production in Afghanistan. ''The producers around the world are absolutely thrilled that the movie has come along,'' said Paul Smith, an executive producer of ''Slumdog.'' ''It's drawing new attention to 'Millionaire.' It's revitalizing it.'' 
 Mr. Smith, who helped pitch the original British version of the television show, which had its debut on the network ITV in 1998, is a prominent connection between the show and film. He has no stake in the small-screen version now; his production company, Celador Productions, sold its television interests two years ago. He said in an interview that he viewed ''Millionaire'' merely as the ''linking device'' for the film. 
 Still, moviegoers may find themselves humming the ''Millionaire'' theme music as they leave the theater, and if they do, Mr. Davies won't mind one bit. 
 ''Enough people have asked me, 'Isn't this great for ''Millionaire''?' that I know it's been great for the overall brand in the U.S.,'' he said. 
 If ''Millionaire'' is on viewers' minds more this year, it hasn't been reflected yet in the ratings in the United States. The audience for the syndicated weekday series has declined 9 percent this year, mirroring broader declines for daytime shows. 
 But ''Millionaire'' has fared better than other recent daytime game shows, including ''Trivial Pursuit: America Plays,'' which, after its first season in syndication, is not expected to be renewed. ''Millionaire'' also benefits from having long-term contracts with local stations. Ms. Vieira said she was engrossed by ''Slumdog,'' apart from her role on the television show, and said if it aroused new interest, ''that would be terrific.'' 
 Ms. Vieira, who is also co-host of the ''Today'' show on NBC, typically tapes a full season of ''Millionaire'' -- 200 episodes -- between July and November, making for some long days. ''When I think about it, I want to cry, but when I'm doing it, I love it,'' she said in an interview on Thursday. ''I always leave feeling energized.'' 
 Ms. Vieira's ''Millionaire'' contract continues through the 2010-11 season. This year, Mr. Davies and Ms. Vieira said, the two have seen a change in the tenor of the game show's contestants. ''We've had more contestants in tears, emotional about winning the money,'' Mr. Davies said. Ms. Vieira said more contestants had said they were appearing ''because they really needed the money, for things like house payments, food, kids' educations.'' 
 ''If you wanted to trace the recession, I could have from that broadcast,'' she added. 
 Perhaps the quest for a million dollars would resonate in prime time as well, although a prime-time comeback faces several hurdles, including the question of whether Mr. Philbin would be able or willing to return as host. Mr. Davies said he was convinced that the show would be back on ABC someday. ''I've never lost confidence in it,'' he said. 
 And the presence of ''Slumdog'' at the Academy Awards can only help, he said. ''By the way,'' he added, ''I've got to think the 'Survivor' folks and the 'Idol' folks are thinking, 'Movie, movie, movie.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Regis Philbin, left, with Anil Kapoor of ''Slumdog Millionaire'' on ''Live! With Regis and Kelly.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID M. RUSSELL/DISNEY)(pg. C7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); REALITY TELEVISION (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (77%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (77%); MOVIE REVENUES (77%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (77%); DAYTIME TELEVISION (77%); FILM (77%); CABLE TELEVISION (77%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (73%); ANNIVERSARIES (52%)

PERSON: REGIS PHILBIN (89%); MEREDITH VIEIRA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); INDIA (72%); AFGHANISTAN (52%)

TITLE: Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (TV Program); Who Wants to Be a Millionaire (TV Program)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



550 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: How To Stock A Cabinet

BYLINE: By GAIL COLLINS. 
Bob Herbert is off today.

 BODY:
It's 8 p.m., American TV viewers, so you know it's time for: Who Wants to Be a Secretary of Commerce?
 Twenty eager contenders arrived last month in Coral Gables, Fla., at an exclusive chateau with a defaulted mortgage, ready to compete for the dream job of a lifetime. At the end of each episode, their host, Joe Biden, distributes the coveted Roses of Change, inviting all but one contestant to continue on for another week.
 And now, only five remain. They have come from around the nation. People like you and me, only more interested in promoting market compliance. 
 People like Caroline Kennedy, a mom from Manhattan hoping to find a career that will combine her desire to perform public service at the highest levels with her yen for total anonymity. 
 Kennedy became the favorite after last week's show, when she was the only contestant who knew that the pact under which the Commerce Department's Bureau of Industry and Security regulates the export of solar cells is known as the Wassenaar Arrangement.
 Senator John Kerry, who answered ''The Peace of Westphalia,'' was sent home. Vice President Biden, who has broken into tears each time he is forced to withhold a rose from a hopeful contestant, sobbed uncontrollably as Kerry recalled how, when he was a child, his grandfather had told him that if he worked hard, one day he might grow up to enforce patent law for the entire nation. 
 The contestants have grown close to one another over the long weeks of competition. Who could forget the slumber party when Christopher Dodd confessed to the other chateau guests that after all this time as chairman of the Senate banking committee, he still didn't exactly understand what a toxic asset was? Or the night when Lindsey Graham collapsed from stress after John McCain and Joe Lieberman demanded that he say which of them was his real best friend?
 Who Wants to Be a Secretary of Commerce? has proved to be one of the administration's most popular TV contests. Its ratings have been second only to Survivor: Department of Health, Education and Human Services. The nation gave its heart to the spunky Barbara Mikulski and wept when John Edwards beat her in a fire-starting contest to win the final challenge.
 The only slightly less popular So You Think You Can Run the Labor Department riveted the nation when, in a shocking surprise ending, Dennis Kucinich beat out the fan favorite, Chris Matthews, with a crowd-pleasing performance in which Dennis and stunning wife Elizabeth sang ''The Ballad of Joe Hill'' while dancing the Macarena.
 The idea of filling the cabinet via TV games came to President Obama when Senator Judd Gregg changed his mind about becoming secretary of commerce. Gregg lost interest after discovering, late in the day, that he was a Republican and Obama was a Democrat. Instantly, dozens of other senators who were bored working in a place where everything important is decided by the three moderate Republicans, volunteered for the job. 
 The new system helped reduce hard feelings, increase transparency and halved the unemployment rate in the critical reality-show sector. It worked out so well, in fact, that Obama has begun using it for sub-cabinet posts as well. Keep an eye out for the upcoming The Apprentice: Chief Performance Officer, in which Mitt Romney will be challenged to help Arnold Schwarzenegger save the California economy with a chain of lemonade stands in Los Angeles along Rodeo Drive. 
 In tonight's episode of Who Wants to Be a Secretary of Commerce?, attention turns to the Republicans. Graham, McCain and Rudy Giuliani will face off in a series of events that include seeing who can stand on one foot in a rainstorm for the longest time and delivering census forms to a public housing development.
 The winner will join Kennedy and dark-horse contender David Petraeus in the Final Three. Each will enjoy a dream dinner in a glamorous Tampa restaurant, during which Biden will ask them whether their role model in the job would be Herbert Hoover, Harry Hopkins or Philip Klutznick. 
 Meanwhile, in other TV news, NBC has announced its midseason programming will be led off with ''The Women From Maine'' in which Senators Olympia Snowe and Susan Collins play moderate Republican witches who try to make the world a better and more fiscally responsible place. Harry Reid will co-star as their befuddled landlord who thinks his tenants are unemployed actresses trying to break into the Portland theater business. Arlen Specter will play Squeaky, their impish helper. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); TOXIC ASSETS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); EXPORT CONTROLS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (66%); PHOTOELECTRIC CELLS (52%); PATENT LAW (50%); PATENTS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: WASSENAAR ARRANGEMENT (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (56%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (89%); JOHN KERRY (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (77%); JOE LIEBERMAN (76%); JOHN EDWARDS (70%); JUDD GREGG (58%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (51%); BARBARA MIKULSKI (51%); LINDSEY GRAHAM (51%); DENNIS KUCINICH (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



551 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: Signs That the Suns' Entertaining Run Is Almost Over

BYLINE: By HOWARD BECK

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
The hotel escalator was moving upward, but Amare Stoudemire was unsure of his destination. A news conference for N.B.A. All-Stars was about to begin, somewhere on the third floor.
 ''Where am I going?'' he asked someone wearing an All-Star Game credential.
 ''To the Bulls,'' said the someone, who happened to be a reporter from Chicago.
 Stoudemire laughed. His sense of humor is apparently intact, though it is being stretched to the limit. 
 N.B.A. players, coaches, executives and owners are descending on Phoenix this weekend to celebrate the league's signature exhibition, and possibly to pick over the remains of a once-proud franchise.
 The Suns, underachieving and in flux, are the uncomfortable hosts for the 2009 All-Star Game. Their record (28-23) is substandard. Their first-year coach (Terry Porter) is rumored to be on the firing line. Their lineup is talent-rich but chemistry-poor.
 And they are, quite possibly, about to be dismantled -- starting with a trade of Stoudemire, the Suns' erstwhile cornerstone.
 Stoudemire, their supremely athletic young forward, has been the subject of trade rumors for weeks. Chicago, Cleveland, Portland and Memphis are reportedly in pursuit. (Miami also had interest but instead acquired Jermaine O'Neal on Friday, in a trade for the former Sun Shawn Marion.) There are whispers that Phoenix already has a handshake deal but is waiting until after the All-Star Game to make it official.
 So as he joined the other All-Stars in a crowded hotel ballroom Friday afternoon, Stoudemire's expression seemed caught between annoyance and resignation. His table in the ball room was engulfed with reporters, all wondering the same thing that fans here have been wondering.
 How could the Suns, with Stoudemire, Shaquille O'Neal and Steve Nash, be this mediocre? What happened to the N.B.A.'s most entertaining team? And why would they trade their best young player?
 ''That, I don't understand,'' Stoudemire, 26, said. ''I'm lost with that. They say they're trying to fix the team, but then they're talking about trading your young All-Star, your future, supposedly. So I'm not sure now whether it's about building the team or it's about saving money.''
 It is, apparently, about both. The Suns have the league's eighth-highest payroll but are on pace for their worst record in five years. They are ninth in the Western Conference and in danger of missing the playoffs.
 The national recession may be squeezing the Suns' ownership more than most. Robert Sarver, the team's managing general partner, is invested primarily in real estate and banking.
 Cost-cutting is clearly part of the Suns' agenda. It is well known in N.B.A. circles that Phoenix is asking for expiring contracts and young (meaning cheap) prospects in exchange for Stoudemire. Names that have been floated include Portland's LaMarcus Aldridge and Chicago's Tyrus Thomas.
 As the All-Star Game approached, team officials tried to calm the waters.
 ''We do not want to make a bad basketball move,'' Sarver said Thursday in an interview with radio station KTAR. ''There's no guarantee that Amare Stoudemire is going anywhere.''
 Steve Kerr, the team president, acknowledged the trade discussions Thursday night on TNT.
 ''I've said all week that we are listening to'' offers, Kerr said, ''because we're an underachieving team.''
 On Friday morning, Sarver had to rebut a newspaper report that Porter was about to be fired. The Suns, a high-octane, high-scoring, run-and-gun team under Coach Mike D'Antoni, have struggled to adapt to Porter's more deliberate style.
 ''I think guys just got to get used to his system,'' O'Neal said, although he conceded that should have happened by now. Still, he added, the criticism is ''not really fair to Terry.''
 ''Something goes wrong, it's going to be three guys get that get blame -- Steve, myself and Terry,'' O'Neal said. ''So we just have to figure something out.''
 The Suns' trade for O'Neal last February has not worked out as hoped. Although O'Neal has been resurgent this season, his presence has knocked Stoudemire off kilter. Stoudemire's scoring average (21 points), rebounds (8.1) and field-goal percentage (.530) are down significantly, despite an increase in minutes.
 Meanwhile, Nash, the Suns' two-time most valuable player, is sitting at home this weekend, having been left off of the All-Star roster for the first time since 2004. Nash, 35, is said to be the one untouchable player on the roster in trade talks. But some people around the league believe that he could ask for a trade this summer if the Suns plunge into a rebuilding mode.
 The Suns were Western Conference finalists in 2005 and 2006 under D'Antoni, but they have drafted poorly and have sold off numerous first-round picks under Sarver's watch. 
 Their identity was compromised last February, when they traded Shawn Marion for O'Neal, and changed irrevocably when the team forced out D'Antoni last spring.
 The Suns were once criticized as a one-dimensional thrill ride, an offensive machine that provided entertainment but not titles. Now they are neither entertaining nor successful.
 ''Phoenix Suns fans are puling their hair out,'' said Dan Bickley, a longtime Arizona Republic columnist who also hosts a radio talk show. ''They're finally starting to realize the magnitude of what has been lost and the magnitude of some of the mistakes that have been made along the way. And they want their window of opportunity back, they want their old coach back, they want their old system back. And it's not coming back.''
 When Phoenix was awarded the All-Star Game two years ago, Jerry Colangelo, the former managing general partner, viewed it as a crowning achievement for the franchise and for the city's downtown, both of which had undergone a renaissance. 
 Colangelo is still a tireless cheerleader for the city, but he seemed saddened by the Suns' quick decline.
 ''Here's the franchise that I gave birth to,'' Colangelo said. ''I gave my blood, sweat and soul to the franchise, and yes, I'm affected by it. Even though I'm not involved today, it's part of me.''
 So the N.B.A.'s raucous weekend party is now doubling as a memorial.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Amare Stoudemire, left, with Shaquille O'Neal. Stoudemire, a star forward, could be the first to leave the team.(PHOTOGRAPH BY TIM SHAFFER/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASKETBALL (90%); HOTEL MEETING FACILITIES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); GENERAL PARTNERSHIPS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: PHOENIX SUNS (93%); CHICAGO BULLS (58%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%); WEST USA (57%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



552 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2107 words

HEADLINE: A Smaller, Faster Stimulus Plan, but Still With a Lot of Money

BYLINE: By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN

 BODY:
On its way to becoming law, two crucial things happened to President Obama's economic recovery plan: It got smaller and faster. 
 Smaller in that it was cut to $787 billion from more than $800 billion in early versions in the House and Senate. And faster in that the Congressional Budget Office now projects that 74 percent of the money will be spent by Sept. 30, 2010, compared with 64 percent in the original House bill. 
 Now the test is whether the mix of tax cuts and government spending, including public works projects, will create jobs and spur a recovery. 
 No one knows how it will turn out. Even Mr. Obama, who had predicted four million new or saved jobs, has pulled back to ''more than 3.5 million.'' 
 Short term, the plan is a big victory for Democratic priorities, like education, health care, energy and technology, which will get huge sums. It also offers new aid for the unemployed and tax breaks for the poor. 
 If nothing else, the plan is a striking return of big government. It also symbolizes continuing partisanship, despite Mr. Obama's promise of new cooperation. No House Republican voted for the measure, and the three in the Senate who did are viewed as renegades by their party's leadership.
 Whatever the result, future generations will get the bill. 
 ''This is so much money that if someone had begun spending $1 million a day -- $1 million every day -- when Christ was born,'' said Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, ''we would not yet be in 2009 to the full cost of this bill.'' 
 Here is a look at how the $787 billion stacks up.
 ENERGY AND ENVIRONMENT
 The Bill Smiles on Power Programs
 Programs to promote energy efficiency and renewable energy sources are big winners in the stimulus package, receiving more than $45 billion in new spending and tax breaks. 
 Included is more than $13 billion to make federal buildings and public housing more efficient and to weatherize as many as one million homes. The bill also provides more than $10 billion to modernize the electricity grid and install ''smart'' meters in homes and as much as $20 billion in tax incentives for wind, solar, hydro and other renewable power sources. Proponents say these provisions will create as many as 500,000 jobs. 
 The bill provides tax credits of up to $7,500 to buyers of new plug-in hybrid vehicles.
 Also included is $18 billion for environmental projects, like clean water systems, flood control and pollution cleanup work. Congressional officials said these could create more than 375,000 jobs. 
 The bill provides about $2 billion to research a system to capture and store carbon dioxide emissions from coal-burning power plants, potentially reviving a demonstration program in Illinois that was killed by the Bush administration. 
 House-Senate conferees eliminated a provision, pushed by Senator Robert F. Bennett, Republican of Utah, to provide as much as $50 billion in loan guarantees to build new nuclear power plants. The Energy Department gets $6 billion to clean up sites where it develops nuclear weapons. JOHN M. BRODER
 SCIENCE
 Research and Development Aid Restored
 After being traumatized when Congress suddenly slashed research budgets for science agencies last year, scientists were pleasantly surprised to find that they did not lose out again in the last round of negotiations on the stimulus plan.
 The plan largely restores research and development money for the basic sciences in the House version of the bill, while keeping $10 billion for the National Institutes of Health, championed by Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, a cancer survivor and one of three Republican votes for the plan.
 The bill includes $3 billion for the National Science Foundation, $1 billion for the National Aeronautics and Space Administration and $1.6 billion for the Energy Department's Office of Science.
 The science foundation money includes $100 million for laboratory equipment at universities and $400 million for speeding construction of projects like a neutrino detector in Antarctica, a radio telescope in Chile and advanced gravity wave detectors in Louisiana and Washington State.
 ''The Senate backed down,'' said Michael S. Lubell, director of public affairs for the American Physical Society, who had been dismayed at the extent of cuts proposed last week in the Senate. Even though the final Senate bill was less severe, Dr. Lubell was happy that the House's science priorities prevailed.
 ''All the science accounts look wonderful,'' he said. KENNETH CHANG 
 SAFETY NET
 For the Needy, a Variety of Help
 The safety-net provisions of the stimulus bill mingle two aims: to jump-start the economy and to protect the most vulnerable people as hardships intensify. Supporters say the missions coincide, since poor people are quick to spend. Opponents see a backdoor expansion of welfare. 
 The package provides an extra $20 billion for food stamps over several years. For the average family of three, that means a 19 percent increase this year, or an extra $63 a month. 
 The measure also adds $25 a week to every unemployment check, and continues extended benefits for the long-term unemployed through 2009, at a combined cost of $9 billion.
 In addition, $14 billion will be spent on one-time payments of $250 each to recipients of Social Security, veterans' benefits and Supplemental Security Income. 
 By quickly getting cash to people likely to spend it, all those moves meet classic definitions of stimulative spending.
 Other efforts will move at a slower pace. Expansion of the earned-income and child tax credits will distribute an extra $20 billion to low-income workers, but not until next year.
 The bill also provides up to $7 billion to encourage states to cover more workers with unemployment insurance, but that too will take time.
 An additional $4 billion is set for job training programs, $2.1 billion to expand Head Start and $2 billion in child care subsidies. JASON DePARLE 
 EDUCATION
 Schools Get Large Infusion of Money
 President Obama promised to increase education greatly, and the stimulus bill does that, providing about $100 billion in emergency money over two years for public schools, universities and child care centers. 
 More than half comes in a $54 billion fiscal stabilization fund for states, which are grappling with $132 billion in budget shortfalls. Governors are to channel most of that money to school districts and colleges, to avert teacher layoffs. They may also use some of it to modernize school buildings. 
 The repair money became contentious because it put Washington in the business of fixing schools, traditionally a state and local responsibility. Republicans insisted that the money for school buildings be included in the stabilization fund, and not as a separate line item, to underline that it was a one-time expenditure. 
 The bill includes $5 billion in ''state incentive grants'' that Education Secretary Arne Duncan is to use to leverage policy changes. To get the money, governors must provide ''assurances'' that their states are making progress toward school improvement goals like assigning experienced teachers fairly, so unqualified instructors are not disproportionately deployed to teach poor children. The bill increases the Pell Grant by $500, to a maximum of $5,350 for this fall, and offers a tuition tax credit of up to $2,500. The credit is refundable, so even people who pay no income tax can get 40 percent of the $2,500 in a Treasury check. 
 The bill also provides about $4 billion in new money for Head Start, Early Head Start and other pre-kindergarten programs. SAM DILLON
 HEALTH
 More Money for Medicaid and the Jobless
 The final bill provides a huge infusion of federal money to the states for Medicaid, the health insurance program for low-income people. Without the money -- $87 billion -- states say they would probably cut the program, so that many people would lose coverage at a time when the need is growing.
 President Obama won a partial victory in his effort to secure health insurance for workers who lose coverage when they lose their jobs.
 The bill offers financial help to many of the unemployed.
 Jobless workers can temporarily keep group health benefits under the 1986 Cobra law, but the cost is often prohibitive because they must pay the entire premium, including the employer's share. Under the stimulus bill, the federal government would offer premium subsidies, paying 65 percent of the cost for up to nine months. 
 The aid would be available to workers who lose their jobs between Sept. 1, 2008, and Dec. 31, 2009. To qualify, workers must certify that their income will not exceed $125,000 for individuals and $250,000 for families.
 Negotiators dropped a significant provision of the House bill that would have given states a new option to provide Medicaid for the unemployed, with the entire cost borne by the federal government.
 The measure provides more than $19 billion to digitize medical records and link up doctors and hospitals with information technology. It includes new safeguards to protect the privacy of medical records, generally forbidding health care providers to sell individually identifiable health information without permission from the patient. ROBERT PEAR
 TAXES
 Cuts for Individuals and Businesses
 Roughly $282 billion of the stimulus package, or about 35 percent, is made up of tax cuts for individuals and businesses, including tax breaks for buyers of homes and cars. 
 The centerpiece is President Obama's ''Making Work Pay'' income tax credit of up to $400 for individuals and $800 for couples in 2009 and 2010. The money will mostly be distributed through reduced paycheck tax withholdings, adding $8 or so a week that officials hope will be spent not saved. Individuals earning up to $75,000 and couples up to $150,000 will qualify for a full credit. 
 The bill also spares millions of middle-income Americans from the alternative minimum tax in 2009, raising the exemption to $46,700 for individuals and $70,950 for couples. 
 First-time homebuyers will be able to claim a tax credit of up to $8,000, for purchases made by Dec. 1, 2009.
 Individuals earning up to $125,000 and couples up to $250,000 will be able to deduct the sales tax paid on a new car costing up to $49,500. And the bill creates a new $2,500 higher education tax credit, partly refundable for tax-filers who do not pay that much in taxes. 
 The stimulus package includes an array of business tax breaks, including accelerated depreciation, by 50 percent, of capital assets like new machinery placed in service in 2009. 
 But a provision that would have allowed businesses to claim tax credits by applying current-year losses to profits earned in the past five years was scaled back so that only businesses with $15 million or less in gross receipts are eligible for it. DAVID M. HERSZENHORN
 INFRASTRUCTURE
 A Victory, and a Setback, for Obama
 By one measure, the public- works spending in the stimulus package exceeds the promises President Obama made as a candidate. But by another, it falls short.
 The agreement calls for spending $120 billion on infrastructure, almost double the $60 billion Mr. Obama promised during the campaign. But it does not create the national infrastructure bank he had called for to set national priorities and get big projects done.
 As a result, much of the money for roads will be distributed under existing formulas that give some to each state regardless of its needs or the merits of its projects. 
 While most spending was scaled back in the agreement, one area saw a huge increase: money for high-speed rail was quadrupled, to $8 billion. High-speed rail is popular with several moderate Republicans being courted to support the stimulus package.
 The money would, however, be a only small down payment. California estimates it will cost $45 billion to build its high-speed line, and 10 other areas want to build one, too.
 If transit advocates were excited by the rail money, they were disappointed that only $8.4 billion was included for mass transit, two-thirds of what the House had sought. Highways and bridges will get the biggest share, $29 billion, which officials estimate will create 835,000 jobs. At least half the money would have to be obligated by the states within 120 days. 
 The bill also contains $11 billion to modernize the electric grid, more than $6 billion for water projects, $6.5 billion to repair and build military housing and facilities, $4.5 billion to make federal buildings energy efficient, $4 billion to repair public housing and $7 billion to expand broadband access. MICHAEL COOPER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama speaking this week in Elkhart, Ind., a town where the unemployment rate has jumped to 15.3 percent this year from 4.7 percent.(PHOTOGRAPH BY RUTH FREMSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (88%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (88%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ENERGY DEVELOPMENT PROGRAMS (76%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); WIND ENERGY (73%); EMISSIONS (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (73%); POWER PLANTS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (73%); PUBLIC HOUSING (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (70%); FLOOD CONTROL (70%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (68%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (65%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (62%); HYBRID VEHICLES (60%); ENVIRONMENTAL CLEANUP (60%); CARBON CAPTURE & STORAGE (60%); GREENHOUSE GASES (60%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (60%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); DAVID VITTER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



553 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SATURDAY INTERVIEW; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Diversity Is Even More Important in Hard Times

BYLINE: By WILLIAM J. HOLSTEIN

 BODY:
MANY major companies made strides in building globally diverse boards and senior managements when the economy was growing. But will those efforts take a backseat in a recession? Eric J. Foss, chairman and chief executive of the Pepsi Bottling Group, argues that building diversity in a tough economy is even more important. His company has created one of the most diverse boards, in terms of gender and ethnicity, of any company in the Fortune 500.
 The board of Pepsi Bottling, which is based in Somers, N.Y., and is separate from PepsiCo, has four women, one of them Hispanic; one African-American man; and one Mexican man among its 10 members. The company's customers are distributors and retailers that ultimately sell to consumers. Here are excerpts from a conversation with Mr. Foss: 
 Q.In a recession, shouldn't companies concentrate on profitability, not diversity?
 A. If you look at the current business environment, there's no doubt there's a huge amount of volatility and unpredictability. We try to control what we can control. First, we concentrate on value, revenue and margin. We want to be a great seller and service provider at the point of sale. Secondly, we're focused on cost, capital and working capital management. But thirdly, we need to stay focused on and committed to culture and talent development. We need to stay focused on improving our diversity. It's one of our top three priorities, even in the current business environment.
 Q.Do you think your own diversity can actually help expand sales?
 A. Part of the strategic rationale for this is that our employee base needs to be reflective of our customer base. As our customers continue to become more diverse, it's important that organizationally we look like them.
 Q.So diversity is part and parcel of your core business strategy, not a luxury or some sort?
 A. It's not a fad. It's not an idea of the month. It's central and it's linked very directly to the business strategy. That is the case in great times and in more challenging times. 
 Q.Did you personally create this board or did you inherit it?
 A. It really started almost 10 years ago when we did our initial public offering and put the board together. We had two females. But we've had a very conscious strategy to increase our board diversity. Our starting point was that homogenous boards have a lot more difficulty dealing with the broad range of marketplace challenges that you deal with globally today. In the United States, the multicultural consumer today is over a third of the population, and 80 percent of the population growth. So making sure we have a diverse board and a diverse work force helps us understand the needs of the marketplace.
 Q.Is there a connection between having a diverse board and being able to attract and retain a diverse work force?
 A. Absolutely. Our approach to diversity is a fully integrated program. It starts with our business strategy. It connects to our annual operating plan. It runs top to bottom. It runs boardroom to backroom, as we like to say. It plays across all levels of the organization.
 Q.Is there direct contact between board members and different populations within your work force, like a mentoring program?
 A. We try during our people-planning sessions each year with our board to talk to them about the talent we have in the organization. We try to expose our future leaders to the board. We do that on a fairly consistent basis both as part of the people-planning process and visits into the marketplace.
 Q.How do you integrate diverse members into a board culture, what you call ''onboarding?''
 A. Any time we recruit a new board member, we try to give them a real-life experience. We like to get them out into a manufacturing facility. We like to get them introduced to our people and expose them to our culture, take them through each of the functional disciplines and have meet-and-greets with the teams. To have an effective board member to come into a company with a fresh set of eyes, the quicker you can onboard them, the quicker you're going to have a productive board member. It's an orientation.
 Q.Does a diverse board help you as a white male make better decisions?
 A. I don't know if it has anything to do with being a white male, but having somebody like Sue Kronick, the vice chairman of Macy's, who has insights into the consumer, adds tremendous value as we sort through how we're trying to grow or maybe do something unique on the packaging front given her experience in cosmetics. Packaging is extremely important in the cosmetics industry and she pushed us to think differently about packaging. Creative packaging can be a point of difference versus the competition. 
 Q.Does a diverse board have more conflicts than a more homogenous board might?
 A. Great boards have to get comfortable with debate itself. The management team has to get comfortable with valuing different points of view. If you do that, while it's not always easy, and it's not always pretty, ultimately the outcomes you get for your business are much better.
 Q.In this climate, wouldn't it be better to have a smoothly functioning homogenous board than a challenging diverse one?
 A. I would say it's difficult, if not impossible, for homogenous boards to challenge and offer different perspectives, unique experiences and the broad-based wisdom that makes the board, and therefore the company, as effective as they can be. I'm a big believer that diversity allows our company to create more shareholder value, whether in challenging times or not.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric J. Foss 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); WORKPLACE DIVERSITY (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); ETHNICITY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); MULTICULTURAL MARKETING (77%); SOFT DRINK WHOLESALERS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (70%); RETAILERS (69%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (60%); WORKING CAPITAL (51%)

COMPANY: PEPSI-COLA METROPOLITAN BOTTLING CO (58%); PEPSICO INC (57%)

TICKER: PEP (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2086 BOTTLED & CANNED SOFT DRINKS & CARBONATED WATER (58%); NAICS312111 SOFT DRINK MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS311919 OTHER SNACK FOOD MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC2096 POTATO CHIPS, CORN CHIPS, & SIMILAR SNACKS (57%)

PERSON: ERIC J FOSS (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



554 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 302 words

HEADLINE: Heat and Raptors Swap Frontcourt Enigmas

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
In a signal that blockbuster trades they made in the last year have not worked out, the Miami Heat and the Toronto Raptors engineered another one Friday, swapping frontcourt players with sterling resumes who have occasionally underwhelmed this season. 
 The Heat agreed to send Shawn Marion to the Raptors for Jermaine O'Neal, forward Jamario Moon and a lottery-protected first-round draft pick. The Raptors also received the reserve point guard Marcus Banks.
 The trade reunites Marion with Raptors General Manager Bryan Colangelo, who watched Marion blossom as a player when both were with the Phoenix Suns. The Suns' new leadership, under General Manager Steve Kerr, dealt Marion to Miami last season for Shaquille O'Neal. 
 In Miami, Marion alternately struggled and wowed. On Thursday night, his dunk with 1.1 seconds left beat the Chicago Bulls. He is averaging 12 points a game and 8.7 rebounds for the 28-24 Heat.
 Marion joins a Toronto team that has a 21-34 record. The pairing of the franchise cornerstone Chris Bosh and Jermaine O'Neal never evolved into a potent tandem. The Raptors landed O'Neal in a multiplayer trade with the Indiana Pacers during the off-season. He is averaging 13.5 points and 7 rebounds. 
 ''I would have liked to see it flourish a little more,'' Bosh said Friday of his pairing with O'Neal.
 With the trading deadline on Thursday, teams are expected to try to shed payroll in response to a sagging economy and to get under the salary cap for the summer of 2010, when stars like Bosh, LeBron James and Dwyane Wade are expected to become free agents. 
 Marion is making $17.2 million under a contract that will expire after the season, freeing money that will allow the Raptors to dip into the free-agent pool immediately to surround Bosh with more talent as an enticement to stay. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO RAPTORS (94%); MIAMI HEAT (84%); PHOENIX SUNS (83%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%); INDIANA PACERS (55%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (79%); LEBRON JAMES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (71%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); INDIANA, USA (77%); ARIZONA, USA (71%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (77%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



555 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; EDUCATION; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: Schools Get Large Infusion of Money

BYLINE: By SAM DILLON

 BODY:
President Obama promised to increase education greatly, and the stimulus bill does that, providing about $100 billion in emergency money over two years for public schools, universities and child care centers. 
 More than half comes in a $54 billion fiscal stabilization fund for states, which are grappling with $132 billion in budget shortfalls. Governors are to channel most of that money to school districts and colleges, to avert teacher layoffs. They may also use some of it to modernize school buildings. 
 The repair money became contentious because it put Washington in the business of fixing schools, traditionally a state and local responsibility. Republicans insisted that the money for school buildings be included in the stabilization fund, and not as a separate line item, to underline that it was a one-time expenditure. 
 The bill includes $5 billion in ''state incentive grants'' that Education Secretary Arne Duncan is to use to leverage policy changes. To get the money, governors must provide ''assurances'' that their states are making progress toward school improvement goals like assigning experienced teachers fairly, so unqualified instructors are not disproportionately deployed to teach poor children. The bill increases the Pell Grant by $500, to a maximum of $5,350 for this fall, and offers a tuition tax credit of up to $2,500. The credit is refundable, so even people who pay no income tax can get 40 percent of the $2,500 in a Treasury check. 
 The bill also provides about $4 billion in new money for Head Start, Early Head Start and other pre-kindergarten programs. SAM DILLON

GRAPHIC: CHART: Adding Up the $787 Billion Tab: Numbers are compiled from estimates by House and Senate committees and the Congressional Budget Office. Figures are rounded in billions. Chart details the following: $287 billion in tax breaks
$192 billion in direct aid
 $308 billion in discretionary spending 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (90%); TUITION FEES (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (78%); EARLY CHILDHOOD EDUCATION (78%); CHILDREN (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); TAX RELIEF (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%); CHILD CARE (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); TAX LAW (65%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (74%); ARNE DUNCAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



556 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Words of Support for a Teammate as the Yankees Settle In

BYLINE: By TYLER KEPNER

DATELINE: TAMPA, Fla. 

 BODY:
A just-opened box of crisp fielding gloves, No. 52 stenciled on the side, sat on C. C. Sabathia's clubhouse chair Friday. Joba Chamberlain helped himself to a sample while Sabathia was gone, squeezing the stiff leather, marveling at the size, and switching it over to his left hand.
 The Yankees need some of Sabathia's magic to rub off on them. That was destined to be a theme of the season as soon as the Yankees gave Sabathia the richest contract ever for a pitcher. It is more urgent now, with the optimism of spring training curbed by the uproar over Alex Rodriguez's acknowledgment of steroid use. 
 Rodriguez will report next week, after the pitchers and catchers who checked in at Steinbrenner Field on Friday. They included Sabathia and A. J. Burnett, who signed in December for a combined, recession-defying $243.5 million and are becoming fast friends.
 ''I'm definitely glad I've got a guy like A. J.,'' Sabathia said. ''Walking into this together, we can kind of lean on each other. Just walking off the field, you see all the people taking pictures, the cameras. We just laugh about that stuff. It's good to have somebody to be able to bounce that off of.''
 Sabathia took Mike Mussina's old corner locker, next to a concrete wall where Mussina's fake bay window has been replaced by an oversized NY logo. Burnett's locker is a few spaces down, next to Andy Pettitte's.
 Pettitte kept his place in the rotation after an oddly protracted contract negotiation in which he declined a $10 million offer and settled for a $5.5 million guarantee with a chance to make $6.5 million more in incentives. He said his shoulder felt sturdy, and his expectations were high.
 ''When I met with Cash in December, I told him I felt like I should make more than $10 million,'' Pettitte said, referring to General Manager Brian Cashman. ''I really didn't care how I get to it, and I would bet on me being healthy to do that. So that's why I did the contract I did.''
 Pettitte spoke for nearly a half-hour and was happy to discuss his situation, playfully chiding a reporter who tried to start the session with a question about Rodriguez. That topic was unavoidable, though, because of the similarities between the two teammates.
 When Rodriguez reports, he will face waves of follow-up questions to the televised interview in which he acknowledged his use of steroids from 2001 to 2003. Pettitte arrived here last season and held a news conference in which he apologized for using human growth hormone.
 ''For me, it was easy and it was the truth,'' Pettitte said. ''I had to get it off my chest to be able to sleep at night where I didn't have to worry about it.''
 Pettitte said he has spoken with Rodriguez, telling him he was praying for him and hoping he would make the right decisions. Pettitte said Rodriguez was like family to him, and he said he would encourage Rodriguez as he dealt with the fallout.
 But although Pettitte is generally popular with fans, Rodriguez is a love-him-or-hate-him kind of player. Pettitte's confession had little to no impact on the way he was greeted on the road, but Rodriguez could hear much more booing.
 ''I'm sure he's going to get a lot; he, obviously, always gets a lot,'' Pettitte said. ''He's used to being beat up on the road, for sure. I'm sure that won't have too, too much of an effect on him.''
 Burnett was not surprised to be asked about Rodriguez; his own family has been asking for his opinion, he said, and he simply refuses to talk about it. To the reporters in the Yankees' dugout, though, Burnett offered a prediction about Rodriguez.
 ''He'll be free when he gets on the field,'' Burnett said. ''I wouldn't be surprised if he really takes off this year.''
 Rodriguez has played remarkably well in every other year of his Yankees career. He produced below his standards in 2004, as he adjusted to New York; in 2006, as he struggled with booing at home; and in 2008, as he dealt with an injury and a divorce.
 In his two other seasons with the Yankees, Rodriguez was the most valuable player of the American League. 
 INSIDE PITCH
 The Yankees signed the veteran right-hander Brett Tomko to a minor league contract. Tomko, who turns 36 in April, is 95-99 over a 12-year career. He was 2-7 with a 6.30 earned run average for Kansas City and San Diego last season.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: C. C. Sabathia, left, and A. J. Burnett at George Steinbrenner Field on Friday, when pitchers and catchers reported to spring camp.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MICHAEL C. WEIMAR FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Andy Pettitte working out on Friday. Pettitte said that he would support Alex Rodriguez, who has acknowledged using steroids.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY GENE J. PUSKAR/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATHLETES (89%); BASEBALL (76%); STEROIDS (74%); HORMONES SUBSTITUTES & ANTAGONISTS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK YANKEES (93%)

PERSON: ALEX RODRIGUEZ (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TAMPA, FL, USA (59%) FLORIDA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (70%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



557 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 944 words

HEADLINE: Stimulus Plan Tightens Reins On Wall St. Pay

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and ERIC DASH. 
Edmund L. Andrews reported from Washington, and Eric Dash from New York.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
A provision buried deep inside the $787 billion economic stimulus bill would impose restrictions on executive bonuses at financial institutions that are much tougher than those proposed 10 days ago by the Treasury Department.
 The provision, inserted by Senate Democrats over the objections of the Obama administration, is aimed at companies that have received financial bailout funds. It would prohibit cash bonuses and almost all other incentive compensation for the five most senior officers and the 20 highest-paid executives at large companies that receive money under the Treasury's Troubled Asset Relief Program, or TARP.
 The stimulus package was approved by the House on Friday, then by the Senate in the late evening. 
 The pay restrictions resemble those that the Treasury Department announced this month, but are likely to ensnare more executives at many more companies and also to cut more deeply into the bonuses that often account for the bulk of annual pay. 
 The restriction with the most bite would bar top executives from receiving bonuses exceeding one-third of their annual pay. Any bonus would have to be in the form of long-term incentives, like restricted stock, which could not be cashed out until the TARP money was repaid in full. 
 The provision, written by Senator Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, highlighted the growing wrath among lawmakers and voters over the lavish compensation that top Wall Street firms and big banks awarded to senior executives at the same time that many of the companies, teetering on the brink of insolvency, received taxpayer-paid bailouts. 
 ''The decisions of certain Wall Street executives to enrich themselves at the expense of taxpayers have seriously undermined public confidence,'' Mr. Dodd said Friday. ''These tough new rules will help ensure that taxpayer dollars no longer effectively subsidize lavish Wall Street bonuses.''
 Top economic advisers to President Obama adamantly opposed the pay restrictions, according to Congressional officials, warning lawmakers behind closed doors that they went too far and would cause a brain drain in the financial industry during an acute crisis. Another worry is the tougher restrictions may encourage executives to more quickly pay back the government's investments since, in a compromise with the financial industry, banks no longer have to replace federal funds with private capital. That could remove an extra capital cushion, further reducing lending. 
 The legislatively imposed pay curbs are, in essence, a bad report card for the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner, for failing to be tough enough on companies getting bailout money. His long-awaited bank rescue plan also received harsh reviews when it was released this week. 
 But some experts on executive compensation warned that the restrictions could unleash unintended consequences, like encouraging banks to increase salaries to make up for diminished incentive pay. Even then, they warned, banks were likely to lose top talent.
 ''These rules will not work,'' James F. Reda, an independent compensation consultant, said on Friday. ''Any smart executive will (a) pay back TARP money ASAP or (b) get another job.''
 The biggest difference between Mr. Dodd's provision and the Treasury rules is that the new stimulus provision would apply to any company that either has received money or will receive money in the future under the Treasury's financial rescue program. By contrast, the plan announced by Mr. Geithner would apply only to companies that receive federal money in the future.
 The revised rules do not impose a formal cap on executive compensation, unlike the Treasury proposal. Under that plan, banks were barred from paying more than $500,000 in salary until they repaid the TARP funds to the government. (Banks were permitted to offer bonuses in restricted stock.) Senator Dodd's rules, however, go a step further, prohibiting banks from awarding restricted stock to 25 top executives equal to more than one-third of their annual cash compensation until the banks have repaid all the money owed. 
 In addition, the Congressional rules would affect not just a bank's top management, but also star traders, investment bankers, fund managers and commission-based sales representatives. They have traditionally received multimillion-dollar payouts based on their year-end results. 
 Jennifer R. Psaki, a spokeswoman for the White House, said President Obama ''shares a deep concern about excessive executive compensation at financial firms that are receiving extraordinary assistance from American taxpayers.'' 
 But she hinted at the White House's displeasure, saying that Mr. Obama ''looks forward to working with Congress to responsibly address this issue.''
 One unintended effect, compensation experts said, is that financial firms might increase banker salaries in order to increase the restricted stock awards. ''About the only way to address these limits is to pay large salaries,'' said Michael S. Melbinger, an executive compensation lawyer at Winston & Strawn in Chicago. ''There's no pay for performance in this.''
 Others warned that because of the rules, firms might lose their best traders and managers to hedge funds and foreign banks.
 Alan Johnson, a compensation consultant who advises many Wall Street banks, said that the rules would make it hard to recruit new managers, too.
 ''At some point, you begin to wonder: has the government given up on these companies anyway?'' he said. ''Why would the government or White House want to go along with that unless they have come to the conclusion they will have to nationalize these firms anyway?'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (91%); EXECUTIVES (91%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (90%); TROUBLED ASSET RELIEF PROGRAM (90%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BONUS PAY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); BAILOUTS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANK FAILURES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); BAILOUT BONUSES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (73%); APPROVALS (73%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); ECONOMIC MIGRATION (66%)

PERSON: TIMOTHY GEITHNER (57%); CHRISTOPHER DODD (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



558 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 983 words

HEADLINE: Bipartisanship Isn't So Easy, Obama Discovers

BYLINE: By PETER BAKER; Jeff Zeleny contributed reporting.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
On the day before the big vote, President Obama took a freshman Republican member of Congress aboard Air Force One to visit Illinois. Before an audience in Representative Aaron Schock's district, Mr. Obama praised him as ''a very talented young man'' and expressed ''great confidence in him to do the right thing for the people of Peoria.''
 But when Mr. Schock stood up on the House floor on Friday, less than 24 hours later, his view of the right thing for the people of Peoria was to vote against the most important initiative of Mr. Obama's young presidency. 
 ''They know that this bill is not stimulus,'' Mr. Schock, 27, said of his constituents. ''They know that this bill will not do anything to create long-term, sustained economic growth.''
 Whatever it will do for the economy, the legislation that passed Friday will clearly not do anything to create long-term, sustained bipartisan reconciliation. Not one Republican voted for Mr. Obama's plan in the House and just three voted for it in the Senate as it headed to final passage on Friday night. The party-line schism, coupled with the withdrawal on Thursday of a Republican senator, Judd Gregg, as a nominee to Mr. Obama's cabinet, made clear the futility so far of the president's effort to move Washington toward post-partisanship.
 Their unrequited overtures to Republicans over the past several weeks taught Mr. Obama and his aides some hard lessons. Advisers concluded that they allowed the measure of bipartisanship to be defined as winning Republican votes rather than bringing civility to the debate, distracting attention from what have otherwise been major legislative victories. Although Mr. Obama vowed to keep reaching out to Republicans, advisers now believe the environment will probably not change in coming months.
 Rather than forging broad consensus with Republicans, the Obama advisers said they would have to narrow their ambitions and look for discrete areas where they might build temporary coalitions based on regional interests rather than party, as on energy legislation. They said they would also turn to Republican governors for support -- a tactic that showed promise during the debate over the economic package -- even if they found few Republican allies in Washington.
 And they laid out plans to get Mr. Obama out of Washington more so he could preserve his image as a reformer and use his popularity to rally public pressure on lawmakers to go along with his program. After spending his first three weeks as president in Washington, Mr. Obama hit the road this week with stops in Indiana, Florida and Illinois. Next week he will travel to Colorado and Arizona.
 ''He's committed to getting out of town at least once a week,'' said David Axelrod, the White House senior adviser. ''It's easy to get cloistered and get carried away by the tat-tat-tat of insider palaver. That's not what's important. What's important is what's going on in people's lives.''
 The polarized vote on Capitol Hill, Mr. Axelrod added, should not obscure the ''enormous achievement'' of passing a $787 billion economic program, the largest of its kind in generations. 
 ''Yes, we've learned some lessons from this,'' Mr. Axelrod said. ''But primarily we're happy with the way it turned out.''
 More experienced Washington hands said the White House had been unrealistic to expect to win much Republican support.
 ''I'm not sure I would describe it as naive, but wishful thinking,'' said John D. Podesta, a former White House chief of staff who ran Mr. Obama's transition and still informally advises his team.
 The White House will be able to ''pick off'' individual Republicans on individual issues, Mr. Podesta predicted, but will not be able to change the calculation made by the opposition party to be in opposition. 
 ''What would make it change?'' Mr. Podesta asked, referring to the Republican determination to challenge Mr. Obama. ''If you're going to do this at the moment of greatest need, at the height of his popularity, what sort of thing would get you to change?''
 The lesson, Democrats said, is that it is not so important to win bipartisan support as long as Mr. Obama is seen by the public as trying.
 Each side will try to impose a price on the other. Democrats have begun a radio advertising campaign in the districts of 28 House Republicans, calling them ''out of step.'' Republicans are responding next week with radio advertisements in the districts of 30 Democrats, accusing them of ''wasteful Washington spending.''
 Mr. Obama is the third president in a row to arrive in Washington promising to work across the aisle, only to trip over it instead. Bill Clinton's economic plan in 1993 passed without a single Republican vote, setting the tone for years of partisan warfare. George W. Bush vowed to change the tone, but his disputed election in 2000 engendered deep bitterness, and though he won some Democratic support on some of his early initiatives, he quickly found himself facing intense opposition.
 Mr. Obama tried to overcome that history, going to Capitol Hill to meet with the Republican caucuses, calling Republican lawmakers and inviting three Republicans into his cabinet. But Republicans dismissed that as more talk than action, complaining that he did not address their substantive complaints about the economic plan. The withdrawal of Mr. Gregg punctuated the sense that Mr. Obama had found the limits of bipartisanship.
 The personal wooing would only go so far. When Mr. Schock was invited to fly to Peoria with Mr. Obama, he said in an interview that he made clear that he thought the economic measure was filled with spending that would not boost the economy.
 ''If you're telling me that the only way I can get on Air Force One is to vote for the bill,'' Mr. Schock recalled saying, ''the answer is no.''
 Mr. Schock was invited to ride anyway. And on Friday afternoon, he voted no.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); GOVERNORS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (68%); ENERGY REGULATION (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); AARON SCHOCK (90%); DAVID AXELROD (58%); JUDD GREGG (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PEORIA, IL, USA (90%) ILLINOIS, USA (93%); INDIANA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



559 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 846 words

HEADLINE: Specter, a Fulcrum of the Stimulus Bill, Pulls Off a Coup for Health Money

BYLINE: By GARDINER HARRIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
For years, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania has been the National Institutes of Health's most ardent champion on Capitol Hill. Having survived two bouts with cancer, open-heart surgery and even a faulty diagnosis of Lou Gehrig's disease, he has long insisted that research that results in medical cures is the best service that government can provide.
 But even lobbyists are stunned by the coup Mr. Specter pulled off this week. In return for providing one of only three Republican votes in the Senate for the Obama administration's $787 billion economic stimulus package, he was able to secure a 34 percent increase in the health agency's budget -- to $39 billion from $29 billion. 
 After money intended for highways, schools and states, it is the largest of chunk of financing in the budget and is almost three times the $3.5 billion first approved by the House. Nearly $2 billion is intended for building and equipment projects at the N.I.H. campus in Bethesda, Md., as well as at universities across the country. But most of the money will go to pay for as many as 15,000 additional grants submitted by scientists at universities across the country. 
 The health institutes currently issue 45,000 such grants at an average cost of $360,000 a year. And although most grants are financed for four to five years, administrators said they would give priority to projects that could be completed in two years.
 House Republican leaders argued that the health institutes, flooded with cash, would pay for unworthy projects that would create few jobs. But the institutes finance only about 40 percent of grants deemed meritorious, so advocates say that there is a huge backlog of beaker-ready projects.
 How Mr. Specter managed his coup is a story of tough bargaining that began in a legislative backroom and took an important turn at a presidential Super Bowl party.
 After biding his time for many years, Mr. Specter pounced on Jan. 27, offering the $10 billion budget increase as an amendment to the stimulus bill at a hearing of the Senate Appropriations Committee. 
 The committee's chairman, Senator Daniel K. Inouye of Hawaii, had won assurances from his Democratic colleagues that no amendments would be offered or accepted. But Mr. Specter recalled in an interview that Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, pulled him into a back room, along with Senator Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa. 
 ''Dick came to me and said, 'Don't offer it now because I don't want to have to vote against it,' '' Mr. Specter said. 
 Picking up the story, Mr. Durbin said in an interview that he promised that he and others would support the amendment on the Senate floor. 
 Mr. Durbin said later that he almost had occasion to regret that promise. When the majority leader, Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, asked him whether he had extracted an agreement from Mr. Specter to vote for the bill, Mr. Durbin had to admit he did not know.
 ''I flunked Politics 101; I never asked him that,'' Mr. Durbin said in the interview. ''I gave away $10 billion but never got his commitment.''
 Democrats began to press Mr. Specter, saying he would get the $10 billion increase only if he promised to vote for the eventual bill. Mr. Specter pushed back, saying he was concerned about the size of the bill and its mix of tax credits and spending.
 ''I really do not make deals,'' he said. And while he had promised Mr. Durbin nothing, the Illinois senator had made him a promise. As Mr. Durbin recalled, at a Super Bowl party at the White House on Feb. 1, ''I told him, 'I'm keeping my word.' '' 
 More hard bargaining was ahead. Mr. Specter's support was in doubt until the very end. And once he voted for the bill, Mr. Durbin said that he made sure that the additional $10 billion for the N.I.H. was protected in conference negotiations with the House.
 Pat White, vice president for federal relations at the Association of American Universities, said that the past week had been one of most important in the health institute's recent history, and that the credit went largely to Mr. Specter.
 ''He turned his support of N.I.H. into the fulcrum of the entire stimulus negotiations,'' Mr. White said.
 Thursday was Mr. Specter's 79th birthday. As is his custom, he was dressed nattily -- a light gray suit, pink tie and blue dress shirt -- and true to form, he swore off eating cake. He has eliminated sugar and white bread from his diet because he fears that they encourage cancer's growth. (He briefly gave up martinis last year, but was relieved when a blood test showed no improvement.) 
 Cancer could be cured, Mr. Specter said, if the government spent $335 billion for the research -- a total he said he was ''working on'' getting. But for now, he said, future budget discussions for N.I.H. will begin at $40 billion, not $30 billion -- more fodder for complaints from House Republicans. And if the Republicans win back control of the Senate, he promised that that number would go considerably higher.
 ''I think it's scandalous that we haven't done more to cure cancer,'' Mr. Specter said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania arrived Friday at the Capitol to cast a crucial vote on the economic stimulus bill.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREW COUNCILL FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); CANCER (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); LOBBYING (78%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (75%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); JOB CREATION (70%); APPROVALS (69%); AMYOTROPHIC LATERAL SCLEROSIS (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL INSTITUTES OF HEALTH (84%)

PERSON: ARLEN SPECTER (91%); RICHARD DURBIN (79%); TOM HARKIN (58%); DANIEL INOUYE (58%); HARRY REID (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ILLINOIS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



560 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 761 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Seeks Shift on China And Stresses Engagement

BYLINE: By MARK LANDLER

 BODY:
Signaling a new, more vigorous approach to China, Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton declared Friday that the United States had nothing to fear from an economically ascendant Beijing and that it would press Chinese leaders on delicate issues like human rights and climate change.
 In her first major speech as secretary of state, Mrs. Clinton drew a clear line between the Obama administration's approach and that of the Bush White House, which viewed China more as a rival than a partner and kept relations fixed on economic matters like exchange rates. 
 ''Some believe that China on the rise is by definition an adversary,'' she said at the Asia Society in New York on the eve of a trip to China and other Asian countries. ''To the contrary, we believe the United States and China benefit from, and contribute to, each other's successes.''
 At the same time, Mrs. Clinton called for ''rigorous and persistent engagement,'' not just with China, but with Japan, Indonesia and South Korea, which are also on her itinerary. And she took note of Tibet, saying that Tibetans had a right to practice their religion without persecution.
 Climate change will figure high on Mrs. Clinton's agenda in Beijing, where she said she would emphasize how the two countries must work together. She plans to visit an energy-efficient power plant near Beijing that is a joint venture of General Electric and a Chinese partner.
 While Mrs. Clinton noted that China had recently surpassed the United States as the world's largest emitter of carbon dioxide, she was critical of American policies, too, saying that the stimulus package just passed by the House was lacking measures that would promote more energy efficiency.
 ''The idea that we just continue putting off the future, when we are supposed to be the country of the future,'' is puzzling to non-Americans, Mrs. Clinton said, sounding less like a diplomat than a presidential candidate.
 Not since Dean Rusk in the 1960s has a new secretary of state flown west rather than east on a first trip. But Mrs. Clinton, who has already sent special emissaries to the Middle East, Pakistan and Afghanistan, said, ''There has been a general feeling that perhaps we didn't pay an appropriate amount of attention to Asia over the last years.''
 In one sign of a fresh start, Mrs. Clinton said the United States and China would resume middle-level exchanges between their militaries, which China suspended because of American arms sales to Taiwan.
 Mrs. Clinton said that in Japan she would meet with families of people abducted by North Korea in the 1970s and 1980s, addressing an issue that has long agitated the Japanese, but which the United States has viewed as a distraction to talks with the North about its nuclear program.
 Mrs. Clinton is also looking beyond Asia, preparing to dive into some of the thorniest issues on the diplomatic agenda. She said she would attend a donors' conference in early March, held in Cairo and convened by Egypt, to help Palestinians in Gaza. She is also expected to go to Israel.
 With Israeli leaders horse-trading over their next government after inconclusive elections this week, the United States is putting its near-term focus on the plight of civilians in Gaza. 
 Any broader initiative on the Arab-Israeli conflict, officials said, will have to wait until either the Israeli opposition leader, Benjamin Netanyahu, or the foreign minister, Tzipi Livni, is able to form a governing coalition.
 Most analysts believe that Mr. Netanyahu has a better chance of doing so, a prospect that worries some in Washington, particularly if he is able to cobble together only a right-wing coalition rather than a broad one. That could dim prospects for a peace agreement with the Palestinians.
 The State Department has been careful not to signal a preference in the jockeying for a new Israeli government, partly, analysts said, because President Clinton's administration was criticized for favoring Shimon Peres over Mr. Netanyahu during the 1990s.
 ''The U.S. tried to intervene to get Peres elected, and it was counterproductive,'' said Martin S. Indyk, a former American ambassador to Israel, who described Mr. Netanyahu's subsequently rocky relations with President Clinton in his new book, ''Innocent Abroad.''
 Mr. Indyk, who has advised Mrs. Clinton, said the Obama administration should use this transitional period to begin a dialogue with Syria, which has indicated it is eager to talk to the United States and which is viewed as a central player in the effort to broker a peace agreement.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Secretary of State Hillary Rodham Clinton at the Asia Society in New York with the organization's president, Vishakha Desai.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (73%); GREENHOUSE GASES (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXCHANGE RATES (70%); JOINT VENTURES (70%); POWER PLANTS (65%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (65%); RELIGION (51%)

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: THE ASIA SOCIETY (83%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (93%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SOUTHWEST CHINA (79%); XIZANG, CHINA (73%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); TIBET (92%); ASIA (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); TAIWAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); INDONESIA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



561 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 433 words

HEADLINE: Some Banks Will Put Off Foreclosures Until March

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Several big banks, including JPMorgan Chase and Citigroup, are expanding efforts to halt home foreclosures while the Obama administration develops a plan to help struggling homeowners.
 The White House said President Obama would outline his plan to spend at least $50 billion to prevent foreclosures in a speech on Wednesday in Arizona, one of the states hardest hit by the foreclosure crisis. 
 ''It's not intended to be measured by one day's market scorekeeping, but instead to ensure that the 10,000 Americans each day that have their homes foreclosed on -- and the millions more that are barely getting by -- are protected,'' the White House press secretary, Robert Gibbs, said Friday. 
 Treasury Secretary Timothy F. Geithner announced a revised effort to stabilize the financial system on Tuesday. It included outlines of a foreclosure relief effort. 
 Although lenders have bolstered their efforts to aid borrowers over the last year, their action has not kept up with the worst housing recession in decades.
 More than 2.3 million homeowners faced foreclosure proceedings last year, an 81 percent increase from 2007, and industry analysts say that number could soar as high as 10 million in the coming years, depending on the severity of the recession.
 JPMorgan Chase, Morgan Stanley and the Bank of America said Friday that they were halting foreclosures through March 6. And Citigroup said it would halt foreclosures until the Obama administration completed the details of the loan modification program or until March 12, whichever is earlier. Citigroup's action expands on a similar effort that it started in November.
 The banks' pledges apply to owner-occupied homes, not those owned by investors.
 Mr. Obama's announcement is expected to include details about how the administration plans to prod the mortgage industry to do a better job of modifying the terms of home loans so borrowers can have lower monthly payments.
 Howard Glaser, a mortgage industry consultant who served in the Clinton administration, said that if the payments of two million borrowers were lowered by $500 a month, it would cost the government and lenders $6 billion each year -- assuming lenders match half the cost.
 Unlike previous loan modification plans, borrowers would not have to be in default to qualify, according to people briefed on the plan.
 Figuring out who would qualify would be a challenge, especially as foreclosures continue to soar. More than 274,000 American households received at least one foreclosure-related notice last month, according to RealtyTrac, a foreclosure listing service.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FORECLOSURE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); MORTGAGE LOANS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (73%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (69%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (66%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (95%); CITIGROUP INC (92%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (95%); JPM (LSE) (95%); 8634 (TSE) (95%); C (NYSE) (92%); C (BMV) (92%); 8710 (TSE) (92%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (95%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (95%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (92%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (92%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); TIMOTHY GEITHNER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



562 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; INFRASTRUCTURE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 285 words

HEADLINE: A Victory, and a Setback, for Obama

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER

 BODY:
By one measure, the public- works spending in the stimulus package exceeds the promises President Obama made as a candidate. But by another, it falls short. 
 The agreement calls for spending $120 billion on infrastructure, almost double the $60 billion Mr. Obama promised during the campaign. But it does not create the national infrastructure bank he had called for to set national priorities and get big projects done.
 As a result, much of the money for roads will be distributed under existing formulas that give some to each state regardless of its needs or the merits of its projects. 
 While most spending was scaled back in the agreement, one area saw a huge increase: money for high-speed rail was quadrupled, to $8 billion. High-speed rail is popular with several moderate Republicans being courted to support the stimulus package.
 The money would, however, be a only small down payment. California estimates it will cost $45 billion to build its high-speed line, and 10 other areas want to build one, too.
 If transit advocates were excited by the rail money, they were disappointed that only $8.4 billion was included for mass transit, two-thirds of what the House had sought. Highways and bridges will get the biggest share, $29 billion, which officials estimate will create 835,000 jobs. At least half the money would have to be obligated by the states within 120 days. 
 The bill also contains $11 billion to modernize the electric grid, more than $6 billion for water projects, $6.5 billion to repair and build military housing and facilities, $4.5 billion to make federal buildings energy efficient, $4 billion to repair public housing and $7 billion to expand broadband access. MICHAEL COOPER

GRAPHIC: CHART: Adding Up the $787 Billion Tab: Numbers are compiled from estimates by House and Senate committees and the Congressional Budget Office. Figures are rounded in billions. Chart details the following: $287 billion in tax breaks
$192 billion in direct aid
 $308 billion in discretionary spending 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INFRASTRUCTURE (91%); HIGH SPEED TRAINS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); HIGHWAY FUNDING (71%); PUBLIC HOUSING (71%); BROADBAND (69%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (67%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (66%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (59%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



563 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Sports Desk; OFF THE DRIBBLE; Pg. 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Marion Trade a Sign Teams Are Ready to Shed Payroll

BYLINE: By JONATHAN ABRAMS

DATELINE: PHOENIX 

 BODY:
In a signal that blockbuster trades they made in the last year have not worked out, the Miami Heat and the Toronto Raptors engineered another one Friday, swapping frontcourt players with sterling resumes who have occasionally underwhelmed this season. 
 The Heat agreed to send Shawn Marion to the Raptors for Jermaine O'Neal, forward Jamario Moon and a lottery-protected first-round draft pick. The Raptors also received the reserve point guard Marcus Banks.
 The trade reunites Marion with Raptors General Manager Bryan Colangelo, who watched Marion blossom as a player when both were with the Phoenix Suns. The Suns' new regime, under General Manager Steve Kerr, dealt Marion to Miami last season for Shaquille O'Neal. 
 In Miami, Marion alternately struggled and wowed. On Thursday night, his dunk with 1.1 seconds left beat the Chicago Bulls. He is averaging 12 points a game and 8.7 rebounds this season for the 28-24 Heat.
 Marion joins a Toronto team that has struggled to a 21-34 record and fired Coach Sam Mitchell earlier in the season. The pairing of the franchise cornerstone Chris Bosh and Jermaine O'Neal in the post never evolved into a potent tandem and the team is on periphery of the Eastern Conference playoff hunt. The Raptors landed O'Neal in a multiplayer trade with the Indiana Pacers last off-season.
 ''I would have liked to see it flourish a little more,'' Bosh said Friday while meeting with news media in Phoenix. ''I was hoping it was going to be a lot better. And I'm sure he was hoping the same thing. But it was very short, man. Not even a year.''
 With a deadline of Feb. 19, this year's trading season is expected to be a frenzied one. Teams are expected to try to shed payroll in response to a sagging economy and in order to get under the salary cap for the summer of 2010, when stars like Bosh, LeBron James, and Dwyane Wade are expected to become free agents. 
 Marion is making $17.2 million under a contract that will expire after the season, freeing money that would allow the Raptors to dip into the free-agent pool immediately to surround Bosh with more talent as an enticement to stay. 
 Bosh sounded less than enthused about the deal and more satisfied that the long-rumored trade talks had finally warranted action. 
 ''I've been hearing these talks for a while,'' Bosh said. ''Now I think we can finally just put all that talk behind us and just play well now. It's no more speculation, no more wondering or anything like that. We know what we have.''
 The Heat will save the $4.8 million owed to Banks in the crucial 2010-2011 free-agent session. Miami also receives a $4.2 million trade exception that would allow it to make a future trade even if the salaries do not match under the N.B.A.'s collective bargaining agreement. 
 After suffering through a miserable 2007-8 season, the Heat have bounced back under a rejuvenated Wade. In Jermaine O'Neal, whose contract expires after the 2010 season, the Heat will pair Wade with a true center for the first time since Shaquille O'Neal and Alonzo Mourning departed. 
 Jermaine O'Neal averaged 13.5 points and 7 rebounds with the Raptors. 
 The deal also allows Michael Beasley, the second overall selection in last June's draft, to slide into a starting forward position for Miami. 
 Wade said the deal could bolster the Heat's playoff chances. 
 ''It gives us what we've been missing with Alonzo Mourning in a shot blocker,'' Wade said. ''I think it's going to give us the confidence that we need to boost us in the Eastern Conference at the end of the year. On the other end, losing Shawn is losing a guy who helped rejuvenate us and helped get us back on track.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); WAGES & SALARIES (50%)

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO RAPTORS (94%); MIAMI HEAT (84%); PHOENIX SUNS (83%); CHICAGO BULLS (56%); INDIANA PACERS (54%)

PERSON: SHAQUILLE O'NEAL (79%); LEBRON JAMES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHOENIX, AZ, USA (88%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (56%) ONTARIO, CANADA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (88%); INDIANA, USA (78%); ILLINOIS, USA (56%) CANADA (93%); UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



564 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 14, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Wall Street Ends a Losing Week With More of the Same

BYLINE: By JACK HEALY

 BODY:
Wall Street ended a losing week with even more losses on Friday as stocks swung lower in the last minutes of trading after flitting between gains and losses all day. The decline came ahead of a three-day holiday weekend and as a divided House passed a $790 billion economic stimulus package on Friday afternoon. 
 At the close, the Dow Jones industrial average was down 82.35 points, or 1 percent, at 7,850.41, while the broader Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slid 8.35 points, or 1 percent, to 826.84. The Nasdaq composite index lost 7.35 points, or 0.5 percent, to 1,534.36.
 ''I think people are concerned about what's in the stimulus package,'' said Bill Rhodes, chief investment strategist at Rhodes Analytics. ''I think they're concerned about how it's going to play through.''
 All told, investors' pessimism about the economy sent the S.& P. 500 sliding about 5 percent this week and brought the Dow to its lowest close since Nov. 20, when the broader stock market skidded to its lowest levels in a decade.
 A decline in the shares of financial companies weighed on the broader market after Wells Fargo said late Thursday that its fourth-quarter losses were larger than initially reported, an indication that a brutal earnings season for financial institutions might not be over. Shares of Wells Fargo fell 6 percent. JPMorgan Chase, Citigroup and Bank of America also declined. 
 Consumer confidence fell more than expected in February as Americans, already shaken by the deep downturn, braced for more job losses and further economic decline, according to a Reuters/University of Michigan survey. Consumer confidence fell to 56.2 this month, from 61.2 in January, its weakest level since November.
 Friday's trading capped a volatile week for investors, one that highlighted the continuing turmoil in financial markets as investors look to Washington for a way forward. 
 After rallying in anticipation of the government's latest plans to shore up the banking system, stocks fell sharply on Tuesday as the Treasury Department outlined a banking bailout whose price tag could reach $2.5 trillion. Investors said the plan was short on details and raised questions about how the government would set up a public-private partnership to buy the troubled assets that threaten to pull banks under.
 Crude oil prices for March rose $3.53, to $37.51 a barrel, in New York on Friday as traders snapped up contracts for near-term delivery. Tom Bentz, senior energy analyst at BNP Paribas, said the rise in prices narrowed a widening gap between the March and April oil contracts and did not reflect any major shifts in the supply or demand for oil.
 Stock prices rose Friday in Paris and Frankfurt but slipped slightly in London after the European Union reported that Europe's economy shrank at its fastest pace in 13 years in the fourth quarter of 2008, more evidence of the breadth of the global downturn. 
 As in the United States, central banks across Europe have slashed interest rates and poured money into ailing banks as they try to stabilize their economies.
 The Treasury's benchmark 10-year note fell 30/32, to 98 23/32, and the yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, was at 2.89 percent, up from 2.79 percent late Thursday. 

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: The Dow minute by minute:Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday.
The Favorites: Stocks held by the largest number of accounts at Charles Schwab.(Sources: Associated Press
 Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (95%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (87%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (77%); BAILOUTS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (73%); PUBLIC PRIVATE PARTNERSHIPS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); BANK FAILURES (69%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (65%); OIL & GAS PRICES (65%); EUROPEAN UNION (50%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BNP PARIBAS SA (57%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (56%); CITIGROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (93%); JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BNP (PAR) (57%); BNP (BIT) (57%); BAC (NYSE) (56%); BAC (LSE) (56%); 8648 (TSE) (56%); C (NYSE) (56%); C (BMV) (56%); 8710 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (93%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (57%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (57%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (76%); PARIS, FRANCE (64%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); FRANCE (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: February 14, 2009



565 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section CY; Column 0; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2224 words

HEADLINE: The Barred Door

BYLINE: By GREGORY BEYER

 BODY:
THE Fire Department training complex on Randalls Island is known, with a fearful affection among those who would be firefighters, as the Rock. A few years ago, a stern man with a crew cut paced the stage in one of the complex's auditoriums, appraising a new class of probationary firefighters, or ''probies,'' who broke their deferential silence only to thunder, in unison, the occasional ''Yes, sir!''
The man accompanied each point with a violent jab of the finger.
''You're on the payroll; you ain't in the brotherhood,'' he said. ''You ain't in the brotherhood till the brothers in the firehouse say you're in the brotherhood.'' 
This scene comes from the trailer for the 2005 documentary ''Brotherhood: Life in the F.D.N.Y.'' But it played out more recently via YouTube on a laptop in the third-floor brownstone apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, that is home to Drew Lebed, an aspiring firefighter.
The day was Jan. 12, exactly a week after Mr. Lebed had initially planned to enter the Fire Department, which employs more than 11,000 firefighters and officers, as well as about 3,000 emergency medical technicians and paramedics.
It was also about a month after the department announced that the class would be deferred indefinitely to save money during the city's deepening financial crisis.
This move effectively slammed the door on the hopes of Mr. Lebed and hundreds like him who in the preceding years had completed the department's array of tests and were poised to enter the academy in January.
So this evening, instead of attending his induction ceremony, Mr. Lebed was home after a long day working construction, watching such a ceremony on a small screen. As the trailer played, he looked with reverence at the working firefighters, caked in dirt and sweat against the backdrop of a blaze, and with envy at the probies in the folding chairs.
''And then there are guys like me, who are nothing,'' he said to a visitor watching the film over his shoulder. He paused, not satisfied with this characterization. ''Pieces of nothing.''
Mr. Lebed, 25, who works out regularly, is muscular without being imposing. His perpetual, eager-to-please smile is tinged with a spark of frat boy mischief. But the subject of the Fire Department, perhaps most likely to stir him to excitement, has lately plunged him into an uncharacteristic gloom.
For five years, from books like Dennis Smith's ''Report From Engine Co. 82'' to movies like ''Brotherhood,'' through conversations with firefighters and visits to city firehouses, Mr. Lebed had been absorbing the culture of the firehouse, one very different from the world in which he was raised and the world he had been expected to join. With the fervor of someone studying for religious conversion, he regarded the most workaday firefighter traditions, like cooking and eating together, as rituals of mystery, familiar but just out of reach.
''Everything in my life is directed toward being a fireman,'' he said the other day as he headed to the kitchen from his living room, decorated with small paper lamps and large Chinese scrolls.
''Here, I'm trying to learn how to cook,'' he said. Slices of green and red pepper lay on a cutting board beside a small pile of minced ginger. A recently departed roommate had taken the microwave, so Mr. Lebed waited as a piece of frozen chicken slowly defrosted in a pot of hot water. There was beer in the fridge, but he drank Earl Grey tea while he waited.
''Everything is about becoming a fireman,'' he said. ''I just have no idea if it's ever going to happen.''
Fiscal Crisis Foils a 'Shoo-In'
The final challenge for a would-be firefighter is a 1 1/2-mile run, to be completed in less than 13 minutes, on Randalls Island. The sprint generally amounts to a previctory lap, since anyone running it has endured many more grueling physical tests to qualify for the run.
Mr. Lebed and his buddies trained twice a week at the Rock with the department's drill instructors as part of a physical prep course. But they made additional trips to Randalls Island in anticipation of the day they would be called to run for real. ''We used any excuse to get to the Rock,'' he said.
The Fire Department initially expected to hire two classes of about 300 probationary firefighters each this year, according to a department spokesman. Each candidate is assigned a number on a list based on performance on the Open Competitive Examination, and each is assigned an investigator in the Candidate Investigation Division, who oversees each candidate's file. According to Mr. Lebed, his investigator said he was considered a ''shoo-in'' for the January class.
But on Dec. 4, the department announced that because of budget constraints stemming from the city's fiscal crisis, it could offer jobs to only about 100 people. Then on Dec. 10, it rescinded those 100 job offers and announced that there would be no new class.
Mr. Lebed and his fellow candidates were devastated. And after Mr. Lebed wrote a letter to the department seeking confirmation of the news, he received a letter from its human resources division, dated Jan. 6, that read, in part, ''It is with sincere regret that the city had no recourse but to postpone this class until further notice.''
'Not Going to Get Rich'
The Fire Department draws candidates from many places and backgrounds, but it is an institution deeply rooted in tradition, of sons raised from youth to follow in the footsteps of their firefighting fathers and grandfathers. Against this backdrop, Mr. Lebed is a late bloomer and an unlikely aspirant.
He is from San Luis Obispo, Calif., and attended boarding school in New Jersey. He entered Columbia in 2002. The son of two doctors, he was pre-med, and an interest in China led him to the East Asian languages and cultures department. He joined the wrestling team and the Beta Theta Pi fraternity, eventually serving as chapter president.
One day, a classmate mentioned that she wanted to bake cookies for firefighters.
''I was like, 'Why would you bake cookies for someone for doing their job?' '' Mr. Lebed recalled thinking. Still, he had always considered a job in public service, and the comment left an impression.
In spring 2004, Mr. Lebed took a year off to teach English in China. When he learned that the Fire Department planned to send representatives to Columbia's career fair, he asked his girlfriend to stop by to inquire.
''The F.D.N.Y. guys were mostly just joking around, because nobody there was interested in being a fireman,'' he said, laughing. ''You know, it's your afternoon off, you go to the Columbia job fair.''
Upon returning to college in 2005, Mr. Lebed visited Joe McCormick, the school's associate director for fire and life safety, at his office in the Low Memorial Library. Mr. McCormick, 62, had worked as a firefighter for 20 years in Bedford-Stuyvesant and South Jamaica, Queens.
In his 18 years at Columbia, said Mr. McCormick, who is retired from the department, about half a dozen students have approached him with questions about joining up.
''The first question I ask is, do your parents know that you're going to take your Columbia education and become a firefighter?'' he said. ''A lot of parents have higher expectations.''
But Mr. Lebed's frequent visits, e-mail messages and phone calls, and his dedication to physical training as a wrestler, weight lifter and boxer, convinced Mr. McCormick that the young man from California was serious.
''I would never discourage someone from doing it,'' Mr. McCormick said. ''I try to explain to them, 'You're not going to get rich; you're going to get dirty; you're going to work hard.' But there's a lot of personal satisfaction. It was the greatest job in the world.''
'The Making of a Fireman'
Mr. Lebed's timing was excellent: The Open Competitive Examination, administered every four years, was scheduled for January 2007. Becoming a firefighter became an obsession. He joined an Internet forum frequented by seasoned firefighters and aspiring probies. He studied firefighter workbooks and took the exam.
The following year, he received his official number and instructions to report for a background investigation and medical and psychological exams. When Mr. Lebed learned that the medical exam required 20/40 vision, he had Lasik surgery, as did several other candidates, he said.
All the while, Mr. Lebed schooled himself in the ways of the department.
In books like ''Working Fire: The Making of a Fireman'' by Zac Unger, an Ivy League graduate who joined the Oakland Fire Department after seeing an ad at a bus stop, Mr. Lebed read of ''the strange mind-set of firemen'' and their desire, when charging into a blaze, to ''take the biggest risks, eat the blackest smoke.'' In ''Report From Engine Co. 82,'' he read an account by Mr. Smith of the South Bronx during the ''war years'' of the 1960s and '70s.
By this point, Mr. Lebed had long since shed an earlier goal of working abroad as a doctor for a nongovernment organization, drawn to firefighting's incomparably direct and unbureaucratic form of public service. As he put it, ''What is closer to the project than bringing someone out of a fire with your own two hands?''
Mr. Lebed's friends, and especially his family, watched curiously, and sometimes doubtfully, as he structured his life around his dream of pursuing this work.
''I think they hoped that it wouldn't happen,'' Mr. Lebed said of his family. ''It's not the financial aspect or the fact that it doesn't live up to their expectations. They're very proud of it. But they're very scared for my safety.''
In summer 2007, he took a job waiting tables at Cafe Fiorello, on Broadway near 63rd Street, working from 5 p.m. to 1 or 2 a.m. because the schedule left him time to train twice a day and take E.M.T. classes.
The job paid the bills. ''But I wasn't learning anything or doing anything valuable,'' Mr. Lebed said. ''I was waiting for that time to come when I could leave the job and go into the Fire Department.''
Richard Nassimi, a manager at Fiorello, remembered Mr. Lebed coming to work in a Fire Department sweatshirt he had bought at an online store that donated proceeds to the department. ''He was always reading books, studying it,'' Mr. Nassimi said. ''Maybe not 100 percent, but 99 percent of his thoughts were about it.''
Even though rumors of Fire Department cutbacks had been circulating for some time, Mr. Lebed ignored the advice of other firefighters to hold onto his job until he had his welcome letter in hand. He gave a month's notice on Dec. 5, precisely timed to allow his expected entrance into the academy on Jan. 5.
But on the day of the official announcement that the agency would be postponing its new class, Mr. Nassimi arrived at work to see the normally cheerful Mr. Lebed looking deeply dejected.
''I thought he was about to get it,'' Mr. Nassimi said. ''Then he gave me the breaking news.''
With frustration and caution, Mr. Lebed told Mr. Nassimi he might have to withdraw his notice, a request that was, as he acknowledged, ''a little awkward.'' He stayed on awhile at Fiorello, but left when he found a job working construction. Trade work is respected among firefighters, and despite the bad news, Mr. Lebed was eager to continue his education.
''I took the job in construction so I could understand the trades and I could understand structural engineering and how buildings are built, so when they light on fire, I can have a better understanding of when they're stable and when they're not,'' he said. He was also thinking ahead, since many firefighters keep a side job to supplement the $36,400 beginner's annual salary.
Sharing the Dream
Since his dream's inception, Mr. Lebed had been vocal about it, sharing stories of the Rock with friends and filling his Facebook account with firefighter references. He paraphrased the novelist Kurt Vonnegut: ''The greatest symbol of man's humanity to man is a fire truck.'' And in the ''interests'' section he wrote, ''I want to be a fireman when I grow up.'' Friends frequently checked in for updates. ''How's life with you?'' one wrote in October. ''Not yet a fireman, if I remember correctly.''
When The Daily News ran an article on Dec. 11 bearing the headline ''Axed: Goodbye, Fire Class, Hello School Cuts as Mike Sez Chop 1.4B,'' Mr. Lebed cut it out, photographed it and made it his Facebook profile picture. A framed copy of the article sits on the mantelpiece above his fireplace.
''One of the hardest things is, you've got all these people that love you and know how important this is to you,'' he said. ''And every time they call, and they haven't talked to you in a while, they say: 'How's the fireman thing? Are you a fireman yet?' And you have to be like, no.
''It's really difficult to explain to people how long this process takes,'' he added. ''That's also one of the most difficult parts. I've stopped telling people I want to be in the Fire Department now. I just tell them I work a job. I don't want to explain it anymore.''
Life for Mr. Lebed and his fellow hopefuls is currently one of waiting and rumors. He believes that the department won't take on new hires until 2011. Mr. McCormick, the former firefighter, predicted it could happen for Mr. Lebed later this year.
''I don't share their optimism,'' Mr. Lebed said of such opinions, adding: ''Guys wait years to get on the job. This is why people bake cookies for them.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''Everything in my life is directed toward being a fireman,'' said Drew Lebed, outside a firehouse near his apartment in Bedford-Stuyvesant.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Mock firefighting, above, on Randalls Island, and graduating firefighters in 2005.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES
MIDDLE PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN LANE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Drew Lebed, above, in the van he uses for construction work, and recruits training on a mock cityscape, below, on Randalls Island.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 ANGEL FRANCO/THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. CY8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FIREFIGHTERS & FIREFIGHTING (90%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (90%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (68%); PARAMEDICS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



566 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; OFF THE SHELF; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 937 words

HEADLINE: Visionaries On a Mission: Save the Earth

BYLINE: By HARRY HURT III

 BODY:
SCIENTISTS and environmentalists have reached a growing consensus that time is running out for Planet Earth. The polar ice caps are melting. Three-quarters of the world's flowering plant species are at risk of extinction. One in eight bird species is vanishing. Ninety percent of big fish like cod, tuna and swordfish that once swam the oceans have already disappeared. Air, water and ground pollutants from fossil-fuel sources are poisoning major population centers.
But according to Edward Humes, author of ''Eco Barons: The Dreamers, Schemers, and Millionaires Who Are Saving Our Planet'' (Ecco/HarperCollins, $25.99), there is ''a secret plan to save the Earth.'' This plan is being carried out by a group of ''eco barons'' -- both men and women -- who are the modern-day heroic counterparts to the villainous 19th century robber barons who originally set the nation on the path to environmental destruction. 
''In an era in which government has been either broke, indifferent or actively hostile to environmental causes, a band of visionaries -- inventors, philanthropists, philosophers, grassroots activists, lawyers and gadflies -- are using their wealth, their energy, their celebrity and their knowledge of law and science to persuade, and sometimes force, the United States and the world to take a new direction,'' Mr. Humes declares.
A writer for Los Angeles magazine and a frequent contributor to The Huffington Post, Mr. Humes is the author of nine previous nonfiction books. In 1989, he won a Pulitzer Prize for an investigative series about the United States military.
''Eco Barons,'' which will be released next month, offers encouraging, often inspirational, profiles of nearly a dozen would-be planet savers. Among the more compelling of these characters are Douglas Tompkins, a surfer, climber and private-plane pilot who founded the North Face and Esprit clothing lines, and his wife Kristine McDivitt, the former chief executive of the Patagonia outdoor wear firm.
Mr. Tompkins sold out of the apparel industry after concluding that he had been merely ''manufacturing desires to get people to buy products they don't really need.''
Over the past 18 years, the couple has acquired more than two million acres for conservation in Chile and Argentina. The crown jewel is Pumalin Park, a vast nature sanctuary which they finally succeeded in giving to the Chilean government after debunking initial public suspicions that they were conspiring in a mysterious plot to undermine national security.
Even more controversial and no less results-oriented are Kieran Suckling and Peter Galvin, co-founders of the Center for Biological Diversity, an activist group whose aggressive use of the 1973 Endangered Species Act has prompted other environmentalists to brand them as radicals.
In the early 1990s, they won both fame and infamy by protecting the endangered Mexican spotted owl against the intrusion of lumbering interests in Arizona and New Mexico. (''We effectively ended the timber industry in the southwest,'' Mr. Suckling boasts.)
According to Mr. Humes, the center has won about 450 of some 500 lawsuits filed over the past 15 years, resulting in first-time protections for 350 endangered species and the preservation of 70 million acres of critical habitat.
Another eco baron demonstrates what individuals of modest economic means can achieve on the environmental front through vision and persistence. Carole Allen, a widowed single mother who works at the juvenile probation department in Houston, rallied a group of local schoolchildren around the cause of saving the endangered Kemp's ridley sea turtle.
In so doing, she provoked the wrath of the 17,000-vessel shrimp trawling fleet in the Gulf of Mexico, whose drag nets routinely scooped up thousands of turtles every season.
But thanks to the unrelenting efforts of Ms. Allen and her youthful cohorts, Texas officials ultimately agreed to enforce laws that require turtle exclusion devices on the shrimpers' nets and a partial ban on shrimping within five miles of the coast.
THEN there is Roxanne Quimby, who started out selling organic honey, candles and lip balm from the back of a Volkswagen minibus, and went on to help create the national cosmetics company Burt's Bees. Having recently sold her stake in the company, Ms. Quimby has amassed a fortune of over $360 million, which she is using to create a 3.2 million acre public preserve in the Maine woods.
Mr. Humes extols the accomplishments of Andrew Frank of the University of California at Davis, who invented and patented the plug-in hybrid, a vehicle that can run on a combination of gasoline and electrical power. Mr. Frank has since used off-the-shelf parts to turn a Ford Explorer into a vehicle with ''the efficiency equivalent of a 100-mile-a-gallon motor scooter.''
Mr. Humes also applauds the efforts of Terry Tamminen, a former Malibu pool cleaner, in formulating California's Global Warming Solutions Act, one the nation's most comprehensive environmental laws, and cheers the eco-conscious philanthropy of Ted Turner, who annually supports over 500 environmental organizations and plans to bequeath to conservation most of the 2 million acres of land he owns in the United States.
The inherent flaw in ''Eco Barons'' is its sprawling scope. Although Mr. Humes is an able reporter and a passionate writer, he tries to cover too many ecological crises and praise too many people. At times, the book reads like a roster of nominees for the environmentalist hall of fame.
But his urgent message is clear: We must all strive to become ''eco barons'' in our own right if we are to save Planet Earth.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); FISHES (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); WRITERS (89%); BIOLOGY (79%); ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (78%); ENDANGERED SPECIES (78%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); BIODIVERSITY (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); APPAREL MFG (77%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (76%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (75%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (75%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); BIRDS (72%); PHILANTHROPY (66%); CLOTHING LABELS (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (64%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (95%) CHILE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2011



567 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1262 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Surges Around the World, Threatening Stability

BYLINE: By NELSON D. SCHWARTZ; Reporting was contributed by Keith Bradsher from Taipei, Taiwan; Heather Timmons from New Delhi; Simon Romero and Jenny Carolina Gonzalez from Bogota, Colombia; and Maia de la Baume from Paris.

 BODY:
PARIS -- From lawyers in Paris to factory workers in China and bodyguards in Colombia, the ranks of the jobless are swelling rapidly across the globe.
Worldwide job losses from the recession that started in the United States in December 2007 could hit a staggering 50 million by the end of 2009, according to the International Labor Organization, a United Nations agency. The slowdown has already claimed 3.6 million American jobs.
High unemployment rates, especially among young workers, have led to protests in countries as varied as Latvia, Chile, Greece, Bulgaria and Iceland and contributed to strikes in Britain and France.
Last month, the government of Iceland, whose economy is expected to contract 10 percent this year, collapsed and the prime minister moved up national elections after weeks of protests by Icelanders angered by soaring unemployment and rising prices. 
Just last week, the new United States director of national intelligence, Dennis C. Blair, told Congress that instability caused by the global economic crisis had become the biggest security threat facing the United States, outpacing terrorism.
''Nearly everybody has been caught by surprise at the speed in which unemployment is increasing, and are groping for a response,'' said Nicolas Veron, a fellow at Bruegel, a research center in Brussels that focuses on Europe's role in the global economy.
In emerging economies like those in Eastern Europe, there are fears that growing joblessness might encourage a move away from free-market, pro-Western policies, while in developed countries unemployment could bolster efforts to protect local industries at the expense of global trade.
Indeed, some European stimulus packages, as well as one passed Friday in the United States, include protections for domestic companies, increasing the likelihood of protectionist trade battles.
Protectionist measures were an intense matter of discussion as finance ministers from the Group of 7 economies met this weekend in Rome.
While the number of jobs in the United States has been falling since the end of 2007, the pace of layoffs in Europe, Asia and the developing world has caught up only recently as companies that resisted deep cuts in the past follow the lead of their American counterparts.
The International Monetary Fund expects that by the end of the year, global economic growth will reach its lowest point since the Depression, according to Charles Collyns, deputy director of the fund's research department. The fund said that growth had come to ''a virtual halt,'' with developed economies expected to shrink by 2 percent in 2009.
''This is the worst we've had since 1929,'' said Laurent Wauquiez, France's employment minister. ''The thing that is new is that it is global, and we are always talking about that. It is in every country, and it makes the whole difference.''
In Asia, any smugness at having escaped losses on American subprime debt has been erased by growing despair over a plunge in sales among major exporters. On Thursday, Pioneer of Japan said it would abandon the flat-screen television business and cut 10,000 jobs worldwide in response to sagging demand for consumer electronics.
Millions of migrant workers in mainland China are searching for jobs but finding that factories are shutting down. Though not as large as the disturbances in Greece or the Baltics, there have been dozens of protests at individual factories in China and Indonesia where workers were laid off with little or no notice.
The breadth of the problem is also becoming apparent in Taiwan, where exports were down 42.9 percent last month, compared with a year ago, the steepest plunge in Asia.
Chang Yung-yun, a 57-year-old restaurant kitchen worker, was laid off when her employer closed in mid-November. Her son, an engineer, has been put on unpaid vacation for weeks, a tactic that has become common in Taiwan.
''The greatest fear for our people is losing jobs,'' Taiwan's president, Ma Ying-jeou, said in an interview.
Calls for protectionism have resonated among a fearful public. In Britain, refinery and power plant employees walked off the job last month to protest the use of workers from Italy and Portugal at a construction project on the coast. Some held up signs highlighting Prime Minister Gordon Brown's earlier promise of ''British jobs for British workers.''
Unemployment in Britain is expected to rise to 9.5 percent by the middle of 2010, from 6.3 percent now, according to Peter Dixon, an economist with Commerzbank in London. Germany's jobless rate could rise to 10.5 percent from 7.8 percent, he added.
In France last week, President Nicolas Sarkozy agreed to supply low-interest loans of 3 billion euros, or $3.86 billion, each to PSA Peugeot Citroen and Renault in exchange for an agreement not to lay off French workers.
To a greater extent than in past European downturns, highly trained white-collar workers are pounding the pavement, too. Naomi Runquist-Ohayon, a trademark lawyer, has been looking for work in Paris since the beginning of the year, after losing her job in December.
''This is a new experience for me,'' said Ms. Runquist-Ohayon, 39, a Swedish native who has lived in Paris and London and speaks fluent English, French, Swedish and Italian. ''In London, I never had to really look. Recruiters or headhunters would call me or I would call them. It's not so easy now.''
Half a world away in Colombia, Jaime Galeano, 40, is in a similar predicament. As a bodyguard in a country notorious for drug-related violence and kidnappings, Mr. Galeano thought his profession was immune until he lost his job last year.
''The conditions for finding a job are terrible,'' he said. What is more, his age is now an impediment, with a ministry informing him that only applicants under the age of 32 would be considered for new positions.
''After turning 35, a person is worth nothing,'' Mr. Galeano said.
Even India, whose startling rise to the forefront of the global economy was portrayed in the hit movie ''Slumdog Millionaire,'' has hit a wall. About 500,000 people lost jobs between October and December 2008, according to one recent analysis.
In New Delhi, Tarun Lamba lost the first real job he ever had about a month ago, when he was laid off as a sales manager. Mr. Lamba, 24, said he knew bad news was coming because it had been weeks since he had written a truck loan. If he has to, he said, he could join his father's business, selling clothes. But he hopes it will not come to that.
''The cycle has to keep running,'' he said. ''We had a boom period one year ago, now we are in a recession, and after some time the boom will come again.''
Many newer workers, especially those in countries that moved from communism to capitalism in the 1990s, have known only boom times since then. For them, the shift is especially jarring, a main reason for the violence that exploded recently in countries like Latvia, a former Soviet republic.
''For the young generation, aged 20 to 24, this is the first time we've had this,'' said Valdis Zatlers, Latvia's president.
The ripples from the slowdown in Europe, North America and Asia are also being felt in Africa as migrant workers abroad lose their jobs and find themselves unable to send money home.
Since his last temporary job as a metalworker in Paris ended three months ago, Ignace Abdul has halted the monthly 200 euro payments he had been sending to his wife and three children back in Senegal. ''Between 2004 and 2008, I worked nonstop,'' Mr. Abdul, 30, said in an interview in a bleak Paris unemployment office. ''Right now, there is nothing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: CHINA: A job fair in Beijing on Feb. 7. Millions of workers across China are looking for work but finding that factories are closing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY GREG BAKER/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
ICELAND: Economic pain has led to angry protests in Reykjavik.(PHOTOGRAPH BY THORVALDUR KRISTMUNDSSON/ASSOCIATED PRESS)
CHILE: In Santiago, graffiti says ''unemployment is humiliation.''(PHOTOGRAPH BY IVAN ALVARADO/REUTERS)(A1)
Ignace Abdul lost his job in Paris and has quit sending money back home to Senegal.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ED ALCOCK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(A20) CHARTS: Bleak Employment Outlook: By the end of 2009, job losses from the current global recession could reach 50 million, according to the International Labor Organization.
Global joblessness
Global unemployment rate
Current unemployment rates (Sources: International Labor Organization
 Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development)(A20) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); FACTORY WORKERS (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); PROTECTIONISM (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GREAT DEPRESSION (78%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); LAYOFFS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT FAIRS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); ELECTIONS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (71%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (71%); PRICE INCREASES (69%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (69%); PRIME MINISTERS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (66%); TERRORISM (52%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL LABOUR ORGANIZATION (91%); ORGANISATION FOR ECONOMIC CO-OPERATION & DEVELOPMENT (59%); UNITED NATIONS (57%)

PERSON: DENNIS BLAIR (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (93%); BEIJING, CHINA (79%); BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (79%); SANTIAGO, CHILE (79%); REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); ICELAND (94%); FRANCE (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (93%); COLOMBIA (92%); ASIA (92%); CHILE (92%); GREECE (79%); BELGIUM (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); SENEGAL (79%); BULGARIA (79%); LATVIA (72%); EASTERN EUROPE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011



568 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1376 words

HEADLINE: INSIDE THE TIMES

 BODY:
International
AIDE'S ARREST IN ZIMBABWE DRAWS FIRE FROM PREMIER
Zimbabwe's new prime minister said that the arrest of one of his closest allies, Roy Bennett, above, on Friday was politically motivated by elements in President Robert Mugabe's party who wanted the new power-sharing government to fail. PAGE 8
U.S. MISSILES KILL 30 IN PAKISTAN
Two missiles fired from American drone aircraft killed more than 30people, including fighters from Al Qaeda and the Taliban, in South Waziristan, according to a Pakistani intelligence official and local residents. PAGE 8 
U.S. AND BELARUS IN DISPUTE
A Russian emigre in Belarussian prison is the focus of an 11-month dispute between Belarus and the United States PAGE 18
Ecstasy Ensnares Wealthier Brazilians 8
Argentina Drug Policy Is Debated 20
National
THOUGH MANY ARE STALKED,
Few Report It, Study Finds
Only one in three cases of stalking is reported, according to a Justice Department study. Even when such cases reach court, they are difficult to compile because there is often no clear physical evidence linking a stalker to the victim. PAGE 22
DEATH STIRS RACIAL UNEASE IN TEXAS
The gruesome slaying of Brandon McClelland, who was black, in Paris Tex., has reignited ugly feelings between races that have plagued the town for generations. The police say two of his friends, who are white, ran him over after an argument. PAGE 22
No Shocks in Bess Truman's Papers 23
MANY WEIGH IN ON CITY'S BUDGET
Philadelphia's budget just got a lot more cooks. Residents have their first chance to present ideas for the budget before it is presented to the City Council on March 19. The direness of the city's finances prompted Mayor Michael A. Nutter to arrange public workshops in an effort to win support for what he says will be painful spending cuts or tax increases, or both. PAGE 26
LEAN TIMES HURTING LAS VEGAS
Las Vegas has long been one of the standard destinations for conventions, but the city's anything-goes image is not jibing with the new era of fiscal restraint, and a rash of conference cancellations has unnerved local politicians and resort executives. PAGE 26
New York
ECONOMIC WOES CHANGE DEBATE OVER FUTURE OF INDIAN POINT PLANT
For decades, proponents of Indian Point, the nuclear plant 35 miles north of New York City, talked of jobs and energy, and critics talked of safety and the environment. So, with fear of the pink slip running rampant, the decision to be made next year on whether to relicense the plant for 20 more years feels like something close to a foregone conclusion. Peter Applebome, Our Towns. PAGE 31
AFFINITY FOR CHINA BECOMES ASSET
Senator Kirsten E. Gillibrand was an Asian studies major at Dartmouth, studied in China and Taiwan and worked in Hong Kong. Her background has piqued interest in the Chinese-American community in New York, which could help her in 2010, when a special election will be held for the remaining two years of the Senate term. PAGE 31
Few Answers in Plane Crash Inquiry 32
Obituaries
RALPH KAPLOWITZ, 89
As a member of the Knicks, he appeared in what is considered the National Basketball Association's first game in 1946, when Jewish players were often showered with anti-Semitic catcalls. PAGE 37
Leila Hadley, Traveler, Author, 83 37
Sports
DRIVING TO THE BASKET, A STAR GOES THROUGH, NOT AROUND
LeBron James of the Cleveland Cavaliers is leading the N.B.A. in scoring, but what's most notable is how he does it: His combination of size, speed, agility and considerable violence. ''He's going over you,'' said Sam Cassell, a 15-year N.B.A. veteran. ''He might pump it and dunk it, but he's going to get over the top of you.'' PAGE 1
With 31 Wins, Hawks Shoot High 2
Cardinals Enter Spring With Concerns 3
From the Blogs 5
KEEPING A JOGGING ICON GOING
Alberto Arroyo is called the mayor of Central Park by fellow jogging aficionados. The longtime runner was honored by the New York State Senate in 1985 for his ''50 years of jogging.'' When he had stroke last August, members of Mr. Arroyo's running family started taking him nearly a mile by wheelchair several days a week to Central Park's reservoir and track, places Mr. Arroyo has loved like no one else. PAGE 6
WEEK IN REVIEW
IS THE OLD INTERNET
Putting Us in Jeopardy?
There is a growing belief among engineers and security experts that Internet security and privacy has become so elusive that the only way to fix the problem is to start over, with a brand-new Internet. PAGE 1
HOW OBAMA PLAYS ABROAD
While President Obama enjoys considerable popular support and good will domestically, David Sanger writes that it is not yet clear how much he has overseas, and how far he can travel on promises to act as the anti-Bush in international affairs. PAGE 1
GRAND PLANS, MODEST BUDGETS
Many of the most ambitious projects in the country stand to get only modest amounts of money, if any, from the economic stimulus package that Congress approved last week. PAGE 6
A-Rod's Tics, Slips and Lips 3
Editorial
HELPING WORKERS IN HARD TIMES
The idea that immigrant workers deserve protection simply as a matter of human decency can be hard to sell in bad times. It is just as valid to make the pragmatic case: After the bottom drops out of the economy, raise the floor. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 9
Op-Ed
MAUREEN DOWD
In public appearances together, he gazes at his partner with admiration and respect. That would be Michelle. He has another look for Joe Biden. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
FRANK RICH
Just as in the presidential campaign, President Obama has once again outwitted the punditocracy and the opposition. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN
Taking a little spin around New Delhi with some young entrepreneurs in solar electric cars. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF
I'm coming to think that our No. 1 priority actually must be education. The new fiscal stimulus package is a landmark, for it takes a few wobbly steps toward reform by allocating more than $100 billion toward education. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
THE PUBLIC EDITOR
Taking another look at how The Times strives to maintain its high standards as it moves ever more aggressively on the Web. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 10
THE COMING SWARM
In an Op-Ed article, John Arquilla, who teaches in the special operations program at the Naval Postgraduate School, writes that ''swarm'' attacks by terrorists, like the ones in Kabul last week and Mumbai last year, are the wave of the future. WEEK IN REVIEW, PAGE 11
Style
WHEN THE ELYSIAN FIELDS
Of Excess Feel the Heat
Is paradise being affected by the economy? Miami Beach has an altered landscape of half-full hotels, slowing sales and escalating rents that have forced out restaurants and boutiques. But that's not stopping the droves of tourists and partygoers. Eden is just a little dented. Page 1
Travel
OFF TO THE FRIGID NORTH:
Sailing Up Norway's Coast
Sailing into the teeth of a blizzard is not an image normally associated with a cruise. But if you have no need of exotic drinks or bikinis, sailing up Norway's coast can offer the experience of travel the way it used to be, before airplanes and shuffleboard. Page 1
Magazine
THE NO-STATS ALL-STAR
Inspired by the Bill James-led revolution in baseball, some N.B.A. front-office types are learning how a player who doesn't score a lot of points or grab many rebounds can be one of his team's most valuable players. Meet Shane Battier. Page 26
Arts & Leisure
THE GOLD MAN'S STAGE
Under New Management
David Rockwell is finding himself under glass as he is filmed for a lead-in segment for the 81st Academy Awards. As production designer, his goal is to ''redefine the show's DNA,'' returning it to when it was a spectacle in and of itself. It's a needed change: Last year's viewership was an all-time low. Page 1
Sunday Business
NEW BOSS TAKES THE WHEEL
As Toyota Skids
Akio Toyoda is in line to be Toyota's next president, and he makes a point of being hands-on. The world's biggest car company has been riding a downhill slope to riches, but that slope has bottomed out in the recession, and the momentum is spent. Page 1
Book Review
THE MEN WHO HELPED
Break the World
''The Lords of Finance,'' by Liaquat Ahamed, a veteran hedge fund manager, is a narrative of immense scope and power, writes Joe Nocera. It examines a world far from memory, but not validity, as the West was immersed in the Great Depression. Page 1

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (A2
A3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STALKING (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POWER PLANTS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); TALIBAN (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); EVIDENCE (72%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (72%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); CITIES (70%); MAYORS (70%); TAX LAW (67%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (66%); ASIAN AMERICANS (56%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: KIRSTEN E GILLIBRAND (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); TEXAS, USA (79%) ZIMBABWE (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); BELARUS (93%); PAKISTAN (93%); CHINA (92%); FRANCE (79%); HONG KONG (79%); TAIWAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2011



569 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1394 words

HEADLINE: Ecstasy Ensnares a New Class of Teenage Users in Brazil

BYLINE: By ALEXEI BARRIONUEVO; Myrna Domit contributed reporting from Sao Paulo.

DATELINE: SAO PAULO, Brazil 

 BODY:
The trappings of upper-class teenage life seemed to come easily to Sander Mecca: girlfriends, rock bands, entry to stylish clubs -- and a serious Ecstasy habit. Weekend-long raves were not the same without it for Mr. Mecca, who said he sometimes consumed six pills in a span of 12 hours. 
 Then, at the age of 21, Mr. Mecca was arrested at a bar, accused by the police of being a drug dealer and put in prison for nearly two years, where he bunked alongside hardened criminals and watched other wealthy so-called playboys get lured into a life of organized crime.
 His story is becoming more common in Brazil, where rising Ecstasy use is drawing a new class of educated young people into the cross hairs of drug enforcement here in South America's largest country. 
 This new class of drug peddlers is a far cry from the heavily armed drug lords and their young, impoverished foot soldiers in the slums, where the Brazilian police send small armies to wage deadly battles against them. Instead, those accused of dealing Ecstasy are often university-educated clubbers in the booming electronic dance music scene, an import from Europe and the United States that is taking South America by storm. 
 Differences aside, drug trafficking in Brazil has become increasingly demonized in the eyes of the law -- to the point where drug financiers can now receive stiffer prison sentences than murderers -- and the country's elite is not being spared.
 Just last week, federal police officers arrested 55 people, many of them in Rio de Janeiro, in a nationwide investigation focused on upper-middle-class youths who the police said were smuggling Ecstasy, LSD and other synthetic drugs into Brazil from Europe.
 In Sao Paulo, the police have singled out raves and clubs, as well as top-flight universities, in extensive undercover operations with headline-grabbing names like Operation Playboy and Operation Dancing. The Sao Paulo police alone have arrested hundreds of university students in Ecstasy-related stings in the last few years. 
 Still, the pills keep arriving from abroad, fueling huge outdoor concerts and raves that can draw tens of thousands of people and last for days. The federal police said they seized 211,000 pills in 2007, 17 times as many as the year before, and another 132,621 pills last year. 
 Ecstasy's emergence as the drug of Brazil's wealthy has opened the door even wider for corrupt police officers to seize upon users and their families. Now that Brazil has eliminated prison sentences for drug users, sending them to treatment or community service instead, the police are extracting sometimes hundreds of thousands of dollars in bribes in exchange for not charging those caught with Ecstasy as drug dealers, according to defense lawyers and three convicted drug dealers now out of prison. 
 ''Consumers and Ecstasy dealers come from a higher socio-economic background,'' said Cristiano Maronna, a criminal lawyer in Sao Paulo. ''From the police's perspective, apprehending these individuals becomes more interesting because it will open the door to possibilities of police corruption.''
 Ecstasy, known chemically as MDMA, first arrived in Brazil from Amsterdam in the early 1990s, well after it had taken off as a recreational drug in Europe in the 1980s, said Murilo Battisti, a Sao Paulo psychologist who has studied the drug's use in Brazil. 
 Now middle-class and wealthy teenagers often sell Ecstasy to sustain their extravagant tastes here in Sao Paulo's nocturnal world of big, expensive parties, said Luiz Carlos Magno, the chief of the Narcotics Department of the Sao Paulo state police. 
 That party lifestyle has been magnified by Brazil's booming economy over the last several years, which has created hundreds of new millionaires and ushered in a host of high-priced clubs that still thrive despite the global financial crisis. 
 Club and electronic festival organizers often balk at suggestions of a necessary link between the drug and the music, saying Ecstasy is being consumed everywhere, including at soccer matches. Mr. Mecca, though, said the connection was undeniable.
 ''Ecstasy and raves walk hand in hand, and this will not stop,'' said Mr. Mecca, now 26. ''You go to a rave here and no one is sober. Everyone is on Ecstasy or acid and everyone is crazy.''
 Most Ecstasy peddlers buy their drugs overseas, especially in the Netherlands, Superintendent Magno said. ''Their parents have money, but don't have the least idea what their kids are doing,'' he said. 
 Moreover, the image of machine gun-wielding drug bandits is the furthest thing from the minds of users who have found themselves in handcuffs for selling Ecstasy, or sometimes for sharing a few pills with friends. 
 ''They refer to drug dealers as 'them,' the guys in the slums,'' Superintendent Magno said.
 Drug laws in Brazil protect those who have completed a university degree, placing them in special prisons. But even one credit short of graduation means being dumped in with the general prison population.
 Lucas, a 24-year-old native of Rio de Janeiro, was in his second year of university when he was caught by the police at a Sao Paulo airport after bringing in skunk, a more potent form of marijuana, from Amsterdam. The police accused him of having Ecstasy, and scoured his bags for pills to no avail. 
 After a failed negotiation between his lawyer and the police -- he said he offered 30,000 reals or about $13,000 to avoid being charged as a dealer -- he was convicted and sentenced to five-and-a-half years in prison. He ended up serving two and a half.
 ''I was treated like a hardcore criminal and put in jail together with killers, kidnappers, you name it,'' said Lucas, who agreed to be interviewed as long as his last name not be used, for fear of police retribution. 
 In prison, he said he endured twice monthly blitzes, in which guards would enter the cells and beat prisoners while in search of drugs, cellphones and guns. 
 Lucas, who grew up in an upper-middle-class family in Rio's Leblon neighborhood, acknowledged that he had sold Ecstasy for years, taking trips to Amsterdam, where he said Ecstasy could be bought for as little as 30 euro-cents per pill in 2005; at Sao Paulo parties, the pills could fetch nearly 50 times as much.
 In 2006, Brazil increased the minimum penalty for dealing drugs, and instituted a sentence of 8 to 20 years for those who financed drug trafficking. That is stiffer than the 6-to-20-year range for most homicides in Brazil, Superintendent Magno said. 
 Since there is no minimum amount of drugs that constitutes dealing, corrupt police officers often solicit bribes after arresting a suspect but before they file their police report, said Maurides Ribeiro, another criminal lawyer here. As a result, he said, ''hundreds of people are in jail serving a sentence for drug trafficking when they are not drug dealers.'' 
 Superintendent Magno acknowledged that ''it is possible'' that such corruption was going on in his 35,000-officer department, but he said internal affairs had yet to arrest a single officer for Ecstasy-related corruption.
 Parents are often eager to pay the bribes to avoid their child's being charged with trafficking. Like Lucas, Mr. Mecca said he also tried to bribe the police but failed because reporters who had learned of his arrest were waiting at the jail. 
 Jail came as a shock. During his playboy days, he lived at home and had a cook and a driver. In prison, he shared a cell meant for three with as many as 11 prisoners. When the stone slabs jutting from the wall that served as bunk beds were full, prisoners hung hammocks from the walls. Violence was as constant as the nicotine residue coating the prison walls. He said he watched inmates beat other inmates until they soiled their pants. 
 Mr. Mecca said he used his time in prison to kick his drug habits, before a judge later changed the charge against him from dealing to drug use. Others took a different road. One fellow playboy from the clubbing scene who was also arrested for dealing Ecstasy joined a prison gang, took a liking to criminal life and left as a criminal, Mr. Mecca said.
 ''The playboys think that since they have money they are above the law and that nothing will affect them,'' he said. ''So they continue playing around until something serious happens. Prison changed my life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Sander Mecca was arrested at a bar when he was 21, accused by the police of being a drug dealer and put in prison, where he bunked alongside hardened criminals.
 Ecstasy, arriving from overseas, helps fuel outdoor concerts and raves that can draw tens of thousands of people and last for days, like this one in Sao Paulo. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LALO DE ALMEIDA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (92%); ECSTASY (91%); ILLEGAL DRUGS (90%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (90%); SENTENCING (89%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (89%); ARRESTS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JAIL SENTENCING (89%); PARTY DRUGS (78%); POP & ROCK (78%); CORRUPTION (76%); BRIBERY (76%); COMMUNITY SERVICE SENTENCING (76%); ORGANIZED CRIME (76%); SMUGGLING (76%); LSD (76%); ARMIES (75%); MUSIC GENRES (73%); MUSIC (73%); LAWYERS (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (71%); SLUM DWELLINGS (67%); ARMED FORCES (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (90%); RIO DE JANEIRO, BRAZIL (71%) BRAZIL (98%); EUROPE (90%); SOUTH AMERICA (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2009



570 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Bad Economy? Good Excuse

BYLINE: By ALEX WILLIAMS

 BODY:
THE recession may be nerve-racking, merciless, seemingly intractable. It may leave your job in peril, your 401(k) in shreds. 
 But apparently, it is not without its uses. 
 Dani Klein Modisett, a theater producer and comedian in Los Angeles, was having trouble with her nanny. After Ms. Modisett gave the nanny a $500 Christmas bonus this December, she said, the woman came in the next day and told her she had to leave early on New Year's Eve. ''And I don't mean 11 p.m., I mean 11 a.m.,'' Ms. Modisett recalled. 
 She decided it was time, high time, to replace the nanny. But how to do it, while avoiding a confrontation?
 The recession, of course. 
 Ms. Modisett told the nanny that she had to ''downsize'' her staff, due to the slowdown. She adopted an appropriately sober tone, like so many bosses these days when delivering bad -- but unavoidable -- news. 
 Soon after, she hired another nanny. 
 ''It's the silver lining in the recession cloud,'' Ms. Modisett said. ''In fact, it comes in quite handy.''
 Lavish anniversary dinners, the destination weddings of second-tier friends, costly gifts for children, and, yes, obligations to nannies -- so often we go along, even when, deep down, we would do anything to get out of them. Now, even if we can still afford such occasional obligations, the recession has provided something of a get-out-of-jail-free card: it's an excuse with which few would argue. 
 Indeed, in a twisted way, the fact that the downturn is global makes it even better: it works for every time zone and, as one Manhattan woman discovered, every latitude.
 ANDREA PRITCHETT, 35, owns a company that designs maternity swimwear, and she also runs ultra-marathon adventure races in her spare time. She has showed up for grueling treks of more than 130 miles in the Amazon jungle and the Sahara, usually at the urging of her personal running coach, a close friend, who is a representative for a company that collaborates with the race organizers. 
 But recently, the coach tried to get Ms. Pritchett on board for a trek into the Arctic Circle in Canada. ''I'm already having a hard enough time this winter,'' Ms. Pritchett said. ''And when I go skiing, after a couple of hours, my fingers are killing me. I can't imagine 120 miles in below-zero temperatures.'' 
 So she told the coach that she really wanted to do it, she really, really did, and was committed 100 percent. She just couldn't spare the money on equipment and fees -- because of the, you know, economy and such. The coach understood.
 ''She said, 'Just keep training, things are going to get better,' and I said, 'You know I'm there in 2010,' '' Ms. Pritchett said. 
 Letitia Baldrige, the etiquette expert, knows that Ms. Pritchett, Ms. Modisett and anyone else slyly using the economy excuse is tossing out a white lie, and that white lies are a cornerstone of good manners. ''I never would have gotten through life without them,'' Ms. Baldrige said.
 The problem is that the recession excuse is a stink bomb wrapped in a Tiffany box. ''It's a real downer,'' she said. ''If I'm giving a party and call you and you say you can't come because of the recession, I immediately feel like I'm going against the recession and doing something wrong by throwing a party.'' 
 The recession is such a powerful concept that even a child understands its gravity. Tony Abrams, the president of Four Hundred, a personal concierge service in Manhattan, said one of his clients recently told his four children, to little complaint, that they would receive Wii fitness systems, to simulate skiing, instead of their annual trip to Aspen. 
 A 28-year-old business student in Chicago admitted that he was using the recession to justify his cold feet in proposing marriage to his partner. 
 ''It's providing a good excuse,'' he said. ''I've been with my partner now almost three years, it's coming up on time, at least in my traditional family values sense.'' Since his original plan was to fly off to Paris or the Caribbean over Valentine's Day to propose, it's easy enough to leave the impression that it is worth delaying the trip in order to save thousands of dollars, given the state of the economy, he said.
 Like many interviewed for this article, the business student requested anonymity because, essentially, he was admitting to being a fibber.
 Nick Haramis, a magazine editor who lives in Brooklyn, had no such qualms.
 He dropped the R-bomb on his boyfriend this year. ''I'm usually a flowers-and-chocolates kind of guy,'' he said, but this year, he is planning to use the economic downturn as an excuse to emphasize creativity over lavishness. Instead of a box of Vosges chocolates, he said, he plans to buy his boyfriend a single, ripe tomato. 
 ''Some people refer to them as 'scarlet love apples,' '' he said. 
 STILL, bulletproof as it is, the recession excuse can lead to a lingering unease for those on the receiving end. 
 ''My art dealer blames everything on recession,'' said Ike Ude, an artist who lives in Manhattan. ''For my recent exhibition, he declined to advertise, finance the production of my exhibition in the least and was despondent of the unlikelihood of sales from the exhibition -- all because of recession. I asked him if we should all kill ourselves since everything seems that bleak.''
 One woman who lives in Queens said she and her boyfriend recently used the economy as an excuse to extricate themselves from a trip to Disney World with his family. 
 ''When we travel, we like visiting international cities, going to museums, cafes, sitting in parks, so this really wasn't our kind of trip to begin with,'' she explained. ''And as it turns out, you can basically spend a week in Europe for the same price as visiting Disney World during a school vacation week.''
 Results of their approach were mixed. The family wondered why they could afford Europe in the fall, but not Florida in the spring. Some family members suggested they go along and just stay in a tent. 
 A number of novelists said they have used the prefabricated recession alibi without guilt pangs. Perhaps that's because they make up stories for a living.
 Diana Abu-Jaber, a novelist in Portland, Ore., recently purged her house of stacks of cherished books, including titles that were ''lovingly inscribed'' by friends.
 ''We used the market downturn to justify throwing a garage sale and selling them off, a quarter a title,'' she said. ''We called it our daughter's college education garage sale fund, so we felt a tiny bit less guilt stricken.'' 
 It can get complicated. Ben Greenman, a novelist and magazine editor who lives in Brooklyn, is using the recession as an excuse to try to reclaim an old sofa -- a cherished piece of his bachelorhood. His wife had forced him to pawn it off on a friend to use in an empty guest bedroom. Now, instead of buying a new piece of furniture, he is arguing that getting it back would be more fiscally prudent.
 ''We had a love-hate relationship with it,'' said Mr. Greenman, 39. ''I loved it. She hated it. It was blue and soft and looked like someone hit a Muppet with their car and decided to cover up the accident by turning the victim into furniture. We hear all about how tough times force families to come together, and here is that principle in action: the couch and I may be together again.''
 Clea Simon, a mystery writer in Cambridge, Mass., said she skipped a conference where she was supposed to speak, using the economy as an excuse to mask her real reason: shyness. 
 ''Most of the time, I fear that people will be talking about some book I haven't read or a speaker I missed and I'll be trapped, fake smile on my face, trying desperately to catch up.'' 
 With the downturn, she said, ''I had the perfect excuse to stay home.''
 The recession is even effective when making excuses to oneself.
 Leonora Epstein, an assistant Web editor for a magazine in Manhattan, said she has used the excuse to put off joining a gym. She figured she could just run in Central Park instead and save the $90 a month. 
 It didn't quite work out that way. ''I have yet to take a run in the park, and know I'm now spending approximately 90 more dollars per month on cabs, dinners and drinks.''

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY KELLY BLAIR) (pg. ST8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US 401K PLANS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (78%); CHRISTMAS (76%); MARATHONS (67%); SKIING (67%); ANNIVERSARIES (66%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%); CANADA (75%); ARCTIC (66%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



571 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CRUISE ISSUE PRACTICAL TRAVELER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: Deep Discounts on the High Seas

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
IF you've ever considered taking a cruise vacation, now may be the time to try it out. Practically all cruise lines are offering significant discounts to just about anywhere they sail. 
 Holland America Line is running a vacation stimulus plan with rates as low as $499 a person for 7-day Alaska cruises, $549 for 7-day Caribbean sailings and $999 for 12-day Europe and Panama Canal voyages. MSC Cruises, which already allows children ages 17 and under to sail free, has savings of up to 50 percent for baby boomers at least 50 years old and seniors on Caribbean sailings with rates from $499 a person for seven nights, and 60 percent off European cruises for seniors. And Norwegian Cruise Line has just introduced rates for kids, or any third guest or more sharing a cabin, as low as $99, down from $499 normally, and will offer up to $250 in on-board credit good toward shore excursions, specialty dinners, spa treatments or other extras on bookings made by March 15.
 On top of all these discounts, cruise lines have largely done away with fuel surcharges, and many lines from Azamara to Windstar Cruises have reduced booking deposits by half. 
 It's all an effort to fill berths as travelers cut back. The Carnival Corporation, the largest cruise company -- comprising Carnival Cruise Lines, Holland America, Princess Cruises, Yachts of Seabourn, Costa Cruises, Cunard and others -- reported in December that advance bookings for 2009 cruises were running behind last year's level, with ticket prices also lower. 
 The company's Carnival brand recently introduced an early saver program to encourage travelers to book at least three months in advance for short voyages and five months for longer trips. If a lower rate advertised by Carnival becomes available for the same itinerary after the booking is made, travelers can request the difference in the form of a shipboard credit.
 Some of the best offers are coming from the luxury lines, said Bob Miller, co-owner of Cruise Holidays in Alexandria, Va. For example, he said, Regent Seven Seas Cruises, which is is including airfare, shore excursions and free sailing for children on many summer Europe cruises, ''becomes a feasible alternative for many families who might otherwise sail a mass market cruise line.'' A seven-night cruise departing on July 10 from Monte Carlo to Athens, for instance, begins at $5,280 a person for an ocean view suite, including all taxes, airfare and shore excursions. 
 Crystal Cruises, another upscale line, has a save-now-save-later promotion that offers 20 percent off a 2010 cruise to travelers who book a 2009 cruise by March 31. It's also offering cut rates on select European cruises of anywhere from $750 to $1,500 a person depending on the room category. Cunard is offering trans-Atlantic crossings on the Queen Mary 2 starting at $795 a person, down from $999 last year, as well as upgrades to its top-level accommodation -- a Queens Grill suite -- for the price of a Princess Grill suite when traveling on a six-day crossing. Prices for the upgrade offer start at $3,545 a person based on double occupancy. 
 And Oceania Cruises, another upscale line, has cut prices on more than a dozen European itineraries by $1,000 a person. Rates on these cruises, including airfare, begin at $1,299 a person, not including tax, for departures on Nov. 15. But it's also possible to get a deal in peak season. A popular 12-day Rome-to-Athens cruise departing on Aug. 16, with airfare and all taxes included, begins at $3,305 a person -- down from $4,305. 
 It's too early to tell if the reduced rates are working, but cruise lines are optimistic.
 ''The industry is still poised to do very well,'' said Richard E. Sasso, the president of MSC Cruises USA and chairman of the Cruise Lines International Association Marketing Committee. Passenger growth has been relatively steady, even amid past economic challenges, with an average growth rate of 7.4 percent from 1980 to 2007. 
 In 2008, the association's cruise lines achieved 104 percent occupancy levels, with some cabins able to accommodate multiple guests, and hosted an estimated 13.2 million cruisers worldwide, up from 12.56 million in 2007. The association is projecting 13.5 million passengers for 2009. ''We're not recession proof, but we're certainly recession resistant,'' Mr. Sasso said. 
 Part of the reason the cruise lines expect to do well in tough economic times is their value message. Because your lodging is also your transportation, a cruise can cost less than touring by land. Cruise lines are also quick to point out the all-inclusive nature of the trip, with one price covering accommodations, entertainment and food in the main restaurant. 
 But when searching for deals, keep in mind that the lowest price often means the worst rooms on the ship -- often without any windows -- and anything beyond the basics, like spa treatments, shore excursions, drinks and specialty restaurants, will cost extra. 
 Also, cruise message boards are abuzz over a growing trend toward charging for things that used to be included in the cruise rate. Last month, Royal Caribbean Cruises started tacking on a $4 fee for late-night room service, sparking a 31-page discussion on the message boards of CruiseCritic.com, which tracks the industry and features cruise reviews. More recently, the cruise line said it would also be offering a $14.95 filet mignon in the main dining room where entrees are typically included in the cruise fare. 
 ''The dining room is sacred,'' said Carolyn Spencer Brown, editor in chief of CruiseCritic. ''We had 100,000 page views in a week on that. That tells you it's crazy.'' Besides, she added, referring to the $4 surcharge for room service, ''this isn't really the time to start charging for things like that.''
 In a statement about the new charge, Royal Caribbean pointed out that the steak, normally offered only in the Chops Grille, a specialty restaurant on 10 of its ships for which there is a $25-a-person service charge, ''has not replaced any menu items'' or ''cut anything out of the dinner menu.'' 
 For travelers looking to work out a budget, CruiseCritic's sister site, IndependentTraveler.com, offers a calculator with a list of all the costs you're likely to face on a cruise (www.independenttraveler.com/travel-budget-calculator).

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (98%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (92%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR FARES (89%); TRAVEL TICKETS (89%); CHILDREN (76%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (70%); BABY BOOMERS (70%); TICKET SALES (67%); LUXURY GOODS (66%)

COMPANY: CARNIVAL CORP (95%); MILLER CO (63%); NORWEGIAN CRUISE LINE HOLDINGS LTD (56%); CRYSTAL CRUISES INC (51%)

TICKER: CCL (NYSE) (95%); NCLH (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (95%); SIC4481 DEEP SEA TRANSPORTATION OF PASSENGERS, EXCEPT BY FERRY (95%); NAICS331491 NONFERROUS METAL (EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM) ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING (63%); SIC3356 ROLLING, DRAWING & EXTRUDING OF NONFERROUS METALS, EXCEPT COPPER & ALUMINUM (63%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (67%) CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (93%); PANAMA (92%); EUROPE (88%); UNITED STATES (67%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



572 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 4702 words

HEADLINE: The Saharan Conundrum

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS SCHMIDLE. 
Nicholas Schmidle is a fellow at the New America Foundation. His first book, ''To Live or to Perish Forever: Two Tumultuous Years in Pakistan,'' will be published in May.

 BODY:
IN THE MONTHS AFTER 9/11, American forces in Afghanistan bombed the Taliban and, in vain, hunted for Osama bin Laden, while in Washington counterterrorism experts worried about ''the next Afghanistan,'' a safe haven where terrorists would train, test their weapons and organize attacks on the United States. These discussions produced a double-barreled national-security strategy that dominated President George W. Bush's tenure. The first element of the strategy was to identify and eliminate terrorist networks that already existed. The second was to prevent new networks from flourishing by promoting open, democratic societies that, the thinking went, would be less susceptible to Al Qaeda's message than closed ones. Hard and soft power would be brought to bear on all the potential Afghanistans, while Afghanistan itself would be kept from regressing. 
 The list of candidates for the next Afghanistan was long. Just about every Muslim-majority country, or even those with sizable Muslim minorities, was considered suspect. Intelligence analysts fixed their attention on remote islands and jungles in the Philippines and Indonesia and on the rugged mountains of Pakistan's tribal areas. Africa emerged as one of the greatest areas of concern, and the Sahel, a scrubby band of ungoverned terrain straddling Saharan and sub-Saharan Africa, proved especially troublesome. An Islamist government in Sudan was host to bin Laden for five years during the 1990s. In Algeria, an Islamist insurgency ultimately commanded by the Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat, better known by its French acronym, G.S.P.C., was entering its second bloody decade. And in Mauritania only 3.5 million people occupied an area the size of Texas and New Mexico combined, making it -- despite decades of oppressive military rule -- one of the least-controlled parts of the world. 
 The Sahel soon became a laboratory for the United States to test its policies in the ''global war on terror.'' In 2002, the State Department started the Pan-Sahel Initiative, a counterterrorism program that involved working with local militaries in Mali, Niger, Chad and Mauritania. In 2005, the program, in partnership with the United States Agency for International Development and the Pentagon, expanded under a new name to Nigeria, Senegal, Morocco, Algeria and Tunisia. Special Forces operatives remain in some of the countries year-round to train local armies at battling insurgencies and rebellions and to prevent bin Laden and his allies from expanding into the region. 
 Things haven't quite gone according to plan. Rebels still threaten to overrun the capital of Chad, and in Sudan the violence in Darfur became worse. Meanwhile, Al Qaeda established sanctuaries in the Sahel, and in 2006 it acquired a North African franchise. Terrorist attacks in the region increased in both number and lethality. 
 Almost since the war on terror began, the Bush administration has been criticized for lecturing the Iraqis and the Iranians about democracy while supporting authoritarian regimes in Egypt, Saudi Arabia and Pakistan. Despite an avowed national-security strategy that prized both democratic values and killing terrorists, the emphasis almost always fell on the latter. But in some places at least, the administration's approach to counterterrorism has undergone significant changes. As the terrorist threat appeared to change its nature, certain administration policy makers responded with a level of nuance rarely associated with George W. Bush. 
 Nowhere was this shift more evident than in Mauritania, where, last summer, a military coup toppled a democratically elected government. The generals justified the coup on security grounds. The United States responded by suspending its military aid even as the junta highlighted the threat it faced from Al Qaeda. A month after the coup, militants claiming to be associated with Al Qaeda ambushed a military convoy in northern Mauritania and killed 12 soldiers. Was the United States putting its commitment to democracy ahead of its commitment to fighting terrorists? Or was the war on terror changing, with the United States no longer seeing every jihadist franchise as an existential threat?
 I. The Democracy Agenda
 ''I have always thought that democracy was our best antiterror weapon,'' Mark Boulware, the American ambassador to Mauritania, told me when I met him in Washington last fall. Boulware arrived in Mauritania at an opportune time. In April 2007, Sidi Ould Cheikh Abdallahi became president after the country's first transparent election. Cooperation with the United States on security issues immediately resumed, ending a two-year hiatus that followed a coup in 2005. With Abdallahi's presidency, the Bush administration's two dominant priorities, fighting terrorism and promoting democracy, appeared to dovetail perfectly. 
 Deputy Secretary of State John Negroponte flew to Nouakchott, the capital of Mauritania, for Abdallahi's inauguration ceremony. Months later, Bush invited Abdallahi to an intimate discussion among emerging democracies during the United NationsGeneral Assembly meeting. Washington welcomed Mauritania into its Threshold Program, an anteroom to full membership in the Millennium Challenge Account -- the flagship of the Bush administration's approach to development aid, where funds became available only after countries achieved a certain score on a range of good-government indexes. 
 The democratic movement in Mauritania did not last long. Last August, Abdallahi's generals overthrew him after he tried to fire them. The American partnership with Mauritania promptly collapsed. A high-tech American surveillance plane, which had been based in Mauritania to fly over the northern part of the country, searching for Al Qaeda training camps, was removed, as were the 80 or so Army and Marine Special Forces troops that were training a counterterrorism unit. The Threshold Program funds dried up, and Mauritania's chances for membership in the Millennium Challenge Account disappeared.
 ''We were using Mauritania as an example of how countries should move forward with elections,'' Dell Dailey, the State Department's counterterrorism coordinator, told me. Dailey served more than three decades in the army's shadowy world of Special Operations, eventually leading such operations in Iraq and Afghanistan before joining the State Department in the summer of 2007. Dailey said the American message was simple: ''When you hold elections, there are certain benefits, like assistance in security and law enforcement and economic development. The three pillars of trying to defeat terrorism and build a good society are development, good governance and security. In Mauritania, they were moving in that direction. The coup was extremely disappointing.''
 The junta tried to convince the world otherwise, claiming that Abdallahi had been weak on terrorism. The new leaders said that, by legalizing an Islamist party and meeting with moderate Islamists to request help in challenging the growing militant Salafist movement in the country, Abdallahi paved the way for a string of terrorist attacks in Mauritania over the past two years. The military's charges were ignored by Washington, however. 
 To this day, Washington considers Abdallahi the legitimate president of Mauritania. Two capitals coexist: one in Nouakchott, where Gen. Mohamed Ould Abdel Aziz occupies the presidential palace; and one in Abdallahi's hometown, Lemden, where he lives in internal exile. (On the anniversary of Mauritania's independence day, Bush sent Abdallahi a congratulatory letter there.) Even the vocabularies used in the two capitals are different: Abdallahi and his supporters slip the words ''democracy'' and ''election'' into every sentence, while the junta talks about ''terrorism'' and ''Al Qaeda'' at every turn.
 Now, the junta waits for President Barack Obama to give the country a fresh look. ''We hope that your new president, a young man with the interests of Africa in mind, will be more understanding of our situation,'' Mohamed Ould Moine, the minister of communication, told me. 
 II. The Franchise
 When not pushing democracy, the Bush administration focused on finding and killing terrorists. Missiles from Predator drones were fired at militants in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Somalia and Yemen. In the Sahel, counterterrorism officials faced people like Sidi Ould Sidna, a young Mauritanian who had a strange career as a foot soldier in an Al Qaeda affiliate. Sidna's story demonstrates both how America's jihadist adversaries have become more complicated than the Bush administration first envisioned and how, in the end, some figures on the administration's counterterrorism team fashioned an unexpected response. 
 Late last year, I spoke to a number of sources in Mauritania and the United States, both inside and outside of government, about counterterrorism operations in the region and the activities of Al Qaeda associates there like Sidna. Many could not identify themselves in print because of the nature of their work, but from these interviews I was able to piece together a picture of jihadism in this part of the world.
 Sidna grew up in a poor neighborhood of Nouakchott called Toujanine. When I went there one evening in December, I found kids playing soccer at dusk in a wide dirt road. Goats rummaged through trash that filled a ditch about five feet from the front door of Sidna's home. According to friends, neighbors and relatives, Sidna had a reputation as a scrappy kid. ''Sidi wasn't a thief, because thieves rob you and run,'' one childhood friend told me. ''Sidi took your watch or your T-shirt right in front of you.'' By his midteens, Sidna was smoking hashish, drinking wine and hanging out with an older crowd. He liked to dance and earned the nickname Lambada. Besides robbing people, he also stole cars. Friends and law-enforcement authorities claim that he was involved in multiple rapes. 
 But his conscience apparently caught up with him by his late teens. He joined a friend at a mahadra -- an Islamic seminary -- outside Nouakchott. He spent several months there and, like many restless young men in the region, grew fond of listening to jihadist audio recordings, particularly those of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, the leader of Iraq's Al Qaeda franchise, that circulated around the mahadra.
 ''Why Zarqawi?'' I asked the friend who took Sidna to the mahadra. ''What made his sermons appealing?''
 ''Everyone in the Muslim world wants to see American tanks blown up and their troops killed,'' he said. ''But bin Laden and Zarqawi were the only ones actually doing it. Sidna admired them for that.''
 Sidna returned home to Toujanine a changed, yet no mellower, person. As part of his Zarqawi-fueled indoctrination, he adopted the ideology of takfir, or excommunication, which some extremists use to justify violence against nonbelievers. He began converting some of his fellow gang members into militant Salafists. Sidna ordered his sisters to cover their heads, patrolled the neighborhood for unmarried couples walking together and spent long hours arguing with his father, a Sufi, during which times he called him an infidel. He told his younger brother that he wanted to wage jihad against the Americans. Then Sidna headed off to a training camp.
 In the spring of 2006, Sidna traveled to a camp in northern Mali run by the G.S.P.C., the notorious Algerian-Salafi group. He prayed that those running the camp would send him to Iraq to fight against Americans. The invasion of Afghanistan, followed by the one in Iraq, attracted young men from all over North Africa eager to wage jihad against the United States. Fernando Reinares, the director of a program on global terrorism at Elcano Royal Institute in Madrid, says G.S.P.C. camps served as one of the main conduits of foreign fighters into Iraq. ''They recruited individuals at the local level, trained them and then sent them to Iraq,'' he said. European police reported a growing number of G.S.P.C. cells in major cities. In 2002, authorities in Italy claimed to have disrupted a G.S.P.C. plot in Bologna to bomb the Basilica of San Petronio, which has a 15th-century fresco of the Prophet Muhammad being tormented by demons in hell.
 Sidna was disappointed when he reached the camp. The G.S.P.C. was in the midst of an overhaul. He found that the group was no longer looking for able-bodied young men to dispatch to Iraq, in part because of American pressure on North African leaders to clamp down on the migration of jihadists to Iraq. But it was also by choice. Now the G.S.P.C. had a new mission, to recruit non-Algerian militants to spread jihad south of Algeria. 
 Sidna fit into the group's plans perfectly. The G.S.P.C.'s finances couldn't keep pace with its ambitions, however. So G.S.P.C. leaders reached out to Zarqawi, who, until he was killed by American forces in Iraq in June 2006, enjoyed not only name recognition but also a seemingly endless pile of money. With Zarqawi as matchmaker, the G.S.P.C. courted Al Qaeda itself. After lengthy negotiations, bin Laden's deputy, the Egyptian doctor Ayman al-Zawahiri, announced the ''blessed union'' between the G.S.P.C. and Al Qaeda on Sept. 11, 2006. He declared that the merger would be ''a bone in the throat of American and French crusaders.'' Months later, the G.S.P.C. proclaimed its new name: Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb, or A.Q.I.M.
 A.Q.I.M. immediately set its sights on Mauritania. Not only was the country mostly vacant space and therefore a potential site for training camps, but as a close ally of the United States and one of only three Arab League states to maintain full diplomatic relations with Israel, it presented an easy propaganda target. The G.S.P.C. had already sent Khaddim Ould Semane, a Mauritanian militant, back to Nouakchott with instructions to establish a cell. Semane named his group Al-Ansar Allah al-Murabitun, the Army of Allah in the Lands of Murabitun. (Murabitun was the 11th-century Islamic empire in North Africa.) He would eventually become a leader of A.Q.I.M. in Mauritania. Sidna was sent back to Nouakchott with orders to stay on the lookout for possible targets. Sidna returned to Mauritania feeling frustrated, according to his younger brother, whom I spoke to in December. Sidna knew how to shoot a gun (having served a year in the Mauritanian army), had an extensive background in theft and showed the vigor of a fundamentalist. But if he wanted to be part of Al Qaeda, he would have to earn the privilege.
 Eight months after Abdallahi's election established Mauritania's democratic credentials and won it new support in the West, Sidna struck. On Christmas Eve 2007, Sidna, now 21, and two accomplices decided to stalk five French tourists just outside the town of Aleg, 150 miles east of Nouakchott. The French were picnicking in the shade of a tree around lunchtime when, authorities charge, Sidna or one of his accomplices opened fire with a Kalashnikov and killed four of them. The militants hopped into hired cars and escaped. After a three-week manhunt, through Senegal, Gambia and finally Guinea-Bissau, French intelligence agents arrested them.
 On the day of his extradition to Mauritania, Sidna looked more like a club kid than a terrorist: blue jeans, brown leather jacket, clean-shaven. As he strutted past a battery of cameramen while walking toward the tan DC-3 waiting to fly him back to Nouakchott, he stared into one camera and said, ''Guinea-Bissau will pay dearly for mistreating God's warriors.'' The tape played on Mauritanian television and radio for days.
 Sidna escaped from prison three months later. He hid in a two-story villa that had been rented by Semane in an upscale neighborhood of Nouakchott. It was painted yellow with a white railing that wrapped around the upstairs porch. Inside, a handful of terrorists had amassed weapons, explosives and suicide belts. The day before Sidna arrived, they stole a car and parked it in the garage. (They didn't know it, but the car was being used by Mauritania's ambassador to the United States.)
 Days after Sidna's jailbreak, the police responded to a tip and encircled the yellow house. The militants shot and killed one policeman, sparking an intense gun battle that pockmarked the villa. The sound of automatic weapons resounded through Nouakchott's usually placid streets. After 15 minutes, the terrorists piled into the ambassador's car. Sidna filled ammunition clips in the backseat while Semane drove and others sat on the ledges of the open windows. As the garage door opened, the car burst out, broke through the police cordon and raced down the dirt roads. A terrorist was shot and fell out of a car window. But Sidna, once again, had disappeared.
 Police arrested him three weeks later. On the day he was brought before the court, Sidna taunted the judge, shouting, ''Our martyrs are in heaven, yours are in hell.''
 The Algerian leader of A.Q.I.M. later said that Sidna and his companions were ''connected'' with his group, although the murder in Aleg, at least, seemed to bear Sidna's personal stamp more than that of Al Qaeda or its North African franchise. ''This is the shape of the future for Al Qaeda -- free agents laying claim to the mantle of ideological coherence, all of which goes under the name of Al Qaeda,'' said Mike McGovern, a professor at Yale University and former West Africa director for the International Crisis Group, an independent research and advocacy group.
 III. End of the War As We Know It?
 Are legions of these ''free agent'' jihadis, operating loosely in the name of Al Qaeda, more worrying or less worrying than a centralized Al Qaeda? Western intelligence agencies no longer agree on the nature of the threat. The Europeans generally consider A.Q.I.M. a far greater danger than do the Americans. This past fall, Germany's intelligence service stated publicly that A.Q.I.M. had established training camps in the desert of northeastern Mauritania, in addition to those already present in Algeria and Mali. But when I asked one American counterterrorism official about the claim, he sniggered. ''What are we calling a training camp?'' he said. ''Guys shooting small firearms? That happens at the local skeet range. A training camp suggests a level of organizational structure that I don't think is there.''
 In the early years after 9/11, scare-mongering about Al Qaeda dominated counterterrorism analysis in the United States. Almost anyone who partook in violence within the general confines of the Islamic world was tagged as a potential member of Al Qaeda, regardless of whom or what they were fighting for.
 But political and religious violence in the Sahel usually had nothing to do with militias fighting for Shariah or bidding to join Al Qaeda. More often than not, the fighting involved long-running territorial disputes; ethnic, clan or tribal quibbles like those constantly plaguing Chad; and Muslims fighting Muslims, seen most vividly in Darfur. It is difficult to isolate and identify the extent to which Islam does or doesn't play into each instance of violence in the Muslim world. 
 There is little question that A.Q.I.M. is composed of anti-American Islamic militants, but some regional experts stress that this doesn't mean they take orders or receive money from bin Laden -- or pose a serious threat to American security. What, if any, are the entitlements of membership in the Al Qaeda franchise? I asked Dell Dailey, the counterterrorism coordinator at the State Department, what the G.S.P.C. gained by changing its name to A.Q.I.M. He told me that when A.Q.I.M. members joined with Al Qaeda they received a ''burst of money, maybe a couple of hundred thousand dollars, that allowed them to knock out a few early suicide bombings with a strong Al Qaeda flavor.'' The string of lethal attacks included explosions aimed at government buildings and naval barracks, and the bombing of a United Nations building in Algeria that killed more than 40 people, including, for the first time, a large number of foreigners. Dailey added, ''Once they jumped on the A.Q. name, they showed an internationalist choice of targets that G.S.P.C. just hadn't done before.''
 Once they had spent the initial infusion of money, however, A.Q.I.M. reverted to its former ways. These methods included car theft, credit-card fraud, smuggling and kidnapping. Jean-Luc Marret, a fellow at the Foundation for Strategic Research in Paris who is also affiliated with Johns Hopkins University's Center for Transatlantic Relations, said that A.Q.I.M.'s fund-raising ''is not about Saudi banking and global Islamic N.G.O.'s, but small, encrusted cells, trabendo (contraband) and petty smuggling.'' 
 Dell Dailey said that A.Q.I.M.'s impulse to indulge in criminal activities is partly born out of the fact that they ''can't connect to the central branch anymore,'' which affects personnel and finances. Not only are ''raw recruits'' like Sidna less able to get to Iraq or Afghanistan, but as an organization, Dailey told me, Al Qaeda is more constrained now. ''They can't move, communicate, recruit and post money as successfully as they could in the early days after 9/11,'' he said. ''We have given Al Qaeda too much credit from 9/11 onwards. We have embellished them more than they deserve.'' 
 But just because aspiring militants in Algeria, Morocco or Mauritania might find it tougher to buy a plane ticket to Amman and slip across the border into Iraq doesn't mean their grievances have disappeared. With, in the words of one American military official, ''the demand signal [for jihadists] way down in Iraq,'' there appears to be a reverse migration of North African fighters coming home to join A.Q.I.M. A result has been an injection of free-agent militants into the Sahel with crisscrossing loyalties, and no one is sure who is in command. There are even rumors of splits among the A.Q.I.M. leadership. ''The A.Q.I.M. folks in northern Mali are not a monolithic group,'' the official, who is a specialist in North Africa, told me. ''Are the Mauritanians part of A.Q.I.M.? The debate remains unresolved. Some of them are taking orders directly from A.Q.I.M. Some have gone to the camps and then went back to Mauritania to start their own franchise. And there's some home-grown factor. In Mauritania you see all of it.''
 IV. The Attack
 In early September, a month after the coup, top Mauritanian army officials learned that five vehicles carrying A.Q.I.M. fighters had crossed from northern Mali into Mauritania and were racing across the desert toward Zouerate, an iron-mining town about 500 miles north of Nouakchott. Zouerate is the heart of Mauritania's economy. Iron accounts for almost half of the nation's exports. Any disruption in Zouerate's daily routine could cripple the country. A hastily organized government patrol -- composed of 4 light-brown Land Cruisers, 19 soldiers, an officer, a civilian guide and 2 .50-caliber mounted machine guns -- headed into the desert to take on the militants.
 ''Al Qaeda wants to destabilize our country,'' Col. Mohamed Ould El Hadi, Mauritania's director of national security, told me last month in his office in Nouakchott. It has had considerable success already. Even though A.Q.I.M.'s attacks have been less grand in scale than the bombing of the United Nations building in Algiers in December 2007, its Mauritanian operations have proved more debilitating. The murder of the four French tourists in late 2007, followed by a gun assault on the Israeli Embassy in Nouakchott in early 2008, dealt a devastating blow to the tourism industry. Not two weeks after the French tourists were killed, organizers of the annual Paris-Dakar Rally, whose route normally covers a considerable stretch of Mauritania, canceled the race. (The 2009 rally relocated to South America.) Some estimate that the number of tourists who visit Mauritania is down by half.
 No one in the patrol sent from Zouerate had received American counter-terrorism training, and they soon went from hunters to hunted. Shortly after dark, they discovered a line of fresh tire tracks in the sand -- made by A.Q.I.M. fighters, who had camped on a dune in the distance. The patrol motored up the tracks while the militants watched the headlights bounce over the dunes. The militants waited as the lights grew brighter and the whine of the engines of the Land Cruisers grew louder. The lead vehicle had just climbed into view when A.Q.I.M. opened fire.
 Initial reports suggested that A.Q.I.M. had kidnapped the soldiers. Hoping to stop the terrorists before they returned to their sanctuary in northern Mali, the Mauritanian military asked the United States for help. The Americans refused, reaffirming the position that the junta should restore Abdallahi first. 
 Two days after the ambush, while the U.S. Embassy was still refusing to assist the ruling junta and the search for the missing soldiers continued, A.Q.I.M. issued a communique. The group boasted of a ''new attack in the city of Zouerate in northern Mauritania against those who obey the Jews.'' The communique went on, ''By God's grace, the brigades of Mujahideen set an ambush for the army of unbelief and apostasy that managed to take 12 soldiers prisoner, including a commander by the rank of captain . . . while the rest of Allah's enemies escaped, fleeing their failure and defeat.'' The next day, a Mauritanian official told me, a search-and-rescue team moved to an area where vultures were circling overhead and found 12 bloated, naked corpses, lined up side by side. Three of them were booby-trapped with dynamite. All but one was beheaded. 
 At the end of its second term, the Bush administration's strategy for the war on terror remained within the framework in which the war was first conceived -- destroy terrorist networks and promote democracy -- but the manner in which those principles were put into effect had clearly changed. Even someone like Dell Dailey, who was deeply involved for years in fighting terrorists with traditional military tactics, had come to reject the idea of embracing a military government in Mauritania just because of the presence of an Al Qaeda affiliate inside the country. In its final year, the Bush administration seemed to understand that, in places like Pakistan, it had created legions of enemies with its unflinching support for President Pervez Musharraf. It hoped to avoid doing the same thing in Mauritania, even as the junta, like Musharraf, decried the former civilian leaders as corrupt and weak on terrorism.
 The Obama administration is continuing the recalibration of counterterrorism. President Obama has promised to close the military prison at Guantanamo Bay, and Adm. Mike Mullen, the chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, recently cautioned against the militarization of foreign policy. ''Armed forces may not always be the best choice to take the lead,'' he said during a speech in Washington in January, adding later that ''we need to reallocate roles and resources in a way that places our military as an equal among many in government.'' Similar themes have been echoed lately by the secretary of defense, Robert Gates, and others engaged in counterterrorism policy. The coup by the Mauritanian junta may have been badly timed. Part of the new strategic thinking in Washington involves being less optimistic about the power of militaries to solve political problems. 
 The war against Al Qaeda will undoubtedly continue, but a more nuanced analysis of Al Qaeda has led to a more nuanced approach to combating terrorism and a reconsideration of how the strategy that guided the war on terror in its early years should be put into effect. This is partly a result of new thinking in Washington and, according to security officials, partially a result of bin Laden's questionable business model: the franchise. ''Where G.S.P.C. was, to where A.Q.I.M. is today, I just don't see the merger as a force multiplier for them,'' a senior defense official familiar with Special Operations told me. The war on terror is being reconceived, and the result may not look very much like a war at all. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Much of Mauritania is empty -- a laboratory for terrorists and their hunters. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLAUME BONN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.MM34)
Sidi Ould Sidna, left, was charged with killing four French tourists in Mauritania. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLAUME BONN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (pg.M37)
 An abandoned iron facility near the Mauritanian town of Zouerate, which has been a target of terrorists. Twelve soldiers were killed in an ambush as they rushed to defend the town last year. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GUILLAUME BONN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES.) (pg.MM38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (92%); COUNTERTERRORISM (90%); AL-QAEDA (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); TALIBAN (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); ARMIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); ARMED FORCES (63%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%); SALAFIST GROUP FOR PREACHING & COMBAT (54%)

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); MAURITANIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); SUDAN (93%); ALGERIA (92%); AFRICA (92%); CHAD (92%); MALI (79%); NIGERIA (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); NIGER (79%); MOROCCO (79%); TUNISIA (79%); SENEGAL (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); SUB SAHARAN AFRICA (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



573 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1433 words

HEADLINE: Flying Blind

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA. 
Joe Nocera writes the Talking Business column for The Times.

 BODY:
LORDS OF FINANCE
 The Bankers Who Broke the World
 By Liaquat Ahamed
 Illustrated. 564 pp. The Penguin Press. $32.95
 ''We have involved ourselves in a colossal muddle, having blundered in the control of a delicate machine, the working of which we do not understand.'' 
 So wrote the great economic iconoclast John Maynard Keynes in an essay titled ''The Great Slump of 1930,'' published in December of that year. Thirteen months had passed since the crash of 1929; the world was living, in Keynes's words, in ''the shadow of one of the greatest economic catastrophes of modern history.'' 
 I shuddered when I read this quotation in ''Lords of Finance,'' a magisterial work by Liaquat Ahamed, a veteran hedge fund manager and Brookings Institution trustee. A grand, sweeping narrative of immense scope and power, the book describes a world that long ago receded from memory: the West after World War I, a time of economic fragility, of bubbles followed by busts and of a cascading series of events that led to the Great Depression. 
 The ''delicate machine'' Keynes referred to was of course the global economy. By 1930, when he wrote his essay, the West was in bad shape. A combination of divisive postwar politics, a refusal to abandon economic orthodoxy and a series of policy errors by the world's four most important central banks -- the Federal Reserve, the Bank of England, the German Reichsbank and the Banque de France -- had led to the near collapse of capitalist economies in the West. ''Industrial production had fallen 30 percent in the United States, 25 percent in Germany and 20 percent in Britain,'' Ahamed writes. ''Over 5 million men were looking for work in the United States, another 4.5 million in Germany and 2 million in Britain.'' 
 And yet -- and this is why I shuddered -- it was also a moment not unlike the one we're living through now. As scary as things were, it was clear that the abyss had not yet been reached, and there was still a chance that the global economy could pull back from the brink. With the right moves from the central bankers -- and a little luck -- the Western economies might yet right themselves. In December 1930, the world was holding its breath. 
 Alas, it was not to be. Six months later, an Austrian bank collapsed, resulting in a run on the rest of Austria's banks. The central bankers responded both belatedly and tepidly, failing to stem the run and then making a new round of policy errors that compounded matters. By 1932, the United States had entered the worst year of the Great Depression -- while in Germany Hitler's ascent was assured. 
 The lords of finance who constitute the title of this book are the four central bankers who dominated that postwar era: Benjamin Strong of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York; Montagu Norman, the longtime head of the Bank of England; Emile Moreau of the Banque de France; and Hjalmar Schacht, who headed the Reichsbank. Ahamed says he got the idea for this book when he read a 1999 Time magazine cover story headlined ''The Committee to Save the World,'' about Alan Greenspan (then the Federal Reserve chairman), Robert Rubin (Bill Clinton's Treasury Secretary) and Lawrence Summers (Rubin's No. 2). He realized that in the 1920s, the four top central bankers had acquired a similar mystique and fame; they were sometimes described as ''the most exclusive club in the world.'' He decided to tell the story of ''the descent from the roaring boom of the '20s into the Great Depression'' by ''looking over the shoulders'' of these four men. 
 From a literary point of view -- and let me pause to note that this is a beautifully written book; Ahamed has a gift for phrase-making and storytelling that most full-time writers would envy -- the decision to build ''Lords of Finance'' around these four men is a brilliant conceit. Each of them was a powerful personality, with the full range of strengths and weaknesses, insights and eccentricities. Because much of the book concerns decisions, for instance, to raise or lower interest rates, you need great characters to pull the story along, and Ahamed not only has them but also knows how to make them come alive. Strong is the domineering American; Schacht the arrogant, headstrong German; Norman and Moreau the prideful Europeans. Strong and Norman became close friends, and their letters to each other are a rich source of material, sometimes quite touching. 
 But as Ahamed's narrative makes clear, it's also a little unfair to portray these men as ''the bankers who broke the world,'' as the subtitle phrases it. For one thing, by the middle of 1931, Norman was the only one of the four still in his job. (Strong, who for all intents and purposes invented the role of Federal Reserve chairman, died in 1928.) For another, they each became famous not because of their mistakes but because of their triumphs. To take the most striking example, Schacht, a prosperous banker, was made Germany's ''currency commissioner'' in November 1923, when that country's hyperinflation was completely out of control. (How bad was it? ''On Nov. 5,'' Ahamed writes, ''the price of a two-kilo loaf of bread had soared from 20 billion marks to 140 billion, sparking off nationwide riots.'') In a brilliant stroke, Schacht created a new currency, the Rentenmark, then chose the exact right moment to fix it to the mark (at 1 trillion marks to one!). In so doing, he restored faith in Germany's currency and beat back inflation. The German press took to calling him the ''Miracle Man.'' 
 Besides, the central bankers were prisoners of the economic orthodoxy of their time: the powerful belief that sound monetary policy had to revolve around the gold standard. That is, each country's reserve bank had to have a certain amount of gold in its vaults to back up its currency -- and indeed, ''all paper money was legally obligated to be freely convertible into its gold equivalent,'' as Ahamed says. Again and again, this straitjacket caused the central bankers -- especially Norman, gold's most fervent advocate -- to make moves, like raising interest rates, that would allow their countries to hold on to their dwindling gold supplies, even though the larger economy desperately needed help in the form of lower interest rates. 
 Finally, Ahamed lays the blame for much of the economic turmoil of the 1930s on an issue the central bankers had no control over: the insistence by the Allies that Germany pay war reparations far beyond its means.Norman in particular was fiercely opposed to the size of the reparations the Allies were demanding, arguing that they would bring down the German economy -- which is precisely what happened. By the early 1930s, less than eight years after hyperinflation had been brought under control, Germany was effectively bankrupt, and German resentment over the onerous efforts to extract billions in reparations helped pave the way for Hitler. 
 You read Ahamed's sections on reparations -- and there are lots of them because the issue dogged the world for more than a decade -- with a growing sense of horror, knowing how it all turns out. But you also read this book with a growing sense of recognition. As you learn how the world spiraled into depression, about the interconnectedness of the banking system, where a failure in one country led to problems in other countries, about the way economic orthodoxy caused brilliant central bankers to make mistake after mistake, and on and on -- you can't help thinking about the economic crisis we're living through now. 
 The central bankers of the 1920s and '30s were flying blind; Ahamed makes that quite clear. They could only hope the moves they made would help the economy instead of hurting it. Sometimes they were right, but often they were wrong. We like to think that today we have a better grasp of the machinery that moves an economy -- but do we? Federal Reserve Chairman Ben Bernanke and former Treasury Secretary Henry Paulson were much quicker than the earlier lords of finance to throw money at the banking system to prevent it from collapsing, a lesson they learned from the inaction of the Federal Reserve in the 1930s. But Paulson also allowed Lehman Brothers to default, an event that set off a contagion of failure around the world. 
 Here at this critical moment, with a new administration having just taken office, and with so much riding on its policy responses to the current crisis, ''Lords of Finance'' poses an unsettling question. Do we really understand the workings of that delicate machine any better than our forebears did? Or do we only think we do?

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FORM UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL/CORBIS-BETTMAN(1929)) (pg.BR10) DRAWING (DRAWING BY MK MABRY) (pg.BR1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); GREAT DEPRESSION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); BANK FAILURES (78%); GLOBALIZATION (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); HISTORY (69%); WORLD WAR I (68%); EMPLOYMENT (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (63%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (83%); BANQUE DE FRANCE (54%); BANK OF ENGLAND (54%)

ORGANIZATION: BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (56%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (54%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (86%); FRANCE (77%); AUSTRIA (65%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



574 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; PING; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1051 words

HEADLINE: Why Google Pulls The Plug

BYLINE: By VINDU GOEL

DATELINE: MOUNTAIN VIEW, Calif. 

 BODY:
 GOOGLE recently set the blogosphere abuzz by announcing that it was pulling the plug on several products.
 The victims included Lively, a virtual world that was Google's answer to Second Life; Dodgeball, a cellphone service aimed at young bar-hoppers who wanted to let their friends know where they were hanging out; Catalog Search, which scanned paper product catalogs so they could be searched online; and Notebook, a simple tool that allowed people to take notes on Web sites they had visited.
 Google also said it would stop actively developing Jaiku, a microblogging service similar to Twitter, and instead turn it over to its users as an open-source project they could tinker with as they wished. 
 What's that, you say? You don't care? You couldn't tell a Jaiku from a haiku, and the last time you thought about dodgeball was in elementary school gym class?
 You're not alone. When evaluating nascent projects, Google takes a hard look at interest -- and in these cases, the interest simply wasn't there.
 ''There's no single equation that describes us, but we try to use data wherever possible,'' said Jeff Huber, the company's senior vice president of engineering. ''What products have found an audience? Which ones are growing?''
 All of the shuttered projects failed several of Google's key tests for continued incubation: They were not especially popular with customers; they had difficulty attracting Google employees to develop them; they didn't solve a big enough problem; or they failed to achieve internal performance targets known as ''objectives and key results.'' 
 You'd think that Google, a highly profitable engineer's playground, would keep supporting quirky side projects as long as someone wanted to work on them. The company, which is best known to consumers for its search engine, is famous in business for promoting innovation by letting engineers devote 20 percent of their time to projects outside their main responsibilities.
 But in this difficult economy, even Google is paying more attention to costs. 
 Profit-and-loss calculations play an especially important role in evaluating Google's advertising products, which provide virtually all of the company's revenue. For example, Google announced Thursday that it was ending an expensive effort to sell radio ads, laying off up to 40 people, because the project had failed to live up to expectations.
 With services that don't generate much cash, the company looks less at money spent than at measures of usefulness and the opportunity cost of devoting employees to one project over another. 
 So let's take a look at the thinking behind a couple of the projects that Google recently killed or revamped.
 Lively, Google's entry into three-dimensional virtual worlds, was publicly unveiled last July. Four months later, when the company decided to close it, only 10,000 people had logged into the service over the previous seven days. That was well below the targets set by Google's quarterly project review process, and far behind Second Life from Linden Lab, which had about half a million users in a similar period.
 ''We didn't see that passionate hockey-stick growth in the user base,'' said Bradley Horowitz, Google's vice president for product management. Management decided that the half-dozen people working on Lively could be more productive elsewhere.
 Dodgeball, a service that uses text messages to allow users to share their location with buddies, presents a different story. 
 Dennis Crowley, one of two co-founders who sold Dodgeball to Google in 2005 and stayed on, said that he had trouble competing for the attention of other Google engineers to expand the service. ''If you're a product manager, you have to recruit people and their '20 percent time,' '' Mr. Crowley said.
 He found the task especially challenging because he was working in New York, far from the Silicon Valley headquarters. He became frustrated and left Google in 2007. Mr. Crowley is back in start-up mode, developing a location-based service called FourSquare that will be available next month. 
 Mr. Huber said that Google eventually concluded that Dodgeball's vision was too narrow. ''Maybe it worked in Manhattan. It didn't fly in Chicago, or St. Louis, or Denver, or the rest of the world,'' he said.
 Still, Google found the concepts behind Dodgeball intriguing, and early this month, it released Google Latitude, an add-on to Google Maps that allows people to share their location with friends and family members. It's more sophisticated than Dodgeball, with automatic location tracking and more options for privacy and communication. 
 For many ideas, Google's first and most important audience is its employees, and it typically tries products internally before releasing them. 
 Google and other technology companies refer to this as ''eating your own dog food.'' Through such ''dog-fooding,'' Google learned that the early version of its calendar program was fine for parents tracking children's soccer games, but not robust enough to meet a corporate user's need to book rooms, reserve equipment and delegate scheduling.
 EQUALLY important is listening to users. Most products have an official blog to explain changes, and customers are encouraged to share their thoughts. 
 Harry Heymann, the last engineer working on Dodgeball, is publicly commiserating with distraught fans. ''I know this is kind of a bummer,'' he wrote on the service's Web site. ''You are cool as all get out, and you are living in the future.''
 Google's willingness to take risks offers a lesson to other companies about the nature of innovation, said Jeff Jarvis, director of the interactive journalism program at the City University of New York and author of the new book ''What Would Google Do?''
 ''Perfection closes off the process,'' Mr. Jarvis said. ''It makes you deaf. Google purposefully puts out imperfect and unfinished products and says: 'Help us finish them. What do you think of them?' ''
 Mr. Horowitz says every failed idea contributes to future Google products. ''There are not a lot of platypuses, these oddities that went nowhere,'' he said. 
 ''It's much more evolutionary, in the sense that you can look at the wooly mammoth and say, 'That shares a lot of DNA with the elephant.' These things are learning experiences.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: ''There's no single equation'' for evaluating new projects, said Jeff Huber, top, Google's senior vice president of engineering. Lively, left, and Dodgeball, are among projects Google decided to drop. But concepts from Dodgeball were incorporated in Latitude, right, which lets users share their location with friends.(PHOTOGRAPH BY NOAH BERGER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VIRTUAL REALITY (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (78%); ENGINEERING (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (77%); PHYSICAL EDUCATION (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING PRODUCTS (73%); LAYOFFS (71%); SEARCH ENGINES (71%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (68%); COMPANY PROFITS (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (61%); RADIO ADVERTISING (60%); OPEN SOURCE SOFTWARE (55%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (98%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (98%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (98%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



575 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; JERSEY EWING; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1038 words

HEADLINE: At the Front, When Veterans Come Home

BYLINE: By KEVIN COYNE. 
E-mail: jersey@nytimes.com

DATELINE: Ewing 

 BODY:
 THE old vets and the young sit side by side in the waiting room at the veterans center here, facing the ''Welcome Home'' sign and the framed Purple Heart, and if you close your eyes sometimes and listen as they talk it's hard to tell which war was whose. They fought on different sides of the world, but their battles are the same.
 The center is part of a network established by the federal government in the years after an earlier war, when too many veterans came home from Vietnam to find too few places to talk about what had happened to them there. But the centers have been pressed into duty now for the veterans of a new war, more of whom are arriving home -- and arriving here, too -- each day from Iraq and Afghanistan. 
 ''This is the front lines, right here,'' James Gordon said as he walked through the suite of conference rooms and offices he oversees as the team leader here. Known as the Trenton Vet Center, this facility -- one of four in New Jersey that offers counseling and other services outside the Department of Veterans Affairs hospital system -- had 3,300 visits from veterans in 2003, the first year of the Iraq War; it had 7,300 visits last year. ''It's coming now, and it's going to keep coming, and each of those people is going to have tentacles reaching to kids and family and other people.'' 
 The tentacles grow slowly, as Mr. Gordon, 64, knows from his own war. He came home from Vietnam in 1966 with a Bronze Star, a habit of sleeping with the lights on, and a restless mind populated with memories of friends who had died in those patrols and battles near Pleiku.
 ''Look at the dates: 7-03, 7-03, 7-03, 7-03, 7-03,'' he said, running his finger down the list of those killed in an ambush one day in the summer of 1966. ''It's rough, man. You're seeing dead bodies everywhere. You're having coffee with a guy this morning, and this afternoon we got his body in a poncho. It starts changing you.''
 It started changing Antonio Colon, too. ''I saw my share of dead people, and you just don't want to talk to everybody about that,'' said Mr. Colon, 25, who spent most of 2003 in Iraq with the 59th Quartermaster Company at Balad airfield, hauling supplies in convoys along roads that claimed many victims. ''Always worried about being ambushed, very little sleep, you don't know when you're going to die, if you're going to die, if you're ever going to see your family again.''
 And so a few months after Mr. Colon came home to Trenton, he went to the Vet Center to talk to somebody who might understand, and Mr. Gordon listened. The two veterans shared stories across the generations, from the jungle to the desert, with plenty of common ground in between.
 ''I told him what I tell everybody, that if I can do it, you can do it,'' Mr. Gordon said.
 What Mr. Gordon was feeling in those drifting years after Vietnam didn't have a name then. He was often anxious, sleepless, uneasy around other people, impatient, angry. He worked in construction, he said, and sought refuge in beer and marijuana. And then in 1988, at a job site in New Brunswick, he fell four stories. He broke his pelvis and his wrist, spent a month in the hospital, and felt 1966 coming back at him. When he finally checked into a veterans hospital in 1989, he received a diagnosis for a condition he had never heard of before: post-traumatic stress disorder.
 On disability from his injuries, Mr. Gordon went to school: Burlington County College first, as a 47-year-old freshman, then Rutgers for a bachelor's in psychology and a master's in liberal studies. He started volunteering at the Vet Center in 1997, and was soon hired as a counselor. He had been getting $24,000 annually in disability; his new job started at $27,000. 
 The young veterans coming home now from overseas often have an added layer of worries on top of those he had. Many are older, with families and mortgages, trying to navigate an unforgiving economy. ''A lot of them don't have enough money to sustain themselves, and that's a lot of pressure,'' Mr. Gordon said. ''Or they were sending money home and their wives didn't know how to deal with it, and they're broke -- that's a lot of pressure. Add two or three kids, and the pressure is revved up.''
 Last month the Army reported that at least 128 soldiers killed themselves in 2008, the fourth year in a row that the suicide rate had risen, and the highest level in almost 30 years. ''That's just the Army, and that's just active duty,'' said Paul Rieckhoff, executive director of Iraq and Afghanistan Veterans of America. ''That doesn't take into account the vets in Trenton, the vets in Newark or the vets anywhere else that committed suicide, and we think those numbers are much higher.'' 
 Part of the response, Mr. Rieckhoff argues, should be more mental health counselors in the 232 Vet Centers, and throughout the entire Veterans Affairs system, to serve the increasing number of veterans seeking help. ''There has been a steady trickle, and in the next year we could have a flood if we dramatically draw down in Iraq,'' he said. About a quarter of the returning veterans, he estimates, have post-traumatic stress disorder.
 At the Vet Center here, Mr. Colon attended several group sessions with other veterans, but he was most comfortable talking alone with Mr. Gordon. ''It would have been rough without him,'' said Mr. Colon, who works as a security guard. ''There's not a day since I've gotten back that I don't stop and think to myself about being over there.''
 And sometimes over there feels, and sounds, as if it has come over here. Mr. Colon lives in East Trenton, where his car has taken a stray bullet from a drive-by shooting, he said, and another shooting left a young man dead not far from his front door. ''It really hurt me to see something like that,'' he said. ''Being over there makes you appreciate life in a whole different way, and then I got back and saw people fighting over petty stuff -- if they only knew what it was like being out there.''
 Mr. Colon was married last summer at a courthouse in Trenton, a small civil ceremony: just his wife, Karla; their twin baby daughters; his sister and her husband.
 ''And Mr. Gordon,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: RELATING: James Gordon, 64, a combat veteran of Vietnam, now counsels veterans at a center in Ewing.(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERANS (91%); IRAQ WAR (78%); HOSPITALS (73%); VETERANS HOSPITALS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (72%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (90%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



576 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CRUISE ISSUE THE GREEN TRAVELER; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Cruise Lines Urged to Shrink Their Footprints

BYLINE: By JENNIFER CONLIN

 BODY:
MOVING gently through pristine blue waters, floating past whales and glaciers, fjords and islands, it is easy to see why travelers might think a vacation on a cruise ship is more eco-friendly than jetting through the earth's atmosphere on a plane.
 Not so, according to Climate Care, a United Kingdom-based carbon-offsetting company, whose statistics show that cruise ships emit nearly twice as much carbon dioxide as airplanes. ''We now know they are far more polluting per passenger kilometer than planes,'' said Justin Francis, co-founder of Responsibletravel.com, a directory of environmentally friendly vacations that partners with Climate Care. ''Add to that the fact that many passengers fly to the port of departure before boarding,'' he said, ''and you have a double carbon whammy.'' 
 According to environmentalists, carbon dioxide emissions are just a drop in the ocean when it comes to eco problems on luxury liners. Most ships run on so-called bunker fuel, the cheapest and dirtiest fuel oil, which not only powers the vessel, but also all the amenities on board: restaurants, swimming pools and nightclubs among them. Royal Caribbean will launch its largest ship yet this year, the Oasis of the Seas with a capacity of 5,400 passengers, and its amenities will include a microclimate-controlled Central Park, with irrigation and drainage systems, as well as trees that will tower more than two and a half decks high. 
 Then there is the issue of waste. A one-week voyage on a large ship is estimated to produce 210,000 gallons of sewage, a million gallons of gray water (runoff from sinks, baths, showers, laundry and galleys), 25,000 gallons of oily bilge water, 11,550 gallons of sewage sludge and more than 130 gallons of hazardous wastes, according to figures supplied by the environmental group Friends of the Earth. 
 Marcie Keever, director of the Clean Vessels Campaign of Friends of the Earth, said, ''These are floating cities that go back and forth through our waters, dumping toxins from their enormous amount of waste.'' She added that cruise ships also pollute the coast lines (affecting marine life, beaches and coral reefs), as well as the air (sulfur dioxide and nitrogen oxide emissions from their massive engines). Or as Mr. Francis bluntly put it, ''The cruise line industry's record on environmental pollution is generally very poor.''
 Still, some positive environmental news is beginning to emerge from these murky waters. Thanks to increased pressure from the Environmental Protection Agency, as well as various environmental campaign groups, stricter state and federal regulations are being passed. As of this year, all ships have to burn low-sulfur diesel fuel instead of the cheaper bunker fuel within 24 nautical miles of California's coast, and there is proposed legislation to prohibit the discharge of raw sewage, gray water and oily bilge water within 12 miles of United States shores. What's more, a recent E.P.A. report assessing cruise ship discharges in Alaska (where standards are the most stringent), revealed that 60 percent of the ships tested were discharging concentrations of bacteria, chlorine, nutrients, metals and other pollutants -- a finding that may move the industry to invest even more heavily in the latest advanced waste-water treatment systems, particularly as the ships that passed the test all had that technology.
 ''It is definitely possible for them to clean up their act,'' said Ms. Keever of Friends of the Earth. ''And now that they know about it from the E.P.A. report, they should do something about it. They certainly have the ability to pay for it.'' 
 Cruising continues to be one of the fastest-growing areas of tourism, according to the Cruise Line International Association, an industry group that represents 95 percent of the worldwide market, and includes 23 cruise lines that total 200 ships. Terry Dale, chief executive officer of the association, said, ''Even in these tough economic times, we are forecasting that in 2009 a record 13.5 million people will take a cruise,'' adding that last year the industry was worth $38 billion, employing roughly 350,000 United States workers. ''As a leader in travel we feel we have to be industry stewards of the environment,'' he said. ''We are not sitting back, but rather trying hard to be proactive and meet the challenges.''
 To that end, the cruise industry is now pioneering various new green technologies. Princess Cruises uses ''cold ironing'' -- plugging ships into electrical power at ports -- in San Francisco; Juneau, Alaska; and Seattle. Norwegian Cruise Line introduced a recycling program in 2007, in which some 15,000 gallons of used cooking oil were offloaded and then converted into useable biodiesel for farming equipment in Florida. Disney Cruise Lines sponsors volunteer coastal cleanups to remove garbage and debris from shorelines. Holland America has started a Ship to Shore program in which reusable goods (linens, individually sized toiletries, dishes, mattresses) are donated to charities, as well as an Avoiding Whale Strikes program in which crews learn to assist in the recovery and ensure the safety of all whale species. 
 ''ALL our members have to have environmental policies and practices in place,'' Mr. Dale said, citing the on-board recycling programs of the association's ships, and investment in LED lighting, solar panels and high efficiency appliances. In addition, many cruise companies, including Carnival Corporation, have an environmental officer aboard all ships to monitor compliance. 
 ''We even have eco hangers on one line,'' he added, mentioning a program introduced last year on Crystal Cruises in which guests are encouraged to take home the recyclable hangers provided on board, to, as a press statement says, ''remind them both of the importance of conservationism and Crystal Cruises' stewardship of the environment.'' 
 Also on the rise are new technologies for smaller vessels. Ecoventura, a family-owned company in Ecuador that offers cruises in the Galapagos, recently unveiled one of the first hybrid-energy motor yachts. Sponsored by Toyota, a supporter of the World Wildlife Fund, the yacht, which sleeps 20, has 40 solar panels and two wind turbines on the upper deck, which should provide enough power to support roughly 17 percent of the energy formerly produced by two carbon fuel-based generators. 
 ''We know when it comes to vacations, cruising is the best deal financially for many people,'' said Ms. Keever, of Friends of the Earth. ''We just think travelers should try to choose one that is trying hard to do better environmentally.'' 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY EDEL RODRIGUEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRUISES (92%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (91%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); MARINE VESSELS (90%); MARINE MAMMALS (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (89%); WATER POLLUTION (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); COASTAL AREAS (88%); SEWERAGE SYSTEMS (86%); GLACIERS & ICEBERGS (78%); BEACHES (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); NITROGEN OXIDES (76%); GREENHOUSE GASES (76%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (75%); INDUSTRIAL POLLUTION (75%); CLIMATOLOGY (73%); STATISTICS (71%); CARBON OFFSETS (71%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (70%); DIESEL FUEL (68%); RESTAURANTS (66%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (64%); LEGISLATION (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EARTH (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED KINGDOM (90%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



577 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Chiding N.H.L. For Not Committing To 2014 Games

BYLINE: By JEFF Z. KLEIN and STU HACKEL

 BODY:
As president of the Russian Continental Hockey League and export chief executive of the state-owned fuel company Gazprom, Alexander Medvedev is a powerful man in two widely divergent fields. 
 This year, for example, he stopped the flow of natural gas to Europe during a price dispute with Ukraine while overseeing the league's investigation into the death of Alexei Cherepanov, the young Avangard Omsk forward and Rangers prospect. 
 But the two very different hats Medvedev wears are not really so different after all. Gazprom is a main sponsor of the Continental league, or K.H.L., which competes with the N.H.L. for top Russian and European players and has ambitious plans to expand beyond the borders of the former Soviet Union. Vladimir V. Putin, the prime minister, has identified the league as an instrument of Russian cultural policy. 
 Medvedev was in New York last week on Gazprom business, but he also tended to hockey matters, attending the Rangers-Capitals game at Madison Square Garden. A tall, fit 53-year-old -- he is an avid recreational player and plays on Gazprom's team, which is composed largely of former superstars like Vyacheslav Fetisov, Igor Larionov and Valery Kamensky -- Medvedev spoke about the issues confronting his league.
 Q. There is still no transfer agreement between the K.H.L. and the N.H.L. The N.H.L. says Alexander Radulov breached his contract last summer when he went from the Nashville Predators to Salavat Yulaev Ufa in Russia. Is your league talking with the N.H.L.?
 A. Actually all our discussions are on hold. And frankly speaking the Radulov case, which is brought as a reason for not progressing with talks, is artificial. We would like for every player, depending on his personal preference, ambitions, family circumstances, to be in a position to choose where to play.
 We have a very simple concept. It's necessary to create a two-way street that will enrich hockey in both Europe and North America. We're very committed to this idea, and frankly I'm not a little bit but seriously frustrated about where we stand with the N.H.L. 
 The last time I met Mr. Bettman was in November in Toronto, and unfortunately we didn't make any progress. (Gary Bettman is the N.H.L. commissioner.)
 'Instrument of Pressure'
 Q. The N.H.L. and the N.H.L. Players' Association have said that they won't make a decision until after the Vancouver Games on whether the league will suspend its schedule for the 2014 Games in Sochi, Russia. 
 A. I believe it is absolutely the wrong approach to use the Olympics as an instrument of pressure. It's a principle of understanding that the best players should play in the Olympics, wherever they are held. 
 I don't understand why the N.H.L. doesn't commit to Sochi now. O.K., so we don't have a good dialogue now, but we should think about the future of hockey. We can have disagreements. We know that the N.H.L. is interested in participating in the Champions Hockey League in Europe, and probably we'll find the terms and conditions for the N.H.L. to become a partner. That can open the door for discussions in other areas.
 Q. There have been reports that the economic crisis has caused some K.H.L. clubs to have trouble meeting payroll, and some have cut expenses. What is the league's financial situation?
 A. The league itself is on very, very solid ground, and we don't have any risk inside the league. But certain clubs, due to the situation with their owners and their sponsors, are facing problems. 
 I'm rather sure that all the clubs will finish the season and fulfill their obligations toward the players. We put together a comprehensive anticrisis plan that includes salary cap regulations and the temporary elimination of unrestricted free agency, but all that is subject to agreement by the players association.
 Ping-Pong Diplomacy
 Q. Some have blamed Russia and Gazprom for the cutoff of natural gas supplies to Ukraine and other parts of Europe earlier this year. Has that hindered the K.H.L.'s plans to expand into other countries?
 A. No. We are still open to having a Ukrainian team join the K.H.L. We believe that the K.H.L. has a big positive humanitarian impact. 
 Look, for example, at Dinamo Riga's participation in the league this season. Objectively relations between Russia and Latvia are not at the best level. But if we look at what's going on between Riga and other K.H.L. clubs -- fans are traveling, helping each other. It helps to improve overall environment. Hockey diplomacy could be much more effective than Ping-Pong diplomacy. 
 Q. At the Rangers-Capitals game on Wednesday, did you go into the dressing room to visit with Alexander Ovechkin, Sergei Fedorov and other Russian players?
 A. (laughing) Sometimes to go into the dressing room could have either positive or negative results. I don't know how to handle it here -- I know how to handle it in Russia. 
 But that game again demonstrated how important European players are for the N.H.L. If you don't see on the ice Lundqvist, Fedorov, Ovechkin, Zherdev and Naslund, then the game would be much more boring.
 Q. What do you see ahead for the relationship between the K.H.L. and the N.H.L.?
 A. I would like to stress that we are open for constructive dialogue with the N.H.L. I believe it would be the worst possible case to use legal reasons not to progress, and with good will we could find a solution. 
 Again, ideas of domination, not only in hockey but in politics, are outdated. If you look at Mr. Obama and the Russian president, Dmitri Medvedev, they share the view that only international cooperation can help solve the problems of economic and financial crisis. I suggest that the two leagues should follow the example of the political leaders.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Alexander Medvedev leads the K.H.L., which competes with the N.H.L. for top Russian and European players. (PHOTOGRAPH BY RUBY WASHINGTON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ICE HOCKEY (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); CELEBRITIES (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (65%); PRIME MINISTERS (54%)

COMPANY: OAO GAZPROM (93%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL HOCKEY LEAGUE (86%); NEW YORK RANGERS (83%); NASHVILLE PREDATORS (54%)

TICKER: OGZD (LSE) (93%); GAZP (RTS) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS486210 PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION OF NATURAL GAS (93%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (93%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (93%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (93%); SIC4923 NATURAL GAS TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (93%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (93%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) TENNESSEE, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); EUROPE (92%); UKRAINE (91%); UNITED STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



578 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 258 words

HEADLINE: THE WEEK AHEAD: FEB. 15 - FEB. 21: Theater

BYLINE: By BEN BRANTLEY

 BODY:
Theater
 Ben Brantley
 Those weepy Prozorov girls may never make it to Moscow in the play in which they appear. But oh, the places they've been in the century since Anton Chekhov conceived them. The latest stop for ''THE THREE SISTERS'': uptown Manhattan, where the estimable CLASSICAL THEATER OF HARLEM (in a co-production with Harlem Stage) puts its spin on this immortal study of shrinking expectations in the Russian provinces. Directed by Christopher McElroen, who reshaped Beckett's ''Waiting for Godot'' for post-Katrina New Orleans (where the show was staged al fresco), this ''Sisters'' features a powerhouse cast, including Roger Guenveur Smith (''A Huey P. Newton Story''), Reg E. Cathey, Earle Hyman and Carmen de Lavallade, with Sabrina LeBeauf, Amanda Mason Warren and Carmen Gill in the title roles. 
 Mr. McElroen's ''Sisters'' is but the latest entry in a New York season bursting with starry productions of Chekhov: ''The Seagull'' (on Broadway last fall), ''The Cherry Orchard'' (in repertory with ''The Winter's Tale'' at the Brooklyn Academy of Music) and ''Uncle Vanya'' (at the Classic Stage Company in the East Village). More and more, the melancholy strains of Chekhov at the turn of the 20th century -- with their currents of anxious expectation and bewilderment -- are sounding like the perfect theme music for the early 21st century in recession-era New York. Through March 8, Harlem Stage Gatehouse, 150 Convent Avenue, at 135th Street, Hamilton Heights, (212) 281-9240, ext. 19 or 20, classicaltheatreofharlem.org; $40.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Sabrina LeBeauf, Carmen Gill and Amanda Mason Warren in ''The Three Sisters.'' Standing from left are Philip Christian and Josh Tyson. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TROY HOURIE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); THEATER & DRAMA (90%); THEATER COMPANIES (79%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); HURRICANE KATRINA (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



579 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section TR; Column 0; Travel Desk; CRUISE ISSUE; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 3320 words

HEADLINE: Voyage to the Top Of the Continent

BYLINE: By PAUL SCHNEIDER. 
Paul Schneider's new book, ''Bonnie and Clyde: The Lives Behind the Legend,'' will be published by Henry Holt & Company this spring.

 BODY:
SETTING to sea in a howling midnight blizzard may not have the same romantic resonance as sailing off into the sunset, but it does have a certain elegance all its own. Crossing the dimly lighted docks in Bergen, Norway, on a November night, head hunched into collar and squinting against the furious flakes, I was in a perfectly balanced state between alarm and excitement. Here was travel the way it was back when everyone didn't travel: brave and cool, vaguely suspect, bracing and healthful. 
 My ship, the Vesteraalen, was bound up the North Atlantic coast of Norway, with 34 stops to the tiptop of Europe on the Arctic Sea -- a voyage that promised snowy fjords, towering mountains, northern lights and tiny fishing villages. From the final village, I had heard, a person can even see Russia, but I didn't feel like a vice president in the making; I felt like Zhivago embarking on one final glorious escape.
 There's more than one cheap way to go on a cruise, particularly in these darkening economic days. Some check in daily with travel agents, or bottom fish at CruiseCheap.com. But I, currently living in Florida and therefore in no need of sun, chose to sail north just as the days were growing noticeably short. 
 Every winter Hurtigruten, a Norwegian cruise fleet that is jammed to the gills with fjord frolickers in the summer, finds its ships undersubscribed. Since the line is under contract with the Norwegian government to deliver mail and cargo year round with its fleet -- most of its ships follow the same route as the Vesteraalen -- it cannot follow the other cruise lines to warmer waters and must cut its fares roughly by half. Periodically, it further offers a two-for-one ticket, promising room and board for two passengers for seven days (six nights) for about $1,500. And so it was that I found myself, with my sister, Bethany, in tow, stumbling through a snowstorm barely in time to make our 10:30 p.m. departure on the Vesteraalen.
 We had skipped dinner aboard the ship to explore Bergen, a cheerful little city that wraps around both sides of a pair of fjords, in our last hours before sailing. We had feasted there at Beyer 'en, a warm and elegant restaurant that specializes in delicious local ingredients. It had given me inordinate pleasure to be able to look up from my menu and say to the waitress, ''She'll start with the lamb from Hardinglam, and I'll have the lamb from Flaam.'' Bethany and I were still repeating this silly rhyme a couple of hours later as we stood out on the high aft deck of the Vesteraalen watching Bergen drop away, flakes swirling around us, and the twinkling lights of the city intermittently disappearing and reappearing behind gusts of snow. It was magical and epic to be sailing away in all that swirl. And really, really cold. 
 Back inside it was warm, but we soon discovered that the Vesteraalen was no floating pleasure palace. ''What I would like to say very politely is that this is not a cruise ship,'' Egbert Pijfers, the extremely tall officer in charge of keeping the passengers informed in Norwegian, English and German, told me. ''We have no casino, and there is no shuffleboard. So very politely I'd like to say it is a sea voyage on a working vessel with cargo and local passengers.'' 
 That's just the way most of the people on the Vesteraalen seemed to like it. ''We had been on a cruise with Hurtigruten once before,'' explained a gentleman from Hamburg, who was one of several repeat passengers on the ship, ''and we liked the no-nonsense atmosphere.'' His wife nodded in affirmation. 
 As the only Americans aboard, my sister and I may have started out with a higher appetite for nonsense than any of the sturdy Northern Europeans who made up most of the passenger list. Very politely, I'd like to say that in our first prowl around the ship that would be our home for a week, the ''no nonsense'' seemed a dram overbearing. 
 We found a promising room called the Salong Vesteralstuen, with a miniature dance floor and ring of booths and bar tables, but it was dark and empty, and the curtains of the bar were tightly drawn. In the Salong Trollfjorden, or Troll Fjord Lounge, which was a sort of Naugahyde men's clubroom with long-haired tapestries, several graying couples who had been speaking German to one another nodded at our hellos and then stared at us silently. In the glassed-in Panorama lounge, the observation salon at the top of the ship, there was another bar, but it was closed up tight. 
 The two-for-one sale obviously had failed to produce a windfall of takers. The Vesteraalen, 350 feet long and built to hold 540 people, with 147 cabins, was carrying fewer than 40 passengers staying in berths plus another few dozen locals who got on for a stop or two and mostly stayed put in the booths of the cafe, which was open all night.
 This low occupancy was normal for the winter, Mr. Pijfers told us later, and is even more pronounced on Vesteraalen's larger sister ships like the Midnatsol, which is built for 1,000 passengers. ''Oh ja,'' he said, towering over us from behind his desk. ''Thirty or 40 people on a boat like Midnatsol is not so cozy. It is better to be on this boat in winter.''
 Soon it occurred to us that an empty boat meant empty cabins that might be bigger than the one we'd paid for. Ours was perfectly clean and functional and the beds comfortable enough, and we would have thought nothing of it had the boat been full, or even if we had been with our respective partners rather than our disrespectful siblings. But neither pertained. ''You could just ask,'' Bethany said. 
 I screwed up my courage and headed out to the reception desk to talk to a fellow who looked in his uniform to be about 14 years old but could have been twice that age, and who cheerfully moved us into a triple. He wore his hair tight to his head except directly in front, where a patch of bangs stood straight up in the air like a snowdrift. Perhaps it was a mystical premonition of what we were to read later that evening, but as I thanked him, something made me think of an elf.
 We celebrated by buying a nightcap in the cafeteria and repairing to our spacious new cabin where I read aloud ''The Seeress's Prophecy'' from ''The Poetic Edda,'' a collection of Norse stories told in verse that was the only Norwegian literature besides Ibsen that was available in my home bookstore. It's a hallucinatory tale of giants, elves, trolls and dwarves in a land deeply confused about its relationship to the sun. ''Fili and Kili and Bivor and Bombur?'' I mused, ''Gee, I always thought Tolkien made up his own names for the dwarves in 'The Lord of the Rings.' '' 
 Overnight the snow broke up into squalls that came and went as the ship traveled through classic fjord land of otherworldly beauty. We'd seen pictures of the fjords as green canyons of summer, but with a winter fog hanging low and the water various shades of gray below, the views from the ship were surprisingly modernist. It was a world of clean horizontals -- water meeting the land, vapors meeting the tops of the fjord walls -- bisected occasionally by a plunging curve of cliff or the tumultuous vertical of a frozen waterfall. Add to this the snow that periodically blotted out the scene, and the total effect was mesmerizing. It was easy, we thought, to see where the Norwegian affinity for crisp and spare design found its inspiration.
 Periodically we went out on deck, where the same view en plein (howling) air made it equally easy to see how locals of an earlier vintage might have found inspiration to say, ''Hey, Harbard, what say we get your longboat and head south for a little, you know, heh, heh, heh, plunder?''
 The vast and nearly empty Panorama lounge, with its long rows of comfortable booths along the windows on either side, was the perfect place to sit and revel in the passing scenery. The mountains plunging into the fjord waters were always changing enough to be interesting, but never so rapidly as to make you worry about missing something. The result was hypnotic in the same very good way that driving across the Painted Desert or the Dakotas can be. There was time to sit and watch and dream up all manner of stories about the people who might live in the improbable little dwellings that look weirdly like Midwest farmhouses, or the lives lived there in the distant past. There was time, too, for reading thick novels, for writing old-fashioned letters, or, in the case of some fellow passengers, knitting long scarves. There was time to let go of time.
 Hurtigruten vessels don't tarry; in most towns the ship docked for an hour or less, giving us just enough time to stroll up and down the main street. Every day, however, we docked in at least one town for a stretch of several hours. 
 On our first day we signed up for the architecture tour of Alesund, a major fishing town that burned to the ground in 1904 and was rebuilt almost entirely in the Art Nouveau style. The town's sturdy stonework is gaily decorated, though in suitably restrained Norwegian fashion, but here and there it is a bit overwrought and fortresslike, and we decided that it might have been the work of Fili and Kili, the dwarves of the Edda.
 By this line of reasoning, the next day's town, Trondheim, had clearly been constructed by elves. There, beside the River Nid, ancient wooden houses of various hues huddled together in the intermittent snow. (A cargo of wood from Vinland, the Norse colony thought to have existed briefly on the shores of what is now eastern Canada, was sold here around A.D. 1000, according to the official Hurtigruten guidebook, and is said to have been the first American export to Europe.) Slim-hipped women wearing leggings and furry boots, tuniclike parkas and pointy Nordic caps walked on snowy streets in the company of handsome wiry men who were similarly attired. Even the cathedral fed our fantasy; from certain locations its magnificently simple cone of a spire, flanked on either side by smaller pointed towers, looked for all the world like a giant cap and ears peeking up over the rooftops. Imagining ourselves in a suburb of Santa's Workshop, we stepped into the steamy Dromedar Kaffebar for a sweet and rich mocha. 
 We might have stayed in Trondheim happily for a day or forever, but the Vesteraalen was sailing. Not for the last time did we wish we had bought a ticket that allowed us to catch the next day's boat, a service the line offers. We wished it again later that same night, in fact, when Mr. Pijfers announced that the ship would be delayed in the protected waters outside Trondheim because of the weather. There was a hurricane, he said, and swells in the seas that we needed to cross were predicted to be from 12 to 24 meters high.
 ''If you know that I am exactly two meters tall,'' he said when we asked for details (that's nearly 6-foot-8), ''then you can imagine six of me.'' That is a lot of wave, and he was being modest: the prediction put the seas as high as 12 Mr. Pijfers. 
 ''A hurricane?'' I asked, thinking like most North Americans of a late summer storm out of the Atlantic. ''Did it come up the coast of America and across?'' 
 ''Oh no,'' he said. ''This is a hurricane from the North Pole.'' 
 The storm caused us to skip the port where we could have gone ashore to a Viking re-enactment feast. We were not heartbroken; only six people had signed up, and as Mr. Pijfers said, ''A Viking Feast with only so few is not very cozy.'' We went instead in circles for 10 hours, surrounded on two sides by snowy mountains and on the third side, between us and the raging sea, by a band of low rocks. It was pitch black by 4 p.m., and we retreated to our cabin to sample the various aquavits we had bought in Trondheim. 
 The savvy Hurtigruten traveler always tipples before meals. There is plenty of food in the dining room, much of it of the smoked fish variety and all of it very good. (A week will raise your omega oils to a level that will get you through next summer and beyond.) But no one orders drinks, or even sodas, which are absurdly priced. Instead, everyone disappears a half-hour before dinner to have a glass of wine or whatever in their cabin. We didn't figure this out until Trondheim, where in a spirit of cultural exchange we bought the aquavit. ''We drink this one with fish,'' said the helpful sales-elf as she handed us a bottle of clear liquid. ''And we drink this one with meat,'' she said pointing to a beautiful amber bottle. ''And this one is for after dinner.'' When we asked, on the strength of the food recommendations, if we should have it actually with our meal, she said, ''Oh, no, drink it like schnapps, in a shot or three, and chase it with beer.''
 The aquavit was light and delicious and got us happily through the rest of the trip, though the Edda poetry we read that pre-hurricane evening told a cautionary tale of a beautiful giantess who drank too much and regretted it. 
 The hurricane rocked and rolled our ship to the point where we had to get up in the middle of the night and batten down the half-read novels that were banging around the cabin. But it also blew away the squalls and blizzards, and we awoke to a clear cloudless dawn sometime after 10 a.m., when the sun finally hauled itself over the horizon. The snowy peaks we had seen in the far inland distance the day before now rose only one row behind the fjord walls, and in some cases directly out of the sea. The glorious and forbidding North was upon us. 
 Sometime during the next few days we passed an astounding mountain with a hole right through the middle of it. It seemed impossible that it might be a natural phenomenon, and Mr. Pijfers explained that it was said to have gotten that way when an amorous troll was chasing a beautiful giantess and an arrow was shot, a hat was thrown and there was some defensive business with a rolling pin, and then the sun came up and it all turned to stone. It made perfect sense when he said it. No longer merely breathtakingly beautiful, the winter landscape on either side of the ship was now lovely and mysterious in the dangerous way that makes you yearn to know it better but wonder if you're really up for what it might demand in exchange. We were happy to be safely aboard. 
 Everyone came out on deck as we passed a magnificent snowy range named the Seven Sisters and saw the crests of their braids catching the rays of a sun that by that point didn't bother to come above the horizon at all. When the sun does that kind of thing -- when dawn lasts a couple of golden hours followed by dusk lasting a couple of reddish hours with nothing in between -- it's hard to keep track of time. Somewhere along the way we had crossed the Arctic Circle, and in the Salong Vesteralstuen, were presented with certificates and shots of aquavit. Somewhere else we huddled against the warmth of the smokestack up on the aft deck and looked at the northern lights half the night -- a blush of green that came and went over the ghostly winter landscape like a false promise of spring. We visited a little town where old lady elves kick-pushed themselves along the streets on personal standup sleds.
 Near Tromso, we went dog sledding in the dark, flying over fresh snow, up and down hills, looking at the lights of the town spread along the water in the distance and laughing all the way at the good fortune that brought us here to sit under a reindeer skin behind a dozen relentlessly cheerful pups. Three hundred dogs howling and barking and baying and otherwise begging in the moonlight to be included in the sledding adventure was memorable, but the sledding itself was worth the trip all the way from America.
 Back on board, by the time we were approaching the northernmost point of Europe, the almost comically dramatic cliffs overlooking the Arctic Ocean known as the Nordkapp, or North Cape, we'd made friends with many of our fellow passengers, even the Germans from the Troll Lounge, who as soon as they discovered we spoke a bit of their language were revealed to be huge fans of America.
 Then there was the couple we called ''the mysterious newlyweds,'' a pair of cooing lovers from somewhere that doesn't speak Norwegian, English or German. By apparent virtue of their romantic status they were the only passengers assigned to a private table every evening at dinner. 
 ''Yes, we are just married,'' the groom said when I cornered them at last in the cafe and asked how they came to be spending their honeymoon on the Vesteraalen in winter. The bride smiled in an adorable way. ''We are engineers from Madrid, and we wanted not just to go to the beach or something. But somewhere different.'' 
 I refrained from asking if the prospect of 20-hour-long nights had fit into the honeymoon calculus, instead inquiring whether they had found what they came for. 
 ''Yes it has been ... ,'' the groom began, and then stumbled a bit with the English. The bride picked up where he left off, saying, ''All of our dreams of this trip have turned out to be true.'' 
 Thinking about it later, I realized I could almost have said the same thing myself. Almost, because secretly I really would have liked to have seen an iceberg. But that will have to wait for next winter, when I just may go to the South Pole.
 NORSE LEGEND AND ARCTIC REFLECTION
 THE CRUISE
 As a part of its contract with the government to deliver mail and freight along Norway's Atlantic coast, the Hurtigruten ship line, which is primarily a passenger line, aims to have one northbound and one southbound ship visit each of the 35 ports along its route every day of the year. Because the boats are nearly empty of passengers in winter, a traveler at this time of year can count on finding a voyage on a compatible schedule. 
 At the home port of Bergen, the southernmost port on the route, many passengers board one of the 11 Hurtigruten ships that make this run and disembark, as my sister and I did, six days later at Kirkenes, the last stop. From Kirkenes, flights are available back to the south. Those who book passage for the full 12-day round trip on Hurtigruten are rewarded by seeing the ports that were visited in the middle of the night on the northbound voyage during the day on the southbound trip. 
 The current base price per person for a double berth is $654 one way and $1,194 round trip, but special promotions, like the two-for-one winter deal, are common. For information, call (866) 552-0371 or visit www.hurtigruten.us. Prices for trips that allow you to stay in various towns for a day or two of sightseeing and cross-country skiing must be individually calculated. (There may also be a fuel surcharge.) 
 Excursions on land can be booked on board the ship. A dog-sledding trip at Tromso was 900 kroner a person (about $130 at 7 kroner to the dollar) in October, and a trip to the North Cape was 665 kroner.
 Some of the additional cost of the 12-day round-trip may be recouped in cheaper airfare, since a round trip on the ship allows you to buy a round-trip airline ticket to Bergen.
 GETTING THERE 
 United/SAS recently offered fares from Newark to the Bergen airport for $602, and Northwest had one for $676. (Lufthansa, KLM, Continental and British Airways fly to Bergen from Kennedy Airport.) A search for flights from New York to Bergen one way and then back to New York from Kirkenes and connecting cities found a ticket on United for $730, but all of the other options were over $900.
 FOOD AND DRINK
 At Beyer'en in Bergen (Rosenkrantzgaten 8; 47-53-05-15-00), the Flaam lamb entree is 285 kroner and the Hardinglam appetizer is 130 kroner. In Trondheim, at Dromedar Kaffebar (Nedre Bakklandet 3; 47-73-502-502), the mocha, called kaffechoc, costs 42 kroner.
 READING
 ''The Poetic Edda,'' the ancient book of Norse mythology, is available in several versions, including a translation by Carolyne Larrington (Oxford, 1999). 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: FAR FROM LEFT: It's not all Ibsen on the Finnmarken, where a little ice down the collar celebrates crossing the Arctic Circle, a passenger can soak in a hot tub in the cold air, and shipmates can enjoy a chat over breakfast.
 ABOVE: The austere Norwegian coast draws a breed of no-nonsense traveler in winter. BELOW: Alesund is among the ports of call for liners like the Vesteraalen and Finnmarken.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRIS RAMIREZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)(pg. TR11) MAP Map details area of Norway. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (89%); CRUISES (89%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); FISHES (74%); RESTAURANTS (65%); TRAVEL AGENTS (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); ARCTIC OCEAN (79%) NORWAY (95%); ARCTIC (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



580 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 141 words

HEADLINE: California High-Speed Rail

 BODY:
High-speed trains are increasingly common in Asia and Europe, but they have yet to make it to the United States. Now Californians are trying to change that. In November, California's voters approved a measure authorizing $10 billion in borrowing to begin work on an 800-mile high-speed train capable of going more than twice as fast as the average speed of the Acela trains on the East Coast, and which could make the trip from San Francisco to Los Angeles in 2 hours and 40 minutes. Supporters say that the plan would reduce congestion on highways and at airports and invigorate the economy; skeptics question whether the plan makes economic sense. The final bill includes $8 billion for high-speed rail; but there are 11 regions that could compete for the money, which would at most be a small down payment on what promises to be a costly project. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: $45 billion 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SPEED TRAINS (92%); TRAINS (90%); APPROVALS (88%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); ASIA (90%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



581 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2720 words

HEADLINE: Taking the Wheel as Toyota Skids

BYLINE: By MICHELINE MAYNARD

DATELINE: DETROIT 

 BODY:
 THE Japanese phrase genchi genbutsu translates as ''go to the spot'' -- in other words, ''see it for yourself.'' Few executives embrace that philosophy as completely as Akio Toyoda, who is slated to become the next president of the Toyota Motor Corporation.
 Last summer, during a trip so secret that Toyota's public relations staff didn't know he was here, Mr. Toyoda visited a dealership in Ann Arbor, Mich., and decided to satisfy his curiosity about a pickup truck recall.
 Still wearing his business suit, he got down on his hands and knees on the warm blacktop to examine the undercarriage of one of the trucks, shocking his American hosts, who didn't expect a corporate V.I.P. to be so hands-on. 
 They, and everyone else at Toyota, had better get used to it.
 In June, Mr. Toyoda will take charge of a renowned company facing its most serious setback since a crisis in the early 1950s forced his grandfather, Kiichiro Toyoda, to give up control of the carmaker he founded in 1937. 
 The momentum that allowed Toyota to become the world's biggest and richest carmaker is screeching to a halt. It's set to report billion-dollar losses for 2008, a stunning reversal from the record annual profits it earned earlier this decade. 
 In the United States, its biggest car market, unsold Toyotas are piling up on storage lots while dealers, once used to waiting lists of eager customers, grapple with sales that have plunged by a third.
 Inside Toyota, the situation is being referred to as ''the emergency,'' with top management canceling routine meetings and trips to focus on overcoming a global auto slump. On Thursday, Toyota said worker buyouts, possibly shorter workweeks and executive pay reductions would be part of urgent cost-cutting.
 At a news conference last month announcing his appointment, Mr. Toyoda put managers on notice that he will pop up everywhere, just as he did in Ann Arbor. ''I have assumed the huge responsibility of steering Toyota at a time when we're facing a once-in-a-century crisis,'' he said. ''Given the circumstances, I take my responsibility very seriously.''
 All of this is far more challenging than anyone at Toyota anticipated even a year ago. Early this month, Toyota forecast a $3.9 billion net loss for the 2008 fiscal year, which ends in March, the first time it has lost money since 1950. It expects an even deeper operating loss of about $5 billion, its first since it was founded.
 The dismal financial news came only days after Toyota confirmed rumors that Mr. Toyoda, after a 25-year apprenticeship, would finally become its next president, replacing Katsuaki Watanabe, who has held the job since 2005, and who will become vice chairman.
 The prospect of deep losses and the abrupt announcement that a Toyoda would return to power, after people from outside the family had run the company for 14 years, have jolted the auto giant in the same way that looming bankruptcy has rattled Detroit automakers.
 ''The financial crisis and the economy are intertwined, and the crisis is expanding significantly faster, wider and deeper than we expected,'' Mr. Watanabe wrote in an e-mail message in response to questions.
 Even before Mr. Watanabe hands off the top job at the company to Mr. Toyoda, pieces of Toyota's response to the crisis are being rolled out. 
 Toyota, which has been on a steep growth curve this decade, has put new plants on hold, including a factory under construction in Blue Springs, Miss., that was supposed to open next year. The company plans to cut spending by 10 percent and is letting many temporary workers go; permanent workers thus far have been protected by a lifetime employment policy. 
 Toyota is also rethinking its lineup of cars for every region of the world and accelerating offerings of more environmentally friendly vehicles. And it's already planning for 2030, when it envisions a world in which hybrid vehicles -- and other types, like those that run on hydrogen -- dominate the roads as traditional internal combustion engines fade in importance.
 Toyota doesn't plan to seek government support, either in Japan or elsewhere, Mr. Watanabe said. That fact alone illustrates the gap between Toyota and its American counterparts.
 ''G.M., Ford and Chrysler are trying to survive,'' says John Paul MacDuffie, an associate professor of management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. ''All Toyota is trying to do is survive a downturn.'' 
 To do so, Toyota will rely on someone who has been groomed for this job for much of his adult life.
 ALONG with his last name, reminders of Mr. Toyoda's heritage are ubiquitous in Japan. A bust of his look-alike grandfather sits in front of Toyota's soaring glass headquarters in Toyota City, about 30 miles outside Nagoya.
 The original office building where Toyota was founded is near Nagoya's bustling train station, while the traditional Japanese home of the company patriarch, Sakichi Toyoda, is on display in Toyoda City. 
 These days, the Toyoda family -- which spelled its companies' names differently so they would be easier to write in Japanese characters -- holds only a small fraction of Toyota stock. 
 But the family still wields a powerful influence at Toyota. Mr. Toyoda insists that nepotism was not behind his elevation, and he is also quick to point out that he is captive to his family's legacy.
 ''I really did not have a choice to be born with the Toyoda surname,'' he said on the day he was named as Toyota's next president. 
 Even if his last name were different, Mr. Toyoda's appointment would set him apart, however. At 52, he is still relatively young to become a Japanese chief executive. (Mr. Watanabe, who turned 67 on Friday, was 63 when he was promoted.)
 Mr. Toyoda is fluent in English, perfected when he earned his M.B.A. at Babson College in Wellesley, Mass., and during the years he spent in New York, working as an investment banker and management consultant and living around the corner from the Frick Collection.
 Unlike other Japanese executives, who rely on interpreters even when they understand a foreign language, Mr. Toyoda is content to operate in English, using it in speeches, interviews and, according to Professor MacDuffie, even at the training programs that Wharton conducts in Japan.
 At one recent Wharton session, Mr. Toyoda cracked jokes and eschewed a formal presentation for an off-the-cuff talk. He seemed ''very much a part of the younger generation,'' Professor MacDuffie said. 
 Not surprisingly, Toyota's American executives, who are struggling with their deepest sales decline in a generation, can't wait for him to take charge. 
 ''Akio is a very, very good leader,'' says James Lentz, president of Toyota Motor Sales U.S.A., the company's sales arm here. ''He's passionate about the company, and passionate about the people at the company.''
 Mr. Lentz met Mr. Toyoda in 1995, when he was general manager of Toyota's San Francisco region, and Mr. Toyoda was a planner and administrator at a plant in Fremont, Calif., that was a joint venture with General Motors. 
 Late one Friday night, there was a quiet knock on Mr. Lentz's office door. Not expecting a guest, he opened it to find Mr. Toyoda, who had come from Fremont to pick up a car to use for the weekend. 
 Mr. Lentz got another surprise when he discovered that Mr. Toyoda was accompanied by his father, Shoichiro, then Toyota's chairman, who had traveled to America, unannounced, to visit his son.
 Drop-ins continue to be part of Mr. Toyoda's routine. In recent months, he has frequently called on Mark Templin, the general manager of Toyota's Lexus luxury division, and one of the company's most prominent American leaders, to discuss the future of Lexus. 
 In January, Toyota announced that Lexus would develop its first vehicle to be exclusively designed as a hybrid. Mr. Templin hinted that other dedicated hybrids, and perhaps a premium small car like the Mini Cooper, also may be in store for Lexus. 
 Mr. Templin, who regularly visits Mr. Toyoda in Japan, describes the Toyota headquarters desk of his boss as ''full of paper.'' Mr. Toyoda's office is much smaller than those favored by American chief executives, says Mr. Templin, who adds that he has been impressed by Mr. Toyoda's effort over decades to learn all aspects of the company's operations. 
 Along with his assignment at the Fremont joint venture, Mr. Toyoda has run Toyota's operations in China and Japan and started a Web site aimed at young Japanese consumers called Gazoo.com. The site, originally meant as a way to market Toyota's used cars, has since morphed into a popular social network.
 Mr. Toyoda was named to the company board in 2000, which put him in regular contact with all of Toyota's senior leaders, and joined their ranks in 2005, when he became an executive vice president. (The ascent hasn't been without a few glitches. Not long after becoming a board member, Mr. Toyoda lost the gold lapel pin bearing the original Toyota emblem that all directors wear each day. His status as a family member won him no special treatment, he confided last year in an interview: like everyone else, he had to pay for a replacement.)
 Mr. Toyoda also acquired a deep interest in his company's automobiles, spending hours each month for the last decade testing new cars. In 2007, he even drove a four-hour stint as part of a Toyota racing team in Germany. 
 ''The Toyoda family is still kind of golden'' in Japan, says Jeffrey K. Liker, an engineering professor at the University of Michigan and the author of a series of books about Toyota. ''The president is the face of the company, and this time, it may be important to have the right kind of face.''
 ALTHOUGH Mr. Toyoda plans to respect Toyota's corporate traditions as the company's new president, he intends to be his own man.
 ''I also will not be tied to the past,'' he said during the news conference. ''I will do my utmost to be as bold as possible.'' 
 His first moves are expected to include naming a new management team. One adviser could be Yoshi Inaba, the former head of Toyota's North American operations. 
 Also fluent in English, Mr. Inaba played a role in Mr. Toyoda's tutelage and became a familiar figure with Toyota's dealers in the United States. Once considered a leading candidate to become president himself, Mr. Inaba left Toyota to become an airport executive after he lost the job to Mr. Watanabe.
 Mr. Toyoda also is expected to call on his father for advice, although Shoichiro Toyoda is expected to leave Toyota's board when his son becomes president. (Inside Toyota, Mr. Toyoda is called Akio-san to distinguish him from his father, now a robust 84, who is known as Dr. Toyoda or merely Dr. T.)
 The relationship between the two men has not always been easy. Mr. Toyoda, who is Shoichiro Toyoda's only son (he has one sister), did not show an interest in joining the company until he was 28, or several years after most new hires.
 Mr. Toyoda, whose father was president from 1982 to 1992, said in an interview in Toyota City last year that he had a complex, dual relationship with the man who was both his father and his supervisor at Toyota.
 But senior company executives, who asked not to be identified because they were not authorized to speak for the company about board matters, speculated that there were two reasons the father believed the time was right for his son's promotion: The elder Mr. Toyoda wants to be in good health when his son takes over so he can provide counsel, and he wants his son to manage the company through a downturn, and potentially enjoy the reputational benefits of a rebound.
 Akio Toyoda is not expected to turn the company upside down. Toyota is governed by a series of management principles that collectively represent the ''Toyota Way'' -- practices that focus on consensus management, continuous production improvements and in-depth investigations before any strategic shifts occur. 
 For all of its sophistication as a company, Toyota embarked on its global expansion only about a decade ago. Two successive presidents, Hiroshi Okuda and Fujio Cho, who preceded Mr. Watanabe, set the company on a trajectory that made it the world's largest auto company, a title it took from G.M. last year.
 Mr. Watanabe continued the push during the last few years, opening new plants in Texas and Ontario, and starting construction on the plant in Mississippi. 
 But critics say Mr. Watanabe misjudged the economic downturn, and shouldn't have pursued new initiatives like the Mississippi factory. Mr. Watanabe, however, insists the factory, intended to build the hybrid-electric Prius, was not a mistake. 
 He said by e-mail that Toyota still expected the American market to grow, and that there was ''no doubt'' that it will recover at some point. ''For this reason, Toyota believes its investment in the Mississippi plant is essential,'' he said.
 Even though it cut Toyota's debt rating this month, Standard & Poor's Ratings Services said the company could withstand a one- to two-year sales slump, as long as its cash, believed to be around $55 billion, holds out. 
 ''Toyota boasts a formidable degree of competitiveness among global auto manufacturers,'' Osamu Kobayashi, an analyst with the agency, said in a research report. ''We view Toyota as being better positioned than other global auto manufacturers to cope.''
 During Mr. Watanabe's tenure, Toyota posted successive years of record profits, including about $18.8 billion in earnings in 2007. At that time, Toyota had a market capitalization of nearly $200 billion; it's now about half that, but still dwarfs all of the Detroit auto companies combined.
 Some of Mr. Watanabe's other efforts will make it easier for Mr. Toyoda to run things. He revamped quality controls after a spate of recalls and reorganized engineering operations to design cars for a global marketplace rather than simply taking Japanese models and adapting them for buyers overseas. 
 Mr. Watanabe cites 11 research and development centers around the world, including a new safety facility in Ann Arbor, as important parts of his legacy.
 ''Toyota's R.& D. investment is based on expected returns over the medium to long term, rather than from a short-term perspective,'' he said. ''Technology, including design and product development, is necessary for Toyota's growth.''
 Mr. Watanabe, long an advocate for environmentally friendly vehicles, said Toyota was watching how the world's governments act on climate change. 
 ''Toyota does expect that policies that promote growth with a balance between economics and the environment, such as the Obama administration's green initiatives, will be implemented not only in the U.S. but also in other countries around the world,'' he said. 
 AS Mr. Toyoda prepares to become president, one critical change awaits: opening Toyota's management doors to outsiders. 
 Despite its rapid growth in the United States and Europe, and an increasingly global viewpoint, Toyota remains a Japan-centric company, dominated by Japanese managers, who have yet to give significant, lasting authority to their foreign counterparts. 
 Two Americans who rose to high-ranking positions this decade -- James E. Press and Gary L. Convis -- left for top jobs at other companies, Mr. Press at Chrysler and Mr. Convis at the Dana Holding Corporation, an auto supplier.
 Mr. Toyoda, schooled overseas, may push for more diversity, says Professor Liker. He also expects Mr. Toyoda to be a much more visible presence internationally than Mr. Watanabe, who never had a major assignment outside Japan before becoming president and made relatively few trips overseas while in the job.
 By contrast, Mr. Toyoda's learning curve has included trips to Washington. And he has dined with influential lawmakers like Senator John D. Rockefeller IV, a friend of his father and a West Virginia Democrat whose state is home to a Toyota engine plant.
 Professor Liker predicts that Mr. Toyoda will be a globe trotter. Beyond that, his ascent signals that his family wants to return to basics as it confronts an uncertain future. 
 Despite the gloom surrounding the industry, Mr. Toyoda has the opportunity to ''take everything that looks bad, and use it as an opportunity to learn,'' Professor MacDuffie said. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Imported vehicles sit at the Port of Newark, waiting for their turn to gather dust at dealerships. Toyota Motor is starting to feel the downturn that has hobbled its American counterparts.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ACKER/BLOOMBERG NEWS)
Akio Toyoda
Toyota believes alternative cars, like the Prius hybrid, above, will dominate the roads by 2030.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ALEX WONG/GETTY IMAGES)
Toyota's leaders, from left: Katsuaki Watanabe, president
Akio Toyoda, future president
 and Fujio Cho, past president.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KIMIMASA MAYAMA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY)(pg. BU6) CHART: As Good as It Gets?: Toyota is expecting a rough year, even though its market share of cars sold in the United States has continued to climb.(Source: MotorIntelligence.com) Chart details line graph for market share.(pg. BU6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (77%); MOTOR VEHICLES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RECALLS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); COMPANY PROFITS (70%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (62%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (56%)

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (85%)

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (85%); TM (NYSE) (85%); 7203 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



582 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section LI; Column 0; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: In a Downturn, a Growth Opportunity?

BYLINE: By JAN ELLEN SPIEGEL

DATELINE: RIDGEFIELD, Conn. 

 BODY:
 THE curving hilltop farm fields of the Hickories, which would seem to explain how this town got its name, are snow-covered the first week in February, with only skeletons of peach trees and raspberry canes as reminders of their summer abundance. This means it is the perfect time to be talking about summer community-supported agriculture.
 Known as C.S.A., the distribution system in which people buy shares in return for a weekly allotment of local fresh farm food has never been more popular in New York, New Jersey and Connecticut. The dead of winter is a kind of high season because that is when farmers open registration for their coveted membership slots as part of preparation for the growing season.
 But this year, as farmers wrestle with how to activate more people from their waiting lists, which are sometimes longer than the membership rolls, there is an extra wrinkle: trying to divine how the economic meltdown will affect enthusiasm for the C.S.A. system. 
 ''I'm hoping that this is an answer for a lot of people's concerns right now,'' said Dina Brewster, who farms the Hickories, her family's farm since 1936, with her friend Rob Kelly. ''As they rethink their budget, this should be a better idea than it looked last year, not a worse idea.''
 With the conviction that even with most share prices rising, a C.S.A. is still a good economic deal as well as a way of addressing environmental and food safety concerns and of satisfying a desire for fresh local food, Ms. Brewster and Mr. Kelly expect to triple the size of their three-year-old C.S.A. They hope to go to 150 shares from 50 shares, many of which will come from their 300-person waiting list. 
 Last year, the Hickories' 50 shares sold out in 16 minutes. This year, like other farmers around the region bracing for the midwinter registration scramble, Ms. Brewster and Mr. Kelly are altering their farm model to better accommodate C.S.A. needs, sometimes at the expense of higher-paying, but riskier retail operations like selling at farmers' markets or directly to restaurants.
 ''When we looked at the different ways we have to sell the vegetables that we sell and how it went, the C.S.A. just came up tops in a few really critical ways,'' Mr. Kelly said. ''So we decided that this year we would focus on that first and just try to build the rest around that.''
 The system typically requires payment in advance, generally between $500 and $800, depending on delivery method and length of season. This acts as a safety net for farmers whose cash flow can trickle to nothing in the winter. It helps them avoid growing excess produce that they might have to get rid of at low wholesale prices.
 ''It's an interest-free loan,'' said Jack Rabin, associate director of farm programs for the Rutgers Cooperative Extension in New Jersey. ''If the farm is struck by hail, you apologize; you don't go to the poorhouse.''
 But Mr. Rabin and others noted that the system is not for everyone. Farmers have to be willing to spend time with customers who come for pickup, since that's what many feel they're paying for. Crop plans have to be more precise so that produce is staggered evenly. ''It's a totally different paradigm of running a farm,'' he said.
 But it is one that, at least anecdotally, farmers seem to think is to their advantage in this year's down economy.
 Patti Popp, the owner of Sport Hill Farm in Easton, Conn., for example, doubled her shares to about 75 and was sold out by Jan. 1. ''It is amazing to me,'' said Ms. Popp, who is giving up farmers' markets to accommodate the C.S.A. ''At least I know I have X amount of dollars this year, so I can base everything from that point.''
 Eve Kaplan-Walbrecht of Garden of Eve in Riverhead, N.Y., now has 700 shares, accounting for about 70 percent of the farm's business. ''Last week I had a big stack of bills on my desk,'' she said. ''There was $1,000 in my checking account, but I knew we had $8,000 coming in from C.S.A. memberships.'' 
 For Gail Brussel, entering her third year with her C.S.A. delivery service, Farm Share, of Larchmont, N.Y., it is unclear what the sour economy might mean. ''We're curious,'' she said, noting Farm Share's growth last year to 600 from 200. ''We had such high interest last year, we couldn't meet our interest.''
 Sherry Dudas of Honey Brook Organic Farm in Pennington, N.J., among the largest C.S.A.'s in the country, expects to expand to 2,600 from 2,300 shares this season. ''With the recession, I thought it might be a tough time,'' she said, noting that she had been worried about increasing the share prices, which for a family this year will cost between $600 and $650 for a 24-week season. ''It turned out to be the opposite. I have had more applications as of Feb. 2 than ever before.''
 Bonnie Wilson of Princeton knows what that means. She got shut out of Honey Brook the last two years after having been a member for seven because she didn't get her check in fast enough. ''This year,'' she said, ''I had in huge letters on my calendar: 'Don't forget to sign up.' '' 
 Considering the amount of food that comes with the annual membership, she said, ''I think it's a bargain economically.''
 With the anticipated spike in membership interest, many farmers are already adding pickup days and figuring out how to produce more food from the same or only a slightly increased amount of acreage. 
 At Stone Gardens Farm in Shelton, Conn., where Stacia Monahan is preparing for her second year with a C.S.A., shares will nearly double, to about 200. To make extra room, some of the farm will be converted to raised beds instead of rows of crops, and while members will still get corn, there won't be any more than last year.
 At Common Ground Farm in Cold Spring, N.Y., in Putnam County, there will be no corn this year. ''It takes up a lot of land,'' said Lisa Jessup, the farm's executive director.
 Corn is also out at the Hickories. But plum tomatoes are in after so many members requested them for canning. There will be more storage crops, like squash, to extend the C.S.A. into the fall. And there will be more pick-your-own for labor-intensive crops like berries.
 ''I have to believe that people will think seriously this year about changing their behavior,'' Ms. Brewster said as she took delivery of 1,500 tomato cages and noted that carrot planting in cold frames was about to begin. ''I feel like this is a really nice answer. A fresh organic strawberry that you pick yourself doesn't feel like a sacrifice, yet you're changing your behavior in a really significant way.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EXPANSION PLANS: At the Hickories farm in Ridgefield, Conn., above, Dina Brewster and Rob Kelly hope to triple shares sold this season. Jess Niederer, left, at Honey Brook Organic Farm in Pennington, N.J., where applications for shares are up.(PHOTOGRAPH BY SCOTT MULLIN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
(PHOTOGRAPH BY LAURA PEDRICK FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); AGRICULTURE (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (75%); FOOD SAFETY (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUDGETS (72%); RESTAURANTS (70%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (65%); TEMPORARY STAND RETAILING (62%); PRICE INCREASES (50%)

COMPANY: AC SA (66%)

TICKER: ACG (WSE) (66%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336390 OTHER MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS MANUFACTURING (66%); SIC3714 MOTOR VEHICLE PARTS & ACCESSORIES (66%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



583 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; SHAKEN & STIRRED; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 614 words

HEADLINE: Uptown, by Way of Downtown

BYLINE: By JONATHAN MILES

 BODY:
ON a recent Thursday night, the bartender at 67 Orange Street -- which is not on Orange Street, but rather in Harlem (more on that shortly) -- couldn't get the music quite right.
 She kept switching songs midstream, cutting off Stevie Wonder at the height of a chorus to play Snoop Dogg, then giving Snoop Dogg the hook, too, and so on and so forth.
 No one seemed to mind, however: not the 20-something couple sitting at the center of the 10-seat bar -- the woman endlessly chatting, to him and to her cellphone, and the man staring into his cocktail as if it were a high-def TV tuned to ESPN -- nor the two women sitting in an elevated booth, sharing an absinthe fountain. 
 After all, the bartender was getting the drinks right. Oh so right, in fact. The soundtrack, jagged or not, was just a garnish.
 A snug bi-level lounge, 67 Orange Street opened in December on Frederick Douglass Boulevard, near 113th Street; it was designed to evoke downtown, in uptown.
 There's the name, for starters: 67 Orange Street (now Baxter Street) was the final address of Almack's Dance Hall, an African-American-owned bar that flourished in the early 1800s. The bar's owner, Karl Franz Williams, shares his surname with Almack's owner, Pete Williams. Pure coincidence, but ''inspirational'' to the current Mr. Williams, who is also African-American.
 For another, there's the Lower East Side-inspired speak-easy theme: the bar is unmarked, its interior masked by purple curtains.
 (A brief aside, directed at bar owners: Isn't this recession a fine excuse to retire the whole unmarked entrance shtick? It doesn't inspire mystery -- just awkward squinting and backtracking on the sidewalk. Let's bring back neon signage. Or enact a mini-stimulus package that would employ Bourbon Street-style barkers or men wearing sandwich boards marked ''Cocktails.'') 
 The cocktail list, created by the general manager, Kali Irwin, might be the most striking downtown import.
 In a neighborhood more inclined toward Hypnotiq and Hennessy drinks, Ms. Irwin has laid down a classical gauntlet: old-fashioneds, a Pisco Sour, a Sazerac and puckish riffs on other pre-Prohibition cocktails.
 They're old-school drinks, in her words, with a few baroque twists of her own, like the Almack's, an intricate mouthful of Indonesian arrack, Lillet Blanc, Velvet Falernum and Allspice Dram; and the Madame Almack's, in which Bison Grass vodka meets Cynar, an artichoke-flavored aperitif, along with fresh mint and Champagne. The latter drink, she claims (and the menu claims, too), has aphrodisiac powers. Evidence? ''I've seen people leave looking kind of lovey,'' she said. ''But that could be the alcohol. It's a strong drink.''
 Mr. Williams said that there was nothing like this anywhere near Harlem. He said he chafed at naysayers who have suggested that his $13 cocktails are too pricey for uptown. ''By saying that,'' he added, ''you're saying something uptown can't be as good as downtown.
 Recipe: Madame Almack's
 Adapted from 67 Orange Street
 1 1/2 ounces Zubrowka Bison Grass vodka
 1/2 ounce Cynar
 1/2 ounce simple syrup
 One sprig fresh mint
 Champagne, for topping.
 Combine all ingredients except Champagne in a cocktail shaker with ice. Shake vigorously, then strain into a chilled cocktail glass and top with Champagne. 
 Yield: 1 serving
 Recipe: Madame Almack's
 Adapted from 67 Orange Street
 1 1/2 ounces Zubrowka Bison Grass vodka
 1/2 ounce Cynar
 1/2 ounce simple syrup
 One sprig fresh mint
 Champagne, for topping.
 Combine all ingredients except Champagne in a cocktail shaker with ice. Shake vigorously, then strain into a chilled cocktail glass and top with Champagne. 
 Yield: 1 serving

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: DRINK EASY: The Madame Almack's, as served at 67 Orange Street in Harlem.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KATIE ORLINSKY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRINKING PLACES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); MINORITY BUSINESSES (67%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



584 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1247 words

HEADLINE: Palestinian Campus Looks To East Bank (of Hudson)

BYLINE: By ETHAN BRONNER

DATELINE: JERUSALEM 

 BODY:
It would be hard to find two institutions of higher learning that seem more different than Bard College, an upscale, bucolic college in Dutchess County, N.Y., and Al Quds University, a struggling, sprawling Palestinian institution in and near this disputed capital. 
 Yet the two schools have decided to join forces in an unusual venture aimed at injecting American educational values and expertise into Palestinian society, in hopes of contributing to a future democratic State of Palestine. Although the effort has been many months in the planning, those involved say the recent war in Gaza and a political turn rightward in Israel make it more important and urgent. 
 The plan, relying largely on outside financing, includes a liberal arts honors college and a master's degree program in teaching, both located at Al Quds and granting joint degrees, as well as a model high school to serve as an educational laboratory. The starting date for the first two is September; the high school is to open in 2010. 
 Nothing like this has ever been tried in Palestinian education, and controversy is expected. 
 Bard anticipates complaints from some American Jews unhappy because Al Quds is a Palestinian institution partly in Jerusalem -- which many Jews consider the indivisible capital of Israel -- and because Al Quds is no stranger to radical Palestinian politics. Meanwhile, Al Quds expects some Palestinians to resent the endeavor as vaguely colonialist. And the collaboration by two such disparate institutions is bound to be complicated.
 ''In Palestinian schools, students are taught the so-called right answer to every question,'' Mukhles Sowwan, who runs the Nanotechnology Research Laboratory at Al Quds University, said. ''But real education is more about questions than answers. We need to teach our students how to think creatively and critically, and I hope Bard will help us with that.''
 That is very much the hope of Bard officials as well. Jonathan A. Becker, Bard's dean of international studies, who was here recently with several others, said they were planning on small classes using faculty members from both schools.
 ''The subtle issues are often the most challenging,'' he said after two days of meetings at Al Quds. ''We can identify bright young people and create rigorous programs. But the faculty here will need to be willing to give up their position of authority. Students will need to develop the skill of challenging professors intellectually and analyzing things from their own perspectives.'' 
 Both groups view this as a cultural adventure that owes much to its two biggest proponents: Sari Nusseibeh, president of Al Quds and a philosopher trained at Harvard and Oxford, who has been pushing to open his institution to outside influences; and Leon Botstein, president of Bard, a polymath whose college has set up special high schools in New York City, humanities classes for the homeless around the United States, and joint programs in Russia and South Africa.
 ''For us, this is what the internationalization of American higher education should be about,'' Mr. Botstein said by telephone, adding that he was glad not to be following the example of larger universities building campuses in rich Persian Gulf emirates, a development that he said was ''like investing in Monte Carlo or Liechtenstein to develop Europe.''
 ''It's not relevant and it is institutionally cynical,'' said Mr. Botstein, who since 2003 has also been music director of the Jerusalem Symphony Orchestra. ''Working in Palestine is the right place to be.'' 
 Mr. Nusseibeh, who has run Al Quds for 14 years, has created academic exchange programs with Brandeis University in Waltham, Mass., as well as with George Washington University in Washington and universities in Israel, Sweden and Canada. The Bard program will offer the first joint degree.
 ''The radius of movement of most of our students does not exceed 40 miles,'' Mr. Nusseibeh said as he sat in his East Jerusalem office one recent morning. ''We need to help them see the world through different eyes. 
 ''We do a lot of projects with Israel,'' he continued. ''I get criticism for it because many Palestinians want to boycott Israeli educational institutions. But the West Bank economy is 70 to 90 percent dependent on Israel. At least we should profit from their education. It is the one thing in my view we absolutely should not boycott.''
 Mr. Nusseibeh is the scion of one of the most distinguished Palestinian families, one filled with judges, scholars and politicians, and whose history in Jerusalem goes back 1,300 years. His relationship with the Israeli authorities is complex. He has been arrested more than once and spent several months in an Israeli prison. A Palestinian nationalist, he speaks Hebrew and enjoys the company of Israelis, and he called Jewish roots in Jerusalem ''existential and umbilical.'' His has been a delicate balancing act, which has only gotten harder since the Gaza war this winter. 
 His university is also in a tight spot. Its main campus is in Abu Dis, a village just to the east of the Jerusalem municipal boundaries and therefore in the West Bank under the Palestinian Authority. The 10,000-student campus, with olive groves, courtyards and a fountain, stares directly at a large stretch of the separation wall Israel began erecting at the height of the second Palestinian intifada, to keep out suicide bombers. 
 The campus also contains a reverential monument and museum devoted to Palestinian prisoners of Israel, along with their writings and crafts. It is hard to walk the campus without being reminded of the conflict and the occupation.
 But the issue is even more complicated because other parts of the university are within the boundaries of Jerusalem. As a result, Israeli educational authorities and Al Quds have been arguing in and out of court for years over whether it is an Israeli institution with a Palestinian branch, a Palestinian institution with an Israeli branch, or two separate institutions, one Israeli and the other Palestinian. 
 The outcome of that dispute will determine accreditation proceedings, which have been stalled for two decades. At the moment, a degree from Al Quds, which is widely seen as among the best Palestinian universities and has medical, law and engineering schools, is not recognized in Israel, meaning that teachers, for example, cannot get jobs with adequate pay in Israeli schools.
 One side benefit of the Bard program would be to change that for its participants, since the joint degree would carry accreditation in New York State and thereby receive recognition in Israel.
 But the plan will have modest enrollment in the first year: 40 students in the master's program in teaching, and 100 in the honors college.
 The initial financing is coming from the liberal financier George Soros, but Mr. Botstein is looking for more, and the Palestinian Education Ministry is being asked to provide help, since the joint degree program has what its proponents consider to be an important civic side. 
 ''The liberal arts tradition does have a real connection to democratic politics,'' Mr. Botstein said. ''Adams and Jefferson believed that education is crucial to the development of a functioning democracy. It is also clear that being a Zionist and favoring the security and healthy future for the State of Israel is absolutely compatible with creating a Palestinian state. That's why we're very proud of what we're doing.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Students at Al Quds University of Jerusalem. Sari Nusseibeh, the president of the Palestinian university, said, ''The radius of movement of most of our students does not exceed 40 miles.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY RINA CASTELNUOVO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); POLITICS (76%); JEWS & JUDAISM (75%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (74%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (70%); SCIENCE NEWS (68%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%); HOMELESSNESS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



585 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 630 words

HEADLINE: Letters

 BODY:
The Big Fix
 The key question David Leonhardt raises (Feb. 1) is, ''How should the new American economy be made?'' Given the fact that Wall Street is unlikely to provide the remedy for the worst economic crisis since the Great Depression, I feel it's time we let go of Wall Street and, as the writer David Korten (''Agenda for a New Economy'') argues, develop a Main Street economy that is ''locally based, community-oriented and devoted to creating a better life for all, not simply increasing profits.'' He suggests an agenda that includes supporting local businesses owned by local stakeholders that employ local labor and use environmental resources responsibly as well as restructuring financial services to serve Main Street and restoring our national economic sovereignty.
 ROSALEEN MAZUR 
 Bristol, R.I.
 David Leonhardt's focus on education as the engine of long-term growth for the American economy was a refreshing reminder of education's importance. What he left out, however, was that we can also improve both graduation rates and our societal norms with simple changes to the culture of universities. For just one example, if we added an extra semester a year to the undergraduate schedule -- going from two 15-week semesters to three -- students could graduate a full year earlier.
 If we are going to retool as a country, we need to shift college from a luxuriously light four years into a focused, productive three, decreasing the cost of the experience and reducing the extent to which it is a leisurely stroll into adulthood.
 GIDON ROTHSTEIN
 Riverdale, N.Y.
 End-of-life (and now beginning-of-life) expenses, heroics and technology are all expensive. So are health-insurance premiums, health care denied by insurance and of course pharmaceuticals. Our technological advances cannot trump true prevention -- diet, exercise, sleep, emotional well-being. Until we have a national policy that assures everyone access to these, we will never get out of our health care hole. The best way to decrease health care costs is to make sure people don't need so much health care. Develop a public transportation system around walking and biking and subsidize healthy food, and maybe we can get somewhere.
 REBECCA JONES, M.D.
 Brattleboro, Vt.
 I want to applaud David Leonhardt for his enthusiastic support of education. However, I think that he overstated the case. Though it sounds like a plausible story, there is almost no statistical evidence to support the argument that a rise in educational attainment on the country or industry level or even cross-nationally is correlated with gross-domestic-product growth, let alone promotes G.D.P. growth. For example, G.D.P. in the U.S. grew very rapidly in the latter half of the 1990s, while educational attainment grew slowly. While there are many benefits to more education, like a better citizenry and more intelligent consumers, there is unfortunately very little in the way of a growth dividend.
 EDWARD WOLFF
 Professor of Economics
 New York University
 David Leonhardt is to be commended for an essay that placed a broad discussion of our current circumstances in the context of potential opportunities.
 Sitting at the National Institutes of Health and the National Science Foundation are thousands of research grants deemed meritorious by peer review but unfunded because of budget restrictions. Each project holds the promise of innovation that might improve our health and expand our knowledge and all the while create economic opportunities.
 We can no longer compete internationally on natural resources, factory efficiency or use of labor. We can, however, use American ingenuity to create innovation that profits both this country and mankind.
 NORMAN PARADIS, M.D.
 San Diego
 RICHARD M. NOWAK, M.D.
 Detroit

GRAPHIC: DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY THE HEADS OF STATE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); PUBLIC POLICY (73%); GRADUATION RATES (73%); GREAT DEPRESSION (72%); MENTAL HEALTH (72%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (71%); WRITERS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (68%); HEALTH INSURANCE (67%); DENIAL OF INSURANCE COVERAGE (62%); WALKING & JOGGING (62%); NUTRITION (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VERMONT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



586 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; THE ETHICIST; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 605 words

HEADLINE: For the Birds

BYLINE: By RANDY COHEN

 BODY:
An employee accidentally carried bird mites from her home to our office. We are certain of it. The office became moderately infested, and some employees brought the mites home and were bitten and infested too. We hired an exterminator for the office. Need we do so for employees' homes? N. WEIDBERG, NEW YORK
 Unless you can get the mite-ridden bird itself to provide an exterminator, the company should step up. Employees face certain reasonable dangers at work -- co-workers with colds, paper cuts -- but bird vermin is not one of them. While the company was not negligent -- I assume it didn't sponsor a Bring Your Parrot to Work Day -- it should help its staff solve a problem that was contracted on the job. 
 But what ethics (by which I mean me) prescribes, the law does not. Judith Conti, an attorney specializing in workplace issues, says: ''Unless the employers knew or had reason to know that this worker had an infestation in her home that she'd carry to the workplace, they aren't liable for exterminating their homes. All they need to do is clean up the workplace once they discovered the problem.''
 As a matter of ethics, after the company responds to its employees' infestations, it could seek compensation from the bird owner. Here ethics and law coincide. Conti again: ''The more interesting legal question is for the worker -- did she know, or should she have known, that she was carrying infestation to her workplace? If so, she may have some legal liability to help clean up their homes.''
 update: Although some employees feared they had mites at home, they did not, so there was nothing to disinfect (but fear itself).
 I am my condominium's board president. Two owners in the building owe the condominium about $20,000. We have initiated legal action and informed all condo owners of the situation without naming those in arrears. Some board members discussed naming the malingerers, after warning them that they risk being exposed as freeloaders. Other board members believe that exposing them would be unethical. Who's right? CATHERINE GUTMAN, BROOKLYN
 Condo owners are entitled to an honest account of the building's finances, which includes identifying those who are in arrears -- that is, those who have failed to honor the commitments they made when they bought into the building. The board should alert owners to significant developments, legal actions among them. Issuing such reports is not only ethical; it is legal and commonplace, says Douglas A. Kellner, an attorney I consulted: ''Most co-op and condominium boards will disclose to their co-op shareholders or condominium members the names of those who are in substantial arrears, but there is no legal requirement that a board do so.'' He adds that your ''legal action'' is apt to be public information already.
 What such a report should not include are words like ''malingerers'' or ''freeloaders.'' The point is to provide transparency in accounting, not to scourge the wicked. The inability to pay condo fees need not be a moral failing. These are tough economic times. People can find themselves in dire financial straits through no fault of their own. I am not an accountant, but as I understand professional practice, financial statements are not wont to include cutting remarks about a condo owner's haircut or snide cracks about his dog or an analysis of his character.
 Send your queries to ethicist@nytimes.com or The Ethicist, The New York Times Magazine, 620 Eighth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10018, and include a daytime phone number. Randy Cohen's podcasts of The Ethicist are now available at NYTimes.com, iTunes and Yahoo.com. 

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY CHRISTOPH NIEMANN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Question

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHICS (90%); HOMEOWNERS ASSOCIATIONS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (85%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (78%); NEGLIGENCE (75%); LAWYERS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



587 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FUNDAMENTALLY; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 783 words

HEADLINE: Hints of Which Sectors Will Weather the Storm

BYLINE: By PAUL J. LIM. 
Paul J. Lim is a senior editor at Money magazine. E-mail: fund@nytimes.com

 BODY:
IT may seem that the bear market has picked up right where it left off in 2008. So far this year, the Dow Jones industrial average has already plummeted more than 10 percent -- on top of the 34 percent it fell in 2008. Meanwhile, market volatility appears to be revving up again.
 But one distinction this year may turn out to be significant: the various sectors of the stock market have not all been moving in tandem. 
 ''The market is starting to sort between the winners and the losers, rather than pushing everything down as if it were a monolithic asset,'' said Jeffrey N. Kleintop, chief market strategist at LPL Financial in Boston. 
 While investors lost significant sums in every sector last year, they're finding some pockets of opportunity now, which could be a sign that pure panic is being wrung out of the market, and that fundamental factors for specific stocks and sectors are beginning to strongly influence investors' thinking once again.
 Under these circumstances, of course, short-term opportunity for an investor might mean eking out a tiny gain, or holding losses to a minimum. For example, mutual funds that concentrate on technology have gained 2 percent on average this year, according to Morningstar. Health care funds rose 3 percent, while energy funds lost 1 percent and utilities funds fell 3 percent. These are all much better performances than the decline of more than 8 percent in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index this year. 
 What do these four sectors have in common? They all enjoyed year-over-year profit gains in 2008. Though overall earnings for companies in the S.& P. 500 contracted by an estimated 12 percent last year, energy and health care earnings grew 21 percent and 7 percent, respectively, according to consensus estimates compiled by Thomson Financial. Profits among utilities in the S.& P. 500 grew an estimated 3 percent, while technology company earnings expanded by 2 percent in 2008.
 Telecommunications was the only other sector for which earnings grew. Funds that specialize in those stocks are down roughly half as much as the S.& P. 500 this year.
 It would be premature to conclude that panic selling has ended and that fundamental factors are now the main determinant of stock prices. But James W. Paulsen, chief investment strategist for Wells Capital Management in Minneapolis, said, ''To the extent that this shows some semblance that fundamentals are starting to matter again, that's a good thing.'' 
 It is striking, for example, that the best-performing sector of the S.& P. this year has been technology, an economically sensitive group that isn't expected to do well in the midst of a recession. Yet shares of tech stocks like Micron Technology, Western Digital and Sun Microsystems have surged more than 35 percent in less than two months. Mr. Paulsen noted that the relative strength of tech shares may be a sign that investors are weighing earnings and stock valuations, and not making all of their decisions on the basis of macroeconomic issues.
 This appears to apply to bonds as well as stocks, he said, and might explain why the spread in yields between ultra-safe Treasuries and riskier corporate debt has narrowed this year, as investors have started to gravitate toward cheaper and potentially more rewarding securities.
 Of course, none of this means that the market's troubles are over.
 ''It's still kind of a crap shoot,'' said Alec B. Young, an S.& P. equity strategist. For example, he said, ''If investors don't feel like there's a credible stimulus package in the works and a credible fix for the financial markets, then they will assume the recovery won't take place until possibly 2010.''
 Concern about the state of the financial markets might explain last Tuesday's 382-point drop in the Dow, which occurred when market strategists and economists complained of the lack of specificity in the bank rescue plan presented by the Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner. 
 Similarly, if it starts to seem that 2009 earnings will be disappointing, that too could cause stocks to lose further ground. Currently, Wall Street is bracing for a 14 percent decline in 2009 earnings, versus 2008. That target assumes a 21 percent increase in financial sector earnings. If bank and broker profits don't recover, overall corporate earnings could sink much more than is now expected.
 In short, Mr. Young said, focusing on fundamental factors will take you only so far. The good news, he said, is that ''parts of the market seem to have found solid ground.'' And the bad news? If investors don't see actual evidence of a global recovery on the horizon, another rocky year could be in store for the stock market. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUTUAL FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (74%); MICROTECHNOLOGY (71%)

COMPANY: LPL FINANCIAL CORP (70%); THOMSON FINANCIAL (64%); ORACLE AMERICA INC (50%); MICRON TECHNOLOGY INC (50%)

TICKER: MU (NASDAQ) (50%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (50%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (50%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (50%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (50%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (50%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (50%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); MINNESOTA, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



588 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 634 words

HEADLINE: Helping Workers in Hard Times

 BODY:
Immigration hard-liners have wasted no time harnessing their dreams of mass expulsion to the recession. The avalanche of lost jobs and grim national mood cry out for the laying of blame, and restrictionist groups are angrily pointing the finger at illegal immigrants. Workers without papers have already been accused of causing leprosy, crime waves, environmental ruin, global warming and the decline of Western civilization, so tying them to a bad economy seems only natural.
 But maybe we should think this through. 
 Undocumented immigrants make up only about one-twentieth of the work force but are overwhelmingly represented in the most dangerous, dirty and low-paying jobs. Driving out every undocumented worker, a temptation in hard times, clears the way for laid-off Americans to pick lettuce, wash dishes and cars, and wait all morning outside Home Depot for a contractor to drive up.
 That doesn't sound terribly smart. Nor were the efforts by tough-talkers in Congress to slip into the stimulus package a ban on any illegal worker receiving a penny of recovery money. They wanted to require every business receiving that money to use an error-plagued employment-verification system, E-Verify. 
 That idea crashes on the rocks of common sense. It is impossible to know how many undocumented workers might get hired through the stimulus, but the Congressional Budget Office has already quantified the cost -- in thousands of lost jobs and billions in lost tax revenue -- of the mandatory mass expansion of E-Verify. That is from all the workers who would be fired because of database errors or simply moved off the books. 
 There is a better strategy that hews to core American values and common sense. It is to support workers -- documented or not. It is to fight back against abuses that make wages and job conditions worse for everyone. It is to throw light on off-the-books labor, and on the tax-cheating businesses that have exploited it for too long.
 American union members understand this. The Laborers' International Union of North America, which represents the hard hats who build condos, shopping malls and bridges, is working to organize immigrant workers in the Sun Belt who built homes during the boom. Exploited then and jobless now, they need help. ''It isn't workers that are trying to drive down wages in the residential construction industry,'' said Terrence O'Sullivan, the union president. ''It's unscrupulous employers who try to use workers' illegal status to do so.''
 In Los Angeles, the United Steelworkers are supporting the Clean Carwash Campaign, a drive to improve a notoriously dirty industry. Carwash workers, mostly Latino and European immigrants, work long hours for low pay. They say they are routinely cheated of wages, denied breaks and exposed to chemicals that burn their skin and eyes. Last week the city attorney in Los Angeles filed charges against the owners of six local carwashes, accusing them of wage theft and other abuses in a business that bordered on ''indentured servitude.'' 
 And in New York, the state labor commissioner, M. Patricia Smith, has begun a program to enlist immigrant workers in places like nail salons and restaurants as the agency's eyes and ears for wage and hour violations.
 Putting government on the side of workers? Sounds crazy, but it works better than the alternative. Raul Hinojosa-Ojeda, a professor of urban planning at the University of California, Los Angeles, argues that current law creates ''an artificially low wage floor'' that actually increases demand for undocumented workers.
 The idea that immigrant workers deserve protection simply as a matter of human decency can be hard to sell in hard times. It is just as valid to make the pragmatic case. After the bottom drops out of the economy, raise the floor.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); LAYOFFS (90%); FOREIGN LABOR (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REAL ESTATE (77%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); TAX FRAUD (77%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (76%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (72%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (65%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); GLOBAL WARMING (56%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



589 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 430 words

HEADLINE: Sow Those Seeds!

BYLINE: By VERLYN KLINKENBORG

 BODY:
In August 2004, I wrote a Rural Life editorial about the victory garden movement during World War II, noting that a national crisis had turned Americans -- for a few years at least-- into a nation of gardeners. Now we are in the midst of another crisis. And perhaps this is the moment for another national home gardening movement, a time when the burgeoning taste for local food converges with the desire to cut costs and take new control over our battered economic lives. 
 There are signs that some people are already thinking this way. A number of friends have said to me, wistfully, that if things get worse, they'll just go to the country and learn to farm, as if learning to farm were like studying shorthand or learning to weld. 
 This is daydreaming. But there's every reason to think about putting in a garden. In fact, many seed companies are reporting higher sales -- especially in Britain, which has a rich tradition of home gardening. At grocery stores and farm stands, the difference in cost between organic and conventionally grown vegetables can be substantial. In the garden, the difference is negligible. 
 I can't help noting, too, that half of ''The 11 Best Foods You Aren't Eating'' -- a widely e-mailed Web article by Tara Parker-Pope of The Times -- are easily grown in a northeastern garden, including beets, chard, pumpkins and blueberries. 
 Growing a vegetable garden isn't going to balance the budget or replace lost benefits or even begin to make up for the shock of a lost job. But part of the crisis we face is a sense of alienation and powerlessness. You don't meet many alienated gardeners, unless it's been a terrible woodchuck year. 
 It's also tempting to assume that a garden can't really make much difference in your annual food budget. But you would never convince my parents of that, who raised four kids on the fresh and home-canned produce of a big backyard garden. And I can think of few better distractions from the news of the day than the offerings of seed catalogs and the Edenic visions they inspire.
 But over the years, something odd has happened to seed catalogs. They've come to resemble grocery stores and, in some sense, the culture at large -- fuller and fuller of inedible stuff to buy, like copper plant labels and sunlight calculators and fan-cooled sunhats. One of the hard things for beginning gardeners to learn is that very little of that stuff is needed. What beginning gardeners need most, in fact, is old gardeners, the ones who've made do all along and who are starting their seedlings in windowsills right about now.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GARDENING (91%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); WORLD WAR II (78%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (78%); BUDGETS (76%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (74%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



590 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1222 words

HEADLINE: Drama, Live and on the Financial Edge

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO 

 BODY:
 THE day after Christmas, Loretta Greco went into her office at the Magic Theater here, sat down at the computer and started e-mailing everyone she knew, asking them to e-mail everyone they knew. 
 Her plea was simple: Unless the Magic, which is famous for nurturing writers like Sam Shepard and Nilo Cruz and where Ms. Greco had been the artistic director since last April, could raise $350,000 in two weeks, it would have to cancel the rest of its season and possibly close its doors for good.
 Thanks to the viral fund-raising appeal as well as donations from board members and a national arts foundation, the Magic met its goal on Jan. 12 and the third play of the season opened on Jan. 31. Still, with almost $600,000 of debt, the Magic is not yet out of the woods. Nor is another company in the area, Shakespeare Santa Cruz, which narrowly avoided canceling its 2009 summer season by raising $416,000 through a similar appeal early in December. 
 These two crises -- in a region considered friendly to the arts -- bode ill for the health of midsize theaters as the recession drags on. For many theaters declines in individual, corporate and foundation philanthropy come on top of long-term downward trends in subscriptions and audiences. In December the National Endowment for the Arts released a study showing that while the number of nonprofit theaters had doubled between 1990 and 2005, the audience for nonmusical theater had actually shrunk. Given this landscape, theaters' survival will depend on their ingenuity in reaching new audiences, as well as on prudent financial management and access to a deep fund-raising pool.
 At Shakespeare Santa Cruz, which is on the campus of the University of California, Santa Cruz, the theater's financial problems were compounded by the university's budget woes. The theater is responsible for supporting itself through contributions, grants and ticket sales, but in recent years it ran significant deficits, which the university's arts division covered. Late last year, with the university's own budget slashed by the state, David Evan Jones, acting dean of the arts division, worried that covering another big deficit at the theater would endanger academics. 
 ''We had to just outright cancel the program because the risk was too great to instruction,'' Mr. Jones said, ''or give them a condition they had to meet in order for the arts division to take a risk on them for another year.''
 Ultimately the university agreed that if the theater could raise $300,000 to put into escrow to cover a potential deficit, it could go ahead with a truncated summer season in 2009. The theater held an event in downtown Santa Cruz to publicize the crisis. The artistic director, Marco Barricelli, made a short speech, which was quickly uploaded to YouTube, and the theater's appeal was forwarded around the world. In 10 days Shakespeare Santa Cruz raised $416,417 from more than 2,000 individual donors. 
 The crisis at the Magic, which presented the first productions of Mr. Shepard's ''Buried Child'' and ''Fool for Love,'' has had a long and complex gestation. Last spring when the trustees hired Ms. Greco, a nationally prominent freelance director, they hoped that she could re-energize the theater and reverse a decline in subscriptions that had taken place over the past several years. The previous artistic director, Chris Smith, had interpreted the Magic's new-play mission to mean that every production should be a world premiere. Too frequently the board president, Missy Kirchner, said, the results weren't audience ready. ''Our subscribers weren't thrilled with the work, and, frankly neither were we,'' she said. Yet even as subscriptions declined, the budget almost doubled, to more than $2 million, and the debts mounted.
 Nevertheless the board approved a $2 million budget for Ms. Greco's first season, which included a mix of world premieres, second productions and a recent Broadway play, Theresa Rebeck's ''Mauritius.''
 Then late last year, as the recession deepened and subscriptions came in $75,000 short of projections, the board took a closer look at the balance sheets and realized that the Magic was in trouble, Ms. Kirchner said. The theater had maxed out its $300,000 line of credit and had $300,000 in other debts.
 Ms. Greco was determined not to sacrifice her next production of the season, an autobiographical play (with a slightly racy title) about a black woman struggling with breast cancer. So she began the viral fund-raising campaign. The board had determined that if the theater could raise $350,000 -- enough to pay the artists hired for the play as well as the Magic's staff, who had been working without salary -- the production could go ahead. The board contributed $170,000, which included $100,000 from Ms. Kirchner. Then Ms. Greco and her staff turned to their Facebook friends and e-mail lists.
 ''We heard from people we hadn't heard from since kindergarten,'' she said. ''There were actors who overnighted checks.'' In 12 days, including the contributions from the board, the theater raised $455,000. 
 The Magic's future remains in doubt. Ms. Greco cut the 2008-9 budget to $1.65 million by moving the play in the season's sixth slot, a world premiere by the ''Six Feet Under'' writer Craig Wright, to next fall. But although the theater now has some money in the bank, it has only just begun paying off its debts. 
 ''I'm cautiously optimistic,'' Ms. Kirchner said. She is offering immediate payment to any creditors willing to accept 10 cents on the dollar, she said, and she is looking for help from individual donors and a corporation.
 Larry Eilenberg, who ran the Magic in the early 1990s and again from 1998 to 2003, said in an interview that, more than the economy, changes in the local and national theater scene have made the Magic's mission of nurturing new playwrights hard to sustain. When the Magic was founded in 1967, and through the 1980s, new plays were primarily the province of small theaters, while the big regional companies were mostly devoted to classics and other revivals. In the 1990s, as the bigger theaters got into producing new plays, places like the Magic had a harder time competing for the best material.
 In his experience, Mr. Eilenberg said, the Magic's two theaters of 160 seats each could not support a $2 million budget. Contributed income accounted for 65 percent of Magic's projected budget this year; earned income only 35 percent. ''That's a disastrous formula,'' Mr. Eilenberg said. ''You aspire to 50-50.''
 He suggested that Ms. Greco would do well to see if the Magic could reconfigure its current space, perhaps to create one 99-seat theater and one 299-seat theater. Better yet, he said, she should look into real estate downtown or in a part of the city that is better served by public transportation. (Fort Mason, where the theater is now, has ample parking but is out of the way for young people and for tourists.)
 The most important thing, he said, is for Ms. Greco to think creatively about how to find new playwrights.
 ''The theaters that are remembered are remembered not for their actors or directors but for their writers,'' Mr. Eilenberg said. ''The Magic is always going to be in the textbooks because of Sam Shepard and some others. They have to keep finding people like that.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loretta Greco, the artistic director of the financially struggling Magic Theater in San Francisco. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HEIDI SCHUMANN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); ENDOWMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); CHRISTMAS (78%); TRENDS (78%); FILM (78%); FOUNDATIONS (75%); PHILANTHROPY (75%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (75%); CHARITIES (75%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (68%); TICKET SALES (65%); BUDGET CUTS (62%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



591 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Turning to the Public For Advice on a Budget

BYLINE: By JON HURDLE

DATELINE: PHILADELPHIA 

 BODY:
In a Philadelphia classroom, Chris McLeester was becoming frustrated by a public discussion over how to close a yawning gap in the city budget.
 ''Almost everything that we are doing is on the revenue side,'' he told about 20 fellow Philadelphians on Thursday in a working group at St. Dominic's School in the northeast part of the city. ''If you keep on raising taxes, people are just going to move out of the city.'' 
 Mr. McLeester, 27, a risk analyst for an energy company, was one of about 500 people who attended the first of four scheduled public workshops on how to bridge a projected $170 million shortfall in the city's budget for the 2010 fiscal year. 
 The sessions are part of a multiweek public process intended to give Philadelphians, for the first time, a chance to present their ideas for the budget before it is drawn up and presented to the City Council on March 19.
 The severity of Philadelphia's current fiscal crisis -- the city faces a $1 billion deficit over five years -- prompted Mayor Michael A. Nutter to arrange the meetings in an effort to win public support for what he says will be painful spending cuts or tax increases, or both. Law requires that the budget be balanced. 
 For the mayor himself, the budget process has included committee discussions in public buildings, breakfasts in diners and a meeting with a handful of neighbors and family members in a private home.
 At the St. Dominic's event, organized by the Project on Civic Engagement of the University of Pennsylvania, a larger-than-expected crowd split into working groups to consider a long list of spending or revenue options to balance the budget.
 Participants wrestled with what officials said were a representative sample of ideas: cutting the police budget by 10 percent, which would result in 929 fewer officers on the streets; closing 23 libraries; or reducing the number of street-repair crews to 18 from 30. The options were presented by city department heads who had been asked to describe the effects of 10, 20 or 30 percent cuts in their budgets. 
 Possible revenue measures included getting the Philadelphia Eagles to pay $8 million the city says it is owed in rent for the team's old stadium, or increasing the city's sales tax to 7.1 percent from 7 percent.
 During the 90-minute sessions, most groups were unable to agree on more than half of the measures needed to balance the budget. Some participants said it was a frustrating exercise that would leave city officials no wiser on how to resolve the financial crisis.
 ''It was very flawed,'' said Gloria Gilman, 59, a lawyer from the Mount Airy section of the city. ''It was designed to get people to accept the cuts. The mayor is going to cut what he thinks is appropriate. They should be raising taxes.''
 A week earlier, Greg Betancourt and Milagros Padilla opened the basement of their row home in the Juniata section for about a dozen family members and neighbors to hear what Mayor Nutter had to say about the budget.
 ''We can't do everything that we've been doing,'' the mayor said, sitting on a metal chair alongside his hosts. ''What are some of the things we can cut down on? This is an opportunity to talk about some of the tough choices we have to make.''
 Mr. Betancourt, whose home was chosen for the meeting because he is a community organizer, said that too many staff members in the Philadelphia prison system where he used to work had BlackBerries, and he suggested that the city could save money by issuing the devices only to senior officers.
 Despite tough economic times, most people at the meeting seemed open to the idea of paying higher taxes to maintain services. ''I know the city is going through it because the whole country is going through it,'' Mr. Betancourt said. ''I don't think you have any choice but to raise taxes.''
 But for Peter Fanous, 32, a construction worker, higher taxes would be an unacceptable extra strain on tight personal budgets.
 ''People can't put food on the table right now, and you are going to tax some more?'' Mr. Fanous said to Mr. Nutter when he visited the Station Diner in West Philadelphia. ''I understand cities and states are struggling, but so are the people.''
 Over a mushroom omelet and bacon, Mr. Nutter said that he had even less money to spend on city services than he did a couple of months earlier and that the city's 1.4 million residents would have to get used to the idea of more cuts.
 ''We've got some tough decisions to make,'' he said. ''Folks are not going to be happy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Milagros Padilla and Greg Betancourt held a meeting at their home for Mayor Michael A. Nutter, right, to talk about budget issues.
 A dozen relatives and neighbors attended the meeting. ''We can't do everything that we've been doing,'' Mr. Nutter told them. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MUSTAFAH ABDULAZIZ FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (93%); CITY GOVERNMENT (92%); CITIES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); MAYORS (90%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TAX LAW (76%); RISK MANAGEMENT (75%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (68%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (67%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (61%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (94%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



592 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; LIVING IN CORONA, QUEENS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1463 words

HEADLINE: Blink and You'll Miss a Moving Van

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE LANAHAN

 BODY:
CORONA PLAZA, the heart of the central Queens neighborhood of Corona, is an overwhelming welter: pedestrians, pigeons, busy storefronts and restaurants, and traffic jams along Roosevelt Avenue, all under the shadows and shrieking brakes of the elevated No. 7 line. 
 Peppered throughout this scene are white moving vans -- labeled ''mudanzas,'' Spanish for ''moves.'' And if one word could sum up the story of Corona, ''mudanzas'' might be it.
 Parked in valuable spaces, the ubiquitous vans are a nuisance to civic leaders who wish to revitalize this commercial strip and promote its many foreign-born small-business owners. But they are a boon to the immigrants constantly arriving to stay with family, then saving up and finding apartments of their own. 
 ''All the Spanish families that come up here come one first, then the second one,'' said Joel Lopez, who left Ecuador as a teenager to join his family in Corona 25 years ago. 
 Mr. Lopez found a job as a dishwasher in a Chinese restaurant and moved into his first apartment, at 100th Street and Roosevelt Avenue. ''It was hard when I first moved up there,'' he recalled, ''because the train was noisy.'' 
 By that point, this formerly Italian neighborhood had become heavily Dominican. ''There used to be fights between the Italian and Spanish guys in the park,'' Mr. Lopez said. 
 In the early 1990s he joined a Long Island construction firm. ''I start as a worker,'' he said. ''Then I start to go up there: they make me foreman, then supervisor, project manager.'' In 1998, he bought a two-family house on Granger Street for $250,000, and today he has his own asbestos-removal business. 
 As Mr. Lopez's fortunes improved, so did Corona's. He believes his house is worth $700,000, and according to a Hunter College study, the local economy has grown 59 percent from 1995 to 2000. (Citywide, growth was 7 percent in that time, the study said.)
 Crime has fallen sharply since Mr. Lopez arrived. There were three murders in the precinct in 2008 -- a 92 percent drop since 1990 -- and robberies are down 79 percent, according to statistics kept by the local police precinct.
 The exodus of Italian families from Corona is mostly complete; many Ecuadoreans, Colombians and, lately, Mexicans have moved in. However, Irene DeBenedittis of Leo's Latticini, an Italian deli that has been a Corona landmark for decades, believes the neighborhood could come full circle. ''The old-timers that moved out,'' she said, ''now they want to come back.'' 
 Today, Corona is attractive for people of any background. It's not far from Manhattan by train and bus, and homes are comparatively affordable. It may be cacophonous, but beneath that lies the rich diversity of a New York City immigrant neighborhood.
 Rahinya Jones, a radiological technician, recently left Bedford-Stuyvesant in Brooklyn to buy her first home in Corona. She didn't even consider looking near her job on the Upper East Side. ''Forget about it,'' she says. ''Manhattan was not an option.''
 Ms. Jones was already doing her shopping at a nearby mall, Queens Center, so she began checking out Corona at different times of the day. She felt safe, and after considering the proximity to the park, the public transportation to Manhattan, and the low prices, she bought a 600-square-foot two-bedroom in Forest Hills Chateau, a co-op near Horace Harding Boulevard. 
 ''Basically,'' she said of Corona, ''it's one of the best-kept secrets.'' 
 WHAT YOU'LL FIND
 The boundaries of Corona, a 1.26-square-mile area, are Northern Boulevard to the north, Junction Boulevard to the west, the Long Island Expressway and Horace Harding Boulevard to the south, and Flushing Meadows Corona Park to the east. 
 The median household income for census tracts within the neighborhood ranges from $28,000 to $40,000; 71 percent of residents are Hispanic, 11 percent Asian, the rest mostly non-Hispanic blacks and whites. Two-thirds are foreign-born, and there is wide diversity among the Latino population, the most populous being Dominicans, Mexicans, Ecuadoreans and Colombians. 
 The population in 2000 was 86,661 -- 33 percent more than in 1990. Census tract data from 2000 show that a quarter to a third of all individual housing units are overcrowded, most heavily in the blocks surrounding Roosevelt Avenue.
 The residential streets north and south of Roosevelt Boulevard, which are quieter than Corona Plaza, are a patchwork of old homes and new construction. ''A lot of the houses were wood-framed houses on a large piece of property,'' said Richard Italiano, District Manager for Community Board 4. ''They'll take that down, and where you had one or two families, they'll put up two- and three-family homes.'' 
 The City Planning Commission is considering a rezoning plan for the northern part of Corona that would limit density in residential areas and building height in commercial areas. 
 But the economic downturn could be a factor in curbing construction. Dennis Wong, an associate broker with Century 21 Milestone Realty in nearby Jamaica, says sales have slowed. With credit tight, he observed, it doesn't help that many residents have little savings, credit history or verifiable income. ''I used to sell a lot of co-ops every year,'' he said. ''But starting the last six months, co-op buyers are not qualifying anymore.''
 WHAT YOU'LL PAY
 Most listed properties are multifamily homes. Depending on the number of bedrooms, a two-family sells for $400,000 to $800,000.
 There are 35 single-family homes for sale, most listed at $300,000 to $600,000. But Sandeep Shrivastav, a broker at Century 21 Laffey Associates, says developers might pay more just to knock a house down. ''If zoning allows for four or five families,'' he said, ''it could go for $1 million something, and the developer will build multifamily dwellings.''
 Brokers say properties tend to stay on the market six to eight months -- as long as a year if priced too high. Herb DeCordova, a broker at Prudential Douglas Elliman in Bayside, says prices have fallen far since their peak 18 months ago -- as much as 20 percent. 
 There are several large co-ops on the southern edge of the neighborhood; the 39 listed co-ops, mostly one- and two-bedrooms, range from $100,000 to $200,000. Condos are $200,000 to $400,000; close to 100 are listed.
 Rentals account for about three-quarters of housing in Corona. One-bedrooms start around $1,000 a month. 
 WHAT TO DO
 Mr. DeCordova, who was born in the neighborhood but moved away long ago, said, ''There's a piece of me --especially calorically -- still in Corona.'' Leo's Latticini, where Mr. DeCordova shopped in his youth, still sells its famous sandwiches and fresh mozzarella on 104th Street. Another Corona fixture, Lemon Ice King, still sells Italian ices on 108th Street. Ecuadorean, Colombian, and Mexican foods are available. 
 In April, the Mets will open their season at the new CitiField. Just below the stadium is the 1,255-acre Flushing Meadows Corona Park, site of the 1939 and 1965 World's Fairs and home to the United States Open tennis tournament.
 Mr. Lopez enjoys the park with his sister and four brothers; all of them live in the neighborhood. ''We can go with family up there and not have to spend,'' he said. ''You ride a bike; you go the lake and rent a little boat; pretty much you've got everything.'' 
 The park is also home to the Queens Museum of Art, Queens Theater in the Park, New York Hall of Science and the Queens Zoo. 
 THE SCHOOLS
 A city report found the school district covering Corona the most overcrowded as of October 2006. 
 In 2008, the city opened a new elementary school and, in a building just outside Corona, four new high schools, with a total enrollment of 500. But the report expects the 2010 census to show a population increase of nearly 10,000 in Corona since 2000. 
 There are five other elementary schools. Among fourth-graders, math proficiency levels ranged from 74 percent, at Public School 92, to 90 percent at P.S. 16 -- versus 80 percent citywide. Percentages for reading competency ranged from 45 percent at P.S. 92 to 72 at P.S. 16, versus 61 citywide.
 SAT averages at the High School for Arts and Business were 362 in reading, 363 in math and 351 in writing, versus the citywide averages of 438 in reading, 460 in math, and 433 in writing. 
 THE COMMUTE
 Four expressways and a parkway link the area to most boroughs and Long Island. The No. 7 train on Roosevelt Avenue and an express bus at the southern edge both reach Midtown Manhattan in under an hour. 
 THE HISTORY
 Corona was first settled by Robert Coe, an Englishman, in 1655, and Louis Comfort Tiffany began producing his famous glass there in 1897. The heaviest development followed the arrival of the No. 7 line in 1913.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: PAST, PRESENT: The Italian tricolor rippling in a local park evokes Corona's heritage, but the neighborhood today is largely Hispanic, with concentrations of Dominicans, Mexicans, Ecuadoreans and Colombians.(PHOTOGRAPHS BY DIMA GAVRYSH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) MAP Map details area of Corona. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (89%); FAMILY (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); CRIME RATES (85%); POLICE FORCES (73%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); SMALL BUSINESS (69%); IMMIGRATION (69%); CONSTRUCTION (68%); PROJECT MANAGEMENT (63%); STATISTICS (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); ASBESTOS REMEDIATION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



593 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; ART; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1861 words

HEADLINE: Tough Times Call for Shrewd Artists

BYLINE: By DOROTHY SPEARS

 BODY:
IN the first half of the 19th century, when portraiture was a viable livelihood for many American artists, the Philadelphia painter Thomas Sully was considered the cream of the crop. Even after the Panic of 1837 Sully's business thrived for a while, and he decamped temporarily to London to paint a commissioned full-length portrait of the young Queen Victoria.
 But portrait sitters don't typically bring repeat business. And soon afterward, back in the United States amid rampant bank failures and crushing unemployment, Sully faced the reality of ''more and more art that went unpaid for and unpicked up, and fewer and fewer commissions,'' said William Rudolph, the curator of American art at the Worcester Art Museum in Massachusetts.
 With the portrait market drying up, Sully shifted his sights from queens to romantic depictions of Gypsies. He became more entrepreneurial, racking up profits by subordinating his style to market tastes, Mr. Rudolph said. 
 Such survival stories during economic turmoil are the exception and not the rule. But today's contemporary artists might extract lessons from previous downturns in this nation's relatively short history, when some artists found ways to support their endeavors and even thrive. For better or worse, their strategies were often rooted in an understanding of the populist spirit that can rise to the fore when America hits hard times.
 Of course the more established artists tended to fare best, said Alan Wallach, a professor of art, art history and American studies at the College of William & Mary. The art world in the 19th century was considerably smaller than it is now. Still, then as now, ''some artists were admired and well known, while others labored in obscurity,'' he said.
 For his part Sully took inspiration from popular literature and fairy tales to paint pictures that were ''large and splashy,'' Mr. Rudolph said. Instead of working on commission as he had previously, Sully painted these images on speculation, making a conscious effort ''to give people what they wanted,'' Mr. Rudolph said. 
 In addition to selling the paintings, Sully had them made into engravings, the better to distribute the works more widely in the form of elaborately illustrated and popular gift books, according to Mr. Rudolph, who has studied Sully's diaries and accounting records.
 Among what Sully called his ''fancy pictures'' are ''Gypsy Girl'' (1839), which Mr. Rudolph described as ''a beautiful, sexy picture, like a pin-up.'' Another, ''Little Nell Asleep in the Curiosity Shop'' (1841), was completed within months of the American serialization of Charles Dickens's novel ''The Old Curiosity Shop.'' A third, ''Cinderella at the Kitchen Fire'' (1843), depicts a scene from the fairy tale.
 Although Sully's fancy pictures were not an overnight success, he had completed more than 600 by the time his eyesight failed in 1870, and he was able to sell them and support himself until his death. 
 The painter Thomas Moran was able to earn a comfortable living in rough times -- in his case, after the Crash of 1873 and the long depression that followed. Like Sully, ''Moran capitalized on the popularity of his subject,'' said Joni Kinsey, a professor of art history at the University of Iowa.
 In 1871 Jay Cooke, one of the nation's premier financiers, had matched a $500 loan from Scribner's magazine, for which Moran served as illustrator, enabling the artist to join a government-sponsored geological survey in the Rocky Mountains. 
 Moran's sketches and watercolors of the Rockies and the Grand Canyon offered views of spectacular landscapes most Americans had never seen. Because Western states were being incorporated into the union at that time, Ms. Kinsey said, ''his paintings played a part in helping people psychologically to appropriate the West into their national psyche.''
 They also served as a marketing tool for industrialists. In addition to banking, Cooke was a driving force behind the Northern Pacific Railroad, which had a vested interest in developing a tourist attraction along its proposed line. ''A lot of people were going to profit,'' Ms. Kinsey said.
 Yet the geysers of Yellowstone, spewing turbulent columns of steam, had diabolical connotations for the public, and Yellowstone was full of satanic place names. As Ms. Kinsey pointed out, the railroad speculators were likely thinking, ''Who wants to go to hell?''
 But with Moran's depictions of craggy rock formations and erupting geysers, and the pervasive use of the word ''wonderland'' in the lobbying literature, public perceptions shifted, Ms. Kinsey said. A bill designating Yellowstone the first national park was drawn in January 1872 and ''sailed through Congress,'' she said.
 Three months later Moran completed his monumental painting ''Grand Canyon of the Yellowstone'' and exhibited it in New York before shipping the work to Washington, where Congress agreed to buy it, Ms. Kinsey said. By the time Congress bought a second large-scale work by Moran, ''The Chasm of Colorado'' in 1874, Cooke's bank, Jay Cooke & Company of Philadelphia, had collapsed under the weight of its accumulated Civil War debt, triggering the Panic of 1873 and one of the longest economic downturns in American history.
 But Moran, who had sold ''Grand Canyon'' and ''Chasm'' for $10,000 each, had by then established his reputation. And the consistent sale of smaller works ensured that he was ''quite well off'' for the rest of his life, Ms. Kinsey said. He was ''first and foremost an artist and an interpreter of these sites,'' she said, but ''Moran was also pragmatic, and knew that art could not exist without commercial enterprise.'' 
 Because museums were relatively scarce in the United States in the 19th century, the market for American art was largely based on patrons. But toward the end of the 19th and into the early 20th century that situation was changing. 
 By Oct. 28, 1929, Black Monday, New York was considered America's artistic center. But there was still no major museum exhibiting works by living American artists. The Museum of Modern Art resolved to change that when it opened its doors to the public 10 days later, on the 12th floor of an office building on Fifth Avenue. The space was intended primarily for exhibitions by ''living artists, with occasional homage to masters of the 19th century,'' according to a mission statement in the museum's archive. 
 This would appear a risky endeavor during an economic crisis. But the museum had already hedged its bets by deciding to open with the show ''Cezanne, Gauguin, Seurat and van Gogh,'' as French painting was considered fashionable. Attendance for the monthlong show, recorded by hand in a leather-bound ledger, reached a staggering 47,293 visitors. 
 The museum's second show, ''Paintings by 19 American Artists,'' opened a month later and included works by living artists including Edward Hopper, Charles Burchfield, John Sloan, Rockwell Kent, Charles Demuth and Georgia O'Keefe. Although reviews were mixed, attendance reached a respectable 27,924, and the exhibition resulted in the museum's first acquisition, Hopper's ''House By the Railroad'' of 1925, further reflecting MoMA's commitment to American art. As the critic Henry McBride observed in a clipping from The New York Sun pasted into a museum scrapbook from that year: ''The record is something for old fogies to ponder over. It will be difficult for them to laugh it off, I fear.''
 With vast numbers of people out of work, a free admission policy at MoMA (though by the third show, there was a small fee charged two days a week to control crowds) helped the museum establish itself as a multidisciplinary cultural hub in a time of economic woe. Visitors embraced its presentation not only of current trends in American and European painting but also American folk art, Bauhaus architecture and design, and ''Useful Household Objects Under $5.'' 
 In the meantime Gertrude Vanderbilt Whitney had stepped up in 1931 to found another welcoming place for work by living artists, the Whitney Museum of American Art. Barbara Haskell, the Whitney's curator of early-20th-century art, said there was a built-in rivalry with MoMA. While MoMA was more of an authority, educating the public to modern art, ''the Whitney was considered an artists' museum,'' she added. ''It felt more artist friendly.''
 Still, American art didn't have a strong support base among collectors, and the Depression further eroded what there was. So in the mid-'30s the Works Progress Administration emerged as a financial patron of struggling artists while also making art more central to everyday life. With the murals commissioned for post offices and the art in public spaces throughout the United States, Ms. Haskell said, ''there was much more dispersion of culture than there had been during any other period.''
 Stephanie Plunkett, deputy director and chief curator of the Norman Rockwell Museum in Stockbridge, Mass., said that commercial illustration also offered American artists a way to stick out their careers while supporting themselves financially. The weekly Saturday Evening Post, for example, counted three million subscribers during the 1930s. Of the 200 pages typically printed in an issue, more than half were advertisements for food, household goods, automobiles, hosiery and luxury items, and many of these were illustrated.
 Part of the goal was to foster a sense that prosperity was not out of reach. ''There was a sense that life was going on, and artists became a part of that,'' Ms. Plunkett said. ''There was a lot of work to go around.''
 Douglas Hyland, the director of the New Britain Museum of American Art, in New Britain, Conn., suggests that the painter Thomas Hart Benton might be considered the epitome of an artist responding to that hunger for optimism.
 Rejecting many of the modernist techniques he had studied in Paris, Benton traveled around the country making hundreds of sketches. ''It was really an encyclopedic commentary on American civilization as he saw it,'' Mr. Hyland said. ''He wanted to point out that even though there was record unemployment, and people were rummaging through garbage for food, there was a dynamism and spirit that was different in our country.'' 
 If this feels a bit like propaganda, it was also what the public craved, Ms. Haskell said. Benton became the whipping boy of Abstract Expressionists during the economic boom after World War II, but in the '30s, she said, ''the realists seemed the most emblematic of the spirit of the times.'' 
 At the same time Dorothea Lange and Margaret Burke-White's reportage on dustbowls and the rural poor in the 1930s struck a chord by drawing attention to the plight of sharecroppers and immigrant farm workers.
 Anne Tucker, the curator of photography at the Museum of Fine Arts, Houston, said it will be interesting to see whether, in an era when documentary photography is no longer embraced by the art world, the current hard times will prompt artist-photographers to document human suffering -- and endurance. ''When the chips are down, she said, ''there's much more receptivity to it.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Above, ''Shoshone Falls, Snake River, Idaho,'' by Thomas Moran. Left, ''The Arts of Life in America: Arts of the West,'' by Thomas Hart Benton. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRYSLER MUSEUM OF ART, NORFOLK, VA.
NEW BRITAIN MUSEUM OF AMERICAN ART)
 Below, ''The Gypsy Girl,'' an oil painting by Thomas Sully from 1839. When business for his portraits slowed, Sully shifted his talents to more popular subjects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MUSEUM ASSOCIATES/LACMA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); HISTORY (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (78%); ART HISTORY (78%); PAINTING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); BRITISH MONARCHS (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); WORCESTER, MA, USA (56%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); IDAHO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



594 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2098 words

HEADLINE: The Boom Is Over. Long Live The Art!

BYLINE: By HOLLAND COTTER

 BODY:
LAST year Artforum magazine, one of the country's leading contemporary art monthlies, felt as fat as a phone book, with issues running to 500 pages, most of them gallery advertisements. The current issue has just over 200 pages. Many ads have disappeared. 
 The contemporary art market, with its abiding reputation for foggy deals and puffy values, is a vulnerable organism, traditionally hit early and hard by economic malaise. That's what's happening now. Sales are vaporizing. Careers are leaking air. Chelsea rents are due. The boom that was is no more. 
 Anyone with memories of recessions in the early 1970s and late '80s knows that we've been here before, though not exactly here. There are reasons to think that the present crisis is of a different magnitude: broader and deeper, a global black hole. Yet the same memories will lend a hopeful spin to that thought: as has been true before, a financial scouring can only be good for American art, which during the present decade has become a diminished thing.
 The diminishment has not, God knows, been quantitative. Never has there been so much product. Never has the American art world functioned so efficiently as a full-service marketing industry on the corporate model. 
 Every year art schools across the country spit out thousands of groomed-for-success graduates, whose job it is to supply galleries and auction houses with desirable retail. They are backed up by cadres of public relations specialists -- otherwise known as critics, curators, editors, publishers and career theorists -- who provide timely updates on what desirable means. 
 Many of those specialists are, directly or indirectly, on the industry payroll, which is controlled by another set of personnel: the dealers, brokers, advisers, financiers, lawyers and -- crucial in the era of art fairs -- event planners who represent the industry's marketing and sales division. They are the people who scan school rosters, pick off fresh talent, direct careers and, by some inscrutable calculus, determine what will sell for what.
 Not that these departments are in any way separated; ethical firewalls are not this industry's style. Despite the professionalization of the past decade, the art world still likes to think of itself as one big Love Boat. Night after night critics and collectors scarf down meals paid for by dealers promoting artists, or museums promoting shows, with everyone together at the table, schmoozing, stroking, prodding, weighing the vibes. 
 And where is art in all of this? Proliferating but languishing. ''Quality,'' primarily defined as formal skill, is back in vogue, part and parcel of a conservative, some would say retrogressive, painting and drawing revival. And it has given us a flood of well-schooled pictures, ingenious sculptures, fastidious photographs and carefully staged spectacles, each based on the same basic elements: a single idea, embedded in the work and expounded in an artist's statement, and a look or style geared to be as catchy as the hook in a rock song.
 The ideas don't vary much. For a while we heard a lot about the radicalism of Beauty; lately about the subversive politics of aestheticized Ambiguity. Whatever, it is all market fodder. The trend reached some kind of nadir on the eve of the presidential election, when the New Museum trotted out, with triumphalist fanfare, an Elizabeth Peyton painting of Michelle Obama and added it to the artist's retrospective. The promotional plug for the show was obvious. And the big political statement? That the art establishment voted Democratic. 
 Art in New York has not, of course, always been so anodyne an affair, and will not continue to be if a recession sweeps away such collectibles and clears space for other things. This has happened more than once in the recent past. Art has changed as a result. And in every case it has been artists who have reshaped the game. 
 The first real contemporary boom was in the early 1960s, when art decisively stopped being a coterie interest and briefly became an adjunct to the entertainment industry. Cash was abundant. Pop was hot. And the White House was culture conscious enough to create the National Endowment for the Arts so Americans wouldn't keeping looking, in the words of Arthur Schlesinger Jr., like ''money-grubbing materialists.'' 
 The boom was short. The Vietnam War and racism were ripping the country apart. The economy tanked. In the early '70s New York City was on the verge of bankruptcy, bleeding money and jobs. With virtually no commercial infrastructure for experimental art in place, artists had to create their own marginal, bootstrap model. 
 They moved, often illegally, into the derelict industrial area now called SoHo, and made art from what they found there. Trisha Brown choreographed dances for factory rooftops; Gordon Matta-Clark turned architecture into sculpture by slicing out pieces of walls. Everyone treated the city as a found object.
 An artist named Jeffrey Lew turned the ground floor of his building at 112 Greene Street into a first-come-first-served studio and exhibition space. People came, working with scrap metal, cast-off wood and cloth, industrial paint, rope, string, dirt, lights, mirrors, video. New genres -- installation, performance -- were invented. Most of the work was made on site and ephemeral: there one day, gone the next.
 White Columns, as 112 Greene Street came to called, became a prototype for a crop of nonprofit alternative spaces that sprang up across the country. Recessions are murder on such spaces, but White Columns is still alive and settled in Chelsea with an exhibition, through the end of the month, documenting, among other things, its 112 Greene Street years.
 The '70s economy, though stagnant, stabilized, and SoHo real estate prices rose. A younger generation of artists couldn't afford to live there and landed on the Lower East Side and in South Bronx tenements. Again the energy was collective, but the mix was different: young art-school graduates (the country's first major wave ), street artists like Jean-Michel Basquiat and Fab Five Freddy Braithwaite, assorted punk-rebel types like Richard Hell and plain rebels like David Wojnarowicz. 
 Here too the aesthetic was improvisatory. Everybody did everything -- painting, writing, performing, filming, photocopying zines, playing in bands -- and new forms arrived, including hip-hop, graffiti, No Wave cinema, appropriation art and the first definable body of ''out'' queer art. So did unusual ways of exhibiting work: in cars, in bathrooms, in subways. 
 The best art was subversive, but in very un-'60s, nonideological ways. When, at midnight, you heard Klaus Nomi, with his bee-stung black lips and robot hair, channeling Maria Callas at the Mudd Club, you knew you were in the presence of a genius deviant whose very life was a political act. 
 But again the moment was brief. The Reagan economy was creating vast supplies of expendable wealth, and the East Village became a brand name. Suddenly galleries were filled with expensive, tasty little paintings and objects similar in variety and finesse to those in Chelsea now. They sold. Limousines lined up outside storefront galleries. Careers soared. But the originating spark was long gone.
 After Black Monday in October 1987 the art was gone too, and with the market in disarray and gatekeepers confused, entrenched barriers came down. Black, Latino and Asian-American artists finally took center stage and fundamentally redefined American art. Gay and lesbian artists, bonded by the AIDS crisis and the culture wars, inspired by feminism, commanded visibility with sophisticated updates on protest art. 
 And thanks to multiculturalism and to the global reach of the digital revolution, the American art world in the '90s was in touch with developments in Africa, Asia and South America. For the first time contemporary art was acknowledged to be not just a Euro-American but an international phenomenon and, as it soon turned out, a readily marketable one.
 Which brings us to the present decade, held aloft on a wealth-at-the-top balloon, threatening to end in a drawn-out collapse. Students who entered art school a few years ago will probably have to emerge with drastically altered expectations. They will have to consider themselves lucky to get career breaks now taken for granted: the out-of-the-gate solo show, the early sales, the possibility of being able to live on the their art. 
 It's day-job time again in America, and that's O.K. Artists have always had them -- van Gogh the preacher, Pollock the busboy, Henry Darger the janitor -- and will again. The trick is to try to make them an energy source, not a chore.
 At the same time, if the example of past crises holds true, artists can also take over the factory, make the art industry their own. Collectively and individually they can customize the machinery, alter the modes of distribution, adjust the rate of production to allow for organic growth, for shifts in purpose and direction. They can daydream and concentrate. They can make nothing for a while, or make something and make it wrong, and fail in peace, and start again. 
 Art schools can change too. The present goal of studio programs (and of ever more specialized art history programs) seems to be to narrow talent to a sharp point that can push its way aggressively into the competitive arena. But with markets uncertain, possibly nonexistent, why not relax this mode, open up education? 
 Why not make studio training an interdisciplinary experience, crossing over into sociology, anthropology, psychology, philosophy, poetry and theology? Why not build into your graduate program a work-study semester that takes students out of the art world entirely and places them in hospitals, schools and prisons, sometimes in-extremis environments, i.e. real life? My guess is that if you did, American art would look very different than it does today.
 Such changes would require new ways of thinking and writing about art, so critics will need to go back to school, miss a few parties and hit the books and the Internet. Debate about a ''crisis in criticism'' gets batted around the art world periodically, suggesting nostalgia for old-style traffic-cop tastemakers like Clement Greenberg who invented movements and managed careers. But if there is a crisis, it is not a crisis of power; it's a crisis of knowledge. Simply put, we don't know enough, about the past or about any cultures other than our own. 
 A globally minded learning curve that started to grow in the 1980s and '90s seems to have withered away once multiculturalism fell out of fashion. Some New York critics, with a sigh of relief one sensed, have gone back to following every twitch of the cozy local scene, which also happens to constitute their social life. 
 The subject is not without interest, but it's small. In the 21st century New York is just one more art town among many, and no longer a particularly influential one. Contemporary art belongs to the world. And names of artists only half-familiar to us -- Uzo Egonu, Bhupen Khakhar, Iba Ndiaye, Montien Boonma, Amrita Sher-Gil, Graciela Carnevale, Madiha Omar, Shakir Hassan Al Said -- have as much chance of being important to history as many we know. 
 But there will be many, many changes for art and artists in the years ahead. Trying to predict them is like trying to forecast the economy. You can only ask questions. The 21st century will almost certainly see consciousness-altering changes in digital access to knowledge and in the shaping of visual culture. What will artists do with this? 
 Will the art industry continue to cling to art's traditional analog status, to insist that the material, buyable object is the only truly legitimate form of art, which is what the painting revival of the last few years has really been about? Will contemporary art continue to be, as it is now, a fancyish Fortunoff's, a party supply shop for the Love Boat crew? Or will artists -- and teachers, and critics -- jump ship, swim for land that is still hard to locate on existing maps and make it their home and workplace? 
 I'm not talking about creating '60s-style utopias; all those notions are dead and gone and weren't so great to begin with. I'm talking about carving out a place in the larger culture where a condition of abnormality can be sustained, where imagining the unknown and the unknowable -- impossible to buy or sell -- is the primary enterprise. Crazy! says anyone with an ounce of business sense.
 Right. Exactly. Crazy. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Damien Hirst's ''Golden Calf'' sold for $18.6 million last year, but the art climate has changed. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SOTHEBY'S/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE - GETTY IMAGES) (pg.AR1)
Top, Gordon Matta-Clark, right, who turned architecture into sculpture, with G. H. Hovagimyan in 1975
above, Meredith Monk performing her piece ''Juice'' at the Guggenheim Museum in 1969
right, a photograph from David Wojnarowicz's 1977-79 series ''Rimbaud in New York.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ETSTATE OF GORDON MATTA-CLARK/ARTISTS RIGHTS SOCIETY, NEW YORK
ESTATE OF PETER MOORE/VAGA, NEW YORK, COURTESY OF THE PAULA COOPER GALLERY, NEW YORK
 FALES LIBRARY AND SPECIAL COLLECTIONS, NEW YORK UNIVERSITY) (pg.AR25) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (78%); SCULPTURE (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); ART COLLECTING (78%); CONSERVATISM (76%); AUCTIONS (73%); PUBLISHING (73%); COMPUTER NETWORK SECURITY (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



595 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section NJ; Column 0; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 837 words

HEADLINE: Tax Revenue Refunds Widen State Fiscal Gap

BYLINE: By DUNSTAN McNICHOL

 BODY:
ALREADY struggling with falling tax revenues, New Jersey is now sending checks for millions of dollars to companies that are claiming refunds on state corporate taxes they overpaid on profits that failed to materialize last year.
 Because of the refunds and the continuing decline in tax revenues over all, state lawmakers expressed new concern about the state's worsening fiscal problems after they were briefed last week on the latest tax revenue shortfalls. 
 State Senator Kevin J. O'Toole, a Republican from Essex County, said he knew that things were bad based on past projections. 
 ''Now, they're horrific,'' said Mr. O'Toole, who serves on the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee. ''We are free-falling.''
 Mr. O'Toole said the State Department of Treasury ended up refunding almost as much state corporate tax revenue as it took in last month. 
 ''There is a projection of very little net gain,'' he said. The tax had been scheduled to raise $115 million in January.
 Mr. O'Toole and other lawmakers briefed on preliminary reports of the January tax revenue numbers said they would also show a continued collapse of the state's two largest taxes, the income tax and the sales tax. Specifically, they said sales tax collections were down 12 percent from collections a year earlier, and income tax collections declined about 15 percent from a year ago.
 State Treasury Department officials are planning to release a complete report and analysis of January tax revenues early this week, according to Tom Vincz, a spokesman for the Treasury Department.
 The revenue shortfall is the latest in a series of grim fiscal news. 
 Last Tuesday, members of the State Transportation Trust Fund Authority, the panel that oversees a $1.6 billion annual program for highway and mass transit improvements, learned that the fund would not be able to support any new projects after this year, unless there is a sharp change in financial circumstances.
 ''The 2011 program may not be able to support any new projects,'' said Steve Hanson, the Trust Fund Authority's executive director, referring to the 2011 budget year that begins July 1, 2010. ''That part of the program is in jeopardy right now.''
 And later this week the State Investment Council is scheduled to meet to receive a monthly update on the status of New Jersey's pension funds, which began the budget year underfinanced by $28 billion and lost about $17 billion during 2008.
 ''The unprecedented global economic crisis has affected collections of virtually every revenue source, resulting in a $2.1 billion shortfall in the current year budget,'' Mr. Vincz, the Treasury Department spokesman, said in a statement. ''We will be updating our revenue collections through January and budget outlook for FY 09 early next week.''
 With the state budget year now seven months old, officials said the poor January returns will likely add at least $500 million to a current year budget deficit that was already projected at $2.1 billion. The projected gap for the new fiscal year, which begins July 1, is just over $5 billion. 
 Gov. Jon S. Corzine is expected to outline his plan to grapple with the immediate fiscal problems shortly. He is due to unveil his budget for the new fiscal year on March 10. State officials hope to collect almost $700 million in federal support from the stimulus package to help close the gaps.
 Senator Barbara Buono, chairwoman of the Senate Budget and Appropriations Committee, said budget analysts told her the continued decline in sales-tax returns through last year's Christmas season produced ''the worst quarter in history for the sales tax.'' 
 ''The governor and his cabinet are working as we speak to reconcile this increased shortfall with the cuts in our budget,'' said Ms. Buono, a Democrat from Middlesex County. ''Any glimmer of hope we were going to see a quick turnaround in this economic maelstrom is fading.'' 
 New Jersey is not alone in seeing its corporate tax revenues dry up as business earnings vanish and companies seek refunds from overpayments they made based on optimistic forecasts in earlier years. According to a recent report by the Nelson A. Rockefeller Institute of Government's Fiscal Studies Program, corporate income tax returns declined through last September at a double-digit rate nationwide, with ''surging corporate tax refunds'' contributing to the problem. 
 In New Jersey, the corporate tax was scheduled to generate $2.6 billion when lawmakers adopted the budget for the year that ends June 30. Through December, the tax had returned only $1.2 billion, about $90 million behind projections, the state's latest revenue report shows.
 Lucy Dadayan, a senior policy analyst for the Nelson Rockefeller Institute of Government, said that 27 of 37 states surveyed around the country faced a decline in corporate business taxes paid last year. 
 In New York City, city officials refunded more than $800 million to companies that overpaid corporate business taxes last year.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: WARNING: Senator Barbara Buono, Middlesex Democrat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MEL EVANS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (95%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SALES TAX (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); PENSION FUNDS (78%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (78%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); BUDGET FORECASTS (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



596 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section WK; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Coming Swarm

BYLINE: By JOHN ARQUILLA. 
John Arquilla teaches in the special operations program at the Naval Postgraduate School and is the author of ''Worst Enemy: The Reluctant Transformation of the American Military.''

DATELINE: Monterey, Calif. 

 BODY:
 WITH three Afghan government ministries in Kabul hit by simultaneous suicide attacks this week, by a total of just eight terrorists, it seems that a new ''Mumbai model'' of swarming, smaller-scale terrorist violence is emerging. 
 The basic concept is that hitting several targets at once, even with just a few fighters at each site, can cause fits for elite counterterrorist forces that are often manpower-heavy, far away and organized to deal with only one crisis at a time. This approach certainly worked in Mumbai, India, last November, where five two-man teams of Lashkar-e-Taiba operatives held the city hostage for two days, killing 179 people. The Indian security forces, many of which had to be flown in from New Delhi, simply had little ability to strike back at more than one site at a time. 
 While it's true that the assaults in Kabul seem to be echoes of Mumbai, the fact is that Al Qaeda and its affiliates have been using these sorts of swarm tactics for several years. Jemaah Islamiyah -- the group responsible for the Bali nightclub attack that killed 202 people in 2002 -- mounted simultaneous attacks on 16 Christian churches in Indonesia on Christmas Eve in 2000, befuddling security forces. 
 Even 9/11 itself had swarm-like characteristics, as four small teams of Qaeda operatives simultaneously seized commercial aircraft and turned them into missiles, flummoxing all our defensive responses. In the years since, Al Qaeda has coordinated swarm attacks in Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey, Yemen and elsewhere. And at the height of the insurgency in Iraq, terrorists repeatedly used swarms on targets as small as truck convoys and as large as whole cities. 
 This pattern suggests that Americans should brace for a coming swarm. Right now, most of our cities would be as hard-pressed as Mumbai was to deal with several simultaneous attacks. Our elite federal and military counterterrorist units would most likely find their responses slowed, to varying degrees, by distance and the need to clarify jurisdiction. 
 While the specifics of the federal counterterrorism strategy are classified, what is in the public record indicates that the plan contemplates having to deal with as many as three sites being simultaneously hit and using ''overwhelming force'' against the terrorists, which probably means mustering as many as 3,000 ground troops to the site. If that's an accurate picture, it doesn't bode well. We would most likely have far too few such elite units for dealing with a large number of small terrorist teams carrying out simultaneous attacks across a region or even a single city.
 Nightmare possibilities include synchronized assaults on several shopping malls, high-rise office buildings or other places that have lots of people and relatively few exits. Another option would be to set loose half a dozen two-man sniper teams in some metropolitan area -- you only have to recall the havoc caused by the Washington sniper in 2002 to imagine how huge a panic a slightly larger version of that form of terrorism would cause.
 So how are swarms to be countered? The simplest way is to create many more units able to respond to simultaneous, small-scale attacks and spread them around the country. This means jettisoning the idea of overwhelming force in favor of small units that are not ''elite'' but rather ''good enough'' to tangle with terrorist teams. In dealing with swarms, economizing on force is essential.
 We've actually had a good test case in Iraq over the past two years. Instead of responding to insurgent attacks by sending out large numbers of troops from distant operating bases, the military strategy is now based on hundreds of smaller outposts in which 40 or 50 American troops are permanently stationed and prepared to act swiftly against attackers. Indeed, their very presence in Iraqi communities is a big deterrent. It's small surprise that overall violence across Iraq has dropped by about 80 percent in that period. 
 For the defense of American cities against terrorist swarms, the key would be to use local police officers as the first line of defense instead of relying on the military. The first step would be to create lots of small counterterrorism posts throughout urban areas instead of keeping police officers in large, centralized precinct houses. This is consistent with existing notions of community-based policing, and could even include an element of outreach to residents similar to that undertaken in the Sunni areas of Iraq -- even if it were to mean taking the paradoxical turn of negotiating with gangs about security.
 At the federal level, we should stop thinking in terms of moving thousands of troops across the country and instead distribute small response units far more widely. Cities, states and Washington should work out clear rules in advance for using military forces in a counterterrorist role, to avoid any bickering or delay during a crisis. Reserve and National Guard units should train and field many more units able to take on small teams of terrorist gunmen and bombers. Think of them as latter-day Minutemen. 
 Saudi Arabia, Tunisia, Turkey and Yemen all responded to Qaeda attacks with similar ''packetizing'' initiatives involving the police and armed forces; and while that hasn't eliminated swarm attacks, the terrorists have been far less effective and many lives have been saved. 
 As for Afghanistan, where the swarm has just arrived, there is still time to realize the merits of forming lots of small units and sprinkling them about in a countrywide network of outposts. As President Obama looks to send more troops to that war, let's make sure the Pentagon does it the right way. 
 Yes, the swarm will be heading our way, too. We need to get smaller, closer and quicker. The sooner the better. 

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER MUNDAY AND RAMELL ROSS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (92%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (89%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); HOSTAGE TAKING (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (73%); CHRISTMAS (66%); RELIGION (66%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (64%); ARMED FORCES (61%); RETAILERS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (82%); LASHKAR E TAYYABA (57%); JEMAAH ISLAMIYA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (91%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (77%) INDIA (94%); AFGHANISTAN (94%); TURKEY (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); INDONESIA (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



597 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1160 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Military Will Offer Path To Citizenship

BYLINE: By JULIA PRESTON

 BODY:
Stretched thin in Afghanistan and Iraq, the American military will begin recruiting skilled immigrants who are living in this country with temporary visas, offering them the chance to become United States citizens in as little as six months. 
 Immigrants who are permanent residents, with documents commonly known as green cards, have long been eligible to enlist. But the new effort, for the first time since the Vietnam War, will open the armed forces to temporary immigrants if they have lived in the United States for a minimum of two years, according to military officials familiar with the plan. 
 Recruiters expect that the temporary immigrants will have more education, foreign language skills and professional expertise than many Americans who enlist, helping the military to fill shortages in medical care, language interpretation and field intelligence analysis. 
 ''The American Army finds itself in a lot of different countries where cultural awareness is critical,'' said Lt. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley, the top recruitment officer for the Army, which is leading the pilot program. ''There will be some very talented folks in this group.'' 
 The program will begin small -- limited to 1,000 enlistees nationwide in its first year, most for the Army and some for other branches. If the pilot program succeeds as Pentagon officials anticipate, it will expand for all branches of the military. For the Army, it could eventually provide as many as 14,000 volunteers a year, or about one in six recruits. 
 About 8,000 permanent immigrants with green cards join the armed forces annually, the Pentagon reports, and about 29,000 foreign-born people currently serving are not American citizens.
 Although the Pentagon has had wartime authority to recruit immigrants since shortly after the Sept. 11 attacks, military officials have moved cautiously to lay the legal groundwork for the temporary immigrant program to avoid controversy within the ranks and among veterans over the prospect of large numbers of immigrants in the armed forces.
 A preliminary Pentagon announcement of the program last year drew a stream of angry comments from officers and veterans on Military.com, a Web site they frequent. 
 Marty Justis, executive director of the national headquarters of the American Legion, the veterans' organization, said that while the group opposes ''any great influx of immigrants'' to the United States, it would not object to recruiting temporary immigrants as long as they passed tough background checks. But he said the immigrants' allegiance to the United States ''must take precedence over and above any ties they may have with their native country.'' 
 The military does not allow illegal immigrants to enlist, and that policy would not change, officers said. Recruiting officials pointed out that volunteers with temporary visas would have already passed a security screening and would have shown that they had no criminal record. 
 ''The Army will gain in its strength in human capital,'' General Freakley said, ''and the immigrants will gain their citizenship and get on a ramp to the American dream.'' 
 In recent years, as American forces faced combat in two wars and recruiters struggled to meet their goals for the all-volunteer military, thousands of legal immigrants with temporary visas who tried to enlist were turned away because they lacked permanent green cards, recruiting officers said. 
 Recruiters' work became easier in the last few months as unemployment soared and more Americans sought to join the military. But the Pentagon, facing a new deployment of 30,000 troops to Afghanistan, still has difficulties in attracting doctors, specialized nurses and language experts. 
 Several types of temporary work visas require college or advanced degrees or professional expertise, and immigrants who are working as doctors and nurses in the United States have already been certified by American medical boards.
 Military figures show that only 82 percent of about 80,000 Army recruits last year had high school diplomas. According to new figures, the Army provided waivers to 18 percent of active-duty recruits in the final four months of last year, allowing them to enlist despite medical conditions or criminal records. 
 Military officials want to attract immigrants who have native knowledge of languages and cultures that the Pentagon considers strategically vital. The program will also be open to students and refugees. 
 The Army's one-year pilot program will begin in New York City to recruit about 550 temporary immigrants who speak one or more of 35 languages, including Arabic, Chinese, Hindi, Igbo (a tongue spoken in Nigeria), Kurdish, Nepalese, Pashto, Russian and Tamil. Spanish speakers are not eligible. The Army's program will also include about 300 medical professionals to be recruited nationwide. Recruiting will start after Department of Homeland Security officials update an immigration rule in coming days. 
 Pentagon officials expect that the lure of accelerated citizenship will be powerful. Under a statute invoked in 2002 by the Bush administration, immigrants who serve in the military can apply to become citizens on the first day of active service, and they can take the oath in as little as six months.
 For foreigners who come to work or study in the United States on temporary visas, the path to citizenship is uncertain and at best agonizingly long, often lasting more than a decade. The military also waives naturalization fees, which are at least $675. 
 To enlist, temporary immigrants will have to prove that they have lived in the United States for two years and have not been out of the country for longer than 90 days during that time. They will have to pass an English test. 
 Language experts will have to serve four years of active duty, and health care professionals will serve three years of active duty or six years in the Reserves. If the immigrants do not complete their service honorably, they could lose their citizenship. 
 Commenters who vented their suspicions of the program on Military.com said it could be used by terrorists to penetrate the armed forces. 
 At a street corner recruiting station in Bay Ridge in Brooklyn, Staff Sgt. Alejandro Campos of the Army said he had already fielded calls from temporary immigrants who heard rumors about the program. 
 ''We're going to give people the opportunity to be part of the United States who are dying to be part of this country and they weren't able to before now,'' said Sergeant Campos, who was born in the Dominican Republic and became a United States citizen after he joined the Army. 
 Sergeant Campos said he saw how useful it was to have soldiers who were native Arabic speakers during two tours in Iraq. 
 ''The first time around we didn't have soldier translators,'' he said. ''But now that we have soldiers as translators, we are able to trust more, we are able to accomplish the mission with more accuracy.'' 

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Staff Sgt. Alejandro Campos, in Bay Ridge, Brooklyn, became a citizen after joining the Army.(PHOTOGRAPH BY ROB BENNETT FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Lt. Gen. Benjamin C. Freakley heads Army recruitment.(PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE GROLL/ASSOCIATED PRESS)(A30) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); ARMIES (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); VETERANS (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); VIETNAM WAR (73%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (63%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); IRAQ (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



598 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Smaller Planes Are Taking On a Bigger Share of the Skies

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON and CHRISTINE NEGRONI; Mick Meenan, Matthew L. Wald and Rebecca White contributed reporting.

 BODY:
The 74-seat turboprop plane that crashed Thursday night near Buffalo was part of an expanding fleet of small regional aircraft that have become a vital part of the country's airline industry and are increasingly the only air link available to far-flung towns and smaller cities.
 Three-quarters of the commercial airports in the country are served solely by these planes, which typically have 100 or fewer seats. At Newark Liberty International Airport, one of the nation's busiest, regional jets and turboprop planes make up 45 percent of all arrivals and departures, a percentage point higher than at Buffalo Niagara International Airport, where Continental Connection Flight 3407 was headed when it crashed, killing all 49 aboard. 
 Smaller turboprop and jet planes are not new to aviation, but they have grown in use since the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, which caused a steep decline in air travel. In response to that, as well as the economic downturn, many of the country's largest carriers have been mothballing larger jets or using them on long-haul flights exclusively. 
 To continue serving smaller markets, the airlines have added more regional aircraft, some operated by subsidiaries and others run under contract by regional airlines like Colgan Air, which operated Continental's Flight 3407. 
 Though any plane crash raises safety concerns, the kinds of smaller aircraft used in short-haul flights have received repeated scrutiny. Since 2000, there have been eight crashes of regional aircraft, all but one of them involving fatalities, and three involving Pinnacle Airlines, Colgan Air's parent company.
 Yet traffic has grown. More than one in five passenger boardings in 2007 were on regional aircraft, an increase of 44 percent since 2003. Regional aircraft are also flying farther -- 457 miles per flight on average in 2007, a 19 percent increase over the same period. The Bombardier Dash 8 series of turboprop planes, the type that crashed Thursday, represented 4.8 percent, or 1,160, of all scheduled flights nationwide on Friday, according to the travel Web site FareCompare.com. 
 ''As demand decreases because of the current economics, it doesn't make sense to fly larger airplanes,'' said Peter Belobaba, a researcher for the Global Airline Industry Program at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''We have seen a renewed interest in turboprops for 50 and 70 seats because of their fuel efficiency.'' Turboprops use jet engines to drive propellers.
 Pilots who fly smaller regional planes are trained as rigorously as pilots on larger planes, according to aviation industry experts, and many regional jets and turboprops are relatively new and equipped with the latest flight controls.
 The Bombardier Dash 8 Q400 that crashed on Thursday had been in service for less than a year. But the ubiquity of these regional aircraft has raised concerns among some safety officials, as well as passengers not used to carrying their own luggage up and down steps to board the smaller planes, which are more cramped and have fewer amenities than bigger planes.
 ''Just the thought that two props are holding you up and not a jet engine, I don't like that,'' said Greg Cooper-Spencer, 28, who flew on a regional jet from Cincinnati to Newark Liberty International Airport on Friday. ''When I walked on to the plane, I felt like I was in a capsule.''
 Such concerns are not unreasonable. Colgan Air has been cited six times in the last six years by the Federal Aviation Administration for a variety of maintenance or operational violations, like failing to follow proper repair procedures. 
 The F.A.A. declined to provide details about the violations. 
 The National Transportation Safety Board has also investigated three accidents involving Colgan aircraft, including one at La Guardia Airport in 2003 when two planes collided on the taxiway. In 2001, a Colgan plane in Maine struck a deer when landing. No one was killed in either accident. 
 A spokeswoman for Continental Airlines said it left safety oversight to the F.A.A. ''Prior to entering any agreement, we conduct due diligence to make sure they comply with government and safety regulations,'' said the spokeswoman, Julie King. 
 Colgan's parent company, Pinnacle Airlines, which also operates regional aircraft for Delta, Northwest, United Airlines and US Airways, has been cited by the F.A.A. nine times since 1997. But Pinnacle's most serious safety episode was in October 2004, when Pinnacle pilots operating a Northwest Airlink flight without passengers tried to see how high they could take the airplane.
 ''We don't have any passengers on board, so we decided to have a little fun and come on up here,'' the captain told the air traffic controller when the plane reached its maximum altitude of 41,000 feet. Both engines failed and the plane crashed into a residential area in Jefferson City, Mo. Both pilots died.
 For the most part, the safety standards for aircraft used by regional airlines and larger airlines are uniform, which has been the case for less than 10 years. Before then standards could vary depending on the number of passenger seats in the plane. Comparing the safety records of regional aircraft with those of larger planes is difficult because regional planes operate in more challenging conditions: at lower altitudes and at airports with fewer landing aids. They also tend to have entry-level pilots.
 Still, Robert L. Sumwalt, the vice chairman of the transportation safety board, raised the issue of the safety of regional aircraft during a board hearing last August involving a Shuttle America commuter plane that overran the runway in Cleveland in February 2007, injuring three people.
 ''When a family gets on an aircraft at a small town for their annual pilgrimage to Disney World, they more than likely will get on a regional aircraft,'' Mr. Sumwalt said, according to Air Safety Week, a trade publication. ''I want to make sure that there is at least equivalent or higher levels of safety when they get on that regional aircraft.''
 While many frequent travelers have become used to the rattle, noise and smaller seats in regional aircraft, many still prefer to fly on larger jets. Shahmeer S. Khatri, 22, from Queens, who boarded a flight to Chicago on Friday, was anxious about his connection on a commuter flight to South Bend, Ind. ''I always dislike flying smaller planes,'' he said. ''Before, I could tell myself it's not a big deal. But now I have an event in my mind, and it even happened right near here.''
 Sarah Sullivan, 23, from Buffalo, flew to Newark on Friday. ''I thought of driving down here instead of taking the flight, but I figured they'd be doing extra safety checks because of the accident,'' she said. ''I used to be nervous about flying but got over it, but now it's coming back a little bit.'' The ticket she had booked for her return to Buffalo on Monday was for Continental Connection Flight 3407.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRLINES (91%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (89%); PASSENGER & CARGO AIRCRAFT (89%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (89%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); AIRLINES PASSENGER TRAFFIC (78%); AIR SERVICE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); PARENT COMPANIES (71%); TERRORISM (69%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%); BUFFALO, NY, USA (88%) NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



599 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; OUR TOWNS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Indian Point And a License To Disagree

BYLINE: By PETER APPLEBOME. 
E-mail: peappl@nytimes.com

DATELINE: BUCHANAN, N.Y. 

 BODY:
 Remember Indian Point? No, not the friendly Energy Center version advertised during Yankee games, but the scary nuclear plant version that New York State officials vowed to shut down after 9/11 as an unacceptable risk.
 Yes, we all sort of do, in our short-attention-span way. But then in the current Madoff/bailout/exploding 401(k) moment, we sort of don't. That's one reason, if timing is everything, that the decision to be made next year on whether to relicense the plant for 20 more years feels close to a foregone conclusion.
 Thursday was the last public run-up to the formal proceedings to determine whether the two nuclear reactors at Indian Point should continue to operate through 2033 and 2035. 
 The official subject at public hearings in Cortlandt Manor, not far from the plant, was the environmental impact statement on the plan to relicense the reactors, on the Hudson River bank about 35 miles north of New York City.
 But nothing these days exists far from the fallout from Wall Street, so the comments were about economic issues as often as environmental ones.
 ''The people against it focused on the environmental issues, which is generally what they do. But, to be honest, they seemed a bit more subdued than usual on that side,'' said Bob Seeger, business manager of Local 740 of the Millwright and Machinery Erectors. He was one of a number of union members and officials who testified in favor of the plant. 
 After decades of debate, hearings about Indian Point have the air of scripted Kabuki -- proponents making a case based on jobs and energy, critics making one based on safety and the environment.
 But the intensity of the arguments and the political backdrop have shifted back and forth over time. ''I believe Indian Point should be closed, and it should be closed now,'' Attorney General Andrew M. Cuomo said at a news conference in December 2007. He announced that the state had asked the Nuclear Regulatory Commission to deny an application to extend the license of the Indian Point plant. 
 Opposition to the plant peaked after 9/11. There's still plenty of opposition from politicians and environmental groups that cite, among other issues, the negative effects of the plant's outmoded cooling water intake system on Hudson River fisheries, the continuing leak of radioactive water into the Hudson and the absence of a workable evacuation plan or a long-term solution to the disposal of nuclear waste. 
 Proponents insist that the plant is safe. And anything that can be depicted as costing jobs or threatening the economy is a soft target these days. Entergy Nuclear, the owner of the plant, has been very skillful at making allies and enlisting supporters. 
 Class warfare may be a very bad thing in presidential politics, as Republicans seem to remind us every four years. In the politics of nuclear power, it may be a different story. So the hearing was packed with union representatives and members of groups representing low-income people -- some supported in part by Entergy contributions -- who were brought in from Harlem and the Bronx. They argued that their jobs and economic well-being depended on Indian Point.
 In fact, everything about the Indian Point debate is more complicated than it was a decade ago. Climate change concerns have muddled the environmental issue, with a minority of environmentalists now supporting nuclear power as preferable to options emitting greenhouse gases. 
 The regulatory commission has never turned down a proposal to relicense a nuclear plant, and the narrow scope of the formal review process alone almost guarantees relicensing. But then no state has ever called for the shutdown of an operating plant within its borders, as New York is now doing. And no plant operates within wafting distance of such a huge population as Indian Point does. 
 It's possible that the plant, the regulatory commission and the critics will find a way to split the difference next year. For example, allow Indian Point to continue operating but force it to build modern cooling towers instead of keeping the current system that uses billions of gallons of Hudson River water daily.
 In truth, there may not be a good alternative to the energy produced at Indian Point. You just hope the decision on perhaps the most important environmental issue on the region's horizon is based on smart science, economics and energy analysis, not the sense that the cold shadow of economic fear looms behind every complicated decision we'll make.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR POWER PLANTS (90%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (88%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); NUCLEAR ACCIDENTS (78%); HAZARDOUS WASTE (78%); NUCLEAR PLANT SAFETY (78%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL IMPACT ASSESSMENT (78%); FISHERIES (78%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (73%); NUCLEAR WASTE (73%); ENVIRONMENTAL PERMITS (73%); HAZARDOUS WASTE TREATMENT & DISPOSAL (73%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (68%); POLITICS (67%)

COMPANY: ENTERGY CORP (58%); FIRST NIAGARA FINANCIAL GROUP INC (56%)

TICKER: ETR (NYSE) (58%); FNFG (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (56%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (56%); SIC6035 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS, FEDERALLY CHARTERED (56%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009



600 of 1162 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2009 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: February 15, 2009
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; THE SELL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1079 words

HEADLINE: When a House Gets a Love Letter

BYLINE: By KEITH MULVIHILL. 
E-mail: mulvihill@nytimes.com

 BODY:
GEORGE Ferrero has affectionately called Marcelle Franchinot ''aunt'' his whole life, although they are not related. Their families have been close since the 1920s, and she has no children. So it was only natural that she would entrust him with the sale of her house in Stamford, Conn.
 Though he had grown up in Pennsylvania, he knew the property intimately. The two-bedroom chalet-style house, with its great room and a cozy stone fireplace, was like, well, a favorite aunt's place. He'd played as a boy on its wooded acre.
 ''We spent many holidays at the chalet,'' said Mr. Ferrero, 68, who is retired. ''We visited there all the time.'' 
 The house was designed in 1957 by Mrs. Franchinot's husband, Paul, who died in 2000. Mrs. Franchinot, now 83, an artist, continued to live there. But last year, she experienced health problems. 
 Mr. Ferrero, who is her legal guardian, began to plan moving Mrs. Franchinot to a nursing home near his home in Bernville, Pa. 
 In early 2008, Mr. Ferrero decided to contact a real estate agent for advice on readying the property for sale. After thumbing through the phone book, he dialed the Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage office in Stamford. Joelle Bentley, a broker, came right over. 
 ''There is very little residential architecture in Stamford, especially so close to downtown, as distinctive as the chalet,'' Ms. Bentley said. ''I was immediately charmed by it.''
 After their meeting, they agreed to stay in touch. By early summer, Mrs. Franchinot's health had worsened and she moved to the nursing home in July. He put his plans to fix up the house on hold while he and his wife, Joan, settled Ms. Franchinot into her new surroundings.
 Instead, Ms. Bentley said, the Ferreros focused their efforts on cleaning and decluttering. Workers made small repairs and hauled unwanted items to a charity for around $2,500. 
 The 1,520-square-foot house went on the market in July for $629,000. The price was based on the value of the land; the house was a fixer-upper. An open house drew about 10 people, mostly curious neighbors, Ms. Bentley said. 
 Soon afterward, Anna Baleva, 25, and her boyfriend, Stoyan Kanev, 27, of Stamford, paid a visit. 
 ''At first we really loved it,'' Ms. Baleva said. ''It was so unique and close to our jobs in downtown Stamford.'' But although the house oozed charm, it needed updating. And the young couple wondered if it would be large enough for a family. ''We started to look at larger places for similar prices and decided to keep looking,'' Ms. Baleva said.
 By August, having received no offers, Ms. Bentley and Mr. Ferrero reduced the price to $559,000.
 But the house had a secret admirer: Arabella Pasquino. A native of Brazil, she has lived in Connecticut since 1996, and owns Bella's Boutique in Stamford. She once worked at Bristol-Myers Squibb, about a mile from the property. 
 ''I used to go on long walks on my lunch break,'' she said. ''One day I happened upon the chalet.'' Captivated by the house and its picturesque property, Ms. Pasquino, 39, said taking a route past it was part of her lunchtime routine for more than five years. 
 ''If a friend tagged along, I'd joke, 'Let's walk by my chalet,' '' she said. Even after she left the company in 2002, she would drive past the house to take a look every so often. Her daughter, Becca Godoi-Pasquino, now 14, called it the Hansel and Gretel house. 
 In August 2008, Ms. Pasquino got a big surprise. Needing to kill some time before picking up Becca at school, she drove past the chalet. That's when she saw the for-sale sign.
 ''My heart stopped; I couldn't breathe,'' she said. ''I knew there was no way I could afford it, but still, even just the thought of getting to see pictures of the inside was incredible.'' 
 Ms. Pasquino, who coincidentally was looking for a house, raced home to view the online listing. Just as she had feared, the asking price was above her budget. Dismayed, she tried not to dwell on it. ''I was just so sorry whoever lived there had to give it up,'' she said.
 Not long afterward, she learned that her real estate agent was going to check out the chalet. Without saying much, Ms. Pasquino asked if she could come along. She just wanted to see the interior.
 ''The inside was everything I imagined, just beautiful,'' she said. As she glanced around, a Portuguese Bible on a shelf caught her eye. And she was struck by the many paintings and drawings depicting life and landscapes in Brazil. Mr. Franchinot, she would later discover, had made extended business trips to Brazil, accompanied by his wife.
 ''I couldn't believe my eyes,'' she said. ''Many of the scenes were of places that only a Brazilian would know about, or even go to. I was in the house only a few minutes before I burst into tears.'' 
 A month later, in September, Ms. Pasquino decided to write the seller and make an offer. ''I knew it was crazy, and I didn't want to insult her, but I just had to try or I would never forgive myself,'' she said. She wrote of her years of affection for the house, of her Brazilian roots and her modest means. She wrote that she could pay $475,000.
 The Ferreros were touched by Ms. Pasquino's letter. But they felt the house was worth more. They declined the offer.
 Ms. Pasquino related her predicament to her sister, whose response was a little financial assistance. Ms. Pasquino upped her offer to $500,000, and promised a 25 percent down payment. This time Mr. Ferrero said yes.
 ''With so much talk of a declining housing market in the news and the expense of keeping up an empty house,'' he said, ''we thought it was better to act than to wait and see what happened with the economy. I didn't want the house to get into someone's hands that was going to destroy it and build something else. And I know Marcelle didn't want that either. 
 ''The fact that Bella loved the house like we did was wonderful,'' he added. ''I explained it all to Marcelle, and that made her feel happy, too.'' 
 Relieved to have the burden of selling the house lifted, the Ferreros are now enjoying weekly visits with Mrs. Franchinot. ''We bring her over to our place on Sundays for dinner and take her out on little excursions,'' Mr. Ferrero said.
 So the Hansel and Gretel house got a fairy-tale ending. The sale closed in November, and after a few repairs, Ms. Pasquino and Becca moved into the house this month. 
 ''It's a dream come true in every sense of the word,'' Ms. Pasquino said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: THE PROPERTY: A chalet-style house on an acre in Stamford, Conn., was listed in July for $629,000 and reduced in August to $559,000.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
THE BUYER: Arabella Pasquino wrote a letter describing her affection for the house and offering $475,000. It became hers for $500,000. She and her daughter, Becca Godoi-Pasquino, have moved in.(PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUGLAS HEALEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 THE SELLER: George Ferrero of Bernville, Pa., put the house on the market for its owner, a dear family friend. He and his wife cleaned and tossed and had small repairs made.(PHOTOGRAPH BY KALIM A. BHATTI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); FAMILY (90%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); NURSING HOMES (67%); PRICE CUTTING (60%)

COMPANY: COLDWELL BANKER RESIDENTIAL BROKERAGE CO (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (55%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2009

 
