

1 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 8636 words

HEADLINE: READING 

 BODY:
 This list has been selected from books reviewed since the Holiday Books issue of December 2002. The books are alphabetized under genre headings; the complete reviews can be found at nytimes.com/books.

FICTION & POETRY

ABANDON: A Romance. By Pico Iyer. (Knopf, $24.) A graceful novel whose hero, an English graduate student of Sufi mystical poetry who hopes to uncover that within himself which passeth show, heads first for California and later for Iran, where he and the woman he is traveling with improve their understanding of mystical poetry and of themselves.

ALL OVER CREATION. By Ruth Ozeki. (Viking, $24.95.) A sophisticated novel in which dread and hope coexist and the end of nature is envisioned through the impact of genetically modified crops on a family and the many players who descend on their Idaho potato farm.

ANY HUMAN HEART. By William Boyd. (Knopf, $24.95.) A novel whose hero, a minor British writer and art dealer (and secret agent), becomes a sort of stoic Everyman for the 20th century, meeting almost everyone (Ian Fleming, Picasso, Hemingway, the Duke of Windsor, Virginia Woolf) and traveling to almost everywhere; he has many successes in life, each one closely attended by yet another fall.

BAY OF SOULS. By Robert Stone. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A highly concentrated (for this author), wholly unnerving novel whose hero, an unhappy professor of English specializing in literary "vitalism," becomes desperately involved with an exotically attractive woman who thinks she has lost her soul and hopes to retrieve it in a voodoo rite.

THE BOOK OF SALT. By Monique Truong. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) A lush, fascinating, expansive first novel about exile, concerning a gay Vietnamese cook who works for Gertrude Stein and Alice B. Toklas in Paris; he Frenchifies their apple pie while observing with an aching heart how much better adapted to expatriation they are than he is.

A BOX OF MATCHES. By Nicholson Baker. (Random House, $19.95.) Baker employs his specialty as a novelist, the exhibition of life where no life seems to be, to explore the consciousness of a man who rises early, lights a fire and sits around in a mindful state every morning till his matches are all spent.

CLARA. By Janice Galloway. (Simon & Schuster, $25.) The virtuoso pianist Clara Schumann (wife of the composer Robert, mother of eight) left 47 volumes of diaries. Undaunted, Galloway imagines a way into Clara's life in this novel whose up-to-date concerns don't obstruct its heroine's passionate voice.

THE COFFEE TRADER. By David Liss. (Random House, $24.95.) A historical novel and an economically detailed romance of capitalism, in which a young Jew in 17th-century Amsterdam seeks to evade censure from the Jewish authorities and to build a personal fortune by exploiting the rising popularity of coffee, which he intends to buy cheap and sell dear.

THE COMMISSARIAT OF ENLIGHTENMENT. By Ken Kalfus. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.95.) Nobody listens to anyone else or looks anyone in the eye in this novel by an author interested in the force of ideas and the power of images over life; the first half of the book is full of people whose concern is taking some personal advantage from the impending death of Tolstoy.

COSMOPOLIS. By Don DeLillo. (Scribner, $25.) An all-day (and book-length) chauffeured trip across midtown Manhattan exposes DeLillo's cool, New Economy protagonist to an assortment of characters in this critique of hypercapitalism.

CRABWALK. By Gunter Grass. (Harcourt, $25.) Grass's lifelong analysis of Germany's past and present centers, in this new novel, on a refugee ship sunk by a Russian submarine with the loss of 9,000 lives; the story is told through three generations of a family, all marked, one way or another, by the ship's fate.

THE CUTTING ROOM. By Louise Welsh. (Canongate, $24.) This accomplished first novel's hard-bitten hero is a Glasgow auction house employee who must assess the belongings of a newly dead man, a task that leads him into the city's darkest corners of commercial sex and criminal glamour.

THE DEEP: And Other Stories. By Mary Swan. (Random House, $23.95.) The first book by a promising Canadian writer who devises and explores different forms with interesting results; the 68-page story at the heart of this volume probes World War I by seeing what it does to a 26-year-old pair of twin sisters who have volunteered to work in France.

DOMINO. By Ross King. (Walker, $26.) This intricate novel is a meditation on appearance and reality in 18th-century Europe; everybody is dressed up as something else in a narrative that follows a murderer who wants to be a society portraitist and a Venetian castrato pursuing a career in England.

DRINKING COFFEE ELSEWHERE. By ZZ Packer. (Riverhead, $24.95.) A first collection of short stories about characters who are apt to be struggling, under thick layers of stereotype, to make their presence felt in the world as black women, often engaged with old-time religion and hemmed in by passivity learned early in segregated daily life.

DROP CITY. By T. Coraghessan Boyle. (Viking, $25.95.) This novel's late-blooming hippies in a Northern California commune, sensing that the end is near (or maybe even behind them), migrate to Alaska, where they encounter some tough real isolates who wonder aloud about the virtues of face paint and LSD.

THE FALL. By Simon Mawer. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Mountaineering as a metaphor for life still clings to its perch in this fine novel that extends back through half a century and two families of climbers, souls ruled by passions for the mountains and for each other, producing a tangle of erotic connections and a great deal of physical precision in dangerous attitudes.

FEATHERSTONE. By Kirsty Gunn. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Exploring the effects of rural flight on those left behind, Gunn creates a small town that is eerily alive and full of old-fashioned people and old-fashioned epiphanies, though every small-town cliche applies, including a promiscuous barmaid and a village idiot.

A FEW SHORT NOTES ON TROPICAL BUTTERFLIES: Stories. By John Murray. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) Stories by a doctor whose understated authorial presence and gift for description are strong enough to sustain an occasionally underconstructed narrative.

THE GANGSTER WE ARE ALL LOOKING FOR. By Le Thi Diem Thuy. (Knopf, $18.) The father of the anonymous narrator is the "gangster" of the title; he may have been a black-market operator long ago before escaping to America with his daughter. The story itself is a tale of persecution, tragedy and gritty determination, told with a poetic sensibility and a sharp eye for the matter of everyday life.

GETTING MOTHER'S BODY. By Suzan-Lori Parks. (Random House, $23.95.) This first novel by the Pulitzer-winning African-American playwright takes a cheerful tack across deep Faulknerian waters, relating the fortunes of the survivors of a woman who was buried (as people think) in some very expensive jewelry.

GILLIGAN'S WAKE. By Tom Carson. (Picador, $25.) A loopy, exuberant novel-type prose event that sees 20th-century America through the lives of the castaways on "Gilligan's Island." The originals are augmented by culturally significant characters, from Amelia Earhart and Holden Caulfield to Richard Nixon and Maggie the Cat.

GOOD FAITH. By Jane Smiley. (Knopf, $26.) Joe Stratford, narrator and protagonist of this subtly polemical novel (it is against greed), rests reasonably content with his life as a real estate agent. It doesn't last; the prospect of big money opens before him, and a former I.R.S. agent, now some kind of wise guy, enmeshes him in unblessed doings.

GREAT NECK. By Jay Cantor. (Knopf, $27.95.) Cantor's ambition in his immense (703 pages), teeming new novel is to capture the American scene of the late 1960's and bring it to life through six characters, all privileged Long Island teenagers, who are bound together by a Klan murder in Mississippi and by the antiwar movement.

THE GURU OF LOVE. By Samrat Upadhyay. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) A terse, understated first novel, concerned with universal middle-class anxieties and set in Katmandu, Nepal, where its protagonist, Ramchandra, worries all the time about money and worries even more about his adulterous love affair, which his wife knows all about.

THE HAZARDS OF GOOD BREEDING. By Jessica Shattuck. (Norton, $23.95.) An astute first novel whose blue-blooded inhabitants have occupied the same house in Concord, Mass., for 254 years (with one temporary exception). The appearance of social stasis that comforts them proves, however, to be an illusion.

HEAVEN'S EDGE. By Romesh Gunesekera. (Grove, $24.) A fictional reworking of the myth of Eden, its dignity enlarged by its awareness that there is no recovery; it takes place in a nameless tropical landscape that much resembles the author's native country, Sri Lanka.

THE HILLS AT HOME. By Nancy Clark. (Pantheon, $25.) Clark's funny, intelligent first novel reveals a special and particular kind of life, that of an extended old New England family in their 200-year-old clapboard homestead, where they survive miracles of inconvenience, eat tuna wiggle or fish sticks and express invincible opinions about everything.

THE INQUISITORS' MANUAL. By Antonio Lobo Antunes. (Grove, $25.) Portugal's long fascist regime haunts this novel as it anatomizes a society permeated by meanness and arrogance; the fall of the regime happens over and over from the viewpoints of many characters, each of them complementing or contradicting the rest.

JENNIFER GOVERNMENT. By Max Barry. (Doubleday, $19.95.) In this clever satirical novel set in the near future, corporations are so mighty that people take their names from their employers. Jennifer Government is the agent assigned by a reduced institution to pursue a marketing ploy that kills people to sell shoes.

KILL TWO BIRDS AND GET STONED. By Kinky Friedman. (Morrow, $24.95.) The Kinkster is back -- in spirit if not in name -- in this multilayered novel about a self-involved writer in crisis trying to develop a new project while cavorting with crazy strangers.

THE KING IN THE TREE: Three Novellas. By Steven Millhauser. (Knopf, $23.) Stories whose characters are endangered by imagination as it fosters creative bitterness, illicit love, romantic triangles and jealousy in locations from a modern marriage to the legendary court of Cornwall, where Tristan and Ysolt destroy their lives and those of others.

THE LIGHT OF DAY. By Graham Swift. (Knopf, $24.) Told in a police-blotter argot so spare it reads like a sort of gumshoe haiku, this moody novel about severed connections might be summarized thus: Woman kills husband. / Private eye falls hard for her: / Two lives held in check.

LITTLE INFAMIES: Stories. By Panos Karnezis. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) Love, loss and skulduggery not long after World War II in a kind of Greek Brigadoon, an impoverished village, full of gothic and mythical elements, that is bound to vanish when consumerism and modern media arrive.

LOOT: And Other Stories. By Nadine Gordimer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Death and thecomplicated burden of loss are the dominant themes of this structurally diverse collection, Gordimer's first since 1991, the year she won the Nobel Prize.

MAKING THINGS BETTER. By Anita Brookner. (Random House, $23.95.) Brookner's protagonist, Julius Herz, has been left stranded by the deaths in his family; now he can think of nothing to do in his life or with it. He courts a woman he knows to be selfish and unable to love, and on Brookner's austere scale of passivity this may be counted as a kind of victory; but she is far too honest to say.

THE MARRIAGE OF THE SEA. By Jane Alison. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) An intricate, elegant novel that ponders the connections among love, illusion and fidelity in the permutations of eight central characters behaving in two romantic and romanticized cities, New Orleans and Venice.

THE MASTER BUTCHERS SINGING CLUB. By Louise Erdrich. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) Erdrich's latest novel revisits the fictional town of Argus, N.D., and the familiar themes of love, death and redemption, but shifts the focus from the town's Indians to its German, Polish and Scandinavian citizens.

A MEMORY OF WAR. By Frederick Busch. (Norton, $25.95.) Ambitious to deal with large themes, Busch has written a novel whose characters are plagued by World War II's aftershocks 40 years later; the chief victim is a Manhattan psychologist whose new patient, a scholar specializing in Holocaust denial, claims to be his half brother.

MIDDLE EARTH. By Henri Cole. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $23.) Self-portrait poems in this collection survey the shape of a life from a great, forgiving distance; closer up, the poems reflect on their own voices and ambiguities of gender. At book's end, the Christian ideal of self-abnegation is fused with the inner-life urgencies of sexuality.

THE MINOTAUR TAKES A CIGARETTE BREAK. By Steven Sherrill. (Picador USA, paper, $14.) A tender first novel that spans two weeks in the life of the Minotaur, thousands of years after the Theseus caper, living in a North Carolina trailer park and cooking at a steakhouse, awkward with humans but no longer devouring virgins.

MONKEY HUNTING. By Cristina Garcia. (Knopf, $23.) A withdrawn, melancholy novel set in Havana's Barrio Chino and concerned with how the biggest Chinatown in Latin America came to be and then to pass away with Castro's restrictions on private property; by a Cuban-American writer who is a natural student of families scattered around the earth.

THE MONSTERS OF ST. HELENA. By Brooks Hansen. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $24.) The island chosen for Napoleon's final exile lends its hermetic isolation to Hansen's novel, in which a defeated, domesticated Bonaparte plays with children and writes his memoirs while his presence intrudes on the local haunt, a Portuguese traitor stranded many years before.

MORENGA. By Uwe Timm. (New Directions, $25.95.) An intriguing, impressionistic novel of colonial warfare, published in Germany in 1978 and set in Germany's former African empire, where the suppression of the rebellious Herero tribe by a kind of state-sponsored genocide in 1904 seems to anticipate the Holocaust.

OFFICE OF INNOCENCE. By Thomas Keneally. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $25.) This fictional chronicle of the sentimental education of a priest mixes elements of melodrama, murder mystery and theological treatise, all of them swirling around an earnest young curate whose indiscretions bring scandal to the church and a killer to his confessional box.

ORYX AND CRAKE. By Margaret Atwood. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.) Atwood returns to a dystopian future in this bleak novel about a man who may be the last human remaining on postapocalyptic earth.

PATTERN RECOGNITION. By William Gibson. (Putnam, $25.95.) Gibson's elegant, entrancing seventh novel concerns a supersmart woman, a freelance marketing consultant who covers the globe looking for the next big salable fad, meanwhile trying to solve the disappearance of her father, a retired C.I.A. man, in New York on Sept. 11, 2001.

THE PIECES FROM BERLIN. By Michael Pye. (Knopf, $24.) A tough, mature, difficult but brilliantly paced novel in which a woman in Nazi Berlin accepts Jews' valuable possessions to safeguard them, then appropriates them and slopes off to Switzerland. Nemesis arrives 60 years later when a woman spots and remembers a piece of family furniture.

THE POINT OF RETURN. By Siddhartha Deb. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.95.) A first novel whose hero, an Indian veterinarian and public servant, a true believer in progress and public works, finds himself repeatedly on the wrong side of history in the intolerant, irrational and corrupt nation of real life.

PROPERTY. By Valerie Martin. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $23.95.) In and around antebellum New Orleans, this novel turns on sexual rivalry and power struggle among a boorish planter, his enraged wife, who hates him, and an accomplished, beautiful slave woman who belongs to the wife but has borne a child to the husband.

THE QUALITY OF LIFE REPORT. By Meghan Daum. (Viking, $24.95.) A fine comic first novel in which misguided fantasy betrays a young New York television journalist, first by sending her to the Midwest, where folks are simple and good, then by orders from New York to do a lifestyle series on the simple, good folk.

THE ROMANTIC. By Barbara Gowdy. (Metropolitan/Holt, $24.) Obsession knows no greater exponent than Louise, narrator and protagonist of this adroit novel that refuses to honor the claims of adulthood. Abandoned by her mother at 9, Louise soon falls madly in love with another family's mother, then with that mother's adopted son, and remains consciously faithful to her doomed love ever after.

RUMPOLE RESTS HIS CASE. By John Mortimer. (Viking, $24.95.) Horace Rumpole, Mortimer's curmudgeonly London barrister, may have breathed his last in this collection, in which Rumpole defends his usual assortment of eccentric clients.

SAMARITAN. By Richard Price. (Knopf, $25.) A sprawling cast of cinematic characters, often little people who command feeling for a moment, then vanish, surrounds the two chief characters of this urban North Jersey novel, in which the beating of a television writer is investigated by an old neighborhood friend turned police detective.

SAPPHO'S LEAP. By Erica Jong. (Norton, $24.95.) A historical fantasy about the virtually prehistoric Greek erotic poet Sappho, a woman much mistrusted by ancient thinkers for her uppityness and her comprehension of sexual desire, but reimagined here as an updated compilation of the heroines of Jong's greatest hits.

SET THIS HOUSE IN ORDER: A Romance of Souls. By Matt Ruff. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A heavily populated novel (its two principal characters, Andrew and Penny, suffer from multiple personality disorder). When Andrew's personalities begin to riot, he and they hit the dangerous road for his childhood home while Penny does her best to keep up.

SHADOW WITHOUT A NAME. By Ignacio Padilla. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $22.) Four first-person narrators share the work in this somber, sometimes sinister novel of 1916 and its portents in Europe; three of them are chess players, lost in a maze of history and demonic invention; the fourth seems to be the devil.

A SHIP MADE OF PAPER. By Scott Spencer. (Ecco/HarperCollins, $24.95.) Spencer's eighth novel reprises the theme of consuming love, this time in the form of an affair between well-adjusted adults told from both perspectives, and asks whether that love isn't worth the suffering it causes to those around them.

SHROUD. By John Banville. (Knopf, $25.) The protagonist of "Shroud," based on Paul de Man, the posthumously disgraced star of deconstructive criticism, dreads his exposure in his own lifetime as the author of Nazi-era anti-Semitic journalism; the worst of it is that he didn't really write that stuff, though he is living under the name of the man who did.

THE SONGS OF THE KINGS. By Barry Unsworth. (Nan A. Talese/Doubleday, $26.) A modern retelling of Euripides' "Iphigenia in Aulis," in which seers struggle to see what god is holding up the invasion of Troy while Odysseus, a scheming political animal, works to unite the Greek army to preserve his chance of looting Troy and dying rich.

THAT OLD ACE IN THE HOLE. By Annie Proulx. (Scribner, $26.) Proulx's new novel follows the destiny of Bob Dollar, abandoned at 8 on a Denver doorstep, through the high plains of Texas and Oklahoma, where he seeks locations for hog factories until he encounters the real folks who live there and is caught up in their yarns and legends.

THE TIME OF OUR SINGING. By Richard Powers. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $27.) This dazzling, difficult novel, Powers's eighth, follows the lives of a talented mixed (he Jewish, she black) couple in America from about 1939 on; their sufferings are reflected in musical and scientific developments.

THE VOICE AT 3:00 A.M.: Selected Late & New Poems. By Charles Simic. (Harcourt, $25.) Tidy, blunt verses whose moral vision is rooted in an appreciation of the absurd; a surrealism of a sort that is always in position to raise existential questions about daily life.

WE PIERCE. By Andrew Huebner. (Simon & Schuster, $24.) Rooted in the author's family history, a novel of the 1991 gulf war follows a young Army sergeant as he gradually perfects the emotional hollowness that allows him to live with all that he has seen and done in Iraq, as well as with the exquisite awareness of his own expendability.

WHAT I LOVED. By Siri Hustvedt. (Holt, $25.) A generous, engaged philosophical novel, set in the New York art world with its vanities and corruptions, and developing such propositions as the impress of one personality on another, the instability of sexual identity, the passage of the world through people's thoughts and lives.

WHEN THE WOMEN COME OUT TO DANCE: Stories. By Elmore Leonard. (Morrow, $24.95.) All of Leonard's talents for hard-boiled fiction -- the sadism, the sex and especially the deadpan vernacular -- are on display in his second collection of short fiction.

A WHISTLING WOMAN. By A. S. Byatt. (Knopf, $26.) The bookish Frederica Potter, protagonist of this fourth novel in a series that began 25 years ago, lives by interviewing many and various savants on television, allowing the entry of much arcane information into the novel and unleashing the author's satirical powers in all directions.

THE WIFE. By Meg Wolitzer. (Scribner, $23.) A light-footed, streamlined novel that rushes in to shed new heat on old themes like gender, writing and identity; Joan Castleman gives up her writing career to service that of her husband, Joe, a jerk of many flavors, and Wolitzer deploys a calm, seamless humor over the agony.

NONFICTION

AFTER: How America Confronted the September 12 Era. By Steven Brill. (Simon & Schuster, $29.95.) Brill sets out, John Hersey fashion, to comprehend America's reaction to the terror attack by visiting the viewpoints of those he interviews: officials, lawyers, politicians of course, but regular folk as well; he discerns a peculiar American tendency for special interests to work together in time of crisis.

ALL THE STOPS: The Glorious Pipe Organ and Its American Masters. By Craig R. Whitney. (PublicAffairs, $30.) In examining the lives of master organists and organ builders, the author, an assistant managing editor at The Times, reveals what it's like to command an instrument the size of a minor European principality, and investigates the effect over time on the human ego.

ALMOST THERE: The Onward Journey of a Dublin Woman. By Nuala O'Faolain. (Riverhead, $24.95.) Picking up where "Are You Somebody" left off, O'Faolain's second memoir finds her middle-aged and more settled but no less introspective as she bluntly examines her loveless childhood, a fragile new relationship with a divorced father and even the perils of writing a memoir.

THE APPRENTICE: My Life in the Kitchen. By Jacques Pepin. (Houghton Mifflin, $26.) This memoir by a celebrated chef recounts a culinary coming-of-age, from the hunger pangs of wartime France to the job as personal cook to Charles de Gaulle to the passage to America that would give rise to the author's unabashed partiality for Oreos, Jell-O and iceberg lettuce -- though not, dare we hope, combined.

BEETHOVEN: The Music and the Life. By Lewis Lockwood. (Norton, $39.95.) A far-reaching, temperate biography of the overreaching, intemperate man who conceived and gave birth to the most serious and most heroic music ever written but trotted out trash on demand if the money was good.

BLACK DAHLIA AVENGER: A Genius for Murder. By Steve Hodel. (Arcade, $27.95.) Hodel, a retired Los Angeles cop, coolly makes the case that his deceased father -- a doctor, a dabbler in art and a man of the world -- was also the Black Dahlia killer, who stalked 1940's Los Angeles.

BLOOD FOR DIGNITY: The Story of the First Integrated Combat Unit in the U.S. Army. By David P. Colley. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) A richly detailed book that picks up a worthy but neglected bit of American history: At the end of World War II, black soldiers fought alongside whites for the first time since George Washington's Continental Army.

BUSH AT WAR. By Bob Woodward. (Simon & Schuster, $28.) A remarkable day-by-day account from inside the White House of the campaign to oust the Taliban from Afghanistan and the internal argument over a pre-emptive strike against Iraq; Woodward's extraordinary access reveals a patchwork of ideas held together by a supremely confident president.

BYRON: Life and Legend. By Fiona MacCarthy. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) This zillionth life of Byron finds that in his heart he was gay. But even if not, the author's analysis of his romantic history and his suicidal financial conduct help explain why people in the 1800's regarded him with both awe and horror.

CAPTIVES. By Linda Colley. (Pantheon, $27.50.) A historian's intensive study of the "captivity narratives" that arose first from British exploration, then supremacy, in far distant lands; the captivity theme that dominated "Gulliver's Travels" arose again and again as British power spread itself thin andencountered occasional humiliation.

CHARLIE WILSON'S WAR: The Extraordinary Story of the Largest Covert Operation in History. By George Crile. (Atlantic Monthly, $26.) A behind-the-scenes chronicle, by a veteran television producer, of a congressman's provision of vast financial support to the anti-Soviet side in 1980's Afghanistan.

CHOPIN'S FUNERAL. By Benita Eisler. (Knopf, $23.) Seeking to untangle the paradoxical relationship between the shy, fragile pianist and the passionate sexual outlaw and novelist George Sand, Eisler's book underscores Chopin's illness and Sand's nursing skills, and sees a mutual attraction arising from their voracious appetite for work.

COAL: A Human History. By Barbara Freese. (Perseus, $25.) An engrossing account of the comparatively cheap, usually dirty fuel that supported the Industrial Revolution, inspired the building of canals and railroads to move it, and once made London and Pittsburgh famous for their air.

COOKING FOR MR. LATTE: A Food Lover's Courtship, With Recipes. By Amanda Hesser. (Norton, $23.95.) A smart, charming look at a Manhattan romance through the lens of the author's chief preoccupation; Hesser's book, which originated as a column in The New York Times Magazine, addresses a provocative question: does eternal love require similar tastes?

DARK LOVER: The Life and Death of Rudolph Valentino. By Emily W. Leider. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $35.) An accomplished study of the movie star and his era, and of how he altered forever the electric charges of both men and women in 1921 with "The Sheik."

DARK STAR SAFARI: Overland From Cairo to Cape Town. By Paul Theroux. (Houghton Mifflin, $28.) The youngest curmudgeon grows older: Theroux turns 60 during this arduous trek and seems to resent it in a narrative suffused with ruin and oblivion; he remains a mighty myth deflator and a master at the humor of ill humor.

DOWN BY THE RIVER: Drugs, Money, Murder, and Family. By Charles Bowden. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) A grim exploration, seven years in the making, of crime on both sides of the Rio Grande at El Paso, organized around the murder of a man who may have been killed only because his brother was an officer of the Drug Enforcement Agency.

THE DUST OF EMPIRE: The Race for Mastery in the Asian Heartland. By Karl E. Meyer. (Century Foundation/ PublicAffairs, $26.) A veteran journalist and scholar revisits the playing fields of the "great game," where Russia and Britain met and blocked each other in a tussle for influence that isn't over yet.

EMPIRE: The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power. By Niall Ferguson. (Basic Books, $35.) A young British historian argues that the empire did a lot of good and prevented a lot of evil, and invites the United States to reflect on the possibilities of its global reach.

THE EMPTY OCEAN: Plundering the World's Marine Life. Written and illustrated by Richard Ellis. (Island Press/Shearwater Books, $26.) Ellis combines his narrative skills and his illustrator's hand to present an eloquent accounting of maritime tragedies wrought by human overuse and abuse, most of it offshore and out of sight.

FANTASTIC METAMORPHOSES, OTHER WORLDS: Ways of Telling the Self. By Marina Warner. (Oxford University, $29.95.) A sprightly, imaginative, playful, fabulously informed public meditation on change: mutating, hatching, splitting, doubling and carrying on.

FASTER THAN THE SPEED OF LIGHT: The Story of a Scientific Speculation. By Jo-o Magueijo. (Perseus, $26.) Magueijo, a young Portuguese scientist, suggests that as the universe has grown older the speed of light has slowed, challenging Albert Einstein and an inviolable rule of theoretical physics.

FAT LAND: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World. By Greg Critser. (Houghton Mifflin, $24.) Americans have increased their daily average intake by 200 calories in two decades, Critser says. Elementary! And the food industry has helped them by discovering ways to get people to eat more and feel good about it.

FEEDING A YEN: Savoring Local Specialties, From Kansas City to Cuzco. By Calvin Trillin. (Random House, $22.95.) In this entertaining paean to the days of "preglobalized eating," Trillin tracks down foods rarely served outside their proper provenance -- from boudin in Louisiana to pimientos de Padron in Galicia.

FIRST OFF THE TEE: Presidential Hackers, Duffers, and Cheaters From Taft to Bush. By Don Van Natta Jr. (PublicAffairs, $26.) Van Natta, an investigative reporter for The Times, shows just how much presidential time has been spent ignoring affairs of state and chasing a little white ball around instead.

THE FOUNDING FISH. By John McPhee. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $25.) A short personal encyclopedia of a wonderful annual fish, teaching shad history together with shad geography, shad behavior, shad statistics and shad appreciation, wrapped up in McPhee's usual intensely vivid prose.

FRIED BUTTER: A Food Memoir. By Abe Opincar. (SoHo, $18.) A ruefully funny memoir full of recollections, triggered by food, on the pain of midlife rupture, beginning with this gem: "I baked a chicken the night I left my wife."

FROM THE LAND OF GREEN GHOSTS: A Burmese Odyssey. By Pascal Khoo Thwe. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A powerful portrait of his suffering nation, virtually sealed off from the rest of the world for most of the last 40 years, by a sensitive Burmese writer who was lucky enough to escape.

THE FUTURE OF FREEDOM: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad. By Fareed Zakaria. (Norton, $24.95.) The editor of Newsweek International updates Tocqueville's critique of popular government, expanding its reach to the world; unlike Tocqueville, he does not see independent countervailing social institutions containing democracy's excesses.

GAME TIME: A Baseball Companion. By Roger Angell. (Harcourt, $25.) An anthology from 40 years of writing by the foremost interpreter of baseball of our time or our fathers' time (he's now in his 80's); it is the next best thing to being in the bleachers, except when it is better than being in the bleachers.

THE GATE. By Francois Bizot. (Knopf, $24.) Bizot, a French ethnologist seized by Cambodian rebels in 1971, recalls peculiar daily chat sessions over politics and philosophy with his chief captor, an obviously dangerous man who later ran one of the Khmer Rouge's ghastliest killing fields; after three months, Bizot was given an all-night farewell party and released.

GOD'S SECRETARIES: The Making of the King James Bible. By Adam Nicolson. (HarperCollins, $24.95.) A study of the committee of scholars and bishops that produced the 1611 English Bible, a work whose language soars far above any of the more accurate translations that have succeeded it.

GOOD MORNING MIDNIGHT: Life and Death in the Wild. By Chip Brown. (Riverhead, $24.95.) A searching biography, by a journalist, of Guy Waterman, a Republican suburbanite who became a born-again mountaineer in midlife, taking the White Mountains as his backyard; in February 2000, at 67, he killed himself by going outdoorsand lying down in the cold.

GREENBACK: The Almighty Dollar and the Invention of America. By Jason Goodwin. (John Macrae/Holt, $26.) An English historian and travel writer confronts the dazzling proposition that America became rich because people believed in their money, which was made from paper and encouraged speedy spending.

THE GROWING SEASONS: An American Boyhood Before the War. By Samuel Hynes. (Viking, $24.95.) A memoir (by the author of "Flights of Passage") of his Midwestern youth, in which he trained to be a man by being first a boy; it ends with the 18-year-old Hynes saying farewell to his father and waiting for the train that will carry him to World War II.

GULAG: A History. By Anne Applebaum. (Doubleday, $35.) Applebaum, a columnist for The Washington Post, is one of those who think Hitler and Stalin merit the same opprobrium. Using archival material Solzhenitsyn never saw, she supports his analysis of Stalin: Lenin written larger.

THE HOUSE ON BEARTOWN ROAD: A Memoir of Learning and Forgetting. By Elizabeth Cohen. (Random House, $23.95.) Was Cohen downhearted when her Alzheimered father was shipped to her? When her husband abandoned her and their baby? You bet! But from chaos, with help from the neighbors, she made this frank, funny, nonexploitative memoir.

INSTRUCTIONS FOR VISITORS: Life and Love in a French Town. By Helen Stevenson. (Washington Square, paper, $13.) Stevenson's beguiling account of her personal and professional coming-of-age in an unnamed town in France's remote South, where she falls in love with a handsome dentist, manages to be both graceful and intensely colored.

INTELLIGENCE WARS: American Secret History From Hitler to al-Qaeda. By Thomas Powers. (New York Review, $27.95.) Essays (originally book reviews) by the biographer of Richard Helms, assessing intelligence history in the light of disclosures in the last decade and settling (for now) some ancient controversies about spies, conspiracies, moles and the like.

IN THE LAND OF PAIN. By Alphonse Daudet. (Knopf, $18.) The French writer Alphonse Daudet (1840-97) spent the last 15 years of his life in violent spasms and blinding flashes of pain ultimately resulting from syphilis. His spirited observations have been edited and translated by the British novelist Julian Barnes.

INVENTING JAPAN: 1853-1964. By Ian Buruma. (Modern Library, $19.95.) A concise, penetrating examination of the construction of an entirely new Japan after Perry's visit in 1853; in the headlong course of making itself modern, Japan borrowed many authoritarian, even fascist, habits of thought, many of them left in place after 1945.

IRVING HOWE: A Life of Passionate Dissent. By Gerald Sorin. (New York University, $32.95.) A life of the eminent critic and socialist who died in 1993, after a youth of rigid Trotskyism and a maturity that widened his perspectives but preserved his intensity intact.

JARHEAD: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles. By Anthony Swofford. (Scribner, $24.) A hair-raising memoir that captures the hilarity, tedium and loneliness of the prewar deployment, followed by the appalling, astonishing experience of combat itself, in which terror and joy were one.

KAREL CAPEK: Life and Work. By Ivan Klima. (Catbird, $23.) The first biography of a many-minded Czech writer (of novels, plays, essays, biography, journalism) who was an international literary figure in the 1920's and 30's but has faded from view, partly because of the limited reach of his language; by a Czech novelist and playwright of considerable distinction himself.

KHRUSHCHEV: The Man and His Era. By William Taubman. (Norton, $35.) A thick, deeply studied biography of the Soviet leader that follows him through virtually all the key events of Soviet history, in which he showed himself generous, public-spirited and forgiving when not crude, dogmatic and merciless.

KRAKATOA. The Day the World Exploded: August 27, 1883. By Simon Winchester. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) A brilliantly rendered narrative of one of the biggest volcanic explosions in recorded history; Winchester, trained as a geologist, identifies the massive forces at work and tallies the 36,000 deaths, caused not by lava and noxious gases but by seismic sea waves.

THE LANGUAGE POLICE: How Pressure Groups Restrict What Students Learn. By Diane Ravitch. (Knopf, $24.) Education is so squeezed by "bias and sensitivity panels," Ravitch argues in this persuasive study, that what started as an admirable attempt to balance instruction has evolved into censorship.

THE LAST GOOD SEASON: Brooklyn, the Dodgers, and Their Final Pennant Race Together. By Michael Shapiro. (Doubleday, $24.95.) An engaging chronicle of the Dodgers' 1956 season, their next-to-last in Brooklyn, and a sympathetic defense of the team's owner, Walter O'Malley, whose unsuccessful quest for a new stadium ended with the team's departure for Los Angeles.

LAST MAN OUT: The Story of the Springhill Mine Disaster. By Melissa Fay Greene. (Harcourt, $25.) Greene's subject is a coal-mining accident that took place in October 1958 beneath Springhill, Nova Scotia. Nineteen men survived in pockets, to be rescued by fellow workers; Greene notes that television made the event the first mass-consumption disaster.

A LIFE OF PRIVILEGE, MOSTLY. By Gardner Botsford. (St. Martin's, $24.95.) Botsford's lively memoir of growing up as a New Yorker covers his experiences in World War II, but revolves mainly around his years at The New Yorker and the magazine's turbulent internal power struggles.

LOST IN AMERICA: A Journey With My Father. By Sherwin B. Nuland. (Knopf, $24.) Nuland, a distinguished surgeon and medical writer, counts the cost of success in this memoir about becoming an assimilated second-generation American from a home dominated by his angry, altogether unassimilable Orthodox Jewish father.

MR. JEFFERSON'S UNIVERSITY. By Garry Wills. (National Geographic, $20.) A short, scholarly, insightful rendering of the forms and ideas of Jefferson and his project, a rotunda and double row of pavilions that have more than once been cited as America's greatest work of architecture; Wills's great strength lies in his ability to see political and social ideas in their architectural expressions.

MONEYBALL: The Art of Winning an Unfair Game. By Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) Lewis, the author of "Liar's Poker," examines the proceedings of Billy Beane, general manager of the Oakland Athletics, who finished first in the American League West last year with as many victories as the Yankees despite the third-smallest payroll in the major leagues.

PERSEPOLIS. By Marjane Satrapi. (Pantheon, $17.95.) A dramatic, witty, insouciant autobiography in bold, densely rendered comic-book form by a woman born to the leftish secular bourgeoisie of 1960's Iran; she was 10 when the shah fell and his tyranny was replaced by the ayatollah version. The book ends when she is 14 and her parents put her on a plane for some safer place (she now lives in France).

POSITIVELY FIFTH STREET: Murderers, Cheetahs, and Binion's World Series of Poker. By James McManus. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) Assigned to cover the event for Harper's Magazine, McManus entered the tournament and finished fifth, winning a fair bundle and a useful point of view not often accessible to the literati.

A POTENT SPELL: Mother Love and the Power of Fear. By Janna Malamud Smith. (Houghton Mifflin, $25.) A fervent examination of the powerful, visceral anxiety of mothers for their children's lives and welfare, and of its exploitation by experts and authorities interested in keeping mothers scared and in their place.

PROTECTING AMERICA'S HEALTH: The FDA, Business, and One Hundred Years of Regulation. By Philip J. Hilts. (Knopf, $26.95.) A thoroughly documented history of the first internal federal agency charged with protecting individual citizens, and of numerous efforts to improve it or wreck it since its beginnings.

PUSHKIN'S CHILDREN: Writings on Russia and Russians. By Tatyana Tolstaya. (Mariner/Houghton Mifflin, paper, $15.) A collection from a decade of vehement witness to the radical transformations of Russia, with frequent reconsiderations of rulers and people.

RAISING AMERICA: Experts, Parents, and a Century of Advice About Children. By Ann Hulbert. (Knopf, $27.50.) To what, exactly, has the vast body of expert opinion about child rearing amounted? Hulbert's prodigious collection of material represents it mainly as teeter-tottering between discipline and permissiveness, sometimes inside the same expert at different stages.

RANDOM FAMILY: Love, Drugs, Trouble, and Coming of Age in the Bronx. By Adrian Nicole LeBlanc. (Scribner, $25.) A painstaking feat of reporting and empathy that resulted from 10 years of hanging out with a hard-pressed, loosely defined family in the Bronx, where good fortune was nearly always temporary and few were able to improve their lives.

REEFER MADNESS: Sex, Drugs, and Cheap Labor in the American Black Market. By Eric Schlosser. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) Schlosser, the author of "Fast Food Nation," turns his attention to three facets of America's estimated $650 billion underground economy, blending big-picture analyses with fascinating individual case studies.

REGARDING THE PAIN OF OTHERS. By Susan Sontag. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $20.) In this long reflective essay, which examines photographs of calamities and the moral uses of looking at them, Sontag follows the trail of photojournalism from the Crimean War on and refines some of the observations of her 1977 book, "On Photography."

RETURN TO PARIS: A Memoir. By Colette Rossant. (Atria, $22.) For Rossant, a cookbook author, coming of age in Paris meant being torn between two homes (Egypt and France) and, inevitably, two culinary cultures.

RIVER OF SHADOWS: Eadweard Muybridge and the Technological Wild West. By Rebecca Solnit. (Viking, $25.95.) A remarkable historical reading of the American West as a fount of technological and perceptual change, arising from a study of Muybridge, whose stop-motion photos presaged the movies.

ROSEMARY AND BITTER ORANGES: Growing Up in a Tuscan Kitchen. By Patrizia Chen. (Scribner, $24.) A dreamy memoir of her childhood in postwar Livorno; Chen remembers her grandparents fondly, but where food is concerned, she disavows their culinary blandness and allies herself with the family's adventurous cook.

SAMUEL PEPYS: The Unequalled Self. By Claire Tomalin. (Knopf, $30.) Tomalin suggests that Pepys's nine-year diary shows the evolution of modern selfhood; she shows us the rest of the life of the remarkable man who rose from nothing to run the Royal Navy and to enjoy, without guilt, every pound, perk and prostitute that came his way.

SECRET EMPIRE: Eisenhower, the CIA and the Hidden Story of America's Space Espionage. By Philip Taubman. (Simon & Schuster, $27.) Taubman, a longtime correspondent and editor for The Times, chronicles the development of overhead reconnaissance, a technology that made the world safer by providing accurate information about Soviet capacities.

SEVEN AGES OF PARIS. By Alistair Horne. (Knopf, $35.) A British historian's evocation of the world's favorite city from its Roman foundation to the riots of 1968. His heroes are the builders who made Paris: Louis IX with his Sainte-Chapelle, Henri IV for his Place des Vosges, Haussmann for the open, harmonious plan that marks Paris to this day.

A SHORTCUT THROUGH TIME: The Path to the Quantum Computer. By George Johnson. (Knopf, $24.) A science writer and veteran explainer communicates some of the propositions offered by theorists about the virtually unlimited computing power that may follow certain practical triumphs that are not quite in sight.

A SHORT HISTORY OF NEARLY EVERYTHING. By Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $27.50.) Neither oversimplified nor overstuffed, this exceptionally skillful tour of the physical world covers the basic principles and still has room for profiles of some of the more engaging scientists, like Isaac Newton, who (literally) stuck a needle in his eye.

SONGBOOK. By Nick Hornby. (McSweeney's, $26; a CD is included.) A small, singular, delightful collection of 26 essays by a music freak, each devoted to one or two pop recordings, trying to cope with the power of songs to bind people culturally and to reach deeply into the human spirit, bending the heart into new shapes with new potentials.

STAN AND OLLIE. The Roots of Comedy: The Double Life of Laurel and Hardy. By Simon Louvish. (Thomas Dunne/St. Martin's, $27.95.) An informative biography of two of Hollywood's masters of comic mayhem; Louvish charts a partnership that spanned three decades (1921-51), produced more than 100 films and survived the transition from silent film to sound.

THE STORY OF MY FATHER: A Memoir. By Sue Miller. (Knopf, $22.50.) A familiar but still touching story of a parent's descent into Alzheimer's disease; the deeper Miller's father sinks into confusion, the more powerfully candid her writing becomes.

TALES OF INNOCENCE AND EXPERIENCE: An Exploration. By Eva Figes. (Bloomsbury, $23.95.) There is a poetic delicacy -- but nothing cute -- about this British writer's account of grandparenthood, which is also a story of Figes' escape from Nazi Germany to England in 1939.

THE TEAMMATES. By David Halberstam. (Hyperion, $22.95.) An elegant account of the lives and friendships of four legendary Boston Red Sox: Ted Williams, Dominic DiMaggio, Johnny Pesky and Bobby Doerr; the story unfolds in a series of flashbacks as DiMaggio and Pesky drive 1,300 miles to Florida to visit the ailing Williams.

TERROR AND LIBERALISM. By Paul Berman. (Norton, $21.) This personal manifesto by a liberal interventionist tries to chart a course between right-wing "realists" and left-wing "anti-imperialists" now that the totalitarian mental modes of Communism and fascism have been inherited chiefly by angry Muslims.

THINGS MY MOTHER NEVER TOLD ME. By Blake Morrison. (Granta, $24.95.) An ambitious epistolary memoir, drawing on a big cache of letters exchanged by Morrison's parents during World War II. Eavesdropping on their courtship lets him produce aremarkable home-front atmosphere with a special focus on his mother's concealment of her Irish origins.

UNTANGLING MY CHOPSTICKS: A Culinary Sojourn in Kyoto. By Victoria Abbot Riccardi. (Broadway, $23.95.) Riccardi, a trained chef and disaffected New Yorker, spent a year in Kyoto studying kaiseki, the ceremonial tea cuisine developed by Buddhist monks as a guide for meditation and enlightenment.

W. C. FIELDS: A Biography. By James Curtis. (Knopf, $35.) A scrupulous, sympathetic life of the great performer who projected in his characters -- sly, blustering, bibulous loners protecting themselves with a smoke screen of gab -- reflections of real human nature as he had observed it for himself.

THE WHITE ROCK: An Exploration of the Inca Heartland. By Hugh Thomson. (Overlook, $27.95.) The author's account of his successful quest to discover a lost ruin in the intractable Peruvian Andes, with an architecturally informed analysis of the Incas' penchant for mountain landscapes and for responding creatively to them.

YOGA FOR PEOPLE WHO CAN'T BE BOTHERED TO DO IT. By Geoff Dyer. (Pantheon, $22.) A delightful counterguide by a countertourist, who has visited the classic loci -- Paris, Bali, Rome, New Orleans -- without seeing a sight or snapping a picture. The author, who by the end of his travels is in his early 40's, looks everywhere for states of mind attainable through drugs or ancient ruins.

ZORA NEALE HURSTON: A Life in Letters. Edited by Carla Kaplan. (Doubleday, $40.) Nearly 900 pages clarify some of Hurston's views about art and politics yet cannot unlock the true heart of an infinitely inventive black writer who posed as different things to different people.

MYSTERY

HEX. By Maggie Estep. (Three Rivers, paper, $14.) Ruby Murphy, the Coney Island drifter whose free spirit accounts for the ravishing originality of this idiosyncratic first mystery, falls for a perfect stranger's sob story and goes undercover as a stablehand at Belmont Park to keep tabs on a stable groom with sexy eyes and a mysterious past.

RESURRECTION MEN. By Ian Rankin. (Little, Brown, $19.95.) It could be John Rebus's paranoia kicking in again, but the abrasive Edinburgh cop suspects he is under internal surveillance when he is taken off a murder investigation for remedial training at the Scottish Police College, along with five other officers in need of an attitude overhaul.

THE SINISTER PIG. By Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) Sgt. Jim Chee is stymied when the Department of Homeland Security and other federal agencies meddle in a Navajo Tribal Police investigation into possible sabotage of the oil pipelines in the San Juan Basin in New Mexico.

SOUL CIRCUS. By George P. Pelecanos. (Little, Brown, $24.95.) Fascinated with the way crime actually works, Pelecanos takes apart the gun trade like an urban anthropologist, fitting the pieces into the thriving drug industry and gang culture of a Washington neighborhood where enterprising criminals work hard to make a dishonest living.

SCIENCE FICTION

AYE, AND GOMORRAH. By Samuel R. Delany. (Vintage, paper, $14.) A superb selection of short fiction by a writer who, at the age of 61, has negotiated the passage from boy wonder to grand old man of science fiction with enviable grace. Includes the 10 short stories found in "Driftglass," his 1971 anthology, plus five previously uncollected stories and a brief essay on the craft of fiction that should go on the short list of required reading for would-be writers.

EVOLUTION. By Stephen Baxter. (Del Rey/Ballantine, $25.95.) In a work of outrageous ambition, Baxter sets out to dramatize the grand sweep of primate development, from a rodentlike Eve scrabbling for survival in the dinosaur-dominated forests of North America 65 million years ago to an imagined whimper 500 million years in the future. He comes closer to succeeding than seems humanly possible.

THE RISEN EMPIRE: Book One of Succession. By Scott Westerfeld. (Tor/ Tom Doherty, $24.95.) Literate space opera in the tradition of Isaac Asimov's Foundation series and Frank Herbert's Dune books. With a light touch all his own, Westerfeld illumines the clash of mighty galactic empires by focusing on individuals who, despite the distractions of war and politics, cannot help falling in love. The suspenseful tale will be completed in a sequel.

THINGS THAT NEVER HAPPEN. By M. John Harrison. (Night Shade Books, $27; paper, $15.) This cleverly titled collection of short stories, arranged chronologically by date of composition, tracks the maturation of a writer who has learned to use the conceits of science fiction, fantasy and horror fiction to expose the follies and sorrows of the human condition.

CHILDREN'S BOOKS

AFTER. By Francine Prose. (Joanna Cotler/HarperCollins, $16.99.) (Ages 12 and up) A skillful parable about "the rise of a totalitarian leadership in a high school and the reactions of denial, apathy and resistance that ensue."

A DAY IN THE LIFE OF MURPHY. Written and illustrated by Alice Provensen. (Simon & Schuster, $16.95.) (Ages 3 to 7) "Murphy-Stop-That is my name" says the terrier narrator, rushing and yapping from dawn till well after dark. He practically jumps off the page and is a total delight.

MORRIS THE ARTIST. By Lore Segal. Illustrated by Boris Kulikov. (Frances Foster/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $16.) (Ages 4 to 8) Morris is a reluctant birthday party guest. His "self-obsession knows no bounds," but his artistic impulses win out and turn a mere party into a glorious celebration. Wonderful illustrations.

GRAPHIC: Drawings (Bruce McCall) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (94%); LITERATURE (90%); POETRY (90%); LITERATURE GENRES (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (90%); HISTORY (76%); POTATO FARMING (74%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (70%); AGRICULTURE (69%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (69%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (68%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (68%); ART DEALERS (53%); COFFEE MARKETS (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (77%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



2 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2533 words

HEADLINE: TRAVEL 

BYLINE:  By MICHAEL PYE; Michael Pye's latest novel is "The Pieces From Berlin."

 BODY:
Something about the tanks at London's Heathrow Airport changed my mind. Before they rolled into place, in the innocent days when security just meant men with submachine guns, a travel book could be fluffy, silly, familiar or carefully manufactured, and it hardly mattered. Afterward, every destination acquired a sudden glow of hellfire, every trip an element of thoroughly unwanted suspense. Escape has become a problem in itself. A travel book without danger -- to the body, the soul or the future -- is entirely out of time. 
 Such books, I can report, are still appearing. There are droll encounters with simple, cunningnut-brown persons, continent by continent, books where you can hear the jokes being harvested, cut and squeezed like dry lemons. Gentle novelists still jet to tourist spots, hoping a metaphor and a bit of reflection will make up for not quite seeing or understanding anything. Writers in their 20's try to get away with lyrical books about places they seem to think their parents never reached. No known force can stop the British freelancer from going abroad to live and assuming that it matters. American academics go abroad, it seems, mostly to buy chintz or terra cotta, but their books are just as long. And then there is the seasonal quota of journeys made only because someone offered a contract -- made by pilgrims after knowledge, with a camera crew in the following car. The extremely rich take a Web crew along as well. 
 All this is no comfort at all as you pass the tanks, the security checks, put your shoes back on and repack your hand luggage. We stand in need of something stronger now: the travel book you can read while making your way through this new, alarming world.
The coward's way -- mine, actually -- is to travel back in time. Consider the wonderful, nerve-racking Isabella Bird, a 19th-century British spinster. Being a spinster, she was thought to be neurasthenic and condemned to all the usual treatments -- teeth pulled, neck braced, bled with leeches, fed opium, cannabis and enough potassium bromide to cause derangement. She herself had a simpler answer: travel. "The only prudent thing for me, with my present state of dangerous health," she breezily told her sister, Henrietta, "would be to go east at once."
Isabella went east so enthusiastically she landed in the West, and in the wilds of Colorado, as she reports in LETTERS TO HENRIETTA (Northeastern University, cloth, $47.50; paper, $18.95), edited by Kay Chubbuck, she went "rioting luxuriantly." In Hawaii, she discovered "what a wonderful thing" it was to have "the absolute security" of being "one white woman among 40 'savages.' " (The language is distinctly 1870's.) And in the Rockies, snowed in for weeks, she beat off (she says) a declaration of love from a trapper with one eye and "a massive brain." In Malaya, she mentions, but only in midflow, the four-foot snake in her bed.
In Bird's letters, you hear the enticing, raucous voice of a woman who is thoroughly enjoying a wide range of inappropriate behavior. THE NOMAD: The Diaries of Isabelle Eberhardt (Interlink, paper, $12.95), edited by Elizabeth Kershaw, is rather different: a rich but fragmented chunk of pure romantic agony. The diaries were found in the aftermath of the flash flood that killed their author, a young Russian woman who became an Islamic mystic, pursuing unofficial love and her own spiritual bent (and hashish and booze) through the sands of the Sahara in the early 1900's.
Most travel books just arrive. This one has a much more powerful impact because it's about longing -- for the Algerian soldier Eberhardt loves, for spiritual revelation, for a simple, wandering life with just a horse and "a few servants barely more complicated than my mount." Eberhardt was a 60's icon. The hashish helped; so did her habit of dressing as a man to travel more freely. What's particularly striking is how her impossible passions break against the conventions of her time, conventions of writing as well as living.
Rupert Isaacson's desert is the Kalahari, home to the Bushmen who may have the oldest human culture on earth and who have long deserved the attentions of a levelheaded writer who wouldn't simplify their magic and ruination into a sentimental legend of the kind so beloved by -- for awful example -- the Prince of Wales. In THE HEALING LAND: The Bushmen and the Kalahari Desert (Grove, $24), Isaacson's sensible writing about the Bushmen's drunken, violent life in exile from their lands is hugely enriched by his sense of what it might mean when healers talk to lions or men become leopards in a trance. The survival of the Bushmen is tangled up with the story of Isaacson's own family's longing for the Africa they once knew, as irrational and exasperating and sometimes lovely as a dream.
Isaacson remains a reporter, which is his strength; Jason Webster took a chance on drowning in the culture of his dreams, which is his. In DUENDE: A Journey Into the Heart of Flamenco (Broadway, $23.95), he's impelled by alarm at the thought of becoming a tame academic and rushes to Spain in search of duende -- the gut-turning, mind-dazzling impact of flamenco, a bit like "soul" perhaps and a lot like a visitation from a goblin, which is what duende also means.
But flamenco is a marginal culture, and Webster is a nice Oxford-educated boy, and he has to live out a very dark kind of thriller to get to the music he loves: sex on a beach, but with the dancer wife of a hunter who loves blood; waiting out the Gypsies of Madrid until they finally let him see their world, with the donkey standing in the corner of a fifth-floor flat. And then there's an edgy, coke-fueled career of exquisite ambitions and late-night car theft. Webster learns a good deal, and not the least painful lesson is that all along he was an outsider, even on the run -- the blond gimmick in a dark Gypsy band.
There's a shade too much literary self-consciousness in Ingrid Bengis's METRO STOP DOSTOEVSKY: Travels in Russian Time (North Point, $24). Not everyone with a bad conscience can be Raskolnikov. But her story is unusually interesting: the American-born daughter of Russian emigres, in love with the notion of a land of books and beauty, she lands in St. Petersburg in 1991, in the chaos of perestroika, when a few rubles was enough to hijack a late-night tram to your own destination and the only real estate agent you needed was a mafioso, or a gang of them.
Bengis has a sharp eye for how people go on living in chaos, and also how someone from orderly Maine can't quite grasp what's going to happen when the state's own sense of order lets go. Her naivete, or maybe just hopefulness, is battered by a troublesome friendship with a woman who knows the rules of chaos all too well. Her faith in beauty is brutally tested by the scamming, the wretchedness and not least by her own fear as a foreign patient in a strange hospital -- or, as an American, being told that it's not quite patriotic to want her own apartment back. Without Bengis's blind faith, this would be a bleak book indeed; with it, it's a lively, eccentric account of living in times that are far, far too interesting for your own good.
The perils Miles Hordern faced were entirely of his own choosing, and hardly any of them are social, political or economic, unless you count drink, sociable expatriates or an oddly lecherous American Coast Guard crew. Hordern sailed a 28-foot boat across the Pacific, from New Zealand to Chile and back, by way of the Galapagos and Tahiti, but the trip isn't half as remarkable as his account of it, SAILING THE PACIFIC: A Voyage Across the Longest Stretch of Water on Earth, and a Journey Into Its Past (St. Martin's, $24.95). For the first time, I have some sense of what happens when you're alone on the wide ocean in a mess of wind and salt and fear.
Time, Hordern says, becomes "slippery." You live in the present, but, paradoxically, you can never drift: your course is your purpose. You throw seawater over yourself but not to get clean; it's to feel more at home on the ocean. You can't stand the unfamiliar or the unknown, not the tiniest sound. The smallest space becomes domestic. And you have to simplify yourself, "blank out whole categories of feeling," "travel light." The book is more or less free of yacht club jargon, which is a relief, and it has the required amount of decorative history, and images as lovely as a moonlit lagoon of ice. But at its heart is something austere and surprising, like a secular pilgrimage, a change of heart.
Kevin Rushby's travels are more self-conscious. He's a journalist on the trail of whatever stories come to hand, but he has such skill in winding up his prose to a rip-snorting pace that you can easily forget you're being told rather less than you think. CHILDREN OF KALI: Through India in Search of Bandits, the Thug Cult and the British Raj (Walker, $27) is a colorful wander through crime in India, from the bloody origins of ancient kingdoms to the legend of a cult of strangling Thugees and on to the present-day Bombay godfather who says he's a social worker, nothing more.
This is Boys Own Paper stuff, but with a sense of history, so Rushby sees that the real crime of the Thugees was to interrupt the cozy British opium trade, and that the British fantasy of a religious, hereditary conspiracy against order had everything to do with the infamous imperial notion of "criminal" tribes, whose smallest baby was already, in the eyes of the Raj, a malefactor. The detail is gaudy, and the whole book as guiltily absorbing as a day eating mango ice cream.
Mark Rotella writes about Calabria, the arched southern foot of Italy where his family lived before coming to America, the obvious next Italian subject now that there's a slim volume about every small Tuscan town (except one, and I shall not be giving directions). In STOLEN FIGS: And Other Adventures in Calabria (North Point, $25, available in July), he teases out a change of mind: how he came to see the difference between being Italian and being Italian-American. Calabria, he says, produced more Americans than any other Italian region except Campania and Sicily.
It's tricky territory, though: poor, famous for violence and kidnappings. Its culture is elusive and unfamiliar, with no Michelangelos to show. Its landscape is composed of mountain and coast, with almost nothing in between. Its people are famously stubborn -- "hardheaded," even "wooden heads." Northern Italians despise Calabria and see only the dirt; foreigners are nervous there. Its own native sons too often become defensive or downright euphemistic when they write about the poverty and the omerta that are inscribed in its history.
There are already bad books on the subject; this one is good, the product of persistent, gentle curiosity and persistently open eyes. Judges travel with armed guards and people are surprised when a stranger comes back intact from remote Greek-speaking villages, but there are also the feasts and joys and faith of a hardscrabble life. By the end, you're no longer so startled that Sybaris, the indulgent city of the Sybarites, once lay in Calabria.
The Greek monuments of southern Italy are a wonder; what happened in Greece is sometimes another story. Still, the Parthenon in Athens is at least an exquisite cliche in its wrecked silhouette. It looks like the essence of all we know about the ancient world, which is not much. In the 1600's, visitors reckoned it just had to be the Academy of Plato. You stand before it and cry for the sense that a perfect whole order has been ruined, unless you're Rabindranath Tagore, in which case you cry for the sheer "barbarian ugliness" of the remains. Even the quite unimpressable Virginia Woolf reckoned it "likely to outlast the entire world."
But these stones have secrets, including the fact that the famous silhouette was put together only in the 1920's, and we still struggle to understand what the building was, who used it and how, and the meaning of all the glorious carvings. We know the stones sheltered, among other things, the Notre Dame cathedral of medieval Athens and a storage depot for a 17th-century Turkish garrison (which is how it all got ruined in the first place) with a harem in the former temple next door. Once blown up by the Venetians, the building became plunder for Britain, which explains why so many of its treasures now line the galleries of the British Museum. Mary Beard's new book, THE PARTHENON (Harvard University, $19.95), is about all this, and the difficulty of making sense of such spectacular physical remains. It's an elegant, learned little volume that does very readable justice to what really happened on the Acropolis and what people made of it and why.
Christopher Buckley, in his own very different way, does much the same for Washington in WASHINGTON SCHLEPPED HERE: Walking in the Nation's Capital (Crown, $16). For a man who took medical advice before even starting, he's awfully ambitious: six museums in a day, with a few government buildings and monuments in between, is one hell of an itinerary, even if you go to the museums mostly to remember the parties once held there.
But forget using the book for any practical purposes, even if it's sound on Catlin's wonderful paintings, knows how hookers got their name, how close America came to having a president who lived in the Pink House and even does proper honor to the man who made an annual visit to his amputated leg, severed at Gettysburg and preserved in the Army Medical Museum. This is the guidebook as after-dinner conversation with an insider, rich and gossipy, witty and a bit knowing. It animates a city that all too often just looks like a blur of grass, cops, flowering cherries and marble facades.
But if even that, what with the security guard telling you to tie up your shoelaces at the United States Mint, seems like much too much current reality, I have one last suggestion: the lovely, sensuous travel essays of the novelist Sybille Bedford, collected as PLEASURES AND LANDSCAPES: A Traveller's Tales From Europe (Counterpoint, paper, $16).
Here we're back in a time when northern Europeans needed reassurance about southern European plumbing, when roads were empty because nobody had gasoline, when there really was a Yugoslavia. And we're tactfully, gracefully handled because Bedford knows that the traveler is "a bundle of wants at the mercy of his environment." These countries from the past seem wonderfully foreign, all golden light and exotic moments. In staid, practical Geneva, Bedford manages to buy not plain tea but "an ounce of Gout des Caravanes" from "a Swiss tradesman with Mongolian eyes." She is even interesting, and not especially annoying, when writing about tasting the best claret in the grandest chateaus of Bordeaux. But then, she was writing at a time when the world was opening up after a world war, when there was a chance at last to rush freely to the sun, the food, the culture of the south. There was everything to discover, everywhere.
We scrabble yet again for the photo ID, bag in one hand, coat in the other, ticket tucked somewhere. We remember the tanks, and we dream very hard of such times.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Photograph from "Sailing the Pacific," taken by Miles Hordern from the rigging of his boat.; At top, the Parthenon as restored by the engineer Nikolaos Balanos in the 1930's; below it, the ruined Parthenon as it was when Balanos began his reconstruction. (N. Cassidy, from N. Balanos, "Les Monuments de l'Acropole"/from "The Parthenon") Drawing (Bruce McCall)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); TRAVELER SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LITERATURE (77%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); CANNABIS (69%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (68%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS 

PERSON: PYE, MICHAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) HAWAII, USA (79%); ROCKY MOUNTAINS (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



3 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 52

LENGTH: 3199 words

HEADLINE: How I Learned to Love Quotas 

BYLINE:  By Jeffrey Rosen; Jeffrey Rosen is an associate professor at George Washington University Law School and the legal affairs editor of The New Republic. He writes regularly for The Times Magazine.

 BODY:
Not long ago, I had an unexpected opportunity to explain to Justice Sandra Day O'Connor why I've changed my mind about affirmative action. I had been invited to give a talk about racial preferences for the justices of the Supreme Court of India, who were in Washington on a judicial exchange program. When I arrived at the conference room, I found, to my surprise and alarm, that the assembled Indian justices were accompanied by their hosts, Justices O'Connor and Stephen G. Breyer, who decided at the last moment to come along for the discussion. The thought of presuming to give an academic lecture about affirmative action in front of the woman who represents the swing vote on the Rehnquist Court -- and who will soon decide the fate of affirmative action in America -- was too harrowing to contemplate. So I abandoned my notes and chose instead to appeal to O'Connor in personal terms, describing why I had long been skeptical of affirmative action in higher education and why I recently have come to support it -- not for moral or social reasons but for purely practical ones. 
 As I sat on the stage trying to decide what to say to O'Connor, I reflected on my change of heart. I had opposed quotas as a constitutional matter ever since studying the Supreme Court's Bakke decision in college, because I could never reconcile the reality of affirmative action as it is actually practiced with the version of affirmative action that the Supreme Court said was permissible. In his Bakke opinion in 1978, Justice Lewis F. Powell Jr. said that schools and universities couldn't pursue ethnic diversity for its own sake, but only as part of the broader educational goal of achieving intellectual diversity -- he called it "the right to select those students who will contribute the most to the 'robust exchange of ideas."' But I could never accept that racial diversity and diversity of viewpoint were so strongly correlated. If schools were truly interested in achieving a robust exchange of ideas, why would they limit preferences to African-Americans and Hispanics? Why not reach out to evangelical Christians and Iranian refugees as well? 
 After becoming a law teacher a few years ago, I found that my constitutional doubts about affirmative action were joined by pragmatic ones. Race, I learned from classroom experience, is an imprecise and often unsatisfying proxy for intellectual diversity. I've had a few moments in class when the unique perspective of an African-American student was invaluable to the discussion -- like the time when a student in a criminal-procedure class described the indignity that he experienced after being pulled over for "driving while black." But there have been many other moments when the views expressed by African-American students on both sides of the political spectrum were indistinguishable from the views of other students. Also, there are many subjects -- tax law, for example, or organic chemistry -- in which the connection between racial and intellectual diversity is hard to fathom. 
In the current challenge to the University of Michigan's undergraduate and law-school affirmative action policies, which the Supreme Court heard on April 1 and on which it will rule by July, a range of groups -- from retired U.S. military officers to Fortune 500 companies -- have filed briefs urging the court to recognize that the benefits of diversity extend far beyond its contribution to a lively classroom debate. The former military officials emphasize that unless the officer corps reflects the racial makeup of the forces as a whole, it won't be perceived as legitimate by enlisted men and women. The Fortune 500 companies say that they can't be economically competitive in a global marketplace if their work forces don't reflect the racial diversity of their customer base. And the University of Michigan itself argues that students need to learn to interact with those of different races outside the classroom, to train them for leadership in a multiracial society. For this reason, the law school seeks a "critical mass" of minority students that, although not formally a quota, has remained remarkably consistent from year to year and leads to the admission of black and Hispanic students with significantly lower test scores than those of their white and Asian counterparts.
Conservative scholars have countered with competing studies suggesting that racial diversity on campus may aggravate racial tensions rather than alleviate them. And in my own experience, the benefits of diversity outside the classroom are hard to prove. Whenever I raise the question in class,a few candid students volunteer that they rarely socialize with students of other races. In light of all these doubts about the nonacademic benefits of diversity in higher education, I had long believed that universities should try to achieve as much intellectual diversity as possible, and let the racial chips fall where they may.
I wish I could say there were a single, dramatic moment of revelation that turned me from an affirmative action skeptic into a supporter. But the truth is that my conversion took place over several years, in the late 1990's. After the courts and popular initiatives began to ban affirmative action, I noticed that state legislatures and universities rebelled, deciding on their own that racial diversity is more important than meritocracy. In both California and Texas, the political pressures to achieve racial diversity proved so overwhelming that when each state's universities were forbidden to take race into account in the admissions process, they simply refused to accept the decline in black and Hispanic enrollment that inevitably followed. Instead, universities responded to the widespread political demand for diversity by devising plans that, in effect, lowered academic standards across the board. This response has had some success in keeping up minority enrollments, but at the cost of an even more serious compromise of academic standards than the relatively modest concession represented by affirmative action itself.
In other words, I became convinced that selective universities can't achieve colorblindness, diversity and high admission standards at the same time. They can achieve only two out of the three goals. For the most part, schools would prefer to choose standards and diversity, using racial preferences to create a diverse class while keeping standards relatively high. But if the courts order colorblindness, America's finest public and private universities won't hesitate for a moment in choosing diversity as the second goal, allowing rigorous admissions standards to go out the window. This is a prospect that both the Bush administration and some of the conservative justices on the Supreme Court seem ready to embrace. "If Michigan really cares enough about that racial imbalance, why doesn't it . . . lower the standards, not have a flagship elite law school?" asked Justice Antonin Scalia at the oral argument. "It solves the problem."
I first encountered the argument that eventually persuaded me to change my mind about affirmative action in a Supreme Court brief filed by three University of Texas law professors in 1997. In the brief, they predicted with eerie accuracy the political pressures that would lead public universities to lower academic standards if the courts prohibited racial preferences. "If affirmative action is ended, inevitable political, economic and legal forces will pressure the great public universities to lower admission standards as far as necessary to avoid resegregation," wrote Douglas Laycock, Samuel Issacharoff and Charles Alan Wright. "The complete end of affirmative action would be a formula for the destruction of the great public universities." 
As it happened, the pressures to lower admissions standards in Texas and California played out precisely as the professors predicted. After the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit banned affirmative action in 1996, the Texas Legislature adopted a series of laws that required the University of Texas to lower its admissions standards in various ways. First, the Legislature adopted a "10-percent plan," which guaranteed that any students who graduated in the top 10 percent of their high-school classes would be admitted to any public university in Texas, regardless of their test scores, the classes that they took or their ability to contribute to intellectual diversity. 
According to Douglas Laycock, who has reviewed the undergraduate admissions figures for the University of Texas, the school before the 10-percent plan admitted 93 percent of all applicants at the top 10 percent of their high-school classes. Now it has to admit the remaining 7 percent of white and black students who would have been rejected under the old system. I asked Laycock to describe the students in this group. "These are students with some serious weaknesses elsewhere in the file," he said. "Either very low test scores, or they didn't take college prep courses, or their recommenders have serious reservations, or they have a lousy writing sample or some combination of those things." 
In other words, by taking a single attribute -- class rank -- and requiring the university to throw out all the other more nuanced measures of intellectual diversity and academic ability -- from test scores to musical skills to success in overcoming adversity -- the 10-percent plans guarantee the admission of white and black students who are both less academically prepared and also less likely to contribute to the diversity of the university as a whole than the white and black students they are displacing. The effect on academic standards has been tangible: Laycock said the percentage of students admitted from the top 10 percent of their classes with SAT scores below 1,000 has tripled since the 10-percent plans were introduced. To keep the new admits from dropping out, the university has had to offer remedial classes. 
The top-10-percent plans don't apply to law schools or other graduate schools, which admit their applicants not from largely segregated state high schools but from more integrated colleges across the state and the country. So now Texas legislators are attacking the academic selectivity of the graduate schools as well. An African-American state representative named Ron Wilson persuaded the Texas Legislature to pass a law requiring any school in the Texas system that has a minimum G.P.A. for athletes to use the same low minimum G.P.A. for all applicants. Wilson told me that the willingness of courts to allow selective universities to relax their academic standards for athletes and children of alumni but not for African-Americans was "a great hypocrisy" that his constituents would not tolerate. After the law school of the University of Texas at Austin, the crown jewel in the state system, insisted that it wasn't bound by this blunt assault on academic standards, Wilson introduced another bill that would require all graduate and professional schools in the U.T. system to guarantee 30 percent of their admissions slots to any person who graduates in the top 10 percent of any institution of higher education. If there aren't enough seats in a class to accommodate all the qualified applicants, the schools must hold a lottery. 
I told Wilson that the U.T. law school at Austin, the most selective graduate school in Texas, is concerned that both of his bills will lead to increasingly open admissions that will destroy its academic selectivity. "I'm sick and tired of hearing about academic quality," Wilson exploded. "These schools are set up to educate the citizenry! It's more important for us to educate the masses than to set up these Taj Mahal sacred cows that basically suck the lifeblood from a community for their own edification." Wilson's eagerness to destroy the only first-tier graduate schools in the state system, simply because his constituents won't tolerate elitism, makes the choice between affirmative action and its alternatives seem easy.
If the Supreme Court bans affirmative action throughout America (as it could, in effect, if it rules broadly against Michigan), even the best private universities that receive public funds, like Harvard and Yale, will feel similar pressure to de-emphasize objective predictors of academic performance, like grades and test scores, in favor of softer proxies for racial diversity. After the United States Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit banned affirmative action in 1996, for example, Rice University began to encourage applicants to write essays about their "cultural traditions." Around the same time, the law school of the University of Texas at Austin began to invite all applicants to write a personal statement about the ways in which they had overcome disadvantages of any kind. Professors who have read the statements describe them as creating a competition of victimhood among applicants who have little to complain about. "I was stunned to read in essay after essay about how each of these supremely talented and successful applicants was a victim of some sort," said Samuel Issacharoff, who reviewed law-school admissions files in the 1990's. "People were encouraged to define themselves not in terms of achieving but in terms of suffering." 
Of course, there has never been an impassioned political constituency for meritocracy -- standards that exclude most of the population aren't likely to have many defenders. But today, objective predictors of academic performance have as many detractors on the right as on the left. The most depressing revelation in the current Supreme Court litigation is the Bush administration's brief, which praises the so-called X-percent plans adopted in California, Texas and Florida, and urges public universities to adopt "admissions policies that seek to promote experiential, geographical, political or economic diversity" as a way of keeping up the number of racial minorities. 
The White House counsel, Alberto Gonzales, when asked about the possibility that black and Hispanic enrollments might decrease if the Supreme Court outlaws the use of race in the admissions process, replied, simply, "We can't let that happen." To Gonzales, that means that "what colleges and universities have to do is be creative in developing other criteria in judging a person's potential. We want to attract students who come from bilingual homes. We want to attract students who come from families who have suffered discrimination." The Bush administration's position has disappointed principled conservatives who believe students should be admitted on the basis of academic criteria alone. "I think the Bush administration's brief as a legal matter is completely unpersuasive and incoherent," I was told by Roger Clegg of the Center for Equal Opportunity in Virginia, who has spent years in the conservative trenches valiantly defending colorblind meritocracy. "I don't know of any conservatives who are not disappointed in it." 
I'm not alone in wondering whether affirmative action might be a better way of balancing intellectual diversity with meritocracy than the alternatives that are certain to follow its elimination. After the Bush brief was filed, I called Abigail Thernstrom, co-author of "America in Black and White" and a leading critic of racial preferences in the country. We hadn't talked for a while, and I expected to be chastised for having gone wobbly on the issue. But to my surprise, I found that Thernstrom had also been struck by the lowering of academic standards that followed the elimination of affirmative action. "These X-percent plans are racially driven, and sometimes I almost think I would rather have honest preferences," she told me. "It's going to be the victimology essays writ large: 'I live in Scarsdale and you don't know how horrible it is. We're all getting high on Coricidin to get through our classes.' This is going to be a total nightmare."
When presented with my conversion, some of my conservative friends object that it's based on a pragmatic rather than a constitutional defense. The Constitution is colorblind, they say, and therefore Michigan's policy is unconstitutional. The court should strike it down, and damn the consequences. But the truth is that the court has never said that the Constitution is colorblind in all circumstances, and that principle is hard to locate in constitutional history. There is also nothing in the Constitution that requires the court to hold that intellectual diversity is the only interest compelling enough to justify race-conscious admissions policies; when Justice Scalia asked why Michigan had to have a "super-duper law school," the university's lawyer replied that "there is a compelling interest in having an institution that is both academically excellent and racially diverse." Finally, it's perfectly legitimate for the court to weigh real-world, practical considerations in hard cases in which the social implications are enormous and the legal precedents are open-ended. Because universities will take race into account regardless of what the court decides, the court should allow them to do so openly, in ways that won't destroy their admissions standards, rather than forcing them to lie, in ways that will harm society as a whole. 
If, by contrast, the Supreme Court adopts the position of the Bush administration, rules against Michigan and encourages universities to continue to take race into account as long as they continue to lie about it, the results will threaten academic standards and intellectual diversity at the same time. As the admissions process becomes more focused on subjective tales of woe, it's not hard to imagine students campaigning for slots like candidates for office, with admissions officers forced to evaluate personal stories rather than academic ability. A result of this growing hypocrisy will not be greater fairness, meritocracy or diversity of viewpoint, but less of all three of these important values.
That, in any event, is what I tried to say to Justice O'Connor. I don't know whether my earnest appeal made any impression on her; she seemed skeptical of affirmative action during the question-and-answer period that followed. When an Indian Supreme Court justice was asked how long India's caste-based quota system would continue, he said the quotas would never end. O'Connor raised her eyebrow in response and gave me a meaningful glance of reproach. But in an increasingly egalitarian democracy, the demand for public institutions that look like America will never end, either. It will only grow more insistent.
If the court, in yet another spasm of judicial activism, presumes to ban racial preferences across America, the percentage of racial minorities admitted to selective universities will remain as high as the public demands, but the universities themselves will be damaged beyond repair. Given the choice between this grim future and the more limited compromises of racial preferences, I no longer think of affirmative action in higher education as the lesser of two evils. I grasp for it eagerly, like a drowning man reaching for a life preserver. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Brian Cronin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (97%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EDUCATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); LITIGATION (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (89%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (77%); ETHNIC GROUPS (77%); RACIAL PROFILING (72%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (66%); RELIGION (60%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; AFFIRMATIVE ACTION; MINORITIES; BLACKS; QUOTAS; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS; SUITS AND LITIGATION 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (59%) SUPREME COURT (US); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN 

PERSON: STEPHEN BREYER (58%) ROSEN, JEFFREY 

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



4 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1445 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-01-03: ENCOUNTER; 
Homegrown Homeland Defense

BYLINE:  By Austin Bunn; Austin Bunn is a frequent contributor to the magazine.

 BODY:
The briefing takes place at dawn, about two miles from Arizona's southern frontier,in the driveway of a low-slung house with, perhaps not incidentally, a raised metal platform facing Mexico. Glenn Spencer's group checks for optics (binoculars), specs out their positions on a topo map and decides who gets to be "Delta," "Romeo" and "Foxtrot." Then, they caravan in trucks and S.U.V.'s to a private ranch northeast of Douglas, six blank miles from the border. There's no shade, just desert specked with mesquite shrubs, yuccas and prickly pear -- basically sand plus thorns. 
 The first report of the day squawks over the walkie-talkie: "Be advised," says Spencer, the leader of this patrol. "Border Patrol just apprehended 30 S.B.I.'s just south of Naco." Michael King, Spencer's technical director and a 12-year veteran of the National Guard, explains that S.B.I. stands for "suspected border intruders," which is what we're watching for this morning. "We use that term because we don't know if they're illegals or not," King says. "Hey, they could be a bunch of very lost Mexican hikers. Not likely, but still." 
 The group stops in a bleak acre, and Spencer jumps to work. He's 65 years old, gray-haired and grandfatherly, but he's almost giddy with excitement. It's the final minutes of morning, when U.S. Border Patrol shifts are changing over, and a peak time for S.B.I. movement. While King sets up the satellite dish and the seven others scatter to high positions with their binoculars, Spencer revs his all-terrain vehicle and dons goggles for a little reconnaissance. "We have to go check the arroyos and cuts, because we can't get visuals down in there," he says, and he's off in a deliberate cloud of dust.
This is the work of American Border Patrol, an emergent and entirely unofficial wing of the country's homeland defense. Last summer, Spencer moved with his wife out from Los Angeles to Sierra Vista, Ariz., to start A.B.P., what he calls a neighborhood watch of the Arizona border. Since this ranch is not a neighborhood but forsaken desert, A.B.P. is more accurately a roving bureau of traffic reporters, dedicated to documenting illegal immigration where it happens. With satellite dishes, ground sensors and dozens of "hawkeye" spotters to call in sightings, A.B.P. tracks S.B.I., films them and notifies the Border Patrol while they upload the film live to the Internet. In quasi-military operations like this one, Spencer estimates that A.B.P. has helped capture more than 3,300 illegal immigrants. "Our policy is not to touch them," Spencer says. "That's the Border Patrol's job. We just want to show people what is happening down here."
Spencer, who says that he has worked as a consultant to the Pentagon, a courtroom exhibit designer, a statistician and an anti-illegal-immigration advocate, came to Arizona last summer because it was "the hot spot." Throughout most of the 70's and 80's, almost two-thirds of all undocumented workers went to California, and 30 percent headed to Los Angeles, the welcome mat. But during the mid-90's, the government tightened the border in San Diego with steel fences (the so-called Tortilla Curtain), illuminated by stadium-style lighting and fortified with motion detectors. Apprehensions in San Diego dropped by more than half in three years. By 2002, they were at a 29-year low. Now Arizona, with its 350 miles of Mexican frontier, has become the most popular crossing point. 
A.B.P. is only the most organized and technologically ambitious of a cluster of unofficial border patrols that have emerged in Arizona since last year, including Civil Homeland Defense and Ranch Rescue. But the phenomenon probably reveals less about a crisis in illegal immigration (which, judging from the number of apprehensions, is down since 2000) than about an acute, frustrated patriotism. These are people who took the president at his word when he called for every American to stand vigilant and report suspicious activity after 9/11, and who live at one of the few remaining trapdoors into America.
Spencer, having lived in Los Angeles for more than 60 years, has a visceral reaction to illegal immigration. While talking to him, I realize that the creation of these citizens' border patrols is really the story of two migration trends: of Mexican immigrants crossing into Arizona and Californians moving into the American Southwest. After years of influx, Americans have started abandoning California, while Arizona has swelled. Most are simply departing a weak economy, but some, like Spencer, see in California -- and its $38 billion dollar deficit and diminished social services -- a glimpse of the country's future if it doesn't take action to stem the tide. 
A.B.P. and the other border-control groups have been called vigilantes and militias, but Spencer doesn't carry a gun. He prefers cameras, which may be a more effective weapon when it comes to his cause. At his suburban ranch house, he has 100 tapes of border crossings stacked on shelves. The day before we went out into the desert, I asked him to show me one, and he picked a grainy, hand-held sequence shot from the side of the road, watching what looked like a group of illegal immigrants ushered into a Border Patrol car. It was even less thrilling than it sounds. This footage of the capture doesn't excite Spencer nearly as much as everything that comes before: the search, the discovery and the ability to send the evidence into the sky and back into people's homes around the country. The A.B.P. Web site even allows you to set up an alert so that anytime Spencer finds an S.B.I. on film, you know. "I want people, when they get up in the morning, to turn on their television and get their border report with their weather report," Spencer says. "Like, 'Ladies and gentlemen, 3,000 people made it across the border last night, and here are videos of them crossing.' "
Back in the desert, playing with the binoculars, I turn out to be the first one to spot S.B.I. They were hiding on a distant ridge, lying down in what looked like white T-shirts. "The reporter is the first to make a sighting?" Spencer asks. "Make sure to put that up on the Internet." I immediately regret saying anything. I don't want to be responsible for either the group's capture or A.B.P.'s success rate. But in that moment of scanning and searching, the obscure pleasures of an A.B.P. mission -- the observation of minute phenomenon, a kind of political bird-watching -- were obvious. If you're going to spend hours looking for something, it feels good to find it. When it turns out I've spotted only a cluster of yuccas ("It's reflective in the sun," Spencer tells me), I'm hit with genuine relief.
Spencer is more annoyed. Six actual S.B.I. spotted on a remote ridge are too far to film and at least 45 minutes away by all-terrain vehicle. Nobody thinks Spencer can get there before the Border Patrol will. Such is the complexity of documenting the undocumented. "I'd hate to get skunked today," Spencer says. But he has been.
Illegal immigration is an incredibly chaotic process, one that Spencer, King and a dozen or so volunteers can't possibly hope to record better than the 9,300 agents working for the Border Patrol in the Southwest. "If you've got 500 Border Patrol agents in an area, and they have a daunting task, what are 5 people going to do?" asks Sheriff Tony Estrada of Santa Cruz County, whose jurisdiction includes the border town Nogales. "Nothing," he says. "The only thing they are hunting is publicity." 
Except that A.B.P. isn't hampered by bureaucracy, which allows them to experiment with new technology far below the Border Patrol's radar. In early May, Spencer successfully tested the group's first unmanned aerial vehicle -- a three-and-a-half-foot-long, five-and-a-half-foot-wide plane made of balsa and plastic rigged with a camera and transmitter. It's a hobbyist's dream made politically useful. By early June, Spencer plans to have the plane flying patterns synched to ground sensors. The economics of drone surveillance are irrefutable, and a drone-security program has already picked up support from Republicans, like Senators John McCain (of Arizona) and Pete Domenici (of New Mexico) as well as Asa Hutchinson, the undersecretary for border and transportation security. As of now, the Border Patrol still uses helicopters and small planes, rather than unmanned aerial vehicles. When I ask him about the privacy concerns of a drone plane cruising quietly at less than 500 feet over private property, Spencer waves me off. "Look, if we wanted pictures of your backyard, we could buy them," he says. "They already have satellites to do that." 

GRAPHIC: Photo: Glenn Spencer, president and founder of American Border Patrol, with his arsenal. (Ari Marcopolous) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); NATIONAL SECURITY (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (88%); HOME SECURITY (78%); REFUGEES (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (71%); HIKING (65%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ILLEGAL ALIENS 

PERSON: SPENCER, GLENN; BUNN, AUSTIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%) MEXICO; ARIZONA

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



5 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION/RADIO; 
A Baltimore Without Hairspray or Diners

BYLINE:  By JOHN PLOTZ; John Plotz is an assistant professor of English at Brandeis University and author of "The Crowd."

 BODY:
IN tonight's season premiere of "The Wire," a Baltimore drug dealer discovers, to his horror, that hometown radio dies 30 miles out of town. So on his first trip away from Baltimore, he slinks into a Philadelphia rendezvous with "A Prairie Home Companion" pouring from the speakers. He may remind viewers of Wallace, the teenage character who last season gave up a rural safe haven to return to his housing project -- where he was pretty sure he would die -- because "them expletive crickets don't let you sleep." Like the other characters on "The Wire," these two have been made provincial by the big city. They're so hemmed in by segregation and lack of opportunity that they have no idea how trapped they are.
 Until the creators of "The Wire," David Simon and Edward Burns, came along, Baltimore's onscreen persona belonged to nostalgia-eyed Barry Levinson and camp king John Waters. Those two directors, purveyors of charming Baltimoriana, essentially divided the city between them. Mr. Levinson even cataloged neighborhoods for me on the phone, classifying some as his, some as Waters's, and leaving tony Roland Park to Anne Tyler. The problem is that the Levinson/Waters/Tyler map has always had some big blank spaces. Which is no discredit to the artists, who know that covering even a few neighborhoods in cantonized Baltimore is hard enough. 
 Mr. Simon and Mr. Burns, a former reporter and a former cop, had spent decades investigating the hundred square blocks or so between the H. L. Mencken house at Union Square and thriving downtown Baltimore. Their collaboration resulted in two successful books, both made into prize-winning television series.
"Homicide: Life on the Street" (the first two seasons were released on DVD last week) was based on Mr. Simon's book, produced and conceived for television by Mr. Levinson and Tom Fontana. The show was rightly lauded for its realism, and for seven critically acclaimed seasons it aimed to convey the feel of Baltimore. But it also did its share of cuteification, showcasing crabs, the Orioles, Fells Point bars, even the city's hapless little subway, at every turn. The original Simon book is altogether fiercer, dredging up forgotten bodies in corners of the city like beautiful and shadowy Leakin Park.
With "The Corner," Mr. Simon and Mr. Burns started correcting the sweetness of Mr. Waters and Mr. Levinson. The HBO mini-series based on their book (for which Mr. Simon was an executive producer) was a meticulous and searingly pessimistic fact-based account of the open-air drug market at Monroe and Fayette Streets, fewer than 20 blocks northwest of Camden Yards. Based on several years of interviews, it told the stories of junkies, dealers and damaged bystanders as no cop show ever had.
"The Wire" is more holistic; each season focuses on one microcosm of Baltimore crime, including cops and politicians. Though the story is fictional, the setting is real. Its imaginary terraces are based on a variety of extant and demolished housing projects tucked in among boarded-up row houses in that neighborhood, where trapped old folks (fewer every year) sit on Baltimore's trademark white stone steps.
In fact, it may be too real for some. The show's harsh portrait of a neighborhood in free fall -- little different from the diagnoses that George Soros's Open Society Institute has been issuing for years -- irked Baltimore's ruling powers. Last November, the mayor and City Council were so furious with "The Wire" that they sounded off publicly, and the City Council considered a resolution to "counteract" the show's negativity with a campaign awkwardly called "Let's Not Just Imagine a Better Image for Baltimore."
David Simon's response to his detractors is not defiance but agreement: he stresses that Baltimore is nothing special. "The show could have been filmed in Wilmington, or Philadelphia, Washington, New York, St. Louis," he told me recently. In a phone call the next day, Catherine E. Pugh, a city councilwoman, listed virtually the same cities as sisters in misery.
But Mr. Simon shouldn't sell short the Baltimore distinctiveness of "The Wire." The show has such potentially wide appeal not because it's blandly universal, but because it is so acutely constricted. Mr. Simon sees the show as the "visual equivalent of a novel." A fair comparison might be to "Bleak House," a survey of lives joined sometimes by family, sometimes by mere coincidence -- but most often by compulsory contiguity. "The Wire" really conveys, on the one hand, how tiny the worst Baltimore neighborhoods are (I used to bike through West Baltimore in about six minutes), and on the other how difficult it can be, in the absence of decent exit strategies, to put a hundred yards between you and your block's dense pack of friends, long-suffering older relatives and business associates.
Even the show's cinematography helps establish a small, knowable realm. In "Homicide," Barry Levinson was proud of hand-held camera shots from moving cop cars, which made flights of white marble steps flicker jerkily by, New Wave style. You never knew quite where you were, but getting there was a real Baltimore experience.
"The Wire" is less impressionistic, more precise, helping viewers to see the city as a kind of puzzle board. It criss-crosses the projects, mapping them in the same way as the cops' electronic surveillance. We learn to notice details. It always matters, as it wouldn't in "Law and Order," whether a drug courier darts into the third or the fourth doorway in a low-rise courtyard.
"Homicide" was all about the drive-by, but "The Wire" thrives on a walking or running pace -- "hand to hand" drug buys, stiff-legged confrontations, petty scams that end in flight or a brief tussle. Most of the locomotion is circular or spiral: down bolt holes, out of stash rooms, round and round the block to fool a trail car or disorient a mark. When Detective Shakima Greggs (Sonja Sohn) was shot in the first season, it was partly because she'd been driven around for so long that she couldn't tell fellow officers if she was on the north or south side of Argyll Avenue.
So "The Wire" is all motion but no forward progress. The sympathetic young drug dealer D'Angelo Barksdale (Larry Gilliard Jr.) left his neighborhood just twice during the first season (not counting a trip he described to Northwest Baltimore, to murder his boss's ex-girlfriend). First he went 1,200 yards to a swanky Inner Harbor restaurant where he felt utterly adrift, convinced that everyone around him knew where his money came from. Second, he left on a futile drug run to New York, which landed him in jail for 20 years.
This season, the show shifts to an entirely different area of the city. With the drug kingpin Avon Barksdale (Wood Harris) forced to operate from jail, the West Baltimore plot hasn't vanished, but it has slowed somewhat. In this season's first few episodes, most of the leading detectives are gradually finding their way -- via the show's trademark Byzantine (and venomous) bureaucratic infighting -- into contraband investigations at Baltimore's container port.
This new story line is premised on the decline of Baltimore's docks, and chronicles the limited alternatives open to the residents of Locust Point, the working-class white neighborhood tucked behind the caramel-smelling Domino's sugar plant (and close to Mr. Simon's own South Baltimore home). The setting harkens back to the days the city earned the nickname Mob City for its fervent union activity.
The characters are white and on the water. But they're caught in another version of the economic lockdown that paralyzes the West Baltimore crews under Avon Barksdale. They pursue last-ditch high jinks like stealing shipments of digital cameras, dealing, and getting very drunk. Or they strive earnestly to go straight, only to find that, with three days work a month the norm for a union member, all the money on the docks is in crime, petty and otherwise.
You can see why Mr. Simon claims not to be writing about Baltimore, because there is a Eugene O'Neill feel to this, an American melodrama harkening back to the era of the "family wage" and more rigid gender roles. As the season develops, moreover, what happens to these characters -- and to the various cargos they're responsible for moving or downright smuggling around the globe -- belongs to international trade routes as much as it does to Charm City.
Still, "The Wire" is the opposite of far-flung drug travelogues like Steven Soderbergh's "Traffic" (2000). Whether it's on West Baltimore stoops, or along Locust Point's docks, whether the out-of-town cargo is a New York drug shipment or closed containers owned by the mysterious "Greek," "The Wire" blocks all the exits. Tonight's opening scene shows the series' main character, Det. James McNulty (Dominic West), out on the water, looking chagrined as usual, but with the wind cheerily ruffling his hair. His first action? Taking a small bribe (very small, maybe a single bill) to tow a stalled party boat off to a backwater where its partying, and its sleazy politicking, can continue. The shot just before the opening credits roll shows McNulty at the wheel, stoically motoring nowhere.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dominic West, far left, and Sonja Sohn, right, as Baltimore police detectives in "The Wire," which begins its second season tonight on HBO. (Photographs by Larry Riley/HBO)(pg. 28); Clark Johnson and Michael Michele as Baltimore detectives in a 1999 episode of "Homicide." (Michael Ansell/NBC)(pg. 36) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (68%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%) TELEVISION 

PERSON: PLOTZ, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BALTIMORE, MD, USA (90%) MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) BALTIMORE (MD)

TITLE: WIRE, THE (TV PROGRAM)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



6 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1283 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC; 
Reducing Buddy Guy: The Half-Caf, Venti Blues

BYLINE:  By BEN RATLIFF 

 BODY:
IN Buddy Guy's new album, "Blues Singer," the consummate living performer of urban electric-blues, one of the most exuberant performers in American music, is put before you instead as an apparition with an acoustic guitar, the cliched lonely bluesman. For a few songs, like "Hard Time Killing Floor" and "Can't See Baby," he's all alone. For the rest of the album, he's backed by an acoustic bass, an artfully rudimentary drum sound and a second acoustic guitar, instead of his regular electric band.
 What's going on here is an old game; perhaps now we all understand its rules. Mr. Guy, at 66, is acceptably authentic. When a record producer wants to transmit that essence in a working-class music, the musician's persona and work may end up simplified. The artist is complicit in this simplification, and even has the power to turn it back on us. 
 But let's just get the truth out in the open: Mr. Guy, born in Louisiana and moved to Chicago in 1957, is no rustic, no ghost, no harmless old man but a complex, self-conscious artist. And, as "Blues Singer" (Silvertone) shows, a professional every bit as much as Muddy Waters, whose 1963 recording "Folk Singer" provided the inspiration for Mr. Guy's new album. 
"Blues Singer" happens to be a good record. Whittled down to tasteful drawing-room levels, Mr. Guy doesn't evince much of what made him a guitar hero, the primary source for Jimi Hendrix and Eric Clapton. But here it's his singing that's more interesting: Mr. Guy alternates between a low voice punctuated by booming notes, a keening high wail and a gnarled, tired wheeze. He has been recorded by the producer Dennis Herring and the engineer Jaquire King so that his voice has presence, cavernous echo and a slightly overmodulated signal, suggesting antique recording techniques.
But beyond issues of merit, "Blues Singer" has another significance: its reference to the earlier album. "Folk Singer" was made in an attempt to cross over to the folk audience -- young middle-class people who bought records -- and so it pushed Waters back to the acoustic instrumentation he had been using 20 years before; it also toned down his exuberance in the interests of classiness.
Mr. Guy played on "Folk Singer" when he was in his 20's, but that wouldn't seem reason enough to pay homage to it. "Folk Singer" isn't one of Muddy Waters's best records. It was, however, an important early example of what has become a serious trend: reviving older vernacular-music performers for a more moneyed audience. Thanks to the album "Buena Vista Social Club," these revival missions are something of a cutting-edge science; Ralph Stanley, the bluegrass pioneer, has undergone one, as have several Cuban musicians in the orbit of the "Buena Vista" project; Johnny Cash has aimed his last four albums at a younger audience.
In this process, a performer within a music identified with working-class audiences gets symbolically lifted out of his old context and groomed for the upper-middle-class culture circuit: NPR, PBS, Starbucks (via the sampler CD's it sells by the hundredweight), the newspaper you are reading, and certainly the Grammy awards. Most of these records are good. But their implications are complicated. The performer can become removed from the traditions he has naturally built up with his own audience; in some cases, the process reduces him, shrinks his meaning. 
Each of these genres has a long, convoluted history, involving innovations in musical technique occasioned by practical matters of performance, dance-steps, myth, exploitation, wicked humor. But you can't throw someone with Buddy Guy's vitality at a general audience anymore and expect them to embrace him fully. If you turn him into a ghost, however, you have a chance. This isn't to say that "Blues Singer" doesn't represent a legitimate style of the blues. It's just symptomatic of the times, that Buddy Guy is choosing it now.
Here's a musician who owns a popular Chicago nightclub; in performance he rides on waves of bravado, playing long, muscular improvisation; for the last decade he has worn slick polka-dot shirts under farmer's overalls -- a brilliant joke, if I read it right, on what black people want of their bluesmen versus what white people want.
In the case of Ralph Stanley, whose self-titled album, produced by T-Bone Burnett, was released last year on DMZ/Columbia, you have a singer who knows hundreds of songs dating back to the beginning of the 20th century, many of them currently in circulation among the bluegrass culture of the Clinch Mountain region precisely because of his influence. But they weren't the right songs. For his major-label revamping, a result of his exposure in the movie "O Brother, Where Art Thou?", he was given songs that he didn't know, centuries older in provenance. It made him seem older and more severe; in contrast to Mr. Stanley's real-life identity, a gentleman-farmer who drives a Jaguar around southwestern Virginia when he's not on the road with his band, he became an Appalachian Methuselah.
As for the constellation of Buena Vista Social Club records, starting with the album of that name and spreading out to individual releases by the musicians and singers in the band, there have been several different strategies. In the simple version, the producer Ry Cooder used old-fashioned miking and old-fashioned music, creating a weirdly nostalgic exercise for Americans about pre-revolutionary Cuba. In the advanced version, as for the singer Ibrahim Ferrer's new album "Buenos Hermanos" (Nonesuch), Mr. Cooder has ingeniously constructed a Cuban music that never existed, with Hammond organs, accordions and cooing, 1950's American-style backup-choruses.
One risks sounding like a scold and a purist for bringing up these issues. Again, these are good records. They may be listened to for a long time -- much longer, say, than Mr. Guy's first commercial-breakthrough comeback in 1991, "Damn Right I Got the Blues," which relied on the contrivance of guest appearances, by stars like Eric Clapton and George Thorogood. Nobody wants to make a guest-heavy record anymore, and for good reason: they're impossibly naive, speckled with touches that are too extrinsic to the main performer's vision, and which tend to date quickly.
But as I watched Mr. Ferrer perform at the Beacon Theater last month, I worried that a portion of the audience might think his touring band's musical farrago was idiomatic Cuban music. Just as I worry now that new listeners might imagine Mr. Guy as a haunted old man.
Perhaps not too many will. At this point Mr. Guy seems so aware of the game that he toys with it: this is one of the reasons I respect "Blues Singer" so much. Aging and frailty are subjects Mr. Guy has adopted for singing the blues, and in his hands they remain subjects, not inescapable facts. On his version of "Black Cat Blues," he plays up the character, putting on an old geezer's voice. (On Mr. Guy's last album, "Sweet Tea," a concept album in which he played the raw music of the Mississippi hill country, he sang a lugubrious song called "Done Got Old.")
This process -- making such artists seem old, simple, moribund or encased in the past, and therefore more marketable -- will not go away, as long as one race, one economic class, one set of stories and values, self-consciously performs for another. Everybody wants to know what the other side sounds like; future producers will become even more skilled than Mr. Herring, Mr. Burnett and Mr. Cooder at repackaging the other side and selling it as a lifestyle accessory. But an album like "Blues Singer" shows that an artist has some freedom within this game -- that he needn't simply roll over and ghost himself out.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Buddy Guy performing at the New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival last month. (Ebet Roberts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JAZZ & BLUES (90%); RECORD RELEASES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (90%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); FOLK & WORLD MUSIC (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); RECORD INDUSTRY (78%); STRINGED INSTRUMENTS (78%); TRENDS (73%) MUSIC; REVIEWS 

PERSON: GUY, BUDDY; RATLIFF, BEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



7 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey; 
36,000 Sq. Ft. Animal Hospital to Open in Paramus

BYLINE:  By ANTOINETTE MARTIN 

 BODY:
A $12 MILLION animal hospital with five operating rooms, 20 exam rooms, a presurgical area, a critical care unit, radiology and dental suites, an isolation ward, even its own pet-food kitchen, is set to open next month in Paramus at what was once a Datascope manufacturing site.
 The Oradell Animal Hospital -- founded 42 years ago in Oradell -- will open its new doors to patients on June 14 and keep them open all the time. The hospital will offer 24/7 emergency care to all manner of nonhumans -- including birds and reptiles -- in a facility with many features modeled after human hospitals. 
 There are private cubicles for "intake" interviews, for example, and spacious waiting rooms with calming views of the protected wetland on the four-acre property. 
The hospital's founders -- Drs. Gary Johnson, Anthony Palminteri and William Stockman -- say their new facility at 580 Winters Avenue near the Paramus Park Mall will be the country's largest privately held veterinary practice. Where the average veterinary office is about 6,000 square feet and Oradell Animal Hospital currently occupies a cramped 5,000-square-foot office space, they said, the Paramus facility will provide 36,000 square feet of specially designed and highly equipped space.
V ETERINARY medicine now offers so much more than it did three decades ago," Dr. Johnson said. "With the increased knowledge about veterinary care, pets are able to overcome serious medical conditions and lead happy, healthy lives. Our decision to build such a large animal hospital reflects these circumstances."
The director of the hospital, Dr. Paul Gambardella, added that the Oradell hospital is currently being pushed beyond its capacity. "There is a tremendous demand for emergency and critical care," he said. "You've got to go somewhere if your pet is hit by a car or becomes very very ill. People really do regard pets as members of the family."
Dr. Gambardella said the Oradell hospital currently draws patients from a wide area and noted that the Animal Medical Center in Manhattan is the only other large facility providing full-time care.
Some 25 to 30 veterinarians will work at the new hospital, Dr. Gambardella said, including specialists in internal medicine, surgery, neurology, cardiology and general veterinary practice. The total number of employees will increase from the current 160 to about 200.
The former Datascope building -- one of several properties at the edge of Paramus Park vacated by Datascope when it built a new headquarters in Mahwah four years ago -- provided the right size "footprint" for the animal hospital, said Dr. Gambardella. But it had to be gutted and stripped to the girders in order to fashion a specialized medical facility.
BDA Architecture, a 10-year-old Albuquerque, N.M., firm that specializes in veterinary hospital design, was brought in, and Dr. Gambardella said hospital personnel spent many hours with the architects explaining exactly what would suit them, their patients and their patients' owners best.
"The floor plan was designed with the exam rooms grouped as pods," said the hospital director. "This gives the feeling of a smaller scale, creating a less intimidating, more friendly type of environment for the patients. The staff really liked it because it sets up mini-practices within the big hospital, teams of people who work together on a regular basis." 
Wayne Usiak, an architect at BDA, said the presurgical area, which is common in human hospitals but rare in animal hospitals, was a priority for the Oradell staff. Dr. Gambardella explained that "materials for all operations will be assembled and sterilized and animals will be intubated and anesthetized there, raising the level of sanitation in the operating room."
The new hospital also has a recovery room and an intensive care unit that will be staffed full-time by veterinary nurses, plus a "step-down" unit for animals that are recovering but require a higher level of care than is provided in the wards.
The building exterior has been given a rather classic medical facility look, with a white stucco exterior and a brick porte-cochere. On the inside, however, several design features were specifically tailored to the clientele. Mr. Usiak said exceptional care was taken with the acoustics so the sounds of barking, bleating or screeching do not overwhelm employees or intrude on the sensitivities of people with injured pets.
Surfaces inside the hospital must be hard for durability and maintenance, he said, but special insulation mitigates the sounds that bounce off them at such a facility.
Smells are also a particular issue, of course. The architect said that the new hospital is endowed with a sophisticated heating, ventilation and air-conditioning system that controls odor. "It will never smell like an animal hospital," asserted Mr. Usiak.
Other specialized spaces at the hospital include the 200-cage avian and exotic animal ward, which includes two isolation suites for animals with contagious diseases; two radiology suites with fluoroscopic and standard radiography equipment; a magnetic resonance imaging room; a physical therapy center with a pool for hydrotherapy; endoscopy, ultrasound and pathology laboratories; the dental surgery suite, which closely resembles a human dentist's office, except for the chair; and the pet-food kitchen, where everything from baby formula to special meals can be prepared.
There is a "family suite" for euthanasia in the building, designed to provide privacy and comfort for people facing the death of a pet, the architect said.
Dr. Gambardella said the facility would have a continuing education center with training rooms and a medical library for employees.
THE entire Paramus Park neighborhood is achieving its "highest and best use" as Datascope sites are converted to retail and service uses, commented Larry Anderson, managing principal for Levin Realty Services. Mr. Anderson's firm converted two other large former Datascope buildings for new uses in previous years -- research facilities that became an Expo Design Center and a Sports Authority store.
The animal hospital is easy to reach, Mr. Anderson noted, just off Route 17, not far from the intersection with Route 4 and an entrance to the Garden State Parkway. The city of Paramus, which has been saddled with a high office vacancy rate in the last two years because of the slow economy and corporate consolidation, has astutely moved to rezone areas with high vacancy rates to permit retail and "flexible use" buildings, the broker said.
At the animal hospital site, the only concern with the property is that there will be adequate parking. Dr. Gambardella said that a variance was granted to permit 106 spaces, more than previously allowed -- but if the patient load at the hospital is as heavy as expected, that may be barely enough.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. John DeVries examines Molly in a dental suite at the new Oradell Animal Hospital at 580 Winters Avenue in Paramus. Some 25 to 30 veterinarians will work at the new center, which was once a Datascope manufacturing site. (Photographs by Dith Pran/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VETERINARY SERVICES (96%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (90%); ANIMALS (90%); PET FOODS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); PETS (89%); VETERINARY DRUGS (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (75%); INTERVIEWS (74%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (73%); NEUROSCIENCE (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); CARDIOLOGY (71%); WETLANDS (69%); HOSPITALS (58%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (58%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (56%) VETERINARY MEDICINE 

COMPANY: DATASCOPE CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: ORADELL ANIMAL HOSPITAL (PARAMUS, NJ) 

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (85%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (85%)

PERSON: MARTIN, ANTOINETTE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (76%); ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (75%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (94%) PARAMUS (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



8 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1291 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/Westchester; 
Tenants Are Being Attracted to Sublet Office Space

BYLINE:  By ELSA BRENNER 

 BODY:
BARGAINS were still available for those looking for office space in Westchester in the first months of 2003, as companies hit hard by the economic slowdown returned excess square footage to the market.
 At the end of the first quarter of the year, tenants in the county were offering 937,572 square feet of office space for sublet -- out of a total available inventory of 5,129,220 square feet -- according to figures from Insignia/ESG, a national commercial real estate services provider. 
 The availability of office space for subleasing has worked in favor of tenants who can negotiate attractive deals that sometimes even include the first tenant's office furniture and telephones.
"As a result, some companies have been able to lease more expensive space than they might otherwise afford," said Richard Rakow, the president of Rakow Commercial Realty Group, which represents tenants. "Companies anxious to get space off their books as quickly as possible are offering great deals." 
Mr. Rakow said that Class A office space -- the most modern properties in the best locations -- in the central business district of White Plains that might ordinarily lease for $26 a square foot annually can go for as little as $18 a square foot in a sublease deal.
For landlords, though, the continuing availability of sublease space has been a problem. "The good deals offered by some tenants who want to unload space quickly have actually been undercutting the rest of the market," observed John Goodkind, a managing principal for Newmark & Company, another national real estate services provider. 
In the first part of this year, the availability rate for Class A and B direct and sublet office space in the county was 15.47 percent, according to figures from Insignia/ESG -- up slightly from 15.13 percent for the first quarter of 2002, the figures showed. In the county, the vacancy rate was highest in the central business district of White Plains, 22.5 percent, up from 21.5 percent for the first quarter of 2002. 
The average asking rent for directly leased (nonsublet) Class A and Class B office space in the county at the end of the first quarter of 2003 was $25.82 a square foot, up slightly from $25.66 a year earlier, according to Insignia's figures. In the White Plains central business district, the average asking rate for the first quarter of this year was $27.07; it was $27.03 a year earlier. 
The hopeful news for landlords is that the supply of sublet space on the market from large corporations like I.B.M. is being taken up. In large part that is because a number of New York City-based law firms and financial companies -- some displaced after Sept. 11, 2001, and others seeking to establish backup sites -- have been attracted by the availability of low-cost sublet office space in Westchester.
LAST year, for example, the law firm of Cravath, Swaine & Moore sublet 15,371 square feet at 44 South Broadway in White Plains, a building formerly occupied by I.B.M., for backup offices. Millennium Partners, a hedge fund, sublet 15,000 square feet of space from I.B.M. at the same building. And in yet another transaction at the building, Davis Polk & Wardwell, another Manhattan law firm, has sublet 11,000 square feet.
Mr. Goodkind at Newmark & Company observed that leasing activity in Westchester by a number of large New York City concerns after the Sept. 11 attack "plugged the dike" and offset some of the potential damage posed by the space returns. 
This year, the trend to find backup space in Westchester continued, with Hogan & Hartson, a Washington-based law firm, taking 18,970 square feet of former I.B.M. space at 44 South Broadway. Schwartzberg & Associates, a White Plains developer of senior housing, took yet more former I.B.M. space in the building, 14,000 square feet.
The largest block of former I.B.M. space was purchased earlier this spring by the New York Life Insurance Company, the largest mutual life insurance firm in the United States, in part for backup space. It paid $38 million for a 383,000-square-foot complex on 76 acres at Mount Pleasant Executive Park that was the former headquarters of I.B.M.'s Latin American division. The space had been on the market for several years. 
"That's a huge milestone," Dean J. Shapiro, executive director of Insignia/ESG's Westchester-Connecticut offices, based in Stamford, said during a recent talk about the commercial real estate market in Westchester. "The I.B.M.'s and the Nynexes of yesteryear are almost gone," he said, alluding to the kinds of Fortune 500 companies that used to dominate Westchester's commercial market.
For 2003, the largest addition of sublet space to the market was Alliance Capital's release of 21,057 square feet at 925 Westchester Avenue in White Plains, which brought the total sublease space offered by the company, a financial services concern, to more than 42,000 square feet. 
The largest transaction of the quarter was the Argent Mortgage Company's lease for 118,000 square feet of direct space at 333 Westchester Avenue, which is the 39-acre, 632,000-square-foot former headquarters of Kraft Foods in White Plains and, until this deal, Westchester's sole block of available space larger than 400,000 square feet. In addition to Argent's lease, 333 Westchester Avenue was the site of two other deals during the first quarter: the Endurance Reinsurance Corporation of America took 21,630 square feet, and Stone, Russo & Lassaro, an accounting firm, leased 2,030 square feet.
In other significant direct-space leases in the first quarter of 2003, USI Insurance took 31,538 square feet at 555 Pleasantville Road in Briarcliff, and Bresnan Communications, a cable company, took 28,107 square feet at 1 Manhattanville Road in Purchase.
Of all the commercial regions of Westchester, the western sector, which includes Elmsford and Tarrytown, fared the least well. Several significant blocks of space were returned to the market in the first quarter of this year, and it has been a struggle to find takers for space on the market. 
Mr. Shapiro said that in the western portion of the county, new rental deals have usually been small, while the sizes of the blocks of space being returned to market for sublet are "reminiscent of an era when larger transactions were more common."
A notable block of space is 121,000 square feet of former Fuji Photo Film space at Taxter Corporate Park in Elmsford. Fuji recently moved its United States headquarters, along with 330 employees, from 106,000 square feet on six floors at Taxter, where it had been since 1986, to 164,000 square feet in an office park in Valhalla.
THE availability rate in the area rose to 19.1 percent from 13.2 percent a year earlier. Space in the west now accounts for 17 percent of Westchester's total available space, compared with 12 percent last March. Average asking rent fell 38 cents per square foot, to $24.44.
In Westchester's smallest submarket, the south, which includes New Rochelle and Yonkers, the availability rate dropped to 14.1 percent from 17.2 percent. Average asking rent rose $3.28 per square foot, or 20 percent, from last March to $19.84 per square foot this quarter.
In the eastern sector, which includes Harrison and Rye, the availability rate dropped slightly from the first quarter of last year, by about half a point to 13 percent. Average asking rents in the east fell 73 cents per square foot, or 3 percent, from the first quarter of last year to $26.98 per square foot.
In the north, which includes Mount Pleasant, Peekskill and Ossining among other towns, the availability rate dropped a percentage point to 12.2 percent, the lowest in Westchester. Average asking rent dropped 35 cents per square foot, or 1 percent, from last year to $25.66 per square foot.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Argent Mortgage leased a large block at 333 Westchester Avenue, White Plains, former home of Kraft Foods. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (92%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); STATISTICS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%) OFFICE BUILDINGS AND COMMERCIAL PROPERTIES; RENTING AND LEASING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: BGC PARTNERS INC (54%)

TICKER: BGCP (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: BRENNER, ELSA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



9 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 543 words

HEADLINE: EXECUTIVE LIFE: THE BOSS; 
<HD L>Rewards in Restlessness

BYLINE:  By David Neeleman; Written with Julia Lawlor. 

 BODY:
A YEAR ago, I officially learned that I have attention deficit disorder, but I've known it since I was in my 30's. I'm 43 now.
 It has been a problem. I'm absent-minded. I can't sit still. I lose things. Going through school, I felt like I was always behind. They wanted me to repeat the third grade, but my parents said: "He's a smart kid. You don't know what you're talking about." When I got out of high school, I didn't feel I could read or write that well. I couldn't sit down and read a whole book. I thought, "How am I ever going to be successful in anything if I can't read and write?" 
 On balance, A.D.D. has been a positive. People with it tend to be more creative, to think outside the box more. They take more risks. I was at a conference of educators at Harvard, talking about A.D.D. in my life, and one asked why I had never taken any medication for it. I said, "I'm afraid I'll take it once, blow a circuit, and then I'd be like the rest of you."
I am the second in a family of four boys and three girls. We lived in Sao Paolo, Brazil, until my father was transferred to Sandy, Utah, when Iwas 5. I married right after returning from missionary work in Brazil for the Mormon Church. We have nine kids, ages 3 to 21; two are at college. We like going on road trips and doing grocery shopping together. We all get in the 12-passenger van and go to Costco. Our record one day was $2,500 -- seven shopping carts of food, one for each kid.
I didn't grow up thinking I wanted to be chief executive of an airline. In my sophomore year at the University of Utah, a girl in my accounting class told me her mother knew a guy in Hawaii who was having trouble selling time shares in a hotel he had converted into condos.
It was the recession of the early 80's. I called him and said I'd pay him $100 plus the condo maintenance fees for each week he couldn't sell. Then I advertised them at $500 a week and pocketed the difference. I started packaging the condos with seats on charter flights to Hawaii. I dropped out of college in my junior year; by then, my company had 20 employees and $8 million in sales. Then the airline we were using went bankrupt and we lost the money we were owed. Our company filed for bankruptcy and, boom, was out of business.
After that, I joined a travel agency in Utah. I started Morris Air there; we sold it to Southwest Airlines in the early 90's. I had always dreamed of working at Southwest, but I left there after six months. I had all these ideas, but they had a certain way of doing business and felt no need to change. When my five-year noncompete clause was up, I started JetBlue. 
Because of A.D.D., I've made adjustments. One of the reasons I make a point of flying on one of our planes at least once a week is that I just get bored sitting in the office. I need to be out there with people. Other people pay my bills. My assistant helps me write letters and keeps my calendar. I have no idea what I'm doing from one day to the next.
I don't write anything down; if I did, I'd lose the piece of paper. I buy a couple of watches at a time, just in case. Since that fact was published a while ago in a magazine, I've had people from all over the country sending me watches in the mail. Now I have a closet full of them.

GRAPHIC: Photo: DAVID NEELEMAN -- Chief executive, JetBlue Airways, New York City (Bloomberg News) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTENTION DEFICIT DISORDER (90%); LEARNING DISABILITIES (90%); AIRLINES (86%); CONDOMINIUMS (84%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (84%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (76%); HIGH SCHOOLS (76%); FAMILY (76%); PRODUCT PACKAGING (72%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (70%); RELIGION (69%); AIR CHARTER SERVICES (68%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (66%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (66%); MARRIAGE (65%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (52%); TRAVEL AGENTS (50%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%) MENTAL HEALTH AND DISORDERS; ATTENTION DEFICIT HYPERACTIVITY DISORDER 

ORGANIZATION: JETBLUE AIRWAYS CORP (JBLU) 

PERSON: LAWLOR, JULIA; NEELEMAN, DAVID

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (54%) HAWAII, USA (92%); UTAH, USA (86%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); BRAZIL (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



10 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 11; Column 2; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2746 words

HEADLINE: Remodeling: Adventures in Inner Space 

BYLINE:  By EDWIN McDOWELL 

 BODY:
"HOME improvement," according to a research report issued in February by Harvard's Joint Center for Housing Studies, "has become the great national pastime."
 The report said that in 2001, the most recent year for which annual figures were available, an estimated $214 billion was spent on home improvements, maintenance and repairs (including by owners of rental properties), a sum that puts home improvement in the ranks of major industries. Those expenditures exceeded those of commercial construction and legal services by 38 percent, public works construction by 24 percent and clothing store sales by 21 percent. 
 And in an indication that home remodeling continues strong, a more recent Joint Center estimate of remodeling activity, which was based on a less comprehensive set of data than the February report, estimated that in the year that ended on March 31, home improvement expenditures rose 6 percent over the year that ended in the first quarter of 2002. 
Bathrooms and kitchens continue to lead the nation's remodeling parade, as they have for many years, according to the National Association of the Remodeling Industry. That is true in the New York metropolitan area as well, but Renee Rewiski, president of the North Jersey chapter of the remodeling association, and Lesa Dresher, the executive director of the New York-Long Island chapter, say the fastest growing type of remodeling project in their areas in recent years has been the enlarged master bedroom, also known as the "master suite." But playrooms, dining rooms and living rooms, which often become family rooms, are also common.
"What everybody wants these days is space, comfort and the time to relax at home," said Mary Giaquinto of Plum Builders in East Hampton, N.Y. 
In hopes of creating their desired space, homeowners increasingly choose to transform conventional rooms into suites, family rooms, solariums, offices and much else. Many bedrooms and bathrooms are now "master suites," where double sinks and his and her walk-in closets are de rigueur -- John Ricci, the owner of Ricci Construction Group in Cheshire, Conn., notes that in equipping master suites, "sharing is out." Other features might include a Jacuzzi with an adjoining shower stall, a wine cooler, a wall-mounted flat-screen television set and a fireplace. A bathtub might come not only with grab bars, but also with waterproof cushions and headrests.
The cost of creating an upscale master suite averages $69,173 nationwide, according to Remodeling magazine. Thomas J. McDevitt of McDevitt Construction and Remodeling in Lincoln Park, N.J., and Carmine Giuliano, the owner of Carroe Construction in Scarsdale, say that in their areas such projects run about $60,000 to $75,000. In New Haven County, according to Mr. Ricci, it would cost approximately $70,000 to $90,000. 
The magazine reported that the average cost of a kitchen remodeling nationally varied between $43,213 and $70,368, depending on such cost variables as granite countertops and size, equipment and finishes. According to one of the real estate agents who participated in the magazine's survey, granite countertops can add $5,000 to the price -- and can make a $20,000 difference in the asking price when the home is offered for sale because of what they suggest about the overall quality of the home.
A basic kitchen remodeling might cost as little as $10,000 for what Mr. Giuliano in Scarsdale described as a "spruce-up," consisting of painting the cabinets, new countertops and a new sink but not much more. But a high-end remodeling project often costs $100,000 or more, he said, especially with expensive cabinets. 
Upscale kitchen remodeling projects usually include granite countertops, stainless steel appliances, tile floors and new cabinets and sometimes have a modest office area with a small desk and maybe a fax and computer.
The average cost nationally to add a midprice bathroom is more than $15,000. This would usually include a cultured-marble vanity top, molded sink, standard tub with shower surrounded with ceramic tiles, spot lighting, medicine cabinet, linen storage, vinyl wallpaper and ceramic tile floor.
THE search for space, comfort and relaxation is not limited to the interior of the house. Mr. McDevitt is one of a number of remodelers throughout the metropolitan area who said that homeowners who replace their decks often add to their size -- sometimes doubling the area -- and not infrequently adding a built-in hot tub and sometimes even a fireplace.
Once relegated primarily to the living room, fireplaces these days also turn up in kitchens, family rooms, bedrooms, bathrooms and basements, but are not without their drawbacks. "Ninety percent are gas fireplaces and the others wood," Mr. Giuliano said, "but within a year or two, half the wood-burning fireplaces will have switched to gas because they're messy."
While the shortage of space accounts for what remodelers say are far fewer master suites in Manhattan and Brooklyn than outside New York City, homeowners in both boroughs still manage to add space. "Since zoning regulations usually stop you from putting an extension on your apartment," said Christopher Leahy, president of Gotham Builders and Renovators in Manhattan, "the only way to do it is by buying your neighbor's apartment."
According to the Harvard study, millions of homeowners -- approximately 41 million in 2001 and 2002 -- have added to or improved their houses in recent years.
Stoking this home-improvement engine has been money from a number of sources, particularly the increase in property values. Freddie Mac, the purchaser of mortgages for packaging and reselling as securities, estimates the average rise in home prices between 1995 and 2002, adjusted for inflation, at 49.3 percent. This increase in values has combined with record low interest rates in recent years to lead to millions of mortgage refinancings. Freddie Mac said that in 2001 and 2002 homeowners took total of about $174 billion out of the equity in their homes, part of which has been used for home improvements. Higher household incomes have also played a part. 
The higher home prices have affected the remodeling market in another way. In Bayonne, N.J., "most people remodel their houses because they can't afford to buy another one," said Anthony Stoebling, the broker of record at Integrity Realty. The price of houses in Bayonne, he noted, has doubled in the past four years.
On the eastern end of Long Island, "nothing's under $300,000," said Susan Victoria, a realtor with Andrew Stype Real Estate in Mattituck, "so the wealthy people are either building a house or buying an older house and remodeling from scratch." When people do manage to buy an affordable house, she added, "I usually tell them to remodel the kitchen and add another bathroom."
The urge to improve one's home seems to have been fed in recent years by television shows like "This Old House," "Trading Spaces, "Home Again," "While You Were Out" and "Hometime." There is even an animated television show for children on ABC titled "Bob the Builder," featuring a construction worker and his friends. 
Although the National Association of the Remodeling Industry has no way of knowing how many viewers are influenced by the programs, Gwen Biasi, director of marketing and communications for the association, said, "Anecdotally, the more people are exposed to newer ideas, the more they're inspired to fix up their own house." She added that there has been a spate of local and regional magazines on home improvement in recent years -- especially after the Sept. 11 attacks, which apparently prompted some people to improve their homes instead of traveling. 
Remodeled kitchens and additional bathrooms have traditionally increased the resale value of houses, but not as much as many homeowners might expect. 
As the Joint Center for Housing Studies research report put it, "Whether or not a particular improvement increases a home's market value depends on many factors, including the age, location and characteristics of the unit -- especially relative to other homes in the area."
In a cost versus value report last November, Remodeling magazine said its value numbers were approximations, based on the opinions of more than 200 real estate agents and appraisers in 35 top metro markets, including New York, Los Angeles, San Francisco and Washington. 
Those approximations, it added, are relative to specific homes and neighborhoods and regions. Throughout much of the metropolitan New York area, for example, remodeling costs are usually above the national average, as are the resale values. The average cost nationwide of remodeling an existing midrange bathroom in 2002 was $9,720, while the amount it added to the resale value of the house was $8,506, or 88 percent of the cost. In the New York area, according to the magazine's estimates, a midrange remodeled bathroom cost $10,544, and its resale value was $11,348, or 108 percent.
In general, the figures argue for adding a new bathroom. Jim Cory, the senior editor of Remodeling magazine, who oversees the cost versus value report, said, "Seen strictly from the standpoint of resale, carving a bathroom out of existing space, especially in a home that has only one or one and a half baths, might be the most productive remodeling project you can undertake." 
The magazine estimated that adding a new midrange bathroom cost an average $15,058 nationally and had an average resale value of $14,180, or 94 percent, of the cost. In the New York area such a project cost $16,411 on average and the resale value averaged $20,703, 126 percent of the cost. 
Nationally, a two-story addition that cost an average $69,857 had a resale value of $65,524, 94 percent of the cost. In different parts of the New York area, the cost of a two-story addition averaged from just over $70,000 to slightly more than $80,000, and it returned from 77 percent of the cost in the Passaic area to 161 percent in Fairfield and New Haven, and 117 percent in Nassau and Suffolk Counties.
Projects that are less apparent to prospective buyers tend to return a lower percentage of the costs. The national average of costs recouped for siding and windows, for example, were 79 percent and 74 percent respectively. Roof replacements cost an average of $11,399 nationwide and recoup 67 percent of that in resale value. In the New York metropolitan area the average cost is $13,568, with an average 84 percent recouped when the home is sold.
Maryann Mulieri, a partner at Square Image Roofing in Levittown, Long Island, noted that the major reason to add, replace or repair a roof is less for its resale value than to protect the house from the elements. 
Robert Leddy, the owner of Leddy Siding in Norwood, N.J., said installing vinyl clapboard on a 1,200 to 1,400 square foot house in Bergen County averages about $8,000, and it runs between $13,000 and $20,000 on a two-story colonial house. Choosing more expensive vinyl shakes, which emulate the look of wood shakes, will add 35 to 40 percent to the price of the job, Mr. Leddy said.
While nobody contemplating renovations can calculate with certainty how much of the expenses will be recouped, homeowners in the New York area can expect their costs to be higher than they would be in many other parts of the country. Not only are construction workers in New York usually paid more than their counterparts elsewhere, but, especially in parts of New York City, the daily fight of getting to the job in traffic adds to the cost. 
Mr. Leahy of Gotham Builders and Renovators said many construction projects are constrained by work hour rules and noise restrictions set by co-op and condo boards, by limited hours for unloading construction material and the lack of parking spaces near the job. Mr. Leahy said that on average his company receives one $105 parking ticket each day for each of his company's six trucks and vans.
Keith Steier, owner of Knockout Renovation in Brooklyn, cited similar constraints, adding that some buildings do not have service elevators, and in buildings that do, they are often out of service. As a result, in order to walk up lugging tools and construction material, workers have to put up padding to protect the building's walls and entrances and take it down when they leave. All this costs time and money.
Mr. Leahy said the cost of renovating a Manhattan one-bedroom apartment with a kitchen and one and a half baths typically averages $75,000 to $100,000, while a two-bedroom, two-bath apartment averages $100,000 to $125,000. The renovation usually includes refinishing or replacing the floor, painting each room, skim-coating walls and ceilings with plaster and having a licensed electrician rewire the apartment. 
Mr. Leahy said his company's most expensive project was a $1.5 million renovation several years ago in an apartment high above 59th Street. That job combined two apartments that together had four bedrooms and four marble bathrooms, totaling 5,000 square feet. 
In addition, the clients wanted paneling with French-polished hardwood veneers, which the New York City building code required to be fireproof. The clients also wanted antique hardwood paneled doors and what Mr. Leahy said was "a huge amount of crown molding."
AS strong as the home improvement business has been over the past two years, according to the Joint Center, the end is not in sight. Less than three weeks ago, the Mortgage Bankers Association forecast that mortgage refinancings will total about $1.95 trillion this year.
A good deal of that money may flow to remodeling projects. As the Joint Center report said: "Unless mortgage interest rates spike up sharply or the economy takes an unexpected dive, there is every reason to believe that home sales and improvement spending will remain at near-record levels in 2003. Indeed, even if economic growth were to falter in the near term, the outlook for remodeling remains bright."
And some homeowners have far-reaching dreams for improving their property. Mr. Leahy noted, for example, that a few years ago his company built a swimming pool in a highrise on Park Avenue.
But his most recent unusual project involved a tenant in a 1,200-square-foot two-bedroom, two-bathroom co-op apartment off Fifth Avenue in Greenwich Village, who wanted the entire apartment to resemble a favorite suite at Trump Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City. 
After the tenant received the sponsor's permission to renovate the apartment, Mr. Leahy drove to the Taj Mahal and photographed an entire suite, which included wallpaper woven with gold threads, gold leaf crown moldings, black granite bathrooms, shiny lacquered walls and an abundance of overhanging eaves.
Although the $300,000 renovation took almost a year, one room at a time, the tenant remained in the apartment the entire time -- except for periodic jaunts to the Trump Taj Mahal.

Advice for a Pain-Free Project
While the majority of the nation's home remodelers are no doubt honest and reliable, a small percentage are neither.
Watchdog groups such as Better Business Bureaus and government consumer affairs departments, as well as the National Association of the Remodeling Industry in Des Plaines, Ill., have useful publications about thwarting fraud. Following are tips that turn up frequently.
*Get the names of at least three home remodelers or companies, and check their reputations with the local Better Business Bureau or consumer affairs department. Ask contractors to provide references from recent projects. 
*Verify the address and phone number of the chosen company. In New York City and other places where the contractor and its sales representative must be licensed, insist on seeing the licenses. 
*Insist that all guarantees be in writing, including approximately when the project will be started and completed, whether a bond will be posted to protect you against liens on your home, what work is to be done and how much it will cost, and what materials are to be used, including size, color, model, brand name and product. 
*Remember that federal law requires contractors to give written notice of consumers' right to cancel a contract without penalty within three business days of signing, with certain limitations. In New York City, all consumers signing such contracts have 72 hours to change their minds. 
*Pay in installments -- preferably in thirds -- including payments at the start and finish of the job, using a check, credit card or money order, never cash.

GRAPHIC: Photos: As part of a larger renovation project, the kitchen in an apartment at 10 Park Avenue was remodeled at a cost of about $35,000. (Knockout Renovation, left; Frances Roberts for The New York Times, right); Bathrooms and kitchens are the main targets of remodeling. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Maryann Mulieri, on a house in Lindenhurst, N.Y. The average cost of a roof replacement in the New York metropolitan area exceeds $13,500. (Kirk Condyles for The New York Times); Keith Steier and Alex Myftarago of Knockout Renovation, in an apartment on 49th Street off Third Avenue. (Frances Roberts for The New York Times)(pg. 6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (90%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); CONSTRUCTION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); NONRESIDENTIAL BUILDING CONSTRUCTION (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); RETAIL SALES (72%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (71%); EXECUTIVES (66%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (55%) HOME REPAIRS AND IMPROVEMENTS; HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF THE REMODELING INDUSTRY (55%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CONNECTICUT, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



11 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Society Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 201 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Nancy Fann, Paul Im

 BODY:
Nancy Fann, the daughter of Jane J. Y. Fann of Jackson Heights, Queens, and Kuan-Huei Fann of Flushing, Queens, was married yesterday to Paul Im, the son of Kum Jong Im of Jackson Heights and the late Sun Bin Im. The Rev. 
Gabriel Lee, a Roman Catholic priest, performed the ceremony at the Church of St. Raphael in Long Island City, Queens.
 Ms. Fann-Im, 24, is a copy editor in Manhattan at Shoot, a weekly trade magazine for and about editors and producers of television and film commercials. She graduated magna cum laude from New York University. Her father is the manager of systems and applications programming at the Conference Board, the economic research company, in Manhattan. Her mother is a sales manager at Ultimate Jewelry Designs, a Manhattan jewelry store. 
 Mr. Im, 23, graduated summa cum laude from Polytechnic University in Brooklyn and is a second-year law student at Fordham University. Next month, he is to begin a job as a patent agent at Stroock & Stroock & Lavan, the Manhattan law firm. His mother is an educational associate at Bryant High School in Astoria, Queens. His father was a service mechanic at Western Qualitech, a maker of dry-cleaning equipment in Fullerton, Calif. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); RELIGION (76%); COMMERCIAL LAUNDRY EQUIPMENT MFG (75%); HIGH SCHOOLS (74%); LAW SCHOOLS (74%); JEWELRY (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (72%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (72%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (71%); PATENTS (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (54%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: STROOCK & STROOCK & LAVAN LLP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%); FORDHAM UNIVERSITY (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (84%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (84%)

PERSON: FANN, NANCY (NANCY FANN-IM); IM, PAUL 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



12 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 10; Column 1; Job Market; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: HOME FRONT; 
Fees From Visas Now Train Americans

BYLINE:  By Anthony DePalma 

 BODY:
FEW subjects can start an argument faster than illegal immigration and the way some people see foreigners taking jobs from Americans.
 But foreign workers who legally take American jobs may just be one of them. 
 Each year, for the last few years, some 195,000 foreigners have been given special visas to come to the United States to fill specialized jobs for which employers said they could not find enough skilled Americans, despite the national unemployment rate of 6 percent. 
A special class of visa, called H1-B, is used to bring in those skilled foreign workers. And now fees collected on the visa are used to train Americans at institutions like the Borough of Manhattan Community College to fill the same jobs. 
The visas give foreigners the right to work in the United States for a total of six years, but not to settle here permanently. Usually the jobs are in high technology fields involving computers and computer software.
Not surprisingly, unions and some politicians hated the program. They managed to tack on restrictions to make it more difficult for companies to import foreign workers. But the number of visas granted has grown steadily nonetheless. 
To address the concerns of critics, the government began to charge a $1,000 fee a few years ago for every application for an H1-B visa, paid by the employer who is hiring the foreign worker.
The money goes into a national pool, and more than half of the total is distributed to educational institutions and work force programs around the country that train American workers to fill the positions for which foreigners are recruited. 
Since the program began in 1998, the government has given out $228.5 million in training grants, according to the Employment and Training Administration, part of the United States Department of Labor. New York State has received eight grants, the most recent for $2.87 million that went to Borough of Manhattan Community College, in partnership with Thirteen/WNET New York television. 
"Part of our responsibility as a community college is to service the whole community, and that means not just the students but the for-profits and not-for-profits in Manhattan," said Dr. Antonio Perez, the college's president. "When you break it down, our mission is no different in that regard from any small community college around the country, except that our community is the financial capital of the world." 
The college, which has 24,000 full-time and part-time students in several downtown buildings and is part of the City University of New York, will provide specialized training for 500 people at little or no charge and then help those people find jobs or get promotions. 
Unemployed or underemployed residents of New York City are eligible, as is anyone displaced as a result of the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, regardless of where they live. To apply, interested workers may call the college at (212) 220-8350. 
Acte Maldonado, dean of the Center for Continuing Education and Workforce Development, said the new courses will begin in September at the college's training center at 45 John Street in the financial district. 
Five different programs will be offered over two years. They include courses in computer network security, the Cisco Certified Network Associate program, the Cisco Certified Network Professional program, Oracle database design and engineering, and A+, a personal computer technician certification program. 
In the current economic climate, employers who need workers with new skills simply go out and get them -- from foreign countries if need be -- rather than take the time to retrain existing workers, said Rodney Alexander, director of the Institute for Business Trends Analysis at the college. 
"What we're seeing is the 'just-in-time' delivery system applied to human resources," he said, referring to the practice, common in manufacturing, of having parts delivered as needed, rather than keeping them on site. 
Figuring out what skills are most in demand is a complicated process, because the needs of the high technology companies change so rapidly, Dr. Maldonado said. The application for the H1-B visa grant that was originally filed in May 2001 was rejected. It was resubmitted the following year with multimedia training replaced by network security classes. 
The second time around the application was approved. 
"We had to modify it to best suit the labor market," Dr. Maldonado said, "because in the final analysis, we have to find jobs for these people." 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2003

 CORRECTION:
The Home Front column last Sunday about job training programs financed through work visa fees referred imprecisely to the timing of a training grant to the Borough of Manhattan Community College and Thirteen/WNET New York television. It was one of the two latest grants, given simultaneously in New York State, not the "most recent" grant. The other was given to the New York Workforce Investment Board and the New York City Department of Employment.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Acte Maldonado, a dean at Borough of Manhattan Community College, said the needs of technology companies change rapidly. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOREIGN LABOR (91%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (90%); COMMUNITY COLLEGES (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (88%); CITY GOVERNMENT (88%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (76%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (74%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (71%); TERRORISM (60%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (50%) LABOR; FOREIGN LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: MANHATTAN COMMUNITY COLLEGE 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



13 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: STRATEGIES; 
Stock YieldsAre Higher Than Interest Rates. So What?

BYLINE:  By MARK HULBERT; Mark Hulbert is editor of The Hulbert Financial Digest, a service of CBS MarketWatch. His column on investment strategies appears every other week. E-mail: strategy@nytimes.com.

 BODY:
SEVERAL editors of investment newsletters have contended that stocks are undervalued, based on the market's current dividend yield. The argument, however, does not stand up to historical scrutiny.
 Dividend yield is one of the oldest market-timing tools, having first gained wide acceptance nearly 100 years ago in the United States. For most of the last century, market timers generally considered the stock market to be near a top whenever its yield dropped to around 3 percent, and near a bottom when its yield rose to about 6 percent. 
 The model fell out of favor during the 1990's, however, owing to its persistent bearishness. The yield of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped to less than 3 percent in late 1991, for example, and continued to fall, reaching 1.1 percent in 2000. Yet the stock market in the 1990's turned in one of its strongest performances ever.
The newsletter editors who are now turning to the dividend yield model are arguing in relative, not absolute, terms. The current yield of the S.& P. 500, at 1.8 percent, is still well below levels that indicated a market top before the 1990's. But the yield is now higher than short-term interest rates for the first time in more than 40 years.
Louis Navellier, the editor of the MPT Review and Blue Chip Growth Letter advisory services, says that this development means that stocks are undervalued. Mr. Navellier, whose company also manages some no-load mutual funds, said recently that he had "no doubt" that we're "at the beginning of a great bull market."
But should a comparison of the dividend yield and short-term interest rates offer a good reason for bullishness? I don't think so.
As Jeremy J. Siegel, a finance professor at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania, argues, the stock market is an instrument for long-term investment. As a result, it should not be viewed as a substitute for short-term bonds. A more appropriate comparison would be to the rates paid by the 10-year Treasury note or 30-year bond; the yield of the S.& P. 500 is still lower than both. (Don't confuse the argument being made by Mr. Navellier and other newsletter editors with the so-called Fed Model, a popular but flawed market-timing model that compares the 10-year note rate with the stock market's earnings yield -- the inverse of the price-to-earnings ratio.)
Professor Siegel allowed that his theoretical argument should be tested, however, because it was conceivable that some short-term traders might consider dividend-paying stocks a substitute for short-term bonds. 
Following his suggestion, I analyzed the stock market from 1871 to the end of 2002, seeking correlations between the market's relative yield and its subsequent performance. I focused on returns over periods as short as three months and as long as five years. I based my analysis on historical dividend yield data from Professor Siegel and on short-term interest rate data from Robert J. Shiller, a Yale economics professor.
None of my tests found any meaningful support for the notion that the stock market offers above-average gains when its yield is above short-term rates.
But the tests did find that smaller dividend yields are generally followed by lower long-term returns in the stock market, confirming what many researchers have found. The dividend-yield model has been only moderately successful in predicting the stock market's short-term direction. But even considering its failure for several years in the 1990's, its record at predicting five-year market moves has generally been impressive. Before the 1990's, for example, the market's record low yield was reached just before the 1987 crash. Its previous low was at the start of the 1973-74 bear market.
Because dividend yields are so low, the model is bearish for now. My tests of that model predict that over the next five years, the stock market is unlikely to produce annualized returns as high as the market's long-term average of about 10 percent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Trading Places"For the first time in more than 40 years, the stock markets dividend yield is higher than the one-year Treasury rate. Graph tracks one-year treasury yield and stock market yield (S.& P. 500 index and its predecessor) since the late 1800's. (Sources: Prof. Robert J. Shiller Yale ; Prof. Jeremy J. Siegel Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (94%); DIVIDENDS (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (88%); MUTUAL FUNDS (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (66%); COMPANY EARNINGS (66%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%)

PERSON: HULBERT, MARK

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



14 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 4; Society Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 250 words

HEADLINE: WEDDINGS/CELEBRATIONS; 
Courtney Hurley, Timothy Pierson

 BODY:
Courtney Howard Hurley, the daughter of Nancy Mae and Donald Hurley Jr. of Lloyd Harbor, N.Y., was married yesterday on Martha's Vineyard to Timothy James Pierson, the son of Paula Morrison Pierson and James H. Pierson of Grand Rapids, Mich. Msgr. Dennis F. Sheehan performed the ceremony at Our Lady Star of the Sea Roman Catholic Church in Oak Bluffs, Mass. 
 Mrs. Pierson, 33, works in the New York office of Bain & Company, a management consulting firm. She graduated cum laude from Harvard and received an M.B.A. from Dartmouth. Her father retired as senior vice president and chief operating officer of the former Institute for Applied Economics, a research organization in New York that was concerned primarily with business education in high schools. Her mother is a real estate sales associate in the Locust Valley, N.Y., office of Daniel Gale Associates, a real estate agency. 
 Mr. Pierson, 36, is the chief technology officer at Elliott Associates, a New York hedge fund. He graduated magna cum laude from the Michigan Technological University. He was a captain and an electronic warfare officer at Hurlburt Field, Fla., with the Air Force Special Operations Command, in which he served from 1990 to 1996. Later he received an M.B.A. from Dartmouth. His mother is a stockbroker's assistant in the Grand Rapids office of Raymond James Financial Services. His father retired as a senior designer and salesman for Welch Wood Products, which makes commercial wood cabinets in Grand Rapids. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXECUTIVES (90%); WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (87%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (74%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (73%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (71%); CONSULTING SERVICES (71%); MANAGEMENT CONSULTING (71%); RELIGION (71%); AIR FORCES (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (68%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (56%); HEDGE FUNDS (53%) WEDDINGS AND ENGAGEMENTS 

COMPANY: BAIN & CO (72%); RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (72%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%)

PERSON: HURLEY, COURTNEY HOWARD (COURTNEY HOWARD PIERSON); PIERSON, TIMOTHY JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: MARTHA'S VINEYARD, MA, USA (90%); GRAND RAPIDS, MI, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



15 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 760 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
Putting APrice on Immigration Backlogs

BYLINE:  By DANIEL ALTMAN 

 BODY:
THE economy needs immigrants. As the native-born work force ages, new arrivals will be a mainstay of growth. Yet almost two years after the 9/11 terrorist attacks, the nation is still having a hard time dealing with would-be Americans.
 Apart from a surge in the summer of 2001, the number of requests for work permits, permanent resident status and citizenship has been relatively steady, at about a half-million a month, for the last several years. But statistics released this month by the Department of Homeland Security show that the backlog of applications waiting for approval ballooned to more than 5 million in March of this year from a 32-month low of 2.9 million in February 2001. 
 "After the events of Sept. 11, additional screening requirements were put into place," said Christopher S. Bentley, a spokesman for the Bureau of Citizenship and Immigration Services. "All the applications for immigration benefits have to be checked against certain law enforcement databases. That has indeed slowed the processing time for immigration benefits applications."
Though the economy clearly benefits from a certain measure of caution about who crosses the country's borders, it also suffers when the flow is stanched.
Immigration accounted for 40 percent of the population's growth during the 1990's, according to the Census Bureau. Historically, population growth by itself has been an important contributor to economic growth. But in addition, immigrants tend not to be elderly, so they are likely to join the work force. When they do so legally, they help to support the huge wave of retirees soon to receive Social Security and Medicare benefits.
The biggest benefits of immigration, however, may be more fundamental.
"Immigrants benefited this country even before we had a Social Security system," said Gary S. Becker, a professor of economics and sociology at the University of Chicago who won a Nobel in economics in 1992. "You bring people in who have good skills, who want to come to this country, who are hard workers, who have ambitions for their children. Those types of people, with their ambition, creativity and knowledge, help us all."
Professor Becker said he hoped the screening of potential immigrants for terrorists would not reduce immigration. Indeed, Mr. Bentley said, his agency is trying to use automation and training to reduce waiting times to a maximum of six months.
But any company that is seeking to bring in specific people for work can already shorten the process to a matter of weeks -- for a price.
Since June 2001, the immigration authorities have offered a "premium processing service" to businesses for more than a dozen types of work permits and visas. For a fee of $1,000 a request, the nation's gatekeepers will deal with an application in just 15 calendar days. Big users of the service have included biotechnology and electronics companies eager to bring in highly skilled workers from abroad, Mr. Bentley said.
Professor Becker applauded the idea of a price-based system for immigration.
"It's a good mechanism," he said. "I'd like to see greater use of a market mechanism more generally."
THE United States already allows extremely wealthy people to buy their way in. A foreign investor who contributes at least $500,000 to a business here can get permanent resident status, as long as that investment appears to create at least 10 jobs.
Of course, this is not fair. Like the premium processing program, the immigration-through-investment program is meant to cherry-pick people whose places in the economy are ready-made.
But, putting aside any concerns about fairness, the premium processing program poses another big problem. It may actually be a major cause of the system's huge backlog in routine cases.
In February, the Justice Department released an audit report on the program. As in any organization with a limited budget, moving time and resources into one area appears to have meant taking them away from another one.
"The premium processing program has adversely affected the time required to adjudicate routine applications and petitions," the auditors wrote. "A program whose purpose was ultimately to reduce or eliminate adjudications backlogs may be having the unintended consequence of increasing at least some of those backlogs."
From an economic point of view, those routine cases merit some concern. The wealthy investors and workers who are lined up for high-paying jobs may not always make the best immigrants, by Professor Becker's logic. Most likely, they've already achieved many of their ambitions.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Longer Line"Pending applications for work permits, permanent residency and citizenship. Graph tracks applications from 2000-2003. (Source: Office of Immigration Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); TERRORISM (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); LABOR FORCE (89%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); EMPLOYMENT VISAS (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); REFUGEES (78%); IMMIGRATION LAW (78%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (78%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (77%); LICENSES & PERMITS (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); CITIZENSHIP (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); STATISTICS (70%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (70%); AGING (69%); CENSUS (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (64%); MEDICARE (64%); SOCIOLOGY (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (62%); ELECTRONICS (60%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN LABOR; LABOR; TERRORISM; VISAS 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (57%); US CENSUS BUREAU (54%)

PERSON: ALTMAN, DANIEL

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



16 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: MARKET INSIGHT; 
Junk Bonds May Have Overstayed Their Visit

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
IN the first five months of this year, companies with speculative credit ratings issued a huge amount of debt. But lately it has become harder to find enthusiastic buyers of their junk bonds. 
 Through May, the volume of new high-yield, or junk, bonds was up 53 percent compared with the corresponding period of 2002, according to Thomson Financial. And May has been one of the busiest months ever, with $17.8 billion of such bonds sold. 
 Seeking yields higher than the meager rates offered on safer bonds, investors piled into junk-bond mutual funds. But recent data suggests that redemptions from such funds are rising. 
Bruce H. Monrad, the chairman of Northeast Investors Trust in Boston, with $1.8 billion under management, most of it in high-yield bonds, talked last week about the junk-bond market. Following are excerpts from the conversation:

Q. According to Moody's Investors Service, the default rate on corporate bonds stood at 5.8 percent for the 12 months ended April 30. That's down from 11.5 percent for the year ended Jan. 1, 2002. Are fundamental conditions positive for high-yield bonds?

A. I think we are past the worst part of the credit cycle. The default rate is coming down. And as financial markets have healed, companies have been able to access the market. That is obviously better than a year or more ago, when they couldn't access the market.
But to some degree, some of the problems have been pushed out. Independent power producers have refinanced a lot of bonds, for example. The low level of interest rates is helping, but there are still some high debt burdens and companies that have not deleveraged that much. But the companies that are still standing have weathered the storm.
The other positive thing that has happened is that the dollar is weaker. A falling dollar will help in a quiet way for the next year or two. A strong dollar has been a head wind for many of the manufacturing companies we follow. Paper companies and steel companies may do better.

Q. How much have the yields on junk bonds narrowed relative to Treasury securities?

A. Spreads have narrowed a fair amount. Since last October, the Merrill Lynch high-yield index has narrowed the better part of 400 basis points, or the better part of four percentage points.
You hear chief executive officers bragging about selling high-yield bonds at historically low levels and about how the market is very accommodating right now. It is a good time to issue long-term B-rated bonds. The flip side of that is that it may not be a good time to buy them.

Q. So what bonds are you buying?

A. It's a market where you need to be selective. It is possible we are seeing some of the inflows into the market turn into outflows, which would take a little bit of hot air out of the market. But you could still argue the class is a decent investment compared with the alternatives because yields there are so low.
We have liked the fallen-angel utility sector, companies that used to be investment-grade credits. We have been putting a fair amount of money in some shorter-term securities in that sector. We bought some Williams Companies bonds, and have taken big positions in California utilities like Pacific Gas and Electric and Southern California Edison. But our fund is about 20 percent in cash, which is a high level for us.

Q. Have your investors complained about the high cash level? Keeping the money in very short-term instruments is dampening their dividends.

A. Most of our shareholders are fairly long term in their focus. Our goal is for the long-run production of income. Our shareholders don't want us to chase the market.
A high-yield investor needs to have a long-term horizon of anywhere from three to five years. Investing in a high-yield fund should not be a substitute for a money market fund.

Q. At some point, the Federal Reserve will start to raise short-term interest rates. That should occur when the economy is improving, which should be good news for high-yield companies. How do you think the market will react when rates finally go up?

A. I wonder if we would see something akin to what happened in 1994. Back then, we had a very steep yield curve, and then the curve started to flatten out. That was disruptive, but high-yield outperformed the Treasury market that year because the underlying credits of the companies improved.

Q. So, is it fair to say that the rally in junk bonds is over?

A. High yield is still an asset class where you can hit a single, especially compared with alternative, interest-bearing investments.
But so much of the market is trading at a premium to par that I don't think there is a lot of room to run. Many of those bonds will be called away.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Monrad 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); BONDS (92%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); CREDIT BUREAUS (78%); BOND ISSUES (77%); STATISTICS (77%); BOND FUNDS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MUTUAL FUNDS (75%); PAPER MFG (75%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (72%); CURRENCIES (70%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); EXECUTIVES (69%); POWER PLANTS (64%); PAPER & PACKAGING (64%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (64%); INDEPENDENT POWER PRODUCERS (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (72%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (69%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NORTHEAST INVESTORS TRUST 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: MONRAD, BRUCE H; GILPIN, KENNETH N

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



17 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Can Kohl's Regain Its Magic Touch?

BYLINE:  By ELIZABETH KELLEHER 

 BODY:
UNTIL last summer, shares of Kohl's consistently delivered extraordinary results. But their recent decline has left some investors worried that the company's charmed performance may be over.
 Kohl's, the retailer based in Menomonee Falls, Wis., went public in 1992. As it expanded around the country, its share price rose at an annualized 40 percent a year -- through last July. Since then, however, the stock's performance has been dismal. 
 Its share price has declined by 28 percent over the last 12 months, and 21 percent since July. Some analysts say the company may already be too big to sustain the profit growth that shareholders have come to expect.
Linda Kristiansen, an analyst at UBS Warburg in New York, said Kohl's, which has 492 stores, up from 76 in 1992, "is not immune to the economy" anymore. Overall sales in the first quarter increased by 13.2 percent, compared with the period a year earlier, but all of that growth depended on new stores. For the first time, Kohl's had a decline, of 2.4 percent, in sales at stores open at least a year, also known as same-store sales. By contrast, its same-store sales grew roughly 9 percent a year, on average, from the time the company went public until last July, according to UBS Warburg. 
In a report on May 9, Prudential Financial focused on weakening sales in the company's older stores as an ominous sign. These sales are "now trending toward department store industry average growth rates," which have been negative since November 2001, according to Prudential.
Still, with about half the total stores of Sears, Roebuck nationwide, Kohl's continues to expand rapidly. On March 7 alone, it opened 28 stores in Southern California; for all of this year, it plans to open a total of 80 stores, moving into Arizona and Nevada and adding to its presence in the East and Midwest. It plans to open an additional 95 to 100 next year, the company said.
Until this year, its popular store design and inventory selection have been credited with bolstering sales in its older stores. Kohl's stores, which offer clothing, housewares and toys at low prices, are smaller than those of many competitors and are generally not inside malls. Aisles are wide, store hours are long and checkout is centralized.
"All the men's pants are in one place," not scattered around the store in separate clusters, said Matthew G. Baker, an analyst at MFS Investment Management of Boston, in the tone of a tired, but relieved shopper. But some investors worry that sales will continue to decline at existing stores.
MFS manages mutual funds that own 8.1 million Kohl's shares, and Mr. Baker said he expects the company to outperform its peers when the economy improves. The recent weakness in same-store sales "is not a Kohl's-specific problem, but an apparel industry problem," he said.
In a meeting with analysts on May 15, Kohl's executives said that despite the sales slump, the company had gained market share, but they did not provide details. "We had more footsteps in our stores, more people shopping, than last year," said Kevin Mansell, the president of Kohl's.
Julie Gardner, a spokeswoman for the company, said that the number of transactions in older stores had increased "in the low single digits," compared with the previous year, but that the amount spent per transaction "was down by mid-single digits."
Mr. Mansell said he expects a surge in sales when consumers begin to spend more freely.
But Donald I. Trott, an analyst at Jefferies & Company in New York, said it was unrealistic to expect that Kohl's could return to its past level of sales growth this summer.
"Part of Kohl's problem is they are paying for their past success," Mr. Trott said. "These are blow-out, mind-boggling numbers that can't be repeated year after year." 
He said the company's sales numbers would look more impressive in the third and fourth quarters, mainly because the corresponding periods last year were relatively weak. "By then we've cycled around to easier comparisons," he said.
Based on its price-to-earnings ratio, Kohl's shares have recently become more attractive, he said. Its current P/E ratio, 27.9, is about half what it was in January 2001, according to Bloomberg Financial Markets. Mr. Trott said the stock's P/E-to-growth ratio, which he estimated as 1.03, is attractive.
Emme P. Kozloff, a retail analyst at Sanford C. Bernstein & Company in New York, said that while Kohl's remained sound, its stock was unlikely to move much in the short term because inventory was growing faster than sales. Buying shares now, she said, gives you "dead money."
Mr. Mansell acknowledged that "inventory is obviously a particular concern" but said that management was making adjustments. Kohl's bought too many shorts and tank tops, which didn't sell during a cool spring, he said, adding that it would order fall goods conservatively.
Mr. Baker at MFS Investment expressed confidence that the company would reduce excess inventory and keep gaining market share by opening stores. 
And Richard S. Drake, co-manager of the ABN Amro Growth fund in Chicago, which owns 450,000 shares, said that continued expansion would bring economies of scale in distribution and advertising. Although the company still has room to grow, he said, its rate of expansion will eventually drop, and then the company's stock will be tightly tied to consumer spending. 
"Our goal is to get out before that happens," he said.

GRAPHIC: Graph "In Retreat" tracks Kohl's stock weekly, for the last 12 months, against the S.& P. 500 Retailing Index. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAILERS (92%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); RETAIL SALES (91%); SAME STORE SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DEPARTMENT STORES (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (77%); COMPANY PROFITS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SALES 

COMPANY: UBS INVESTMENT BANK (56%); PRUDENTIAL FINANCIAL INC (54%); SEARS ROEBUCK & CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: KOHL'S DEPARTMENT STORES 

TICKER: PRU (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (56%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (56%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS525110 PENSION FUNDS (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); SIC6371 PENSION, HEALTH & WELFARE FUNDS (54%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (54%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (54%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (53%) SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES; 

PERSON: KELLEHER, ELIZABETH

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); NEVADA, USA (76%); MIDWEST USA (58%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



18 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Globalization Hits a Political Speed Bump 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT; Additional reporting provided by Tony Smith in Sao Paulo and Wayne Arnold in Singapore. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
WHEN the leaders of rich countries put on their dark suits and gather, as they are this week in Evian, France, barriers to world trade often begin falling. For more than three decades, the United States, Japan and Western Europe have led a dismantling of tariffs, quotas and subsidies that almost all business executives and policy makers credit for lifting economic growth.
 The voices of opposition have tended to come from those with far less power. In wealthy countries, the wages of many workers have stagnated in the face of global competition, and old-line manufacturing executives have watched their businesses shrivel. In poorer countries, traditional industries have been overwhelmed by efficient multinational giants. 
 But the politics of globalization are subtly shifting, and the turnabout has helped to slow to a crawl the integration of the world's economies. 
Struggling through a third consecutive year of weak growth and having already taken the easiest steps toward trade liberalization, wealthy nations have become unwilling to make the compromises necessary for new pacts. At times, they have even erected new barriers. 
From the orange groves of Brazil to the rice fields of Southeast Asia, meanwhile, poorer nations have become more insistent that the next round of agreements allow them to benefit equally from globalization. That argument is pushing the politically toxic, multibillion-dollar farm subsidies of Europe and the United States to the center of the debate. 
The disagreements have been aggravated by diplomatic conflicts over the war in Iraq and by measures taken to fight SARS and terrorism. And many government officials around the globe have become worried. 
"We have been the postwar leader in liberal democratization, globalization and free trade," said Douglas J. Holtz-Eakin, the director of the Congressional Budget Office and a former economic adviser to President Bush. "To the extent that we adopt a different posture," he added, the effects will be "not so hot from an economic point of view."
Sok Siphana, the secretary of state for commerce in Cambodia, which is trying to gain entrance to the World Trade Organization, added, "The world better work harder on trade issues because everything is dividing."
Already, the flow of goods and investments across borders has fallen after a decade of rapid gains. Exports are likely to account for 18.8 percent of the world's economic activity this year, down from 20 percent in 2000, according to Global Insight, a research company based in Waltham, Mass.
The economic summit that begins today in the French Alps -- the first meeting since the war in Iraq between Mr. Bush and European leaders who opposed it -- is the start of a new effort to revive globalization. It is the annual meeting of the Group of 8, which includes Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Russia and the United States.
Beyond the disagreements over Iraq, the United States and Europe have had a number of clashes over trade. Europe, for example, opposed genetically modified foods and criticized steel tariffs and tax benefits for exporters like Boeing in the United States. The recent decline in the dollar has also made life difficult for European companies that had become accustomed to the effective price edge on their goods while the dollar was higher.
After the Evian meeting, the next step in the trade talks, known as the Doha round, will be in Cancun, Mexico, in September. In Cancun, differences over agricultural subsidies and drug patents will be more clearly on display than they are this week, as negotiators, who have fallen behind schedule, determine whether they can meet their own deadline of signing a new pact by 2005.
In the meantime, officials from the United States and Latin America will continue their fitful discussions about creating a trade zone for the Western Hemisphere similar to one that exists in North America. 
"All the trade negotiations are in trouble," said Clyde V. Prestowitz Jr., the president of the Economic Strategy Institute in Washington and a former trade negotiator. The steps taken during the last decade "have been so successful that we've gotten down to the final, difficult issues."
Bush administration officials take a more positive view, saying they remain committed free traders despite their support last year for new steel tariffs and farm subsidies. Officials cite successes in the war on terrorism, which they say are removing a major obstacle to the movement of people and goods, and recent trade pacts with Chile and Singapore. Those pacts are part of a strategy that Robert B. Zoellick, the United States trade representative, calls competitive liberalization, in which the administration seeks to maintain free-trade momentum, even if global talks bog down. 
John B. Taylor, the under secretary of the Treasury in charge of international affairs, said: "You take steps forward and move back. That's always the case." Over all, he added, "the trends are good."
But other than the pacts with Chile and Singapore, two countries that already had relatively open markets, little tangible progress can be cited by officials. A big reason for that, economists say, is the unfulfilled promise of globalization so far.
 AFTER years of lowering tariffs, ending quotas and removing restrictions on investment, many poorer countries are still struggling. Parts of Asia have not fully recovered from the financial crisis of the late 1990's. Latin America has flirted with similarly deep problems in the last two years. And the global slump has reduced demand for semiconductors, plastic toys and all goods in between that are made in low-wage economies.
At the same time, China, a country that has kept its borders largely closed until recently, has prospered, offering a counterexample to the sheltered economies of the old Soviet bloc that crumbled.
"Everyone is questioning globalization," said Javier Gonzalez Fraga, the former head of Argentina's central bank and now a professor at Catholic University of Argentina at Buenos Aires. "The virtuous circle -- we were to import capital goods from the industrialized nations and they were to buy our agricultural produce -- never happened."
Instead, people like Marcelo Lima say they have seethed as wealthy countries have built their own protections against the economic slump, like the new American farm subsidies. Mr. Lima, a former investment banker who owns a cattle ranch near Campina Verde, in southern Brazil, argues that recent trade developments have hurt Brazil's otherwise prosperous agricultural industry.
"Whenever we invest in research and technology and become more competitive than American farmers," Mr. Lima, 41, said, "the United States always slaps new tariffs on our goods or grants fresh subsidies to their farmers."
Argentina and Brazil are eager to bolster economic growth by exporting more beef, corn, orange juice, soybeans and sugar. 
American officials note that government support for farmers in this country remains smaller than in many places, especially Europe. But they agree that farm protections will be at the center of the current round of both regional and global trade talks and that answers are not easy.
"I really find it very difficult to see how we'll make significant progress, unless we can move towards a substantial reform of agriculture in the Doha agenda," Mr. Zoellick, the trade representative, said on Wednesday, after meeting with Brazilian officials in Brasilia.
The other major issue in the global talks is intellectual property. Nations that have been ravaged by AIDS and that lack big pharmaceutical industries are seeking exemptions to patent protections that would allow them to afford drugs. Drug companies in the United States -- and, to a lesser extent, other rich countries -- want to ensure that the billions of dollars they invested in research will be repaid in profits.
The pause in globalization has frustrated even some people who are working in parts of the American economy that have been hurt the most by the integration of world markets. Since 1980, the manufacturing sector has lost 20 percent of its jobs, as much of its production has moved to other countries. 
Last year, when the high value of the dollar was giving foreign companies an advantage, the continuing struggles of the American steel industry led the Bush administration to impose a new set of tariffs on imports. Steel executives and workers cheered, but many other manufacturers began wondering if they were getting the worst of both worlds: greater competition as a result of freer trade but higher costs from a new form of protectionism.
In its tan and blue factory building in Clarksville, Tenn., rebuilt after a tornado in 1999, Smithfield Manufacturing has reduced its employment to 32, from 40 a year ago, partly because steel costs have risen 8 percent. Shortly after a recent $8,000 shipment of parts containing steel arrived from Switzerland, the company received a bill saying that the $150 it had paid in import duties was no longer enough. It owed an additional $2,500.
"It's pretty tough," said Ron Smithfield, president of the company, which makes metal parts for cars, printing presses and other machines. "We're seeing some extreme stress for companies that are trying to do the right thing and manufacture in the United States."
SMITHFIELD'S case is almost literally a textbook example of how tariffs can make an economy less productive by giving companies an incentive to act in ways that are not the most economically efficient. During a slump, however, those benefits are often obscured by the many people suffering from the economic destruction that free markets create.
"Hard times mean protectionism," said Adam S. Posen, a senior fellow at the Institute for International Economics in Washington. "You look for scapegoats. You cut things off."
In part, the slowing of globalization seems to stem from the lack of political solutions to the problems of its own making. In the United States, the withering of manufacturing has created a pool of people who have been out of work for months or who have had to take deep pay cuts. Farmers from Western Europe to Southeast Asia face similar troubles.
In that way, critics say, the pause has been positive. "We were getting ahead of ourselves," said Thomas I. Palley, a director at the Open Society Institute, which was founded by George Soros, the investor who has often criticized the path of globalization. "A lot of this stuff is very hard to reverse, so you want to be very careful."
Those issues are likely to linger. Even if current trade talks deteriorate further, most economists expect the pace of globalization to pick up when the world's economy finally emerges from its slowdown. 
"When companies start losing business because politicians won't talk to each other," Mr. Siphana, the Cambodia trade minister, said, "they'll say, 'O.K., I think it's time to mend fences.' "

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ron Smithfield, the president of Smithfield Manufacturing in Clarksville, Tenn., has reduced his work force in part because of rising steel costs. (Christopher Berkey for The New York Times); Robert B. Zoellick, left, the United States trade representative, in Brazil last week for talks on a proposed Free Trade Area of the Americas. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. 11) Photos/Chart: "Ripple Effects Of Trade Talks"Leaders of the world's richest nations will try this week to revive globalization. ORANGES -- Agricultural protections that aid growers in Florida, far left, affect growers in Brazil. SUGAR -- The Bush administration has promised to consider the sugar industry before making any trade deals. Changes could hurt plantations like the one at left in the Dominican Republic. TEXTILES -- Jobs have been created in Vietnam, below, but lost in the United States. DRUGS -- AIDS has ravaged nations like Haiti. Patent exemptions could lower medication costs. (Associated Press); (Reuters); (Angel Franco/The New York Times); (Bloomberg News)(pg. 1) Chart: "Sand in Globalization's Gears"IRAQThe war and reconstruction effort increased ill will between the United States and much of the world. Top officials at the World Trade Organization said they worried that the disagreements threatened international commerce. TERRORISMThreats and fears of terrorism have depressed global travel and slowed international trade. Heightened security at United States borders has increased business costs. TRADE TALKSThe World Trade Organization's Doha round of negotiations to cut tariffs and overhaul the dispute settlement system have repeatedly stalled and missed deadlines. Concern is rising that a W.T.O. summit scheduled for September in Cancun, Mexico, will not put the talks back on track. TRADE DISPUTESFriction in trade relations is increasing between the United States and Europe on some longstanding issues. The United States challenged the European Union's ban on genetically modified foods earlier this month, for example. Europeans are angry over American tariffs on imported steel and tax breaks given to American exporters. SARSThe outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome has disrupted travel and commerce, creating the worst economic crisis in Asia since the 1997 financial meltdown. DOLLARThe decline of the dollar against major currencies, notably the euro, has helped American companies that have long complained about the difficulty of competing against cheap imports. But the decline has hurt exporters in Europe and some other countries by making their products more expensive in the United States, the world's biggest market. (pg. 11) Chart: "Does It Pay To Play?"China, which joined the World Trade Organization in December 2001, has had strong growth in its economy every year since 1990. Some countries that have been members much longer have had more erratic records, and some questions have been raised about the benefits of removing barriers to trade. Graphs track the gross domestic product (annual change in real G.D.P.) from 1990-2002 for the following countries: ChinaIndonesiaMalaysiaMexicoSingaporeThailand Graph tracks total world trade from 1995-2002. (Sources: Global Insight; World Bank)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE (91%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); IRAQ WAR (86%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (78%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); TRENDS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); LIBERALISM (76%); POLITICS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (72%); BUDGETS (71%); MOUNTAINS (60%); TERRORISM (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (93%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT; WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (50%) LEONHARDT, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); ALPS (78%) UNITED STATES (98%); EUROPE (96%); FRANCE (94%); BRAZIL (93%); IRAQ (93%); JAPAN (93%); WESTERN EUROPE (92%); ASIA (92%); HAITI (79%); VIET NAM (79%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); CAMBODIA (79%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (79%); MEXICO (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (58%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



19 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 196 words

HEADLINE: DataBank; 
Think What a Full Week Might Have Meant

BYLINE:  By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
For stock market traders, the week was short, and it was sweet.
 Investors spent most of the four-day week, which was shortened by the Memorial Day holiday, bidding up stock prices. 
The market was buoyed by the tax cuts that President Bush signed into law on Wednesday and by reports on Friday of improvements in consumer confidence and in manufacturing. 
 All three major stock market indexes had healthy gains. The biggest winner was the Nasdaq composite index, which jumped 85.82 points, or 5.7 percent, to finish at 1,595.91. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index finished the week at 963.59, an advance of 30.37 points, or 3.3 percent. The Dow Jones industrial average gained 248.88 points, or 2.9 percent, closing at 8,850.26. 
 For the year, the Nasdaq has risen by 19.5 percent, the S.& P. 500 by 9.5 percent and the Dow by 6.1 percent.
 Technology stocks were among the week's biggest winners. Intel was the best performer among the Dow stocks, gaining more than 11 percent. Other big gainers included Nvidia, Microchip Technology and Novellus.
 The yield on the 10-year Treasury note rose slightly, to 3.37 percent from 3.33 percent the previous week. KENNETH N. GILPIN

GRAPHIC: Chart: "STOCKS IN THE NEWS"Note: Graphs are scaled so that percentage changes are comparable. ImClone SystemsNNM: IMCLEShares soared amid optimism that ImClone's cancer drug Erbitux would be Approved for use in the United States. Scientists plan to release new data about the drug at a meeting today with oncologists.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $28.50WEEK'S CHANGE: +43.58%EST. '03 P/E -- AOL Time WarnerNYSE: AOLMicrosoft agreed to pay AOL Time Warner $750 million as part of a settlement of an antitrust suit filed on behalf of the AOL subsidiary Netscape.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $15.22WEEK'S CHANGE: +3.47%EST. '03 P/E: 34.83 Delta Air LinesNYSE: DALThe airline plans to offer institutional investors $300 million in notes that are convertible into shares to raise financing for general purposes.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $13.36WEEK'S CHANGE: -1.40%EST. '03 P/E -- Tenet HealtcareNYSE: THCJeffrey C. Barbakow stepped down as chief executive in response to pressure from investors who were unhappy with the hospital chain's performance.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $16.69WEEK'S CHANGE: +7.33%EST. '03 P/E -- 11.75 Electronic ArtsNNM: ERTSSega of Japan says it is considering an offer from Electronic Arts to form a North American sales alliance.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $68.55WEEK'S CHANGE: +8.50%EST. '03 P/E -- 21.58 VaxGenNNM: VXGNThe company, which is developing vaccines for AIDS and smallpox, has won federal regulatory approval to begin testing a product to protect against anthrax.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $4.65WEEK'S CHANGE: +48.09%EST. '03 P/E-- MolexNNM: MOLXThe maker of electrical and fiber optic connectors said it planned to cut jobs and that its fourth-quarter sales would be at the higher end of its forecasts.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $27.37WEEK'S CHANGE: +14.04%EST. '03 P/E -- 47.85 Schering-PloughNYSE: SGPThe company disclosed that a subsidiary was the focus of a federal grand jury investigation into accusations that included submitting false pricing information to the government and obstructing justice.FRIDAY'S CLOSE: $18.45WEEK'S CHANGE: +1.15%EST. '03 P/E -- 27.01 (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); BONDS (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (76%); TAX LAW (72%); COMPUTER CHIPS (66%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); LEGISLATION (57%) STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (56%); NVIDIA CORP (55%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (56%); NVDA (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS334118 COMPUTER TERMINAL & OTHER COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (55%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (55%); SIC3577 COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT, NEC (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (57%) GILPIN, KENNETH N 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



20 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: The World: Crossroads; 
Sharon Has a Map. Can He Redraw It?

BYLINE:  By DAVID K. SHIPLER; David K. Shipler won a Pulitzer Prize as the author of "Arab and Jew: Wounded Spirits in a Promised Land."

DATELINE: CHEVY CHASE, Md. 

 BODY:
ON a July day in 1979, a jeep bearing Israel's agriculture minister, Ariel Sharon, raced up a steep road to the West Bank settlement of Elon Moreh, where devout Jewish nationalists were explaining to me how Genesis contained their ancient ancestors' deed to this land from God.
 Mr. Sharon had come to visit the settlers, but he ignored them once he discovered the brand new Jerusalem bureau chief of The New York Times, ripe for a lesson on Israeli security. While the settlers waved the Bible, Mr. Sharon pulled out a military map, which he unrolled on the hood of the jeep. It showed the detailed contours and elevations along the spine of hills that divide the eastward plunge to the Jordan River from the westward descent to the Mediterranean. 
 It was a clear day, so we could see almost the entire sliver of biblical land between the river and the sea. Mr. Sharon wasn't quoting from the Old Testament, however. He was using a general's gift for reading terrain to point out the dry river beds through which enemy armored columns could invade from Jordan, or from Iraq farther to the east, through the hills and onto the coastal plain, Israel's populated heartland. This was the classic Sharon briefing, one he has given many times -- including to a governor of Texas, George W. Bush, during a 1998 helicopter tour. Mr. Sharon will see Mr. Bush in the Middle East again this week, at a summit meeting with the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, to discuss the road map for peace that Mr. Bush now supports as president.
Whether the conflict can ultimately be solved will depend partly on Israel's willingness to dismantle most settlements in areas of the West Bank and Gaza to be used for a Palestinian state, and that willingness will depend on Israel's sense of security.
To block invasion routes, Mr. Sharon would explain on his tours, the Jewish settlements would be "facts on the ground" holding strategic points throughout Arab territories captured in the 1967 war. By placing civilians in those isolated outposts, scattered among Palestinian towns, he was accused of putting children in front of tanks. But this was a criticism he accepted.
"Security is not only guns and aircraft and tanks," he told me in 1979. "Security first of all is motivation -- motivation to defend a place. If people live in a place, they have the motivation to defend themselves, and the nation has the motivation to defend them. The fact that you are present, that you know every hill, every mountain, every valley, every spring, every cave; the curiosity to know what is on the other side of the hill -- that's security. If you have all the guns and tanks in the world, you cannot do anything if you aren't motivated, if you don't know the area, if you don't feel that it is yours. Yes, I want to put the children before the tanks."
PRACTICALLY every time we met during my five-year assignment, he would happily recall that first encounter at Elon Moreh, as if to underscore its significance and to make sure that I remembered it too.
What I remembered most was the odd juxtaposition of the Bible and the map, the curious alliance between the religio-nationalist zeal of the settlers and the secular military zeal of the warrior. While the younger settlers reached into ancient history to celebrate the reincarnation of the Jewish state, the older fighter held fast to a single-minded obsession with security. The motives were complementary, not competing, yet they contained different calculations. The settlers were doctrinaire; Ariel Sharon was pragmatic, some would say opportunistic.
He translated the settlers' messianic dreams into brick and mortar. The settlers provided the dogmatic vision, and he, as agriculture minister overseeing land, provided the confiscated plots, the house trailers, the wells, the roads, the hookups to the electric grid. Later, as defense minister and then minister of infrastructure and now prime minister, he would remain their most effective political ally, making the key connection between two features of the Zionist enterprise: the yearning bequeathed by history and the construction of a future.
All the while, though, I wondered if his focus on security would ever lead him to reassess defense needs and redeploy, like the quick-thinking general he once was. Since Jordan now has a peace treaty with Israel and Iraq has been conquered by America, tanks are not about to come through those West Bank valleys.
Last week, as tentative plans were being made for the three-way summit meeting in Aqaba, Jordan, Mr. Sharon stunned his right-wing Likud colleagues by using the forbidden word "occupation," which implies impermanence, to describe Israel's hold over the West Bank and Gaza, where 200,000 Jewish settlers live among 3.5 million Palestinians. "You may not like the word," he told his party members, "but what's happening is occupation. Holding 3.5 million Palestinians is a bad thing for Israel, for the Palestinians and for the Israeli economy."
He also gave the Israeli newspaper Haaretz an updated assessment of Israeli interests. "Eventually there will be a Palestinian state," he declared. "I do not think that we have to rule over another people and run their lives. I do not think that we have the strength for that. It is a very heavy burden on the public, and it raises ethical problems and heavy economic problems." He added, "We will be ready to carry out very painful steps," and he confessed to an inner conflict: "Our whole history is bound up with these places -- Bethlehem, Shiloh, Beit El. And I know that we will have to part with some of these places. . . . As a Jew, this agonizes me. But I have decided to make every effort to reach a settlement. I feel that the rational necessity to reach a settlement is overcoming my feelings." He is 75, he noted, with no further political ambitions.
MR. SHARON was once described to me as a man with "no moral brakes." His record suggests as much. As commander of the army's infamous Unit 101 in 1953, he replied to a guerrilla attack on Israeli civilians by assaulting a Jordanian border town, Qibya, blowing up 45 houses and killing 69 Arab villagers. He said later that he had no idea that the houses were occupied. As defense minister during the Lebanon war of 1982, he permitted Lebanese Christian militiamen to enter the Palestinian refugee camps of Sabra and Shatila, where they massacred at least 700, women and children. He said that he had no idea such a thing would happen. An Israeli commission ruled that he should have known and that he bore indirect responsibility. He was forced to resign.
He is known for deftly pretending not to be doing what he is doing, or pretending to be doing what he is not. He took the invasion of Lebanon far beyond where his prime minister, Menachem Begin, thought it would go, by trying to rid the country not only of Palestinian guerrillas but also of Syrian troops, and by trying in vain to install a pro-Western government in Beirut. Now his manipulative skills may be in play as he holds mildly productive meetings aimed at getting Mr. Abbas to crack down on Palestinian groups that breed suicide bombers -- the major current threat to Israelis' security.
Mr. Abbas is just beginning to gather internal political support, and to bolster his moderate posture he will need visible compromises from Mr. Sharon to reduce military roadblocks, searches and assaults. Even if such steps are taken to ease tension, core issues will remain: conflicting claims on Jerusalem and Palestinian demands for the right of return to Arab villages inside Israel -- as well as the Jewish settlements. That a solution requires the chief architect of those settlements to agree to their withdrawal may seem to guarantee failure.
Nevertheless, I keep remembering another conversation with Mr. Sharon, at his ranch in early 1982, when I asked him what would happen to the Israeli-Palestinian conflict if, as he had argued, Jordan became the Palestinian state. Ah, he said, then the conflict would be just a border dispute. A border dispute? Would he be willing to change the border? Would he relinquish parts of the West Bank he was so aggressively settling? He smiled impishly. As defense minister, he said reasonably, he could not negotiate a border with me.
I thought, though I wasn't sure, that he meant to leave the impression of a pragmatist who would be willing to cut a deal someday if the time was right, if Israel could be secure. I wonder whether the time is drawing nigh.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 8, 2003

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article last Sunday about Ariel Sharon referred incorrectly to the number of women and children among the victims of a massacre at the hands of Lebanese Christian militiamen who were allowed into the Sabra and Shatila refugee camps near Beirut in 1982 while Mr. Sharon was Israel's defense minister. It was more than 700 men, women and children -- not just women and children.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In 1984, Ariel Sharon, who was then a minister without portfolio, showed a map of plans for new settlements in the West Bank to Likud members visiting the area. (IPPA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); RELIGION (90%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BIBLE & CHRISTIAN TEXTS (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); DEEDS & RECORDINGS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); HELICOPTERS (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%) PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%) SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); SHIPLER, DAVID K 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); JORDAN (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



21 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2431 words

HEADLINE: Dreams, Deferred 

BYLINE:  By ERIKA KINETZ 

 BODY:
IF this is a city of aspiration, Queens College is a focal point of the American dream.
 Forty-four percent of the school's 12,000 undergraduates are first-generation college students, and the same percentage were born outside the United States. Inside the Student Union, 162 flags from around the world hang in dense and colorful rows from the ceiling. 
 On Thursday, another round of graduates officially rolled out of Queens College into the job market, ready, like most newly minted seniors, to conquer the world. 
 But the reception has been less than hospitable. The increasingly unfriendly job market has forced many recent graduates to put their ambition on hold; even the most focused and energetic are struggling mightily. Graduate schools have swelled like refugee camps. Jobs in social services and sales have started to look appealing, even to the unsociable and unsalesmanlike. 
 According to the New York City comptroller, the city has lost 236,200 jobs since December 2000, two-thirds of those since Sept. 11, 2001. The effects of the terrorist attacks, combined with sharp downturns in the financial services, telecommunications and media industries -- all significant engines of the city's economy -- have made New York one of the hardest places in the country to find a job right now. In April, the city's unemployment rate was 8.3 percent, significantly above the state rate of 6.1 percent, and the national average of 6.0 percent. 
 Young job seekers have been especially hard hit. "People 25 to 45 have lower unemployment rates than people under 25," said James P. Brown, who analyzes the city's economy for the state's Department of Labor. "If you are looking to break into a market, it is much tougher in a downturn. Employers are less flexible because they can get people with great credentials more easily in a downturn."
 At Queens College, the Office of Career Development brims with good intentions: six bins of graduate school bulletins, 19 binders of job listings,listings of more than 400 internships and a thick stack of phone books.
 To Tesfaye Asfaw, director of the school's Office of Career Development and Internships, all that paper now seems obsolete. Scouring online job listings and help-wanted ads just doesn't cut it anymore, he said. 
 "The notion of a liberal arts education is being challenged right now," Mr. Asfaw added. "Fewer and fewer students are finding employment right after graduation."
 In 1998, an estimated 54 percent of graduating seniors at Queens College reported that they had secured employment at the time of graduation, while in 2002, only about 44 percent did. A year to 18 months after graduation, about 87 percent of students who graduated between September 1996 and June 1997 had jobs, versus 83 percent of students who graduated four years later, according to surveys by the college. Median salaries fell to $32,500 from $34,000.
 As these portraits of three 2002 graduates of Queens College show, people are still finding jobs; it just takes longer and requires more compromises. But many hard-working new graduates, still damp with optimism, energy and a sense of entitlement, don't want to compromise, and their lackluster reception from the world has called into question some of their deepest assumptions about themselves and their world.
 Jobless or not, the newest generation of workers still seem to count themselves eligible for the American Dream. And for many graduates who entered college when the Nasdaq was barreling toward 5,000, the gap between what they thought America was and what it has turned out to be has been exceedingly painful. The American Dream, in which hard work pays off and success grows out of self-sufficiency, can be punishing as well as liberating. 

A Dream Job, Just Out of Reach
 On a clear day in Rego Park, the Manhattan skyline is etched like an icon above Queens Boulevard. Out here, where Yana Khaimova lives, you can get a haircut for $5 and a shave for $6. Boxy brick apartment buildings give way, on her block, to rows of stone and brick single-family homes that look as if they were transplanted from a small village in Europe.
 Ms. Khaimova, a slight 22-year-old with brown curls, graduated last December with a bachelor of arts in psychology and a 3.6 grade-point average. She held a part-time job throughout college and did an internship in the human resources department of a hospital in Queens. 
 But these days she spends a lot of time at home. "Since I'm unemployed, I'm cooking all day long," she said. The house where she lives with her parents and 20-year-old brother is spotless.
 Her family moved to Queens from Tashkent, Uzbekistan, when she was 10. America seemed like a great country. "I like that there is a lot of opportunity, workwise," she said. "You could be anyone you want to be here. There are no restrictions."
 She has modest dreams. Her father is a tailor at Bergdorf Goodman, her mother manages a dry cleaners in Crown Heights, Brooklyn, and her brother is studying to be a barber. Ms. Khaimova wants to be a human resources manager. 
 "I like to work in a business atmosphere," she said. "I like to dress up. I like to do paperwork. I like the neat atmosphere. That's why I like human resources. You come 9 to 5. You have your own office, your own desk. You have your own little world."
 On the door to her bedroom, she has hung a cartoon drawing of herself as a businesswoman, complete with cellphone, briefcase and satisfied smirk. A stuffed bulldog from an old boyfriend keeps watch over job search central, an immaculate fake wood desk with a computer in the corner.
 Before graduating, Ms. Khaimova thought finding a job would be easy. "I am a bright person, right out of college," she said. "You've got to be crazy not to hire me. Then I'm like, O.K., I was mistaken." 
 Since starting her job search last October, she estimates she has sent out 200 resumes -- all to local companies and institutions -- and gone on 20 interviews. At one interview, she felt that the questioner seemed to lose interest when she mentioned graduate school. Another interview, for her dream job as a benefits associate at a major New York hospital, was so short that she got the sense that it ended almost before it had begun. After that, she gave up the job search.
 "Is it me or is it them?" she wondered aloud. "I don't know. I think I do everything the right way. Maybe there is no right way."
 The right way, she has been told, is: Sit straight. Be very positive. Smile often. In a conversation over tea, halvah, and dried fruit at the family's dining room table, Ms. Khaimova sat straight. She was very positive, and she smiled often. 
 Ms. Khaimova is a proud practitioner of small formalities: the handshake, the pouring of the tea, the thank you, and the thank you again. 
 She has been offered two telemarketing jobs and two retail jobs, which offered what seemed to her high-school-level wages, about $8 an hour. These offers have dismayed her, especially since she, and her parents, had envisioned college as a pathway to upward mobility. 
 "They want me to not be -- how you call it? -- a blue-worker, a blue-collar worker," Ms. Khaimova said. "They want me to, like, have a nice decent job, to be well respected, to have everything they didn't have."
 A cloud of unpleasant possibilities has begun to condense around her. Maybe opportunity is like the weather, vast and changeable. Maybe deserving it doesn't matter. Maybe ambition can hurt you. Maybe etiquette is insufficient.
 After six months of looking, Ms. Khaimova has decided to focus on pursuing a master's degree in industrial and organizational psychology; she begins classes at Brooklyn College in the fall. "I have so much to give," she said. "I want the world. I have so much energy. I want to release it."

A Field Suddenly Dries Up
 Aarti Kashyap, a computer science major with no career, would have been an anachronism in 1999. Today she is a different kind of anachronism: a woman who wants to make her fortune from Web sites. That, after all, is what she learned how to do in school.
 Her misery has company. One of her fellow computer science majors decided to go to medical school; another is studying to be a pharmacist.
 Ms. Kashyap, 23, tutors math and computer science 20 hours a week at Queensborough Community College, the school she attended after moving to New York with her family from New Delhi in 1997, and from which she transferred to Queens College. Each day after work, she goes to the public library in Flushing and sequesters herself in the job-information center.
 "The issue for me is not getting a job, but getting a suitable job," said Ms. Kashyap, a solid woman with a full face and serious dark eyes.
 After graduating with a 3.1 grade-point average, she hoped that her future would begin with a computer programming job that paid at least $40,000 a year, money she would then pour into two start-up Web sites -- one for dating, the other for medical information -- that would make her an entrepreneurial fortune.
 She believes that Monster.com, the large job-search Web site, will help. However, spending 14 hours a week, every week since November, on that and a few other Web sites, brought her exactly one interview. Most jobs she finds online strike her as irrelevant: Either she is underqualified, or they do not really require computer expertise, or the company's e-mail box is so overstuffed that her resume bumps back.
 Although her parents and most of her friends advise her to take whatever job she can land, Ms. Kashyap doesn't want to get started on the wrong track. "Say I work as a secretary for two years, I can't apply for programming jobs because I won't have the right experience," she said. 
 EBay went public the year after the Kashyaps arrived in New York. 
 "You read so much stuff," Ms. Kashyap said. "If you are a hard-working person and you have what it takes, and you are here, you can achieve what you want. That's the good thing about the United States."
 India, she feels, requires too much waiting, too much dependence, and is plagued by too many small-minded dreams. She wants to be an American entrepreneur, which to her means being self-sufficient. 
 "Here you can do it on your own," she said. 
 Joblessness was supposed to happen to other people. "When I went to college, I was working very hard," she said. "I wasn't going to the movies, and I wasn't having fun. And still I don't have a job." 
 In March, after five months of frustrated job hunting, Ms. Kashyap decided to start a tutoring business with a friend, which will be run out of the basement of her friend's house. They passed out fliers at local schools last week. 
 But Ms. Kashyap's plans keep slipping away. "Every month I say, 'By the end of this month, I have to have a job,"' she said. "Then it doesn't happen, and I have to change the deadline."
 Her new plan? "Try harder."

Thinking Out of the Box
 Jim Barrezueta works in a tall, boxy building on 52nd Street and the Avenue of the Americas, ensconced in the trappings of Midtown success: four revolving doors open onto a marble-clad lobby with six fat silver pillars and a guard standing by a set of velvet ropes.
 A sign bearing the words "Principles have no loopholes" greets visitors who take the wood-paneled elevators to the fifth floor, where Mr. Barrezueta has worked as an auditor for PriceWaterhouseCoopers since January. 
 As a new employee, he does not have his own desk. Instead, each morning, in a lottery process the company calls hoteling, Jim and his standard-issue laptop are randomly assigned to a cubicle, each of which has a sign that reads, "Be sure to lock down your computer." Young men in khakis and cornflower blue shirts and older men in suits wend their way through the vast, hushed labyrinth of desks. 
 Mr. Barrezueta considers himself fortunate, but not lucky. "I worked hard for it," he said. After 10 years as an airline mechanic, he was furloughed and went back to school in 2001, at age 30, to study accounting. In addition, he said, "The pay raises weren't coming. I was already maxing out, making $55,000 to $60,000 a year."
 The son of Ecuadorean immigrants, he has already far surpassed his parents. And now, a limitless future has unfurled in his mind's eye. His mother, who never finished high school, has worked in the garment industry for 15 years, and his father, who never finished junior high school, worked in a belt factory and as a livery cab driver before retiring.
 The son's life is different. 
 "Here you start somewhere, but you move up different levels, to senior associate manager, senior manager, and if you work hard enough and you stay with the firm, you could even make director or partner," he said. "It's up to you how hard you want to work. Whereas with a blue-collar job, you put your time in and you get a weekly paycheck."
 He loves his white-collar job. He loves the office supplies and the fake plants. He loves the machines that spew out papers. He loves the fact that his briefcase weighs less than his toolbox. 
 The only traces of the economic downturn that Jim sees first-hand are tucked into the corporate S.E.C. filings he pores over. After graduating in December with a 3.966 grade point average and degrees in economics and accounting, he got four job offers.
 "It's unfortunate people are losing their jobs and the economy is in a slump," he said. "But my parents always found work. They never had a formal education, but when it was time to put food on the table, they went out and found work. I knew that I was capable of the same thing."
 The keys, he said, to his success were grades, interviewing skills and networking. To practice, he joined the Association of Latino Professionals in Finance and Accounting, an organization that held mock interviews with recruiters from PriceWaterhouseCoopers before the formal recruiting process began.
 His focus also helped. "It was time to get a skill," he said, speaking of college. "I did 45 credits towards the accounting degree and 42 of those credits were accounting."
 He tells his 21-year-old classmates not to envy him. The airline industry took 10 years of his life, and, he feels, gave him little back. But whether he knows it or not, that decade may have given him a critical edge: It gave him stories to tell. He learned how to talk to people. It rubbed off the rough edges of his youth.
 "They are always like, 'You're so smart,"' he said of his friends. "I say: 'Listen. Ten years from now, when you're my age and you're a partner at one of these big firms, you are going to see I'm not smarter at all. Period."'

GRAPHIC: Photos: Three recent Queens College graduates -- from top, Jim Barrezueta, Yana Khaimova and Aarti Kashyap -- learned the difficulties of navigating the city's punishing job market. (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 1); The Queens College Student Union, right, and, above and below right, the college's Office of Career Development.; Yana Khaimova; Aarti Kashyap; Jim Barrezueta (Photographs by Joyce Dopkeen/The New York Times)(pg. 9) Chart: "KNOCK, KNOCK -- Help Not Wanted"Despite a small gain in jobs in March and April, the city has been hit harder by unemployment than the nation as a whole. Graph shows annual unemployment rate vs. 2003 unemployment rate* for the United States and New York City. *Seasonally adjusted(Sources: Bureau of Labor Statistics; New York State Department of Labor)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (72%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); TERRORISM (67%); REFUGEES (55%); REFUGEE & RELIEF CAMPS (54%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (52%) LABOR 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: BARREZUETA, JIM; KHAIMOVA, YANA; KASHYUP, AARTI; KINETZ, ERIKA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



22 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 128 words

HEADLINE: BULLETIN BOARD; 
The Lure ofthe (Nearby) Open Road

BYLINE:  By RICK GLADSTONE 

 BODY:
Florida and California are the top destination states on American travelers' wish lists this summer, according to a survey by the Travel Association of America, a trade group. 
 But that does not mean Floridians and Californians will be inundated by vacationers from other states. 
Some of those travelers will be residents of Florida and California, said Cathy Keefe, a spokeswoman for the travel association. She said that was an indication of a broader trend in travel this year: to take vacations not far from home. 
"We know that more people than ever are staying within their own region and they're driving more," said Ms. Keefe. Besides, she said: 'It's a wish list. It's where people really want to go. It may not reflect where they actually go." RICK GLADSTONE

GRAPHIC: ChartPREFERRED TRAVEL DESTINATIONS Florida: 35%California: 35New York: 16Texas: 13Nevada: 12Arizona: 10Hawaii: 10Colorado: 10Washington, D.C.: 7Tennessee: 6 PREFERRED TRAVEL ACTIVITIES Take scenic drives: 70Go to beach or lake: 67Visit friends/relatives: 67Visit cities: 60Visit small towns: 59Visit national parks: 49Visit historic sites: 45Travel close to home: 37Go camping, hiking: 36Visit museums: 35 Graph tracks sales of painkillers (year-over-year change, weekly) through April 20. Graph tracks new mortgage applications (year-over-year change, weekly) since December. Graph tracks transportation costs (change in consumer price index) from May 2002-April 2003. Graph tracks personal bankruptcy filings (totals in thousands, weekly) since December. Graph tracks online sales (dollars in billions, weekly) since December. Graph tracks hotel occupancy rates (four-week moving average, daily) from December through May 24 for the following cities: NEW YORKLOS ANGELESCHICAGO (Sources: Travel Association of America; Information Resources painkillers ; Economy.com mortgage applications ; Bureau of Labor Statistics transportation costs ; Lundquist Consulting bankruptcies ; comScore Networks online sales ; Smith Travel Research hotel occupancy )

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); LEISURE TRAVEL (88%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (88%); POLLS & SURVEYS (88%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PUBLIC OPINION 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) TRAVEL ASSN OF AMERICA 

PERSON: GLADSTONE, RICK 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); TEXAS, USA (79%); HAWAII, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%) FLORIDA; CALIFORNIA

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



23 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 6; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 209 words

HEADLINE: Tax Incentives for Whom? 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "On Taxes, What's the Fairest of Them All" (Economic View, May 25), which described the possible effects of the new federal tax cuts, versus those of rejected alternatives: 
 One of my friends works like a busy beaver and has taxes deducted from her hard-earned income. She regards these taxes as her fair contribution to America's housekeeping expenses - military and social services, infrastructure and debt interest, etc. Another friend inherited company stock that is enough to provide a standard of living equal to hers. Now our compassionate-conservative president feels that this fortunate fellow's unearned income should have an easier tax burden -- that it's his money, not the government's, and that maybe he can spend it and create jobs in Detroit. Unfortunately, this guy always buys German cars, which exacerbates our external debt. 
 Elimination of taxes on dividends should be applied upstream only, by untaxing the profit of corporations. The money they save could be used in various economy-stimulating ways, like reducing prices to customers. And the I.R.S. could shred reams of tax code.
Oh, wait! I just realized that individual investors have presidential votes. Corporations don't.

HORACE HONE
Palm Coast, Fla., May 27

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (94%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); LIVING STANDARDS (78%); JOB CREATION (73%); EXTERNAL DEBT (70%) TAXATION

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



24 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1455 words

HEADLINE: Drug Companies Increase Spending on Efforts to Lobby Congress and Governments 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31 

 BODY:
Lobbyists for the drug industry are stepping up spending to influence Congress, the states and even foreign governments as the debate intensifies over how to provide prescription drug benefits to the elderly, industry executives say.
 Confidential budget documents from the leading pharmaceutical trade group show that it will spend millions of dollars lobbying Congress and state legislatures, fighting price controls around the world, subsidizing "like-minded organizations" and paying economists to produce op-ed articles and monographs in response to critics. 
 The industry is worried that price controls and other regulations will tie the drug makers' hands as state, federal and foreign governments try to expand access to affordable drugs. 
The documents show that the trade association, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, known as PhRMA, will spend at least $150 million in the coming year. 
That represents an increase of 23 percent over this year's budget of $121.7 million. 
Directors of the trade association approved the new budget, together with an increase in membership dues to pay for an expanded lobbying campaign, at a meeting last week. 
"Unless we achieve enactment this year of market-based Medicare drug coverage for seniors, the industry's vulnerability will increase in the remainder of 2003 and in the 2004 election year," says one document, which laments the "demonization of the industry."
Congress will plunge into work on Medicare soon after it reconvenes next week. President Bush and Congressional leaders have said they intend to revamp Medicare and add drug benefits for the elderly. Both houses plan to vote on the legislation before the Fourth of July recess. But a struggle over drug costs and benefits is likely to continue for months, or years.
The drug trade group plans to spend $1 million for an "intellectual echo chamber of economists -- a standing network of economists and thought leaders to speak against federal price control regulations through articles and testimony, and to serve as a rapid response team."
The trade association and its tactics have become an issue. In debate on the Senate floor last summer, Senator Richard J. Durbin, Democrat of Illinois, said, "PhRMA, this lobby, has a death grip on Congress."
Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, said the drug industry made wonderful products, but was becoming "despised and hated" because of its aggressive efforts to keep prices and profits high.
But Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, defended the trade group, saying it had been vilifed as a "satanic" force, "a bunch of greedy, money-grubbing companies." In fact, he said, drug makers do more than any other industry to help people.
The pharmaceutical association gets nearly all its revenue from dues paid by member companies, according to the documents, which were obtained from people in the industry. Dues will total $143.8 million in the coming year, an increase of 24 percent, or $28.3 million, over this year's dues, the documents show.
In its budget for the fiscal year that begins on July 1, the pharmaceutical lobby earmarks $72.7 million for advocacy at the federal level, directed mainly at Congress; $4.9 million to lobby the Food and Drug Administration; and $48.7 million for advocacy at the state level.
In addition, the budget sets aside $17.5 million to fight price controls and protect patent rights in foreign countries and in trade negotiations.
The PhRMA budget allocates $1 million "to change the Canadian health care system" and $450,000 to stem the flow of low-price prescription drugs from online pharmacies in Canada to customers in the United States. 
The major pharmaceutical companies operate in global markets. Canada, like many industrial countries, offers health insurance to all citizens, but limits drug prices.
A memorandum for the PhRMA board says the industry is on the defensive, facing a "perfect storm" whipped up by several factors: "expanding government price controls abroad, resulting in politically unsustainable cross-border pricing differences; increasing availability of medicines from abroad via Internet sales"; state ballot initiatives to make drugs more affordable in the United States; increasing state demands for drug discounts in the Medicaid program; and "false perceptions that drug prices are increasing by 20 percent a year."
Exact comparisons are difficult, but a group facing similar problems, the American Association of Health Plans, budgeted $26 million this year to lobby for health maintenance organizations. 
In its budget, the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America says it will spend these amounts in the coming year:
*$15.8 million to fight "a union-driven, get-out-the-vote ballot initiative in Ohio," which would lower drug prices for people who have no insurance to cover such costs.
*At least $2 million, and perhaps $2.5 million, in payments to research and policy organizations, "to build intellectual capital and generate a higher volume of messages from credible sources" sympathetic to the industry.
*$9.4 million for public relations, including "$1 million for inside-the-Beltway advertising, $555,000 for placement of op-eds and articles by third parties," $600,000 for polling, $1.3 million for local publicity in 15 states and $680,000 for media relations consultants.
The federal affairs staff at PhRMA has quadrupled, to 20 employees today from 5 in 1999. The organization plans to spend $5 million for outside lobbyists at the federal level. In their campaign contributions, drug companies have favored Republican candidates. But PhRMA has retained a diverse group of lobbyists to ensure access to politicians of both parties.
Its Democratic lobbyists, listed in recent reports to Congress, include former Representative Vic Fazio of California; David W. Beier, who was chief domestic policy adviser to Vice President Al Gore; Joel P. Johnson, who was a top aide to President Bill Clinton and to Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader; and Nick Littlefield, former chief counsel for Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts.
Republicans who reported lobbying for PhRMA include former Representatives Vin Weber of Minnesota and Bill Paxon of New York; Dave Larson, former health policy adviser to Bill Frist, now the Senate majority leader; Edwin A. Buckham, former chief of staff to Tom DeLay, now the House majority leader; and Scott Hatch, the son of Senator Hatch.
The state government affairs division of PhRMA will spend $3.1 million to retain more than 60 lobbyists in the 50 states. The number of state legislative proposals dealing with prescription drugs has doubled since 1999. The drug industry says many of the bills "are seriously negative, have a high probability of enactment and require major attention on our part."
Dale Butland, a spokesman for the coalition seeking lower drug prices in Ohio, said the drug industry lobby was "spending money like water here," challenging the validity of signatures on petitions seeking a statewide referendum.
PhRMA said it would spend $12.3 million to develop coalitions and strategic alliances with doctors, patients, universities and influential members of minority groups.
The organization has earmarked several million dollars to foster ties with groups like the National Black Caucus of State Legislators, the National Hispanic Caucus of State Legislators and the National Medical Association, which represents the interests of African-American doctors.
The budget includes $500,000 for efforts to "educate and activate Hispanic-Latino organizations on a state and federal level."
Several Hispanic groups have joined the drug industry in opposing state efforts to control Medicaid costs by establishing lists of preferred drugs. The Texas League of United Latin American Citizens issued a statement last year saying it "stands solidly" behind a lawsuit filed by the industry to block the use of such lists.
Luis Roberto Vera Jr., general counsel of the Texas Latino league, said it received $10,000 from PhRMA to help pay for a workshop on Latino health issues last year. But "there was no quid pro quo," Mr. Vera said.
Ana Yanez-Correa, policy director for the Texas group, said PhRMA was "overstating and misrepresenting the amount of support it had" from Latinos.
Dr. L. Natalie Carroll, president of the National Medical Association, said her group had received small amounts of money from PhRMA. The grants, she said, helped the association publish research showing that different racial groups respond differently to some drugs.
As a result, Dr. Carroll said, state policies steering patients to the cheapest drug in a therapeutic class could be particularly harmful to black patients.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Senator Richard J. Durbin, top, and Senator Orrin G. Hatch were divided over a drug trade group. (Photographs by Associated Press) Chart: "Drug Lobby Group's Spending Plans"The Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the drug industrys main lobbying group, plans to increase its budget 23 percent in the coming year, to $150 million, according to internal documents. The group opposes price controls on drugs and is seeking to influence the debate in Congress over providing prescription drug benefits to the elderly. PROPOSED BUDGET FOR FISCAL 2004DIVISION -- In millions Federal affairs: $ 14.4 Alliance development: 12.3Pursues strategic alliances with economists, doctors, patients and influential members of minority groups to shape public opinion. State government affairs: 11.7 Legal: 9.7 Public affairs: 9.4 Policy and research: 9.4 International: 6.3 Scientific and regulatory affairs: 4.3 Finance and operations: 4.3 Office of the president: 1.5 SUBTOTAL: $ 83.3OTHER EXPENSES: $ 66.7*TOTAL: $150.0 *Includes an additional $6.3 million for a contingency fund and an addition to reserves.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOBBYING (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS TRADE (91%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS ASSOCIATIONS (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); BUDGETS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (88%); DRUG PRICES (78%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); APPROVALS (72%); AGING (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (69%); US INDEPENDENCE DAY (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; STATES (US); WAGE AND PRICE CONTROLS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; AGED; MEDICARE 

ORGANIZATION: PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH & MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA (91%) ;PHARMACEUTICAL RESEARCH AND MANUFACTURERS OF AMERICA 

PERSON: CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); RICHARD DURBIN (58%); ORRIN HATCH (51%); GEORGE W BUSH (51%) ;PEAR, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



25 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1340 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE ECONOMY; 
After Years of Stagnation, Iraqi Industries Are Falling to a Wave of Imports

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, May 31 

 BODY:
Shakir Thiab and his Al Bayltha candy factory survived the American military invasion without a scratch. But the invasion that followed has all but shut him down.
 When the war ended in early April, a two-pound bag of his Fenom line of fruit-flavored hard candies sold for 3,000 dinars, or about $1.50. Today, faced with a flood of duty-free imports from Iran, he can only charge 1,000 dinars. 
 Cutthroat pricing is not the only problem. Opening a pack of his Garnaata-brand cream-filled wafers, Mr. Thiab noted gloomily that his wafers had congealed into an unappetizing mess -- a result, he said, of the inferior flour available to him. By contrast, imported Tasteful Wafers from Iran were fresh and crisp. 
"We dropped our prices to keep selling, but we cannot do business," said Mr. Thiab, who shut down most of his aging machinery three weeks ago. "Iraqis only want to buy foreign products now. They don't trust anything made in Iraq."
Mr. Thiab's problems are a foretaste of a much broader economic shock in Iraq. After 12 years of trade sanctions imposed by the United Nations, and 30 years of economic mismanagement under Saddam Hussein, Iraq's cloistered industry suddenly faces the full fury of globalization and international competition.
In the seven weeks since American forces seized Baghdad, Iraq has been transformed from one of the world's most isolated economies into a huge new free-trade zone.
Open-air markets and stores here are being flooded with television sets from South Korea, refrigerators from Iran and China, toasters from Germany, and packaged food from almost everywhere.
For Iraqis with any money to spend, the free-for-all has brought a dazzling range of new choices. Satellite telephones and portable kerosene stoves, badly needed to cope with the absence of normal telephones and the lack of cooking gas, are so plentiful that prices have declined.
But the downside is also taking hold. Iraqi manufacturers, which employed more than one-tenth of all workers before the war, are almost powerless to match the new competition.
Their equipment is badly outdated. Their sense of marketing has atrophied. In many cases, their image among Iraqi consumers is abysmal.
The free-market shocks are even bigger for Iraq's state-owned industrial companies, which produce everything from packaged foods to electrical equipment and employ more than 100,000 people.
Adding to the stress for manufacturers, the Iraqi dinar has unexpectedly soared in value since the end of the war. The strength of the dinar, which has increased to about 1,300 to the dollar from 3,000, has pushed down the cost of imports just as customs duties were disappearing.
All this poses a complex challenge for American and British officials. Hoping to improve business and investment in Iraq, American officials plan to announce a six-month tariff holiday on imports in the next few days. For the longer term, they speak grandly about hammering out a free-trade agreement between Iraq and the United States.
At the same time, American officials are desperate to get people back to work. That goal will be badly frustrated, though, if Iraq's manufacturing enterprises crumble in the face of new competition.
L. Paul Bremer III, the civilian administrator in charge of postwar reconstruction, hinted at the quandary at a recent news conference.
"Because the economy was so tightly controlled and so interlinked, you find that when you move one part of it, everything else moves with it," Mr. Bremer remarked. "You have to move quickly, but carefully."
The experience of postcommunist countries in Central Europe and Russia suggests that Iraq's traditional industrial enterprises will either collapse quickly or be propped up by political leaders at great cost to the economy as a whole.
But unlike Poland or the Czech Republic, whose leaders made their own decisions, the decision-making responsibility here lies overwhelmingly with the American administrators under Mr. Bremer.
Both Iraqi industry and agriculture declined sharply during the past two decades. Racked with inflation as Mr. Hussein printed money to pay for wars against Iran and Kuwait, Iraqi companies could not afford to import new equipment or to invest in improving their operations.
The trade sanctions imposed by the United Nations after the Persian Gulf war in 1991 aggravated the problem, making it difficult for companies even to get permission to import new equipment.
"We have not enjoyed political stability for more than 20 years," said Mr. Thiab, whose father started Al Bayltha. "As a result, Iraqi industry has stayed stagnant, backward in comparison with other countries."
All the machines in Mr. Thiab's candy factory are more than 25 years old, antiquated even in comparison with those in Iran or Syria -- much less those in the United States or Europe. The machines have been kept functioning only through ersatz replacement parts cobbled together by local machine shops.
In the Jamila industrial district, home to Mr. Thiab's company, at least a half-dozen other candy producers have essentially halted production. Electricity problems were one reason, but business owners said the biggest issue was competition.
"If you go to the markets, you will see the Iranian, Syrian and Turkish products," said Abid al-Karim, manager of Al Zayzafoon, a company that produces Queen Cocktail toffees. 
Mr. Karim's toffees sell for slightly less than Iranian rivals, he said, but he has halted production for the time being because, he said, "Nobody wants to buy them."
As for the state-owned companies, they enjoyed heavy protection from imports, and the United Nations trade embargo left them with very little competition in the first place.
"Before the war, people had to line up to buy our equipment," said Khalil al-Asadi, technical manager at the State Company for the Electrical Industry, a company whose most important products were motors in air-conditioners.
Today, appliance stores around Baghdad offer trim new air-conditioners by Samsung and Daewoo of South Korea, as well as by Japanese and Chinese conglomerates.
With postwar reconstruction picking up speed, and summer temperatures rising to more than 110 degrees, demand for air-conditioning systems is very high.
But Mr. Asadi's state-owned company is still barely functioning. The company headquarters was destroyed by looters, only one assembly line is in operation, and only one-tenth of the company's 3,000 employees are actually working.
Furthermore, the factory, which makes motors for water-cooled air systems, has deteriorated sharply since it was built in 1986. "This used to be very automated, but now it's largely manual," Mr. Asadi said, pointing to a vast dark building full of machinery. "We couldn't get the parts we needed."
American officials, trying to decide what to do with Iraq's 52 government-owned companies, are seeking advice from experts in Poland who went through that country's transition from communism to capitalism.
American officials and some Iraqis clearly want to privatize the state-owned manufacturers, and they see it as the only way to attract private investors.
But Ramsi Youssef Jiddou, a returning Iraqi exile who is advising the ministry, recently warned that privatizing the companies might be tantamount to dismantling them.
"We sold companies in the past, but it was not a good experience," Mr. Jiddou said. "Investors who bought the companies treated them like scrap material."
That would be consistent with what happened in some formerly communist nations. But state-owned or private, Iraqi manufacturers know they are too weak to stand on their own.
Mr. Asadi, at the state-owned electric manufacturer, is hoping for a partnership with an American company like Carrier, which makes air-conditioners.
Mr. Thiab pleaded for American officials to close off the border to imports, at least temporarily.
"I know Americans believe in free markets and globalization, but this does not work in all cases," Mr. Thiab contended. "If Americans don't protect Iraqi industry, we will all be unemployed."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Workers at Baghdad candy factories, like Al Bayltha, at top, and Al Kamil, at bottom, struggling with outdated equipment and frequent power failures, have found themselves overwhelmed by foreign competitors. (Photographs by Alan Chin for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); CONFECTIONERY MFG (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); PACKAGED GOODS (86%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (77%); IMPORT PRICES (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (76%); TRENDS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%) CURRENCY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); MACHINERY AND EQUIPMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%)

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (91%) IRAQ (99%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (75%) IRAQ#000T031210SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



26 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: Roy Rogers and Dale Evans Ride Off to Missouri 

BYLINE:  By CHARLIE LeDUFF 

DATELINE: VICTORVILLE, Calif., May 27 

 BODY:
A small yet not insignificant piece of news occurred in April while the world's attention was turned toward Iraq.
 The Roy Rogers-Dale Evans Museum, an old-West cavalry-style fort on Highway 15 in the high Mojave Desert, picked up and moved. It has resettled in Branson, Mo., the transplanted heart of country-western life and culture. 
 The move was economic, said Victorville city fathers. Fewer and fewer people, it seems, are interested in the life of the "King of the Cowboys" or his wife, Dale Evans, known as the "Queen of the West." After Mr. Rogers died in 1998 and his wife in 2001, museum attendance plummeted.
People had come to this desert outpost to inspect his gun belt, boots and the museum's prized possession and top draw -- Mr. Rogers's stuffed horse Trigger.
"It's left a big hole in the heart of Victorville," said Mayor Terry Caldwell, who attended the same church as the first couple of Victorville. "There was a wholesomeness synonymous with Roy Rogers and now that the museum has gone, it marks the end of an era here."
At one point in the 40's and 50's, Roy Rogers was every bit the celebrity Bob Hope was. Like Mr. Hope, Mr. Rogers grew up in Ohio. His name was Leonard Slye and he dropped out of high school, making his way to California and the silver screen. His records topped the charts and his image appeared on 2.5 billion boxes of Post cereal.
The self-taught cowboy was known for his his patriotism. While Mr. Rogers made movies in World War II, he sold millions of dollars in war bonds and made a U.S.O. tour with Trigger. He also made a tour of Vietnam.
Sadly, celebrity fades. The Rogers generation is passing on and the new immigrants who have settled in California have little interest in these icons of old.
"Roy Rogers? He doesn't mean anything," said Rosalina Sondoval-Marin, who was having a beer in the El Chubasco bar on historic Route 66. "There's a revolution going on and it don't include no Roy Rogers or Bob Hope."
Perhaps. But for those who still care about the King of the Cowboys, the new Roy Rogers-Dale Evans Museum and Happy Trails Theater is scheduled to open in Branson in late June. It is behind Yakov Smirnoff's theater, Mr. Smirnoff being that Russian-born cold war comedian whose contributions to the country-western way of life are not entirely apparent.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Falling attendance led the Roy Rogers-Dale Evans Museum in Victorville, Calif., to move to Branson, Mo. It is now scheduled to open in June. (Photographs by J. Emilio Flores for The New York Times); Roy Rogers was Leonard Slye of Ohio before he became the "King of the Cowboys." He is with Dale Evans and Trigger in 1952. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); DESERTS (72%); RELOCATIONS (72%); HEART DISEASE (71%); SCHOOL DROP OUTS (68%); COLD WAR (68%); WORLD WAR II (63%); TRANSPLANT SURGERY (57%) RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

ORGANIZATION: ROY ROGERS-DALE EVANS MUSEUM (BRANSON, MO) 

PERSON: LEDUFF, CHARLIE; EVANS, DALE (1912-2001); ROGERS, ROY (1911-98) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); MOJAVE DESERT (92%); MISSOURI, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (92%) BRANSON (MO); VICTORVILLE (CALIF)#000T031210SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



27 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: In Land of Sake, Brewers Suffer as a New Generation Sniffs Disdainfully 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH 

DATELINE: YASUGI, Japan 

 BODY:
With his crisp Oxford shirt and banker's armbands, Takeshi Yamamoto strives for a modern look. A laptop sits on his office desk, and more importantly, computers regulate the most important processes on the factory floor nearby.
 But even 15 years of persistent improvements in his business, a distinguished sake brewery that has been in his family for six generations, have done little to change one vital and depressing fact. Sake, a product as distinctively Japanese as sumo wrestling and kimonos, has fallen brutally out of fashion. 
 Sake is still consumed widely in this prefecture of glistening rice fields and rolling hills that fronts on the Sea of Japan. But brewers say this has little to do with the fact that Shimane Prefecture produces some of Japan's finest sake. Rather, it is because the percentage of people older than 65 years is the highest in the country.
"There is no point in promoting sake among young people," said Mr. Yamamoto, who is 46. "When they first begin to drink, they swig cheap sake at parties, so sake has an image of being strong and of having a bad odor. In fact, all over Japan, the police use pictures of sake bottles with X's marked on them in their anti-drunken-driving campaigns." 
Recently, it has become easy to imagine Japan as a land of glacial cultural change. Antiquated symbols still supply many of Japan's most enduring stereotypes. Meanwhile, the country has been locked in economic stagnation for well over a decade.
The reality, however, as brewers of the rice-based drink are discovering to their increasing chagrin, could hardly be more different.
The statistics of sake production are grim. The number of breweries in Japan has halved since 1955. In just 12 years, from 1989 to 2001, domestic consumption of sake plummeted by 30 percent. 
Nowadays, as teenagers enter adulthood, their early experiments with harsh, industrial-grade sake typically lead them toward beer and wine consumption, which has more than doubled in little over 10 years.
A small twist in the situation is the fact that sake has enjoyed great success of late as a slightly exotic import in the United States. Many old-line brewers here say the export market is their only hope for survival, and not simply through overseas sales. If sake develops enough cachet abroad, they hope, there could be a rebound effect on its prestige among the young here.
"The key is getting young people to try it," said Mr. Yamamoto, whose small team of employees still affix the labels and seal the bottles of his brewery's more than 20 varieties of sake by hand. "If you give them a glass of good, chilled sake, they are invariably surprised. 'Mmm, I didn't know sake could be so delicious,' they say."
At the Kokki brewery, in the nearby city of Matsue, the fifth generation owner, Hiroki Iwahashi, 38, designed his salesroom with an elegant tasting bar, built around a bank of glass-door refrigerators so that people passing by might stop for a sample.
On this day, however, the salesroom was barren. Asked what distinguished his sake, Mr. Iwahashi paused briefly, then gamely picked and chose from the dozens of specialized adjectives that sake fans use to describe their brew, much as wine connoisseurs do. "Houjoun to toumeikan," or, mellow and clear, he pronounced, inviting a foreign visitor to swirl it around his tongue slowly. The drink had a delightfully clean taste, with intriguing flowery hints at the finish.
"Unfortunately, a lot of customers don't know very much about sake anymore," Mr. Iwahashi said. "They find it very difficult to choose."
At another Matsue establishment, the Miyako no Hana sakery, Umechi Matsumoto, who at 83 years old has been a master brewer, or toji, for 48 years, is anything but discouraged.
"My motto is, 'Make delicious sake and no one can be turned off by it,' " said the slightly bent toji, who served in Manchuria in World War II. 
Mr. Matsumoto eschews the computer controls that most sakeries have installed to cut costs and improve consistency in a product that is especially temperature sensitive. "My secret weapons are my senses. That's the most important thing."
The one concession to modernity at this prize-winning producer is a cagelike freight elevator installed a few years ago so that Mr. Matsumoto, and his 67-year-old apprentice, would not have to carry the heavy bags of rice up a steep, rickety stairway to the brewing vats, as they once did.
"This is my destiny," he said in his small, junky office, dominated by a poster of beautiful calendar girls. Using no computer controls means sleeping here to keep vigilant watch on the production temperatures through the frigid winter months, after the rice harvest, when sake is produced. 
"I'd like to continue as long as I can," Mr. Matsumoto said, his eyes suddenly cast downward. "I feel like I've got another three years in me."
Though she has not said as much to Mr. Matsumoto, the owner of the sakery, Yuko Harada, is equally uncertain about how long she can continue in the business. 
"Back in the late-Edo period, my family used to make candles for the Matsue castle," Ms. Harada, a 47-year-old who took over from her father 15 years ago, said, recounting the origins of her brewery in the 1860's. She spoke in a setting that was old Japan, down to the smallest detail: a sumptuous tatami-floored room, with shoji, or paper screen doors, that looked out onto a formal Japanese garden.
"I've got teenage sons, but I don't know how they will feel about succeeding me," Ms. Harada said. "This has been a bad business for a long time, so we haven't talked about it."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Umechi Matsumoto has been a toji, or master brewer, for 48 years, and he still tests his sake without computers.; Employees at the Kinpo Brewery in Yasugi, Japan, hand wash a cloth used in the process of making sake. (Photographs by Toru Morimoto/Panos, for The New York Times) Map of Japan highlighting Yasugi: Yasugi is in Shimani Prefecture, noted for its rice fields and sake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (90%); BREWERIES (89%); BEER & ALE (77%); ADOLESCENTS (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE CONSUMPTION (75%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (75%); CONSUMPTION (75%); IMPORT TRADE (73%); DRIVING WHILE INTOXICATED (72%); MARTIAL ARTS (71%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (67%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (65%); EXPORT TRADE (65%); WRESTLING (56%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; SAKE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CONSUMER BEHAVIOR 

PERSON: FRENCH, HOWARD W 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHUGOKU, JAPAN (90%); PACIFIC OCEAN (57%) JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



28 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 4; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1612 words

HEADLINE: As Far as the Eye Can Climb, Towering Spots With History 

BYLINE:  By C.J. HUGHES

 BODY:
IT is hard to pass through Connecticut without a mandatory pilgrimage to Gillette Castle, the perennially popular stone citadel on a tall river bluff that has become as much of a symbol of the state as the nutmeg. Yet Connecticut offers plenty of other options for a climb to a mountaintop aerie, and you might win points for originality for suggesting such a destination.
 Strung across the state like beads on a necklace, from the northwest's limestone peaks to the eastern highlands' gneiss hills, these castles were for the most part built in the early 20th-century, an era when any rise in elevation demanded creation of a place to appreciate a good view. 
 Honoring Romantic ideals that emphasized the interplay of humans and nature, builders threw up roads, trails, pavilions and towers -- anything that allowed for contemplation of a beautiful vista. 
"Back at the turn of the century, the idea of the scenic overlook was born, predating even automobiles," said Bob Reynolds, a program specialist in the Department of Environmental Protection's state park division. "The ideal was to be able to take a picnic, go out and do the family thing, but in sight of nature."

Bavarian Retreat
On Talcott Mountain, off Route 185 between Bloomfield and Simsbury, for example, George Heublein, a Hartford liquor tycoon, built an opulent summer home in 1914 that rivals Gillette Castle. Fashioned in the style of a Bavarian retreat, Heublein's three-story, cream-colored stucco house has oak-paneled living rooms, a wine cellar, servant's dining quarters and a pitched Spanish tile roof. The point of Heublein's spire soars 1,145 feet above sea level and looms as if a lighthouse for the Farmington River valley.
The tale of Heublein Tower in many ways echoes the history of much of Connecticut's hilltop parkland: former estates of the wealthy that wound up in the hands of the state. Heublein first sold his home to The Hartford Times. Then the state bought the property in 1965 and immediately set about opening it to the public. In the rush, many of the home's pre-War trappings were destroyed and are only now being restored. Yet, the tower still stands as a lavish lookout, a fact not wasted on the hordes of locals who climb the tower's 120 steps between Memorial Day and Halloween.
"Everybody in the three towns surrounding the park has been up there at some point, and they always come back with their guests," said Mason McKibben, the park maintainer in Talcott Mountain State Park. "The overall view is pretty spectacular."

Medieval and Scenic
Crowds are not as much of a problem in Norfolk's Haystack Mountain State Park, where budget cuts this year have forced the gates closed for the season. Parking is still allowed at the entrance, a half mile north of the junction of Routes 44 and 272, however, and hiking the yellow-blazed trail through thick hemlock, birch and mountain laurel groves to the 1,677-foot summit is a fitting way to reach the payoff: the Battell Stoeckel Tower, a National Register property built in 1929.
Medieval in design, this rough-hewn granite cylinder with a conical top had thrown its doors open to hikers until a lightning storm in summer 2000 torched the wood stairs near the top. (It's scheduled to be repaired this summer.) Yet even from the wide stone steps that lead up to the tower's gate, there is a stunning panorama, presenting Norfolk's town green like a postcard far below.
"Park developers in general wanted to give you a sense of the power of nature, so you could feel elevated above your day-to-day concerns," said Peter C. Baldwin, an assistant professor of history at the University of Connecticut. "After World War II, this changed, and there became a lot less emphasis on the appearance of a park and more on its function, emphasizing its ball fields and swimming pools."
The tower, and Haystack Mountain, were gifts of Ellen Battell Stoeckel, an accomplished pianist who was also something of a patron saint to the town, donating much of her family's property. Upon Stoeckel's death in 1939, Yale University also inherited her estate down the road for use in summer music festivals.
Similar donations in the forms of pavilions and towers can be found nearby at Dennis Hill State Park, about two miles south of the Norfolk Green on Route 272, and at Mount Tom State Park, off Route 202 on the Litchfield/Washington town line.

Reclaiming Nature
Sometimes making sure an area's highest points stayed open to the public required more direct action by the public. Sleeping Giant State Park, on Mt. Carmel Avenue in Hamden just east of Route 10, which owes its existence to local citizens who banded together in 1924 intent on reclaiming the land from private owners.
The association gradually bought 20 parcels of land that included everything from primitive cabins to two-story summer cottages, perched along the humped basalt ridges. The association also managed to shut down a quarrying operation on the giant's "head."
Still, the view was the thing, and there needed to be some way to take it all in. But rather than just take over an existing cottage, the Works Progress Administration -- under the direction of Bancel LaFarge, an architect and Hamden resident, and Harry Webb, an engineer -- tore down Davis Wiser's house, and from its stones, built a four-story, turreted fieldstone castle, completed in 1939.

Minding the Forests
By the early 1900's, trees had been erased from a lot of the Connecticut landscape, chopped down for fuel and to open up farmland or destroyed in forest fires.
From these conditions was born the state forestry movement, its mission to encourage the preservation of forests as well as sustainable incomes from them. Connecticut, also home to the new Yale School of Forestry, was the first state in New England to purchase property for this purpose, buying part of what is today known as Portland's Meshomasic State Forest in 1903. By 1913, the Connecticut State Park Commission formed, but it wasn't until the boom years of the 1920's that the state finally had enough money to aggressively start acquiring green spaces. By then, another factor was taking its toll: pollution. Citizens of overcrowded factory towns like Waterbury and Hartford -- many of them now owners of cars -- were seeking clean country air. 
At the same time, the state also realized it had to start better monitoring fires, and the easiest way to do this was to buy mountains and build towers on top of them. In 1929, this thinking led to the purchase of Soapstone Mountain, a windswept, 1,075-foot peak jutting up from the state's tobacco valleys that was also the first piece of Stafford Springs' Shenipsit State Forest, two and a quarter miles south of Route 190 on Gulf Road in Stafford Springs.
Toward the end of the century, as the state grew many of its trees back, it also became obvious that it was easier to patrol for fires by plane. 
In 1976, Soapstone's original fire tower, by then the only one left in the state, was removed and ended up in the Sessions Woods Wildlife Management Area in Burlington, where it now serves as a blind for studying deer and beavers. 
Its replacement, a 45-foot lifeguard-stand-like wood deck, is the only state-owned public observation tower in the eastern part of the state and allows a straight-ahead sighting of New Hampshire's flat-topped Mount Monadnock. Giant antennas, however, obscure the southern view. 
Though Shenipsit's summit is accessible by car, it can also be reached by extensive hiking, biking and snowmobile trails that crisscross its 6,126 acres.
All are the work of the Civilian Conservation Corps. Though the majority of Connecticut's wilderness lands were purchased in the 1920's, most landscaping took place during the Depression.
Connecticut's 21-camp conservation corps program, established to take unemployed men out of the city and give them low-cost projects to work on in rural areas, was responsible for building most of the roadways, picnic areas, and pond dams that grace the state's parks and forests today.
"Their contribution was immeasurable because we would have never had the money to build the road and recreation areas otherwise," said the Shenipsit forest supervisor, Marilyn Aarrestad.
"It also got the general public thinking about outdoor etiquette and open space and how important it all is."

Self-Monuments of Sorts
In addition to civic-minded governments, there were also civic-minded industrialists who put public needs first and foremost. Meriden's Walter Hubbard, owner of the metals manufacturer Bradley and Hubbard Manufacturing Company, built his Hubbard Park in 1900, --today one of the largest municipal parks in all of New England -- though for a long time state owned -- and crowning it with Castle Craig on top of East Peak in the city's Hanging Hills.
Familiar to passing drivers from its location high above I-691, Castle Craig's 32-foot brown turret is something of an architectural mishmash. It's named for Craigellachie, Scotland, but supposedly built to resemble either a Turkish or French battlement. It comes off looking like an oversized chess rook. Though hikers can climb to it, the castle is perhaps viewed best in its historical context, from the old carriage road that that begins inside the park entrance on West Main Street, one that arcs up past a reservoir to the top of the trap-rock ridge.
"I think the open-space movement here was a huge success, because they ended up creating very large blocks of property that support a number of things that are important to us," Mr. Reynolds said. "If you look at development pressure in the state today, these may continue to be the only large blocks of open space we have left."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Left, the Heublein Tower, which is on Talcott Mountain, was once an opulent summer home. Right, a 45-foot wood deck in Shenipsit State Forest allows for a straight-ahead sighting of New Hampshire's flat-topped Mount Monadnock. Below, Sleeping Giant Castle, on Mt. Carmel Avenue in Hamden, was initially privately owned land. It was built as a four-story, turreted fieldstone castle and completed in 1939. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 9); On the lookout for lookouts: in Meriden, there is Castle Craig, which looks like an oversized chess rook, and in Norfolk, the Battell Stoeckel Tower, above, looms. (Photographs by George Ruhe for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOUNTAINS (89%); STATE PARKS (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (72%); BUDGET CUTS (50%); BUDGETS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



29 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2269 words

HEADLINE: Going Uptown Down the Shore 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS

DATELINE: OCEAN GROVE 

 BODY:
GWEN PASTORELLI was thrilled to sell Cynthia Hartwig on this once-sleepy village in the shadow of Asbury Park that was better known as a staid Methodist retreat. It wasn't scripture, however, that lured Ms. Hartwig, who had been a cook at one of Philadelphia's premier seafood restaurants, to this shore community. It was the smell of success.
 "I really felt like I needed to invest here," said Ms. Pasterelli, who had her eyes on the Raspberry Cafe, a shuttered little restaurant on Main Avenue. "Everything is just going so well. And she had the expertise." 
 So Ms. Pasterelli and Ms. Hartwig opened the 30-seat cafe two weeks ago, betting that Ocean Grove would have a bang-up summer, with vacationers lined up out the door in search of such delicacies as miso-crusted salmon with baby spinach, pumpkin risotto and cumin-braised Atlantic cod. 
 Ocean Grove, not long ago a repository of reasonably priced rental homes swelled by a summer influx of fastidious and teetotalling families, is still a dry town. Yet like virtually all of the 127 miles of New Jersey's coastline, upscale is the operative word. "You would be hard-pressed to find a decent house for under $500,000 here any more," said the entrepreneurial Ms. Pastorelli, who also sells real estate for the Mary Holder Agency."
It is in this environment this that merchants and motel operators who stand to make money during the summer vacation season are practically salivating. A snowy, frigid winter, followed by a reluctant spring with the rainiest May in 40 years -- tangled up with a war in Iraq and heightened terrorism alerts that left airplanes half empty -- have kept people close to home for months. Now the conventional betting is people are prepared, even eager, to spend a small fortune during a week or two at the New Jersey shore. 
 Real-estate agents say that the rental market, slow to get off the ground this because of the harsh winter and window shopping on the internet, is picking up. Generally, rental prices have risen only slightly in a bow to the balky economy, but nothing like the huge leaps of the last several years. On the other hand, housing prices, which have more than doubled since 1998, continue to surge. 
 Put that all together, and retail businesses and restaurants are gearing for what they believe will be a lucrative season. That's the case in Atlantic City, where snow-encrusted highways and the uncertainties of war crimped profits -- $1.3 billion at the casinos in the first four months of 2003, off 4.7 percent from the same period in 2002. Still, many of them have added rooms, bars on the beach and flashier entertainment, if only to try to compete against the much-ballyhooed $1.1 billion Borgata Hotel, Casino and Spa, the first new casino-hotel to open there in 13 years.
 "I think growth is there for a long time to come," said Milton Leontiades, dean of the business school at Rutgers- Camden and a longtime shore watcher. "With the Borgata coming and more retail and hotel towers going up, Atlantic City is getting better. That also has a spillover effect into other towns, like Brigantine to the north, because people have jobs and need homes and executives can afford higher prices on the beach."
 In these otherwise tenuous economic times, said Joseph Seneca, vice president for academic affairs at Rutgers and chairman of the New Jersey Council of Economic Advisors, consistently good business at the Shore in recent years has helped keep New Jersey, Wall Street's bedroom community, healthier economically than it could have been.
 "The attractiveness of vacationing close by has spurred the real estate sector at the Shore tremendously," said Mr. Seneca. "That has caused a trade-up in house prices all over the state. Most people are enjoying appreciation in their homes. Tourism is a big part of the state's economy, and as it has been doing well, New Jersey is faring better than in the national economy. Despite the pain we are feeling in state government, the general economy, boosted by tourism and the pharmaceutical industry, is doing well here."

Signs of a Successful Season
 Another indication that this summer may be a successful one is an increase in early beach-tag sales. For instance, Sharon Day of the Belmar Tourism Development Commission said that sales of season-long beach tags, discounted from $50 to $40 before May 14 in Belmar, rose to 1,100 this year as against 500 in 2002, boding well for beating last year's overall record of $2.1 million in sales. Of course, it is a long way to $2.1 million, and perhaps more people simply wanted to save the $10. 
 "We've started advertising in Pennsylvania, New York and Connecticut and we are seeing results," Ms. Day said. 
 Not to be outdone by the newfound prosperity of nearby Ocean Grove and the real estate speculation that is driving up prices in Asbury Park, Ms. Day said a former arcade and a row of somewhat shabby stores was being razed along the ocean between 12th and 15th Avenues in Belmar and would be replaced with large single-family homes.
 "All of these things has meant a big run-up in housing prices at the Shore, particularly when you consider there isn't much building with the restrictions we already have in place," Mr. Seneca said.
 Statistics bear Mr. Seneca out, particularly in such upscale towns as Stone Harbor and Avalon on what is known as Seven-Mile island in Cape May County.
 Ron Saldano, an agent at Otten Real Estate in Stone Harbor and Avalon, the two priciest towns south of Atlantic City, has done an analysis of sales there in recent years.
 In 1998, Mr. Saldano found, the median home sale in Stone Harbor was $411,700, only slightly higher than the $405,000 the year before. By 2001, the median sale price of the 55 single-family homes sold in Stone Harbor was $950,000, more than double what it was just three years earlier. 
 And while the rate of appreciation may have slowed a bit, it has not stopped. The median home sale through June in Stone Harbor was $995,000. Avalon, its neighbor to the north, saw its highest-price sale ever in April: $5.7 million for a beachfront house near 52nd Street in the middle of the island.
 "And it was sold unfurnished," said Mr. Soldano in mock surprise. "With the demographics, I don't see how this will stop any time soon."
 Mr. Soldano and others attribute the real estate run-up,-- despite the devaluation of the stock market, to several factors. First, said Mr. Soldano, there is a tremendous amount of inherited wealth coming into the market. 
 He said that as people from the Depression and World War II generation died off, they were leaving their money to their children, many of whom are nearing the end of paying college tuition for the own children. What better investment with those inheritances than second homes, particularly with stagnation in the stock market and money-market interest rates at a 40-year low.
 "Where else are you going to put your money?" said Gail Cook, the owner of Real Estate in Harvey Cedars, a well-heeled section of Long Beach Island. "There is a mix, too. There are the conservative older folks who always had investments in real estate. There are people whose stock portfolios lost money and realize they have to diversify. And we have younger people who have recently made a lot of money. Plus, it's fun to have a beach house instead of, say, an office building as an investment."
 In addition, the past several years have seen New Yorkers looking toward New Jersey rather than their traditional vacation spots on the eastern end of Long Island, where prices truly are astronomical. Now, said Mr. Soldano, New Yorkers are venturing farther south than Atlantic City. 
 "I had a family from Massachusetts buy a summer house here," he said, echoing Ms. Cook's observation that people were coming from as far away as Ohio, Florida and even Arizona to look for property on the New Jersey shore this year. Two years ago, she said, a family from California built a 6,000-square-foot house on the beach in Loveladies, another expensive town on Long Beach Island.
 "People who grew up at the Jersey Shore as baby-boomers remember it fondly, so they are now coming back, wherever they might live, especially if it's a day's drive like Washington or Baltimore or even Massachusetts," said Mr. Soldano. "Plus, those near New York have found that however high we may think it has gotten, it is still cheaper and less aggravation than Long Island."

More Year-Round Residents
 More and more, in fact, people who have spent their vacations at the Jersey Shore are staying there year-round. In Manasquan, for instance, the population rose by nearly 20 percent, to 6,310 from 5,369, between 1990 and 2000. Nor is it alone in witnessing that phenomenon; during the same 10-year period, according to 2000 Census figures, the population in Seaside Heights rose 33 percent, from to 3,155 from 2,136; Ventnor went up 17 percent, to 12,910 from 11,005; Brigantine 11 percent, to 12,594 from 11,354; Wildwood 21 percent, to 5,436 from 4,484; and Avalon, up 18 percent, to 2,143 from 1,809.
 One of those new year-round residents in Avalon is Dave Coskey, president of Comcast-Spectacor marketing, which controls the the Philadelphia 76ers and the Flyers, who drives about 70 minutes each way to work so he can have his beach paradise when he comes home.
 "We lived in Gloucester Township, about 40 miles more toward Philadelphia, and had a summer house down here," said Mr. Coskey. "By the time our oldest was in fourth grade, we noticed that our weekends were becoming longer. We never wanted to leave, so we would stretch it to Monday morning and maybe come down on Thursday night. Finally, it was a gorgeous day at the beach. My wife had just transferred to sales, so she didn't have to go into the office every day. So we just decided to go for it."
 His wife, Monica, who used to make the 100-mile trip to New York from Avalon three times a week, finally quit her job this year and bought the Ocean Deli, on 33rd Street and Ocean Drive, about eight blocks from the Coskey home.
 "Now, we're really a Shore household," said Mr. Coskey. "It's just another measure of how much things have changed here."
 For some businesses at the Shore, wealthier yearround residents present a mixed blessing. Larry Hanker, who has owned Neptune's Jewels as well as The Store for Pappagallo, a women's clothing boutique, on the main shopping drag in Stone Harbor since 1981, felt compelled to redesign his stores' interiors, making the lighting more subtle and putting in maple cabinetry and trim.
 "When you find you have an average home price of $1 million, you find you have a different kind of clientele and you need to do things differently," Mr. Hanker said. 
 He said that when he first opened hisshops 96th Street, the main shopping strip, was "wall-to-wall people" every night of the summer. But these days, Mr. Hanker added, bigger and more expensive houses have translated into fewer renters and less foot traffic.
 "It absolutely worries me," he said. "There is more money here, but since they are here all summer, they don't shop as much. It is vacationers, the week-ong people, who drive summer business. Still, you have to go with what you have, so we hope our renovations bring in that clientele."
 Further north, where there are even more yearround residents, merchants have similarly adapted to a changing marketplace. Tom Rechlin, whose Ocean Grove Flower and Gift Shop on Main Avenue, not far from the Raspberry cafe, has been open for 35 years, said the summer was no longer his busiest season.
 "Ten years ago, maybe, this was a summertime scene," Mr. Rechlin said, "but now we have more year-round residents and December, with Christmas flowers and all, is our busiest month. May is our second busiest, with garden supplies and that line."
 "Don't get me wrong," he added. "I love the summer business and we all want a good summer. I have a line of T-shirts and those things for the summer visitors. But any business owner here who now caters to just summer business is missing the boat."

Rebuilding Asbury Park
 In Asbury Park, where demolition of abandoned buildings is going apace in an effort to revive this burned-out beach town, the potential for attracting year-round residents has the allure of gold at the end of the rainbow. In fact, the former owners of the Raspberry Cafe in Ocean Grove, crossed Wesley Lake last year to open a restaurant called Moonstruck in a four-story Victorian building in Asbury Park.
 "Originally we moved because we wanted more space and have a liquor license and still be near Ocean Grove," said Luke Magliaro, one of the owners. "But now with Asbury poised to come back, it is a really good move. 
 Mr. Magliaro said he anticipated a strong summer, though "to tell you the truth, the winter was unbelievable; we were booked every Saturday night and did well even in February."
 Ultimately, the reason that businesses in most Shore will thrive is simple: that huge body of water just to the east.
 "There is never going to be enough supply of anything at the Shore that will outstrip demand," said Joel Naroff, the chief economist at Cherry Hill-based Commerce Bancorp. "Even if there is a downturn, there seems always to be a floor to the downturn. And now that the Shore is being looked at as not only a rental or a secondary location, but a primary one, the supply is even less.
 "I tell you this, and I am surely not alone," he added. "If my wife didn't have a great teaching job and we could live wherever we wanted, you had better bet we would be looking at the Jersey Shore. It is a wonderful place to be."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Spring Lake, top, a pavilion rises on the beach. Ocean Grove, top inset, is experiencing a resurgence. In Stone Harbor, bottom, stores are renovating to keep up with wealthy residents. (Photographs by Marty Godleski for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Tom Rogers, above, waits for business on Ocean Avenue in Belmar. In Asbury Park, a resort town stymied by delays in renewal, is showing signs of life. Last year, the Moonstruck restaurant, below left, opened in a four-story Victorian building. Larry Hanker, the owner of Pappagallo's in Stone Harbor, felt compelled to redesign his stores' interior.; Not to be outdone by the newfound prosperity of nearby Ocean Grove and the real estate speculation driving up prices in Asbury Park, Belmar is razing some of its shabbier oceanfront storefronts. Samantha Cotler, left, and Amber Reynolds, employees at Exit 98 Beach Apparel in Belmar, fold T-shirts and await the summer crowds. (Photographs by Jill C. Becker for The New York Times)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANT REVIEWS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); RETAILERS (86%); BEACHES (76%); CASINOS (75%); HOUSING MARKET (74%); HOTELS & MOTELS (74%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (72%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (72%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (72%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); HOME PRICES (72%); IRAQ WAR (68%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (65%); INTERNET RETAILING (64%); CONSUMER GOODS RENTAL (52%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



30 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1201 words

HEADLINE: RESTAURANTS; 
White Glove

BYLINE:  By DAVID CORCORAN

DATELINE: PIERMONT, N.Y. 

 BODY:
A GIANT steel flywheel sits in the park by the Hudson River in this Rockland County village, a few miles north of the state line. It is sculpture now, a rusted monument to Piermont's industrial past. If you turn your back to it, you can see the rambling clapboard building where Xaviar's occupies part of the ground floor.
 Peter Xavier Kelly, the 43-year-old founder, namesake, chef and guiding spirit of the restaurant, grew up in Yonkers, a gull's flight across the river. When he was a boy, that flywheel was still churning out electricity for Piermont's two paper factories, whose workers would finish their shifts and head for the taverns that lined Piermont Avenue. Today the paper mills are long gone, replaced by waterfront condominiums, and the taverns have been replaced by restaurants and galleries. Still, if you squint, Piermont Avenue looks much as it did then. 
 Yet when you enter Xaviar's, you are in some Parisian jewel box, a tiny room with a dozen tables laid with Versace china and Baccarat figurines, walls and ceiling hung with paintings and crystal chandeliers, and staff and patrons dressed accordingly. When the condos were going up across the street, the developer described them as "white glove"; well, this is a white-glove restaurant. 
 As such, it is not for everybody. The menu is prix fixe, $60 for four courses. At 16, Xaviar's is the oldest restaurant in a small Kelly empire. The others -- the Freelance Cafe, next door (enthusiastically reviewed in this space in 2000), and Restaurant X in nearby Congers (ditto, 1998) -- have a casual, populist streak. By contrast, Xaviar's feels formal and a little stiff. 
 Still, it is hard to argue with its success, or its cooking. Mr. Kelly, who is self-taught, was heavily influenced by nouvelle cuisine pioneers like Paul Bocuse and Alain Chapel. The recipes are French with Asian and Mediterranean accents, the ingredients are seasonal and flawless, and the dishes are colorful and beautifully balanced. 
 In recent weeks, for example, Xaviar's has been serving a first course that could hardly be simpler: four stalks of poached asparagus in a creamy wine sauce loaded with morel mushrooms. The morels are fresh, from a local farm whose location Mr. Kelly will not discuss for fear of an invasion of enthusiasts. They are tender, free of grit and full of character. I don't think this dish will be on the menu very long; if you see it you need to grab it.
 Asparagus takes on a different personality in a spring salad, in which it is shaved to fine shards, blanched for 20 seconds, then combined with a black-truffle vinaigrette, tiny balls of avocado and shavings of fine aged Parmesan cheese. Thin, crackerlike grissini protrude like antennas; a dusting of Thai spices makes them full contributing members of the production.
 In another first-course salad, calamari are described as "pasta," and they are unlike any squid you are likely to encounter: thinly sliced, briefly poached and tossed with garlic, broccolini and red peppers. Oyster sauce, sake and espresso lend notes of brine, sweetness and smoke. It's a stunning combination. So is a spring salad of raw hamachi, or yellowtail tuna, with roasted red peppers, ramp leaves and potato crisps.
 A slab of mild foie gras, perfectly poached, comes with three garnishes: rhubarb-ginger chutney, orange-peel marmalade and a robin's-egg cup of Sauternes jelly. Skate wing is handsomely browned, its nutty flavor set off by aged balsamic vinegar and by a leek puree; little packets of Bibb lettuce enclose chunks of lobster, an irresistible touch. 
 Some early courses do not come off as well. Scallops with oxtail may be a nouvelle cuisine standby, but it is an odd combination because both main ingredients are soft. "First of the season" soft-shell crab is batter-fried to the point of greasiness. And lobster tail does not benefit from a draping of salty prosciutto.
 Among main courses, rack of lamb is simply classic: two large, superb chops, with more of that asparagus and a nifty round of garlic custard. Veal medallions are roasted with a flat sausage of chopped sweetbread; it adheres to the veal with a thin layer of caul fat that melts in the roasting -- a rich, deeply satisfying dish. 
 Pekin duck (the kind from Long Island, not Beijing) is wrapped around foie gras; it might be too high-toned and precious if Israeli couscous with North African spices didn't provide an impish counterpoint. I have no argument with two more standard dishes, Pacific ahi tuna in a wasabi crust and dry-aged New York sirloin with gingered shiitake mushrooms and truffled French fries.
 Desserts tend to depart from the high seriousness of the rest of the menu. Baked Alaska is an outsized Hostess Sno-Ball-like confection of chocolate, pistachio and raspberry ice creams under a layer of browned meringue. White Chocolate Dome, an igloo of white chocolate pudding in a dark-chocolate coating, is surrounded by a whimsical circle of dulce de leche sauce that looked so much like a giraffe's coat that it brought grins to everyone at our table.
 It seems preposterous to advise saving room for anything, but the waiter will bring a tray of excellent petits fours; one recent night they included mini-beignets in the tradition of Mr. Kelly's beloved New Orleans.
 He may love Louisiana, but his heart is in his hometown, and he is negotiating with the City of Yonkers to open another Xaviar's on its aged City Pier. This one would be big and brash, more of a Restaurant X than a Xaviar's. It sounds like a stretch, particularly in today's economy. But if anyone can pull it off, he can.

Xaviar's
506 Piermont Avenue, Piermont, N.Y.
(845)359-7007
www.xaviars.com

EXCELLENT

ATMOSPHERE -- Classic French: haute, intimate and formal. (Men must wear jackets.)
SERVICE -- Polished and correct.
SMOKING -- Not allowed.
WINE LIST -- An encyclopedia with 800 entries, including a fair selection in the $20's and $30's, with a few well-chosen offerings by the glass.
RECOMMENDED DISHES -- Asparagus with morels, shaved asparagus salad, calamari salad, foie gras, braised short ribs, skate wing, red snapper; Pekin duck with foie gras, veal medallions, Pacific ahi tuna, rack of lamb; walnut parfait, cheesecake, white-chocolate dome, baked Alaska, Grand Marnier souffle.
PRICE RANGE -- Lunch: $35 for three courses. Dinner: $60 for four courses, $80 for a 10-course tasting menu.
HOURS -- Closed Mondays and Tuesdays. Lunch: Fridays and Sundays, noon to 2 p.m. Dinner: Wednesdays, Thursdays and Fridays, 6 to 9:30 p.m.; Saturdays, two seatings, at 6 and 9 p.m.; Sundays, 5 to 8 p.m.
CREDIT CARDS -- Not accepted; cash or personal checks only.
RESERVATIONS -- Recommended.
WHEELCHAIR ACCESS -- Not accessible. Restaurant is three steps up from street level, and tables and the restroom entrance are a tight squeeze.

IF YOU GO -- Piermont is in southeastern Rockland County, three miles north of the New Jersey line. From the Palisades Interstate Parkway, take Exit 4 to northbound Route 9W and continue three miles to the exit for Piermont. Turn right on Ferdon Avenue, which becomes Piermont Avenue, the village's main street. The restaurant is on the left. It offers valet parking, almost a necessity on weekends.

GRAPHIC: Photo (Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); DRINKING PLACES (88%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (84%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); PAPER & PACKAGING (74%); MENU PRICES (71%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (69%); PAPER MILLS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



31 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1195 words

HEADLINE: COMMUNITIES; 
It Takes a Special Dog For a Needy Elder

BYLINE:  By BARBARA STEWART

DATELINE: MORRISTOWN 

 BODY:
LLOYD BURLINGAME'S first guide dog at Seeing Eye here in Morristown was a German shepherd that was spunky, smart and handsome - or so people told him. Mr. Burlingame, who was 63 at the time and the chairman of the graduate theater design department at New York University, had to take their word for it. He had been left blind from a virulent form of macular degeneration.
 Within days, he realized that the shepherd was, as he put it, miscast. Like a callow youth in a rush, the dog was impatient with the measured pace of the older man. 
 "That dog was more than I needed," Mr. Burlingame said. At intersections, he said, the shepherd would charge ahead, pulling Mr. Burlingame behind him. "I told them: 'You've given me a 12-cylinder Ferrari. I need a 6-cylinder Volvo,"' he said. 
 So they gave him Hickory, a yellow Labrador retriever. As soon as Mr. Burlingame picked up Hickory's work halter, his life, which had gone from constricting to imprisoning, burst open again. 
 "I felt: 'Where has this been all my life?"' he said. "'This is magnificent."" 
 Now, five years later, he grasps for superlatives to describe Hickory and their relationship. Before Hickory, he said, he would start the day by groping his way from his Greenwich Village apartment to the university, a few blocks away. When his sight worsened, he tried a white cane. Twice he was struck by bicycles. Once a malicious stranger directed into moving traffic, telling him that the coast was clear. (A passer-by grabbed him as he stepped off the curb.)
 That was when he realized that he wanted a guide with a brain, who loved him. 
 Now, he said, he and Hickory go out at night and take two-mile walks every day. Regulars on the route see Hickory so often that they call him the mayor of Washington Square.
 Stories like Mr. Burlingame's - of happy matches between older blind people and gentle-tempered guide dogs - are increasingly common at Seeing Eye and other guide-dog schools through the country. Twenty years ago, most blind people seeking guide dogs were well under 50, said Douglas S. Roberts, program director at Seeing Eye. But half the 275 people who received a Seeing Eye dog last year were 50 or older. One-third of them were getting their first dog, while the others were seeking a replacement for a dog that was retiring. 
 Older people need quieter dogs that require less vigorous exercise, he said. Ten years ago, when Seeing Eye looked at population projections and saw a bulge coming, it began to breed dogs to fill the need. (It is also breeding its dogs to be a bit smaller, to fit comfortably into cramped spaces in economy cars and under airplane seats.)
 A younger person whose life is a brisk round of classes, jobs, friends and workouts needs a guide dog with unflagging energy to keep pace. But the older people are, the more likely they are to take their time. That means their guide dogs must also be content with life in the slow lane. 
 A growing older population is resulting in more people with vision deterioration, especially macular degeneration, the most common cause of blindness in the elderly. In addition, the number of younger people who are blind has dropped sharply over the last 25 years, with the elimination of several major causes of blindness in the young. Soldiers have not been involved in sustained combat, as they were in Vietnam when many were blinded. In the 1980's laws requiring motorcycle riders to wear helmets cut down on the high rates of head injuries that were often accompanied by blindness. And the treatment of premature babies was changed, reducing the incidence of detached retinas that left many sightless.
 Seeing Eye has long used golden and Labrador retrievers and German shepherds, which were the first guide dogs in the 1920's. In attempts to breed gentler dogs, it is using labs and goldens, and sometimes also producing golden-lab crossbreeds. 
 But dog-breeding is an imprecise science, especially when characteristics like gentleness and patience are so subjective.
 "You can breed two gentle dogs," Mr. Roberts said. "But you don't know if the puppy will be gentle, too."
 It is far simpler to breed lively dogs, he said. Furthermore, the danger in breeding gentle dogs is that they will be timid. 
 "We have plenty of young fireball dogs, no problem," he said. "But it's much harder to develop a dog that is gentle-natured and is not going to pull somebody over or pull a back muscle - but that will still be courageous. If it's too gentle, it won't have the courage to guide a blind person." 
 Dr. Eldin Leighton, a geneticist at Seeing Eye, says that dogs are generally bred for the quality of the hip joints and "trainability," which he defines as a love of humans and of work, a strong sense of responsibility and an ability to puzzle through problems. 
 Until the late 70's, when it built its own breeding facilities, Seeing Eye bought dogs from outside breeders. Now it breeds most of its own, though a few are periodically brought in from the outside to prevent in-breeding. 
 At Seeing Eye, the dogs have been "molded" to weaken their natural herding and fetching instincts, Dr Leighton said. What remains is a capacity for love and duty. 
 "They have an even stronger desire to be with humans ," he said. "And they want to work. Once they're trained as guides, that's their joy in life. They have a job to do now, and they're just delighted to do it everyday."
 The dogs do not just spring up as guides, of course, ready to valiantly lead their owners out of the train station or through the crush to Macy's sales racks. 
 At any time, Seeing Eye has 600 puppies, which are raised as pets by volunteers, in their homes - including many high-school students in and around Morristown. At 5 months, the puppies begin six months of extensive guide training. At Seeing Eye 70 percent will graduate, going on to guide blind people. The others, which are usually rejected for minor physical problems, may be adopted as pets or as working dogs for the deaf or disabled. The waiting list to adopt a Seeing Eye dog can be as long as four years. Finally, a guide dog spends a month with its new owner, who, with others from around the United States and Canada, stays at the school's residences to learn to command, trust and be led by the guide dog. 
 It is all the training that makes a skilled, unflappable guide dog out of a bundle of potential. 
 To succeed in a career as guides, dogs should fit a mold. Guide dogs are trained to disobey an owner's command in dangerous situations; they will refuse, for example, a command to step into the path of an oncoming car. Seeing Eye calls this intelligent disobedience, a difficult but essential concept for a guide dog to master. 
 But, Mr. Roberts said, dogs shouldn't be too smart. For instance, he said, border collies are so smart that they give more priority to their own interests than their owners. Rather than obey a command like "Stay!" they might be scheming to grab the hamburger out on the counter. 
 "We want dogs that are smart, consistent, steady, quiet," Mr. Roberts said. "We want them to take initiative, but we don't want them to be too independent. Like good employees."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Sweetheart, a crossbreed training on the streets of Morristown, above, and a puppy, left, were bred to be more gentle than guide dogs of the past. (Photographs by Nancy Wegard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DOGS (91%); BLINDNESS (89%); AGING (89%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); CORNEA & RETINA DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (75%); MOTOR VEHICLES (73%); MAYORS (69%); POPULATION DECLINE (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



32 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX; 
Why Ban Offshore Services?

BYLINE:  By ARJUN SAXENA and DOUGLAS LAVIN; Arjun Saxena and Douglas Lavin are consultants at Inductis, a strategy consulting firm in New Providence.

 BODY:
THE state senate recently passed a bill to prohibit the state government from contracting with foreigners to perform services. Maryland, Missouri, Wisconsin and Connecticut are contemplating similar legislation. Long on sentiment but short on sense, such bills deprive states of a powerful tool for saving money and undermine their economies.
 The New Jersey bill materialized after a contractor hired by the state to manage a welfare and food-stamp program moved its customer-service operations to Bombay from Wisconsin to cut costs. The grandstanding began almost immediately. 
 "We shouldn't be sending taxpayer-funded jobs for state contracts to foreign countries when our citizens need work." said Senator Shirley Turner, a Mercer Democrat who introduced the bill. 
 Never mind that the jobs were not based in New Jersey in the first place. After a member of Congress, Representative Thomas M. Barrett of Wisconsin, asked the federal government to look into the situation, the health and human services secretary, Tommy G. Thompson, tactfully replied that although the practice of sending work offshore made him uneasy, it lay outside the jurisdiction of the federal government.
 But since when does buying from foreigners make America uneasy? Tell that to the Toyota assembly workers in Kentucky and the Honda employees in Ohio.
 Consider the private sector. GE Capital and American Express together are said to be saving more than $450 million a year by using offshore outsourcing of services. For the banking industry, reports say that outsourcing to India has resulted in $8 billion in savings over the last four years. With some 82,000 employees, and an annual budget of nearly $24 billion, New Jersey could achieve similar savings if it undertook even a modest offshore initiative. With the savings, the state could increase education and job training programs or, if it is really concerned about economic development, lower taxeson business.
 Innovative governments are catching on. The Greater London Authority awarded a $10 million contract to an offshore software company, Mastek, to develop the software and run the back-end of the radical new program in London that charges tolls for driving within the city during rush hours. Data show that buying services offshore saved the city $4 million to $5 million.
 Efforts to stop local government from buying abroad run afoul of numerous commitments made by the United States in such accords as the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade, or GATT, and Nafta, the North American Free Trade Agreement. And they run counter to national policy. For more than a decade, the United States has been preaching liberalization of trade in services, adopting policy to force countries to allow American banks and insurance companies to operate abroad.
 That is because services is an American strength.
 Instead of trying to stop market forces by legislative fiat, New Jersey should take a cue from some of the companies that are based in the state. 
 The telecommunications companies Lucent, AT&T and IDT are investing to take advantage of a simple economic fact: services can be imported and exported over phone lines just as easily as goods can be shipped by boat.
 What's next? Will New Jersey outlaw purchases of computers and cars that are made offshore?
 Because most products are no longer pure goods or services anyway, enforcing the law could require some strenuous exercises in metaphysics. As much as 60 percent of the value in an average desktop computer is represented by software. That includes driver software produced in Taiwan, the soft component of memory chips designed by Korean technicians and Windows, some of which is produced by Microsoft offshore.
 What state governments need is not naive legislation, but cost-saving innovation. 
 The 50 states face budget shortfalls of $29 billion in the current fiscal year. Bills like New Jersey's certainly won't help close the gaps. In fact, such bills benefit no one: not poor people, workers, taxpayers or state economies that, like it or not, are deeply enmeshed in global trends in technology and trade. Choosing political grandstanding over sound economics does, however, ensure that states will pay above-market rates for services.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Tom Bloom) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); OFFSHORING (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (86%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (84%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (84%); CONTRACT AWARDS (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE WORKERS (75%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (73%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); FACTORY WORKERS (71%); FOOD STAMPS (71%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (67%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); INSURANCE (65%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (61%); CUSTOMER SERVICE (56%); JURISDICTION (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (67%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (55%)

TICKER: GNE (PAR) (67%); GEC (LSE) (67%); GE (SWX) (67%); GE (NYSE) (67%); AXP (NYSE) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (55%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (55%)

PERSON: TOMMY THOMPSON (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (92%); MUMBAI, INDIA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (79%); ENGLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



33 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 6; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Quietly Expanding Our Nuclear Budget 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Cold War Long Over, Bush Administration Examines Steps to a Revamped Arsenal" (news article, May 29): 
 Although the nearly $50 million just approved by Congress for developing new or modified nuclear weapons and for reducing the time necessary to conduct a nuclear test to just 18 months appears "tiny by the standards of the $400 billion Pentagon" budget, a look at the bigger picture reveals a troubling trend. 
During the cold war, the Department of Energy and its predecessor agencies spent an average of $4.2 billion annually, in inflation-adjusted dollars, to develop, test and manufacture 70,000 nuclear weapons and to maintain the nuclear weapons production infrastructure. Today, even though no new weapons are being built or explosively tested, the fiscal 2004 defense budget requests $6.4 billion for the same basic activities (7 percent more than 2003 and 15 percent more than 2002).
The Bush administration may say it is reducing both the number and the role of nuclear weapons, but its budgets send the opposite message.

STEPHEN I. SCHWARTZ
Publisher, Bulletin of the
Atomic Scientists
Chicago, May 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COLD WAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); APPROVALS (77%); DEFENSE SPENDING (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); NUCLEAR SCIENCE (72%) ATOMIC WEAPONS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SCHWARTZ, STEPHEN I 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



34 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 80 words

HEADLINE: BRIEFINGS: RELIGION; 
ARCHDIOCESE CUTS STAFF

BYLINE:  By Karen DeMasters

 BODY:
 In a rare move, the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Newark has laid off employees in an effort to close a $3.5 million deficit in its $40 million budget. 
Forty-four of its 250 employees, or about 18 percent, were let go. The archdiocese includes 235 parishes and 173 schools, as well as its administrative offices in Newark. A spokesman attributed the shortfall to the poor economy. He said a furlough was last considered in the 1970's but was not imposed then. Karen DeMasters

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); BUDGETS (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (90%) NEW JERSEY, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



35 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: MAY 25-31: ECONOMY; 
GOOD NEWS?

BYLINE:  By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
All the ingredients are in place for an economic rebound during the rest of 2003. Now investors and policy makers are scouring the economy for actual signs of an improvement. 
 Last week brought some early -- if still uncertain -- hints that good news might arrive in time to keep the Federal Reserve from deciding it must cut short-term interest rates again when it meets in late June. 
 Retail spending rose in late May, according to two surveys of chain stores released Wednesday. New claims for unemployment insurance fell slightly, the Labor Department said the next day. On Friday, a closely watched survey of corporate managers in the Midwest showed that they had ordered more goods in May than in April.
None of the improvements were large, and these indicators are among the economy's most volatile. But the recent increase in the stock market, the decline in oil prices and the tax cut signed by President Bush last week give economists reason to think the signs will become more clearly optimistic in the weeks ahead.
If they do not, the Fed is likely to cut rates for the 13th time since the start of 2001 in an effort to prevent a deepening of the nearly three-year-old economic slump.
 David Leonhardt

GRAPHIC: Chart: "NOW AND THEN"In New York City, the arrows are up, but the financial situation is not. Anticipated revenue from fines in New York CityFiscal 2004: $662.7 MILLIONFiscal 2003: $529.2 MILLION Projected revenue from parking ticketsFiscal 2004: $550 MILLIONFiscal 2003: $425.6 MILLION Anticipated number of parking citationsFiscal 2004: 6.2 MILLIONFiscal 2003: 4.5 MILLION Daily calls to a New York City eviction services centerCURRENTLY: 902001: 40 (Sources: New York City government.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); INTEREST RATES (71%); OIL & GAS PRICES (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (70%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); MIDWEST USA (54%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



36 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 8; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: HORSE RACING; 
Where No Gelding Has Gone Before

BYLINE:  By JOE DRAPE

 BODY:
The saga of Funny Cide is a fairy tale, beginning with his place in history as the first New York-bred horse to capture the Kentucky Derby and down to the charm of his small-time owners -- a cross of upstate high school buddies and devotees of horse racing's Brigadoon, Saratoga Springs. They have boarded a yellow school bus in Louisville and again in Baltimore to watch their modest purchase run off with the first two legs of the Triple Crown.
 Now Funny Cide is a victory from becoming the 12th horse to sweep the series and the first since Affirmed did so in 1978. His owners are just the mile-and-a-half distance of the Belmont Stakes, the Test of the Champion, from pocketing a $5 million bonus. 
 But one textbook fact slows the narrative and erodes some of the romance of this tale: Funny Cide is a gelding, or a castrated horse. 
It is not uncommon to find geldings in races at tracks across the nation: of the 72,825 individual thoroughbred starters in North America in 2002, 18,796 -- or 25.8 percent -- were geldings, according to Jockey Club officials, who say that estimate is on the low side because of incomplete reporting. They win, too, taking down more than $282 million in purse money last year, or 23.1 percent of the purses available in North America in 2002. 
It is also not unusual to find geldings in the pantheon of the sport's great and most beloved horses. Kelso was named Horse of the Year five years in a row from 1960 to 1964, Forego claimed that title three times in the 1970's and John Henry twice in the 1980's.
But a gelding has never challenged for a Triple Crown. In fact, from 1919 to 1956, geldings were prohibited from running in the Belmont Stakes, so owners intent on making a killing in the breeding shed did not have to worry about having a payday spoiled by an animal who could not procreate. 
To this day, Funny Cide's lack of genitals would keep him out of the classic 3-year-old races in Europe like the English, Irish and French Derbies.
"It's harder to cut horses because of their economic value," said John Ward, who trained the 2001 Derby winner, Monarchos, and whose uncle, Sherrill Ward, trained Forego to two of the gelding's three championships. "You really can't cut a horse with a nice sire until they are past their star power."
In many instances it becomes a case of pay-me-now-or-pay-me-a-lot-more-later. Three years ago, Fusaichi Pegasus caught the nation's fancy with an emphatic victory in the Kentucky Derby, but raced only three more times before being retired to the life of a stallion. As a racehorse he earned nearly $2 million. As a stallion prospect, however, the son of the late Mr. Prospector was sold for $60 million to Ashford Stud, where he earns $125,000 a session to breed with up to 100 mares a season.
Funny Cide, on the other hand, was woefully lacking in pedigree; he was the product of an unproven sire named Distorted Humor and a mare named Belle's Good Cide who died in March from colic and who earned only $26,469 in a 26-race career that included only two victories. Besides, Funny Cide had another problem -- he was a ridgling, or a horse with one undescended testicle.
"Sometimes this causes discomfort during training," explained Dr. Larry R. Bramlage, an on-call veterinarian for the American Association of Equine Practitioners. "The castration of a horse, once it is decided that it will not be a stallion, makes them much more tractable in training and a much more effective athlete. Many of the famous geldings of the past were totally ineffective racehorses as intact males and became stars once gelded."
Funny Cide was already gelded when the trainer Barclay Tagg purchased him last spring as a 2-year-old for $75,000 on behalf of the Sackatoga Stable partnership. He had been following the progress of the youngster on a training farm in Florida for months and was captivated by his long, lean build.
"When you castrate horses, they don't quite get that heavy growth up front," Tagg said. "The front end is usually 65 percent of their weight and then you put a jockey on and there's a lot of pounding on their front legs. Castrating a horse tends to distribute the weight a little bit more. I think it helps with soundness. I've found that geldings tend to stay sounder longer."
But gelding also affects the disposition of a horse, especially 3-year-old colts, who are akin to teenage boys raging with hormones and discovering girls for the first time.
"Colts naturally become more aggressive, and especially between races they become hard to handle," said Ward, who kept the massive Forego on his family farm for part of the gelding's retirement. 
"They can do more harm to themselves as far as striking and challenging the people around them, as well as other horses," he said. "They are more interested in being macho with the horse next to them, instead of getting down to business and running by them. Geldings are way more mellow."
Deprived of a love life, geldings become more dedicated to the craft of running and often gallop their way into the hearts of racing fans. The indomitable Kelso started 63 times from 1959 to 1966 and won 39 times at distances from six furlongs to two miles in mud, dirt and on grass.
"You look at the pictures of Kelso in the stretch, and in every one of them his ears are pinned back because he is determined not to let another horse get in front of him," said Kelso's trainer, Carl Hanford, 87. "He would be kind and placid in the barn, but run his legs off on the track."
After finishing fourth to Secretariat in the 1973 Derby, Forego raced until he was 8, winning 34 of 57 starts and going off as the post-time favorite in 40 of his last 42 races. And John Henry, a champion on both dirt and turf, retired in 1984 after his 83rd start with 39 victories and more than $6.5 million in earnings, still a record for geldings. 
On Oct. 15, 1983, in one of the most memorable days in the history of Belmont Park, Kelso, then 26, and Forego, 13, showed up on the track to lead John Henry to the post for the 65th running of the Jockey Club Gold Cup. Some 32,000 people lined up 10 deep on the rail and cheered their approach.
"It is now post time -- for Kelso and Forego!" said the track announcer, Fred Capossela, the voice of New York racing for 31 years, who came out of retirement for the day.
 But alas, it was not John Henry's day. He finished fifth behind Slew o'Gold. Nor, as it turned out, was it Kelso's; he succumbed to colic the next day and died. In 1997, Forego was put down after breaking his long pastern bone.
Still, one of the great geldings survives: Now 28, John Henry is enjoying retirement at the Kentucky Horse Park in Lexington.
On Saturday, more than 100,000 people are expected to trek to Belmont Park in Long Island to watch another would-be great gelding perhaps make a little more history. Yes, a fairy tale ending would be nice, but an epic one would be even better.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Funny Cide, above, is the first gelding to challenge for the Triple Crown, but not the first to have great success. John Henry, center; Kelso, lower left; and Forego were all named Horse of the Year at least twice. (Reuters, above; Associated Press, center; New York Racing Authority, lower right)(pg. 1); Kona Gold, ridden by Alex Solis, winning the 2000 Breeders' Cup Sprint. (Getty Images)(pg. 7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HORSE RACING (92%); HORSES (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (77%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOUISVILLE, KY, USA (92%) KENTUCKY, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); EUROPE (66%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



37 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 6-01-03; 
Weimar Whiners

BYLINE:  By James Traub; James Traub is a contributing writer for the magazine.

 BODY:
Have you heard that it's 1933 in America? God knows I have. Three times in the last few weeks I have been told -- by a novelist, an art historian and a professor of classics at Harvard, none of them ideologues or cranks -- that the erosion of civil liberties under the Bush administration constitutes an early stage, or at least a precursor, to the kind of fascism Hitler brought to Germany. I first heard the 1933 analogy a few months back, when one of the nation's leading scholars of international law suggested at a meeting of diplomats that Bush's advisers were probably plotting to suspend the election of 2004.
 Now, I think I understand the argument that compares the United States with imperial Rome, or with one of the unwitting great powers of 1914. But 1933? Hitler? That's grotesque; and the fact that is has achieved such currency among what the French call the bien pensant is vivid proof that in much of the left, 9/11 and its aftermath have increased the visceral loathing not of terrorism or of Islamist fundamentalism but of President George Bush. 
 Like all forms of reductio ad Hitler, the 1933 analogy constitutes a gross trivialization of the worst event in modern history. Do we remember what actually happened in 1933? Hitler ascended to the chancellorship, suspended constitutional rights and banned all opposition political parties, sent the Brown Shirts into the streets and issued the first decrees stripping Jews of their rights. To compare the passage of the U.S.A. Patriot Act and the proposed -- but scotched -- program to get ordinary citizens to pass along tips about suspicious dark-skinned strangers, not to mention the cancellation of Tim Robbins's invitation to appear at the Baseball Hall of Fame because he might criticize the war in Iraq -- to compare these and other inroads on our liberties to Hitler's budding terror state is repellent.
But 1933 theorists, at least the more sophisticated ones, look beyond current policy to what they consider the structural similarities between contemporary America and various fascist states. In a recent article in The Nation, Sheldon Wolin, an emeritus professor of politics at Princeton, described the contemporary Republican party as "a fervently doctrinal party, zealous, ruthless, antidemocratic and boasting a near majority." The combination of toothless Democrats, a compliant media and "a politically demobilized society" ensures that the Republicans, and their corporate overlords, will face little opposition in their drive for total domination.
Haven't we been here before? Back in the 60's, when my ideological sympathies were first shaped, practically everybody was considered a fascist, including your junior-high-school principal. Those were genuinely apocalyptic times: National Guardsmen were shooting protesters, black revolutionaries were strapping on bandoliers and President Nixon was turning the F.B.I. into a private investigative force. But the era ended not with the triumph of the state, but with its humbling: the impeachment proceedings against Nixon, the election of the modest Jimmy Carter, the clipping of the C.I.A.'s wings (now being unpinned post-9/11). Civic and state institutions, including the media, the judiciary and the party system, proved stronger than the forces that would constrain them.
And this is really the fundamental point: fascist states arise not simply because a mesmerizing leader seizes state power in unsettled times but because the democratic institutions that might oppose him have rotted away, as they did in Weimar Germany. Has that really happened here? It's true that today's Republican Party is, by all historical standards, fervently doctrinal, if not necessarily ruthless or antidemocratic. Left to its own devices, the Bush administration, and especially Attorney General John Ashcroft, might be perfectly willing to expand government powers to fight terrorism no matter the cost to individual liberties. But the administration has not been left to its own devices. Opposition from both liberals and libertarian conservatives -- i.e., Republicans -- killed the TIPS program and may already be hindering next-generation Patriot II legislation; organs of the "corporate-controlled media," like "60 Minutes," have reported on the growing threat to civil liberties.
Much of the left seems to feel that the greatest threat to emerge from 9/11 is an untrammeled Bush administration -- as if the destruction of the twin towers was the functional equivalent of the Reichstag fire, as I have heard one of my friends say. And yet even the most devout civil libertarians recognize that the terrorist threat compels rethinking. Norman Siegel, the former head of the New York Civil Liberties Union and a famous First Amendment purist, says, "The security interests are real, they're legitimate and you have to balance freedom and security in a different way post-9/11." Siegel says that he has been hard put to explain to skeptical audiences that the Patriot Act, for all its problems, does not preclude traditional forms of peaceful protest.
Why, then, the hysteria? I have several explanations. First of all, you cannot miss the element of wish-fulfillment in these prophecies of doom. Those of Bush's critics who loathe him as an overprivileged lout and corporate cats' paw regard the new moral and political stature he has gained as a result of the war on terror as an intolerable twist of fate; and so the terrible events they predict will prove the ultimate unmasking. We will see "Bush as Fuhrer," to cite one recent Internet posting. But we will also, of course, see America as Germany, a society so "demobilized" that it will stay glued to reality TV as Karl Rove cancels the presidential elections. It is this contemptuous dismissal, I realize, that makes my blood boil every time I hear the 1933 analogy. When will the left learn that this is not simply a nation of dimwitted yahoos? 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Christopher Morris) Chart: "YOUTH MOVEMENT""The following would be suitable for 12-year-olds. . . . 'I'm not saying our economy is all that bad right now, or there's a crisis in it, even though the stock market's been really weird. And the U.S. government is pretty different from the Nazi government. So I'm not saying you need to worry too much. Just be thinking about these things. There are some pretty crazy people in the government, and since Sept. 11, they've chucked a lot of rights people thought they'd always have. They've pretty much killed the Bill of Rights. . . . You've read the Bill of Rights, right? No? Gosh. They don't teach that in your school? Well, here, I'll bookmark it. . . . And I'll also download the Patriot Act. . . . Study them both, and figure out how they relate.' " From "Talking to Your Kids About Fascism," by Gary Leupp, on the CounterPunch Web site

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (90%); TERRORISM (90%); CLASSICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICS (88%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); ART HISTORY (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); US PATRIOT ACT (75%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (74%); IRAQ WAR (74%); RELIGION (73%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (71%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (71%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (66%); FUNDAMENTALISM (52%); BASEBALL (50%) TERRORISM; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); RICHARD NIXON (56%) TRAUB, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SIEGEL, NORMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



38 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1674 words

HEADLINE: George W. Bush and the Poet 

BYLINE:  By FRANK RICH 

 BODY:
GIVEN that the artistic muse of the Clinton administration was Linda Bloodworth-Thomason, the creator of the sitcom "Designing Women," George W. Bush's appointment of Bo Derek to the board of the Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts could hardly be faulted for breaking with tradition. Ever since Abraham Lincoln overruled his advisers to attend "Our American Cousin," culture has been considered ladies' work in Washington -- first ladies' work. It was Jacqueline Kennedy who brought Pablo Casals to the East Room, not her husband, who celebrated his inaugural with a command performance by the Rat Pack. It is Laura Bush who invites writers to the White House, not the president, whose inaugural concert featured Andrew Lloyd Webber, Ricky Martin and Wayne Newton. (Where was Barry Manilow when the country needed him?) 
 But at a certain point Washington's tenuous, often tacky connection to culture ceases to be a joke, and that point is now. Almost two months after the world first heard of America's failure to protect Baghdad's museum from looters and thieves, Iraq's treasures are still being pillaged -- this time at the source, the archaeological sites themselves. According to The Economist, the Italian diplomat the United States put in charge of Iraq's cultural holdings is obscuring the dimensions of this new fiasco by refusing to allow reporters to accompany him on helicopter visits to the scenes of these crimes. Meanwhile, the plundering continues, and each day that it does, we lose more of our collective memory of our religious, literary and artistic roots in the centuries before Christ. Visit "Art of the First Cities" at the Metropolitan Museum -- an exhibition of delicate Mesopotamian artifacts safely held by non-Iraqi museums -- and weep for the many comparable pieces that are being destroyed or stolen as our occupation forces fail to secure the peace. 
 As if this weren't enough, our government is now trying to cover up its culpability in the desecration of the Baghdad museum with smoke bombs of spin. On May 7, Lt. Gen. William Wallace told reporters that "as few as 17 items" in the National Museum were unaccounted for -- a figure that then allowed administration apologists to minimize the tragedy. But this and other low-ball American estimates of loss are, as one Unesco fact-finder told The International Herald Tribune last week, "a distortion of reality." The U.N.'s team of experts estimates that at least 2,000 to 3,000 pieces are missing from the museum and that the entire two million volumes in the National Library and Archives are ash. "It's only by comparison with the most dire initial reports that said everything was gone that it seems not so bad," said one member of the team, John Russell of the Massachusetts College of Art. "Yes, not everything is gone, but major things are."
Another derogation of cultural duty by Washington, and one hitting closer to home, is likely to become official tomorrow. That's when the Federal Communications Commission is expected to hand media giants like Viacom and News Corporation more power by letting them grab still more notches on the TV dial. The fix has long been in. The Center for Public Integrity revealed 10 days ago that the F.C.C. regulators and staff members making these decisions had taken some $2.8 million worth of free trips (some 2,500 junkets in all, many of them to Las Vegas) from the very industry they are supposed to be regulating. Michael Powell, the agency's Bush-chosen chairman, has alone freeloaded 44 times to rendezvous with show-business moguls even as he has largely disdained public hearings on the issues at stake. The template for this kind of stacked, behind-closed-doors policy making is Dick Cheney's secret energy task force, to which Enron executives got entree while environmental advocates received short (if any) shrift. 
Do our entertainment conglomerates need the same kind of government favors being showered on Halliburton? In the recession year of 2002, Variety has reported, the seven major Hollywood studios saw a rise of 18 percent in revenues. The reach of these companies is already so pervasive that performing arts institutions dedicated to classical music, dance and theater can barely be heard above the din. It's a sign of the Bush era that an oil company, ChevronTexaco, has picked this moment to dump the Metropolitan Opera's Saturday afternoon performances on radio, one of the last examples of high culture's regular appearance in the mass arena of commercial broadcasting.
Or, as one critic puts it in the new issue of The Hudson Review, "Our commercialized, entertainment-oriented television-based culture has cheapened and trivialized all forms of public discourse." He points to a recent study showing that the average American spends 24 minutes a day reading -- "not just books, but anything," TV Guide and diet tips included -- as opposed to "over four hours daily of television and over three hours of radio."
The author of this grim indictment of the cultural state of the nation, as it happens, is himself a member of the Bush administration -- Dana Gioia, who took over as chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts during the runup to the war in Iraq. In the weeks since he's been in office, I've spent several hours talking with him in New York and Washington -- conversations I've found fascinating. The only subject he wouldn't expound on is the mystery of how he ended up in this administration in the first place. 
Mr. Gioia, 52, is in almost every way a contradiction. He's a working-class kid of Italian-Mexican heritage from Los Angeles who ended up spending 15 years as a business executive (at General Foods) while building a career as a widely published poet and essayist. He has studied with Elizabeth Bishop and Robert Fitzgerald and marketed Jell-O. He's a Republican who voted for Mr. Bush but says "the only people I've ever contributed money to are Green candidates." As a critic, he's a fierce defender of what he considers traditionalist literary standards and yet takes pains to distinguish himself from the neo-con snobs who regularly deplore pop culture. He sounds nearly as engaged by Run-DMC rap lyrics as he is by Auden -- and he can get as passionate about "Magnolia" as he is about "Les Troyens."
Nor does Mr. Gioia subscribe to the ugly culture wars that the likes of Lynne Cheney and William Bennett embraced during the Gingrich revolution. Many of those battles were in one way or another about N.E.A. grants to artistic projects with sexual content, especially homosexual content. Mr. Gioia will have none of it. "If the F.B.I. investigation of me proved anything," he says, "it's that about half of my friends and in some cases my collaborators are gay -- like Alva Henderson, the guy I wrote an opera with. How can you accomplish anything in the American arts if you're homophobic? It just can't be done. Someone doesn't want to do a play because it's gay? Well, grow up. This is America. It's just as simple as that. We're supporting arts for all Americans."
He does reserve one cheer for the cultural marketplace -- he's not a Republican for nothing. "If you create a system where the marketplace doesn't operate in the arts," he says, "it breeds a kind of institutional stagnation, which you see in a lot of European countries." But he knows the perils: "If you put the marketplace entirely in charge of the arts, you see them very endangered" -- as they are now. Like virtually all of his predecessors, Mr. Gioia's antidote is to increase the N.E.A. budget and expand arts education. But at a time when arts programs of all kinds, in and out of schools, are falling prey to the worst fiscal crunch in the states since World War II, the endowment would not make a difference even at three times its minuscule current appropriation ($117 million). Add the catastrophic money woes at American cultural institutions to the growing grip of the media giants that are sucking up the air in their stead, and you've got a crisis. 
What can Dana Gioia do about it? He could shake Washington -- and the Bush administration -- with the same asset that has made him successful as a writer, the power of his ideas. A legendarily contentious essay he wrote for The Atlantic in 1991, "Can Poetry Matter?," started a debate over the merits of the academic poetry establishment that raged for years. While he sees clearly the cultural lay of the land, including what he called the "heartbreaking" destruction in Iraq, his duty must be to convey the urgency of his vision to a larger audience, within and beyond the White House. Can he? The knee-jerk answer, of course, is no. He would appear to be as doomed as another green administration appointee, the soon-to-depart Christie Whitman, who, in the words of The Washington Post, seems to have been put in charge of the Environmental Protection Agency "merely to make the Bush administration seem more interested in the environment . . . than it was."
Yet there's a crucial difference between Mr. Gioia and Ms. Whitman. While a commanding and popular public speaker, Mr. Gioia has never been a politician and has no interest in becoming one. He is confident and in no way a waffler. He has a proud, hard-won reputation as an independent thinker and artist to protect for his eventual return to the literary life.
He is too smart not to realize that for all the efforts of the current first lady, a former librarian, to promote reading, libraries are closing, not expanding, on this administration's watch. He is too serious to stand idly by while Rupert Murdoch amasses more power at home and looters subsume the culture of our 51st state, Iraq. "The measure of a great nation is not merely its wealth and power but also its civilization," Mr. Gioia said when testifying before Congress in March. He seems to mean it. The measure of his tenure in Washington will be the extent to which he can counter those administration policies that damage our civilization rather than merely provide them rhetorical cover.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dana Gioia, the new chairman of the National Endowment for the Arts, comes to Washington. (Associated Press)(pg. 34) Drawing (Seymour Chwast)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (90%); WRITERS (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (85%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (85%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (77%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (73%); NATIONAL LIBRARIES (73%); EXHIBITIONS (71%); SPECIAL LIBRARIES (66%); HISTORIC SITES (66%); LIBRARIES (65%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (63%) CULTURE; ARCHAEOLOGY AND ANTHROPOLOGY; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS (84%); JOHN F KENNEDY CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (58%) NATIONAL ENDOWMENT FOR THE ARTS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); FRANK RICH (56%) GIOIA, DANA; RICH, FRANK; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (87%) UNITED STATES (96%); IRAQ (93%) IRAQ#000T040106SRAQA01# #053T040106SL04A01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



39 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1519 words

HEADLINE: Business; 
In a Dull Economy, Avon Finds a Hidden Gloss

BYLINE:  By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
TO Andrea Jung, a persistently rotten economy is a beautiful thing.
 Others may see falling sales, lower profits and layoffs. Ms. Jung, the chief executive of the Avon Products Company, sees an ever larger pool of women she can recruit to sell Avon products to an equally large pool of women who cannot afford department store creams. 
 "I always knew there was a lot more organic growth in Avon's direct sales methods, but even I thought it would take longer to see it," Ms. Jung, 44, said. 
Indeed, Avon's army of sales representatives -- the modern title for the anachronistic "Avon ladies" -- grew by 10 percent last year, to nearly four million. At the same time, Avon's unit sales rose 13 percent worldwide -- and by 40 percent in Russia and other parts of Eastern Europe, a region that Ms. Jung calls "Avon heaven." The company says that more than 60 percent of its sales are outside the United States.
And younger customers are joining the Avon fold. In 1999, when Ms. Jung became the first woman to head Avon, its typical customer was 43; today she is 37.
"Society is overstored and underserviced," said George Rosenbaum, chairman of Leo J. Shapiro & Associates, a market research firm in Chicago. "The upshot is that Avon's ancient technique of face-to-face selling has become highly contemporary and relevant again."
Investors, too, think that Avon, which has met or beaten Wall Street earnings expectations the last two years, is on a roll. According to Thomson First Call, Avon has the strongest buy recommendations of companies that sell personal-care products. Avon shares have climbed more than 15 percent over the last year, hitting a record of $60.89 on Friday.
The company is also attracting some high-style publicity. "Avon products are all over Allure, Marie Claire and other glossy magazines where they were never mentioned before," said William H. Steele, an analyst at Banc of America Securities.
Amy Low Chasen, an analyst at Goldman Sachs, was more effusive. "This is one of the highest-quality growth stocks that I cover," she said.
Avon's sales in the first quarter rose 7 percent, to $1.46 billion, and profit increased 3 percent, to $98.9 million. For all of 2002, sales rose 4 percent, to $6.17 billion, while profit jumped 20 percent, to $534.6 million. 
But if Avon is such a winner in a losing economy, will it be a loser in a winning one?
"Avon does well in a recession, because it provides low-cost items that are sold by women who cannot move up in the workplace," said Allan G. Mottus, a consultant to the beauty industry and publisher of The Informationist, a trade publication. "In a full economy, a lot of good people are going to defect."
In an interview, Ms. Jung said that such defections never followed past economic upturns -- and that new incentive programs, product lines, pricing strategies and an overall image-burnishing strategy would hold customers and sales representatives in place anyway. She noted that Avon had wrenched costs out of its purchasing and manufacturing procedures and that its cash flow and operating margins were climbing.
But industry experts are sounding alarm bells. They note that rivals, many of which have more money to spend on marketing, are revving up their new-product mills.
Mr. Mottus points to the inroads that L'Oreal and others are making in the Hispanic market, which Avon was among the first to cultivate. Procter & Gamble, meanwhile, recently introduced Olay Regenerist, an anti-wrinkle cream aimed squarely at women 35 and older, Avon's core market.
"Sure, Avon is in the crowd of competitors that want to compete with Olay, but we've got sophisticated products and I'm just not worried," said Bobbie Jo Ehlers, the North American brand manager for Olay Skin Care.
Investors are becoming jittery. "I've never been comfortable with Avon's heavy reliance on direct sales," said Alison Kerivan, a managing director at David L. Babson & Company, an investment firm in Cambridge, Mass. She said she saw Procter & Gamble and other, more diversified household products companies as a safer bet. "If I'm going to buy a pricey stock," she said, "I'd prefer one that gets its growth from a more diverse group of products."
Diversification has never been Avon's strong suit. In the last two decades it has tried -- and failed -- at upscale retailing (it even owned Tiffany's from 1979 to 1984), and at using toll-free telephone numbers for ordering. "They'd try a strategy, and if it didn't work, six months later they'd try something else," Ms. Chasen of Goldman Sachs recalled.
 BY November 1999, when most companies were riding an economy-driven high, Avon's board was fed up with the company's floundering. It replaced Charles R. Perrin -- whom Avon had brought in from Duracell International just 18 months earlier -- with Ms. Jung, who had come to Avon in 1994 from Neiman Marcus.
Some of Ms. Jung's diversification attempts have fizzled, too. Earlier this year, she struck a deal to have J. C. Penney carry beComing, Avon's new line of midpriced cosmetics. Penney pulled the brand after just a few months.
"We wouldn't have given up a product that was profitable," a Penney spokeswoman said. She added that Penney is using the space to display fashion jewelry, which she said yields higher returns than cosmetics.
Ms. Jung, who said she believed that Penney had not done enough to build up a big cosmetics presence in the stores, is philosophical about the failure. "We didn't bet the ranch on it," she said, "and it was a good learning experience."
Retail does not fit into her current strategy, anyway. For some time she has been seeking ways to make Avon immune to economic and demographic swings, anything beyond its immediate control. Her conclusion, apparently, has been that it is better to deepen Avon's reach than to broaden it.
She has thought her strategies through. During a nearly three-hour interview at Avon's headquarters in Midtown Manhattan, she exuded confidence but not cockiness. When presented with a list of looming and seemingly formidable obstacles, she calmly ticked off her solutions:
* Is Avon's core baby-boomer market aging? She has weeded out apparel, toys and other products that do not fit Avon's self-image as a personal-care company for women. In place of those lines, Avon is promoting vitamins, weight-control programs and other "wellness" offerings aimed at women 35 and over. In August, it will introduce Mark. cosmetics, to beused -- and sold -- by young women. (The punctuation is part of the name because "it emphasizes young women making their mark," Ms. Jung explained.) Avon expects to jump-start the line by having representatives introduce it to their daughters.
* Is its image down-market and dated? She has introduced classier brochures printed on glossier papers. And she is promoting Avon's upscale spa on Fifth Avenue in New York, an easy walk from Bergdorf Goodman, Henri Bendel and other tony emporiums that Avon customers are unlikely to patronize. "That spa gives us the 'wow' factor, which makes it wonderful image advertising," Ms. Jung said.
* Will sales representatives flee to better jobs when the market picks up? She has made their jobs more lucrative. Avon has helped about 100 sales representatives open their own Avon kiosks at various shopping malls. It has helped its best sales representatives create Web pages of their own. And it has dusted off an old Avon program, called Sales Leadership, in which they are taught how to recruit, train and supervise their own stable of representatives.
* Will women be able to afford higher-priced products in an upturn? Avon, once stuck on keeping most prices under $10, has introduced Ultimate, a line of skin creams that cost $30, and has other midpriced products in the pipeline. Ms. Jung has designated $100 million to build a new research and development center and has set up research partnerships with universities and other companies, all aimed at churning out more such products. "Our items will still be less expensive than equivalent items from Maybelline or L'Oreal or Olay, but we can certainly command more than the $8.99 we might charge now," she said.
MOST of the changes are aimed at improving the image that Avon presents to the outside world. But many are lifting internal productivity, too. One byproduct of the Sales Leadership program is that Avon has not had to hire more regional managers even as the number of sales representatives has grown.
"With this program, the sales representatives replicate the district managers many times over," said Angelo Rossi, group vice president for sales and customer care at Avon in the United States.
Once the Sales Leadership program is entrenched, Ms. Jung may even again consider diversifying product lines. If Avon is a master of direct sales, why not use its representatives to sell financial services and such? If women are becoming more health conscious, why not add more wellness products -- or open more Avon spas?
"The concept of being a multibrand, multichannel company is still here," she said. "But it's the single brand and single channel that's going to take us through 2007."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Andrea Jung, chief of Avon Products, says sales representatives will not defect to more upscale rivals when the economy improves. (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times) Chart: "Avon's Reach"Avon's work force, sales and profit have been growing. A large portion of each is from outside the United States. Graph tracks employees (United States and the rest of world) from 1998-2002. Graph tracks net sales (North America and the rest of the world) from 2000-2002. (1998 and 1999 not available because of financial reclassifications). Graph tracks net income from 1998-2002. (Source: company reports)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RETAIL SALES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); DIRECT TO HOME RETAILING (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); DIRECT SALES FORCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FORCE (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); RETAILERS (73%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (68%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (65%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (51%) COSMETICS AND TOILETRIES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SALESMEN; WOMEN 

COMPANY: AVON PRODUCTS INC (91%); AVON PRODUCTS CO LTD (91%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: AVON PRODUCTS INC (AVP) 

TICKER: AVP (NYSE) (91%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454390 OTHER DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS (91%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (91%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%) SIC5963 DIRECT SELLING ESTABLISHMENTS; 

PERSON: ANDREA JUNG (93%) DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (56%); EASTERN EUROPE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



40 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Thanks, W. ('68)! 

BYLINE:  By Tom Ruprecht; Tom Ruprecht is a writer for the "Late Show with David Letterman."

 BODY:
George W. Bush and the Class of 1968 celebrated their 35th reunion last week at the White House. From the alumni notes we've received, it sounds as if it was quite a night!
 A star-struck Don Mackinnon gushes: "I got to see the Oval Office up close! It was amazing!" Meanwhile, Pat Anderson's wife, Christine, reports: "I'm currently unemployed, and at one point I found myself standing between the secretary of labor and the head of the Office of Management and Budget. Luckily, I had my resume with me. Talk about networking!" You go, girl! Chris Schukei writes: "While trying to find the restroom, I somehow ended up wandering into the Situation Room. I can't tell you what I saw, but let's just say I wouldn't plan any trips to Syria in the near future." Thanks for the tip, Chris! 
 Several alums got a kick out of seeing that our long-haired campus radical Gerry Mulligan is now completely bald! "I saw him exchanging hair-care tips with Ari Fleischer," notes Jeremy Weiner. And Wally Kim proudly reports that his new wife, Nancy Agostini ('96), was "hit on by drunken senators from both parties." Now that's what we call bipartisanship! Congratulations, Nancy!
According to several witnesses, Alden Provost tried to talk military strategy with Donald Rumsfeld and "made a complete jerk of himself!" Seems Billy Norrett had a slightly better time: "I made out with my old girlfriend Patty Carlson ('73) in the Treaty Room. Don't tell Ken Starr!" Your secret's safe with us, Billy!
Not everyone had a great time. Jerry Foley gripes, "You think finding Saddam is tough? Try finding a cold beer at the White House. Just because Bush stopped drinking, does that mean everyone else has to?" Enjoy Camp X-ray, Jerry! Another discordant note came from Saul Zelikson: "I found it a little tacky that at the end of the night you had to make a donation to the G.O.P. to get your car."
Some folks couldn't make it. We missed Larry Galler, who was prevented from coming because a White House background check revealed that he once belonged to a radical campus organization. "I was in the French Club," Larry explains. "Yes, it was a mistake, but it was 35 years ago!" J. "Chad" Johnson also missed the fun. Chad has left the oil business to retire to Scottsdale, Ariz., where he and wife Toppy live "a 9-iron from the golf course." If President Bush really wants to eliminate weapons of mass destruction, he should destroy Chad's golf clubs! Just kidding, Chad!
We're pleased George W. Bush took a moment to write: "Hi all! Just wanted to give everyone an update. I quit my last job about two and a half years ago and Laura and I relocated to Washington where I am currently the leader of the free world. (Yikes!) In a lot of ways the presidency is just like Yale. For instance, in college I did lousy at Economics also! And you know how at Yale, I'd always get some brainy kid to do my homework for me? Well, now I have Condi. And finally, from what I've learned from Dad, college and the presidency both last four years." If that's the case, I guess it's back to the New Haven Holiday Inn for the 40th reunion! 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GOLF (83%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); BUDGETS (70%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (69%); BEER & ALE (62%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY (59%); OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT & BUDGET (57%) YALE UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%) RUPRECHT, TOM; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (69%) SYRIA (79%); UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



41 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
There's a New Enemy in Iraq: The Nasty Surprise

BYLINE:  By PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD 

 BODY:
WITHIN the Bush administration, expectations were high as American forces advanced on Baghdad: Saddam Hussein's regime would collapse. The Iraqis would be liberated. A few hundred technocrats would restart an economy greased by the wealth of oil. A new and progressive democracy, dominated initially by exiles returned from the West, would dawn in the Arab world.
 For many Iraqis, hopes were equally buoyant: With Mr. Hussein removed, they would be free to govern themselves. Coalition forces would soon withdraw. Prosperity would return with the bounty of oil and Iraq would reclaim its destiny as a lion of culture and trade. 
 Things are not working out as either side planned. It is still early, and noone can say the prospect of a more orderly and democratic Iraq is gone. But most of the assumptions about how that would happen are being discarded.
The enormous task of recovery and reconstruction across a complex landscape of ethnic and religious division has been complicated by the refusal of the battlefield to go silent. Though Mr. Hussein is gone, nobody can say he is dead. So a series of attacks on convoys that killed six American soldiers has impelled military officials to re-examine assumptions about what kind of behavior to expect from liberated Iraqis.
There are whispers, too, that the Baath Party, with its record of underground survival, is organizing a new guerrilla campaign, including sabotage against public services the coalition is rushing to bring back on line.
The clashes last week were cause for alarm because, it seemed, accidents and missteps by coalition forces were being taken as acts of aggression or, worse, disrespect for Muslims. The possibility of rebellion is now likely to be a constant concern. If attacks on American troops continue, soldiers who were tossing candy to welcoming children in April will be kicking down more doors and setting up roadblocks to seize heavy weapons from a culture inured to guns for self protection. Mandatory disarmament begins today.
The coalition army here is also growing, not shrinking. There are 140,000 troops in Iraq, more than 55,000 of them in Baghdad, carrying out a police function that few were trained for. The capital has become a virtual parking lot for American armor, but that begs the question: How do you walk a beat in an M-1 tank?
The obvious cure for that problem would be an Iraqi police force. But the police trained under Mr. Hussein are so discredited that Bernard Kerik, New York's former police commissioner, cannot predict when a new force can be built. "It's going to take time," he said last week, adding that the days of torture during investigation are over.
Government of, by and for the Iraqis was always part of the postwar plan, but that plan changed significantly when President Bush sent L. Paul Bremer III to Baghdad to become the chief civilian administrator.
Mr. Bremer, who arrived in Baghdad three weeks ago, soon told the leaders of the Iraqi exile movement that they would not be assuming power as a provisional government, rescinding a promise made by his predecessor, Jay Garner, only weeks before.
Many analysts saw this as a proxy vote of no confidence from the Bush administration in the Iraqi opposition's ability to establish law and order and organize the rebuilding of Iraq. Others defended it as a pragmatic effort to win Security Council backing for lifting sanctions on Iraq, unfreezing assets and getting oil flowing again to prime a collapsed economy.
But another factor, fear of Iran, is also at play, and members of the Iraqi opposition believe it may have been the deciding factor in Mr. Bush's decision against empowering them.
A year ago, when the Central Intelligence Agency helped coalesce squabbling Iraqi factions into a unified opposition, Washington reached out to the largest Shiite Muslim exile group, which was under the leadership of Ayatollah Muhammad Bakr al-Hakim, then in Iran. His group, which was backed by Tehran, agreed to join the anti-Hussein effort under the umbrella Washington had extended, opposition officials say.
Ever since, the ayatollah has been a full member of the opposition's leadership council, along with the secular Shiite Ahmad Chalabi and the Kurdish leaders Jalal Talabani, Massoud Barzani and Iyad Alawi.
YET once the war ended, the prospect that Ayatollah Hakim's voice would speak for Iraq's Shiite majority in a provisional government added to Washington's jitters about turning over power to the exiles. To some analysts, it seemed a slippery slope toward Iranian political hegemony -- a piggyback ride for Tehran on the American invasion.
Mr. Chalabi, however, is now saying that "it was an over reaction," if Washington allowed its fears of Ayatollah Hakim to extend occupation rule.
In any case, Mr. Bush and Mr. Bremer are now working against the clock and the tide of expectations. It may be a year or more before the Iraqis get power back into their own hands, after Washington has been assured that the ground is prepared for a stable pro-Western democracy strong enough to fend off any nefarious influences from the east. Until then, American and British administrators will keep the main responsibility for maintaining order, restoring services, reviving the economy and otherwise returning life to normal.
But this course, while it avoids the risks associated with turning over power prematurely to a shaky band of exiles, one of whom has ties to Iran, entails a whole new set of risks. Those will only recede if the authorities can deliver on promises of security and prosperity. If they can, the Bush administration may be able to deliver on its greatest expectation -- the transformation of a region that couldn't imagine anyone assuming all the risks associated with ejecting the tyrant of Baghdad.
American ingenuity will be tested this month when Mr. Bremer and the generals set out to disarm a country still entirely unsure when power will be returned to it and not very sure that the occupation authorities can maintain order in a strange land.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Last Monday, American troops in Iraq diverted traffic after an attack on a convoy in which four were hurt. (Ruth Fremson/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (89%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (89%); POLICE FORCES (87%); ARMIES (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); RELIGION (67%); WEAPONS DECOMMISSIONING (67%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (66%); INVESTIGATIONS (64%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (69%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); TYLER, PATRICK E 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (95%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (95%) IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



42 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 764 words

HEADLINE: A Theory Of Everything 

BYLINE:  By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

 BODY:
As President Bush meets other world leaders this weekend, and tries to patch things up between America and the rest of the planet, I find myself looking back and asking: What's been going on here? After 9/11 people wondered, "Why do they hate us?" speaking of the Muslim world. After the Iraq war debate, the question has grown into, "Why does everybody else hate us?"
 I've sketched out my own answer, which I modestly call "A Brief Theory of Everything." I offer it here, even more briefly, in hopes that people will write in with comments or catcalls so I can continue to refine it, turn it into a quick book and pay my daughter's college tuition. Here goes: 
 During the 1990's, America became exponentially more powerful -- economically, militarily and technologically -- than any other country in the world, if not in history. Broadly speaking, this was because the collapse of the Soviet empire, and the alternative to free-market capitalism, coincided with the Internet-technology revolution in America. The net effect was that U.S. power, culture and economic ideas about how society should be organized became so dominant (a dominance magnified through globalization) that America began to touch people's lives around the planet -- "more than their own governments," as a Pakistani diplomat once said to me. Yes, we began to touch people's lives -- directly or indirectly -- more than their own governments.
As people realized this, they began to organize against it in a very inchoate manner. The first manifestation of that was the 1999 Seattle protest, which triggered a global movement. Seattle had its idiot side, but what the serious protesters there were saying was: "You, America, are now touching my life more than my own government. You are touching it by how your culture seeps into mine, by how your technologies are speeding up change in all aspects of my life, and by how your economic rules have been 'imposed' on me. I want to have a vote on how your power is exercised, because it's a force now shaping my life."
Why didn't nations organize militarily against the U.S.? Michael Mandelbaum, author of "The Ideas That Conquered the World," answers: "One prominent international relations school -- the realists -- argues that when a hegemonic power, such as America, emerges in the global system other countries will naturally gang up against it. But because the world basically understands that America is a benign hegemon, the ganging up does not take the shape of warfare. Instead, it is an effort to Gulliverize America, an attempt to tie it down, using the rules of the World Trade Organization or U.N. -- and in so doing demanding a vote on how American power is used."
There is another reason for this nonmilitary response. America's emergence as the hyperpower is happening in the age of globalization, when economies have become so intertwined that China, Russia, France or any other rivals cannot hit the U.S. without wrecking their own economies.
The only people who use violence are rogues or nonstate actors with no stakes in the system, such as Osama bin Laden. Basically, he is in a civil war with the Saudi ruling family. But, he says to himself, "The Saudi rulers are insignificant. To destroy them you have to hit the hegemonic power that props them up -- America."
Hence, 9/11. This is where the story really gets interesting. Because suddenly, Puff the Magic Dragon -- a benign U.S. hegemon touching everyone economically and culturally -- turns into Godzilla, a wounded, angry, raging beast touching people militarily. Now, people become really frightened of us, a mood reinforced by the Bush team's unilateralism. With one swipe of our paw we smash the Taliban. Then we turn to Iraq. Then the rest of the world says, "Holy cow! Now we really want a vote over how your power is used." That is what the whole Iraq debate was about. People understood Iraq was a war of choice that would affect them, so they wanted to be part of the choosing. We said, sorry, you don't pay, you don't play.
"Where we are now," says Nayan Chanda, publications director at the Yale Center for the Study of Globalization (whose Web site yaleglobal .yale.edu is full of valuable nuggets), "is that you have this sullen anger out in the world at America. Because people realize they are not going to get a vote over American power, they cannot do anything about it, but they will be affected by it."
Finding a stable way to manage this situation will be critical to managing America's relations with the rest of the globe. Any ideas? Let's hear 'em: thfrie@nytimes.com. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); TERRORISM (72%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (71%); GLOBALIZATION (70%); WRITERS (70%); TUITION FEES (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (65%) TERRORISM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (50%) FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (92%); PAKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



43 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 597 words

HEADLINE: Shadow Over the Summit 

 BODY:
Never mind African development, weapons proliferation and global trade, all of which figure prominently on the formal agenda. The reason people will be tuning in to this year's Group of 8 summit meeting in France is to see whether George will laugh at Jacques's jokes, slap Vladimir good-naturedly on the back, or even speak to Gerhard. Or whether he will simply hang out with his good pal Tony while grumbling at the others. 
 Summit meetings of the most powerful leaders don't usually trigger school cafeteria flashbacks. But the gathering that starts today in the town of Evian is partly about body language, and who is seen speaking to whom after the diplomatic donnybrook over the war in Iraq. 
 This is clearly a White House that values loyalty and knows how to hold a grudge. Foreign leaders who supported President Bush in the debate leading up to the war have been feted at the White House and welcomed to Mr. Bush's Texas ranch. Meanwhile, Bush aides have pondered how best to punish France. Ignoring Germany while forgiving Russia is also part of the plan. 
Wisely, the administration is not holding its relationship with Moscow hostage to personal score-settling. What's worrisome is the administration's unwillingness to muster the same equanimity in dealing with the two most influential members of the European Union, France and Germany. 
Last year, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany staked out a rigid antiwar position during his re-election campaign. In doing so, Mr. Schroder tapped into German pacifism at the expense of a traditional belief in the paramount need to preserve a strong trans-Atlantic alliance. Now, even as Germany is eager to make amends, the White House seems intent on downgrading ties with Berlin. This is not in America's best interest. If France is truly eager to drive a wedge between the European Union and the United States, it could ask for no better co-conspirator than a vindictive White House. 
President Bush should be seeking to mend these alliances. In his speech yesterday in Poland, he was right to appeal to the European public more broadly, by reiterating the importance of a trans-Atlantic partnership forged by common values. In a recent interview with Le Figaro, Mr. Bush also adopted a less bullying tone, which we hope he maintains so that democratic leaders can side more easily with Washington the next time a divisive issue arises. 
It is fine for the Bush administration to champion friends like Poland and Spain, but America still needs to marshal the world's leading economic powers to work in concert in addressing a daunting array of global challenges. These include terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, and the scourges of AIDS, genocidal conflict and hunger afflicting Africa.
The United States does not have the resources to tackle these problems on its own, let alone to single-handedly steer the world's economy out of its doldrums. The war in Iraq presented a somewhat distorted picture: America's economic might is not quite as dominant as its military prowess. We need strong ties with the likes of France and Germany to meet these global challenges, and to resolve pressing trade disputes. 
Pledging money to fight AIDS and famine is commendable but the G-8 leaders should commit themselves in Evian to making globalization a catalyst for development by lowering the barriers to the exports of struggling nations. This is part of a global agenda that transcends differences over Iraq, and President Bush must take advantage of the Evian gathering not to hold grudges, but to move on. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (93%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (78%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); ELECTIONS (73%); INTERVIEWS (73%); TERRORISM (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (70%); IRAQ WAR (69%); TRENDS (68%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; EDITORIALS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%); EUROPEAN UNION (54%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (89%); GERHARD SCHRODER (76%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (95%); AFRICA (93%); EUROPE (92%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); IRAQ (92%); GERMANY (91%); POLAND (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SPAIN (79%) GERMANY; FRANCE; RUSSIA; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



44 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 193 words

HEADLINE: Private Sector; 
English Major Makes Good on Wall Street

BYLINE:  By C. J. Satterwhite (COMPILED BY MARK A. STEIN) 

 BODY:
At the annual dinner of the Harvard Business School Club of Greater New York at the Waldorf-Astoria on Thursday, Henry M. Paulson Jr., chairman and chief executive of the Goldman Sachs Group, fell back on his college skills to deliver a speech that -- gasp! -- he had written himself.
 "I like to write," he said in an interview after receiving the club's award as the business statesman of 2003. 
"I was actually an English major." 
 So how did he get into investment banking? "I went to Washington, and I ended up working on a number of economic issues," said Mr. Paulson, class of 1970. "It was a good fit, and I've enjoyed it."
The evening's other honoree, Donna E. Shalala, the president of the University of Miami and secretary of health and human services in the Clinton administration, did not prepare any remarks. "They told me only five minutes, and I can talk that long," she said.
She had time to recall her childhood softball team. "At 9 years old, we were taught to throw overhand and to slide by a young college student," said Ms. Shalala, who received a leadership award. The college student, she added, was George Steinbrenner. C. J. Satterwhite

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); AWARDS & PRIZES (71%); SOFTBALL (51%) AWARDS, DECORATIONS AND HONORS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (93%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (93%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (93%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (93%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (93%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (93%)

PERSON: HENRY PAULSON (90%) SATTERWHITE, C J; PAULSON, HENRY M JR; SHALALA, DONNA E 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (53%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



45 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Over Protests, Nepal Lets Chinese Force Refugees Back to Tibet 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: KATMANDU, Nepal, May 30 

 BODY:
Tibetan exiles went to a prison here today to pay fines to release 18 Tibetan refugees, but they were too late: minutes earlier, two Chinese diplomats had arrived with a van preparing to forcibly carry the escapees back to Chinese-ruled Tibet.
 Nepal, a mountain kingdom that long winked at efforts by its ethnic neighbors in Tibet to separate from China, is bending more and more to pressure by Beijing, an increasingly important aid and trade partner. 
 Over the last year, the Nepali police have broken up public meetings and news conferences held by followers of the Dalai Lama, the exiled Tibetan religious leader. Three times in that period, the police have arrested Tibetans who had walked over mountain passes, breakinga long tradition of handing them over to the United Nations High Commission for Refugees. Under a program paid for with a $200,000 annual grant from the United States, the refugees are sent to India, where the Dalai Lama lives and runs religious schools. 
 Early Saturday, Nepali police officers forced the 18 refugees into the Chinese van. It then swerved around protesters and took them to Tibet. The protesters, from the Tibetan community of 25,000 here, objected to the repatriation, the first in over a decade in which Tibetans were forcibly returned from the capital. 
Sandwiched between India and China, Nepal has traditionally had close economic ties with India. But China has become increasingly important. Last year, with tourism faltering because of a guerrilla insurgency, Nepal opened a consulate in Shanghai, winning promises of planeloads of Chinese tourists. This year, China is supporting its bid to enter the World Trade Organization.
China is also building roads across this impoverished nation, and the Chinese government has hinted that a railroad from eastern China to Tibet that is to open in 2006 could be extended to Nepal, a landlocked nation that depends on the good will of India for its foreign trade.
But Tibetan exiles and their supporters say there is a price: the curtailing of their activities here.
"They say, 'Sorry, no Tibetans here,' " Wangchuk Tsering, the Dalai Lama's representative in Nepal, said of the reaction of hotel managers when he tries to rent a meeting hall. He said the police now required written permission for any Tibetan function here. "It is Chinese pressure," he said. "It is as simple as that."
China's ambassador, We Congyong, told The Katmandu Post last fall that "anti-Chinese activities" were "detrimental to Nepal's stability." While he did not explain how allowing the Dalai Lama's supporters to act openly here would destabilize Nepal, China's pressure seems part of a more muscular policy toward its smaller neighbors. 
China routinely forcibly deports North Koreans, ignoring suggestions by South Korea that they be treated as political refugees. China has pressed Mongolia to resist suggestions by the United States that transit camps be set up in Mongolia for North Korean refugees.
Last year, 1,268 Tibetans trekked over passes as high as 19,000 feet to reach Nepal, half the annual average recorded from 1996 to 2000. Tibetan exile groups here attribute the drop to an increase in police patrols on the Chinese side of the border.
In Katmandu today, Subarna Lal Shrestha, director general of immigration, declined to comment on the issue of Tibetan refugees. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFUGEES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); FINES & PENALTIES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (78%); IMMIGRATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (76%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (75%); MOUNTAINS (72%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (71%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (70%); ARRESTS (70%); RELIGION (70%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); HOTELS & MOTELS (64%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%); HOTEL STAFF (50%) IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; FOREIGN AID; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (56%)

PERSON: DALAI LAMA (89%) BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%) SOUTHWEST CHINA (96%); EAST CHINA (92%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); XIZANG, CHINA (90%) CHINA (99%); TIBET (99%); NEPAL (99%); INDIA (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%) TIBET; CHINA; NEPAL

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



46 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1254 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT IN EUROPE: GROUP OF 8; 
Chirac to Call for a Shift From Battling Terrorism to Helping Poorer Nations

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France, May 31 

 BODY:
When President Bush and the other Group of 8 leaders gather to discuss the world's problems on Sunday and Monday, they will no doubt be hoping that this trim spa on the shores of Lake Geneva will be the source of something more than just cold bubbling spring water.
 Their host, President Jacques Chirac of France, will press them to turn their attention from terrorism, Iraq and the Middle East to restarting a process of helping less developed regions of the world, most notably Africa. 
 Mr. Chirac is expected to say that the wealthiest nations must increase their spending for education, health care, water and farming, and that they must help restructure government institutions and encourage free investment in the poorer regions of the world.
To press his case, Mr. Chirac has invited the leaders of 12 developing countries, including nations in Africa, Latin America, the Middle East and Asia. 
In addition to the United States and France, the Group of 8 is composed of Britain, Canada, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia. What makes the dynamic of this meeting interesting is that Mr. Bush and the rest of the leaders will be arguing over a broad agenda addressing how to keep the global economy from veering seriously off course, but they will do so under the shadow of differences over Iraq. Among the leaders here aside from Mr. Bush, only Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain and Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy backed the war.
Sluggish growth in the markets of the world and the threat of deflation hanging over major economies, like Japan and Germany, are rekindling concern that whatever economic progress seems to be under way may prove to be too fragile to last.
Yet Mr. Chirac summoned the confidence this week to tell reporters that he was "convinced that Evian can send a message of confidence about the growth of the world economy," presumably one of his principal goals for the meeting.
French security forces are taking extraordinary measures around this normally serene lakeside town and around nearby Geneva, just across the lake in Switzerland, to prevent the kind of violent demonstrations that marred the Group of 8 meeting two years ago in the Italian port of Genoa and the Summit of the Americas in Quebec in 2000.
European officials doubt that Mr. Bush's overnight trip to Evian, cut back from two days to one, can help Europe and the United States find common solutions to their problems. "The rest of the world and the United States have varying approaches," said a French official briefing reporters on the meeting.
Differences over Iraq, French officials said, overshadowed even the preparatory discussions for the meeting.
On Monday, Mr. Bush and Mr. Chirac will meet one-on-one, their first such encounter since the war in Iraq. French officials say matters aside from Iraq will fill the agenda.
"One cannot measure the thickness of the handshake and the breadth of the smile" to judge progress, one French official conceded.
A wide assortment of protest groups, including antiglobalization organizations, have assembled on both sides of the French-Swiss border near Evian. They plan two columns of marches from points in both countries on Sunday that will meet at the border in a display of opposition to the perceived evils of globalization, free trade, corporate greed and environmental destruction.
Mr. Chirac was visibly shaken by the violence in Genoa. In recent months, he has met at the Elysee Palace on at least 10 occasions with organizations critical of the Group of 8. The meetings included a marathon four-hour session April 30 with representatives of more than 30 groups, ranging from Greenpeace to a little-known organization called Claaac, the French acronym for the Convergence of Antiauthoritarian and Anticapitalist Struggles.
Critics accuse Mr. Chirac of seeking to buy peace at Evian. French officials emphasized that he wanted what they described as "enlarged dialogue" with private groups from developed countries and the leaders of developing nations.
French officials also say that Mr. Chirac invited the 12 leaders -- from Algeria, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Senegal and South Africa -- to underscore how prosperity in the industrialized West hinges on the economic success of developing countries. The invitation also reflects the gap between Europe and the Bush administration, which tends to believe that rising tides will lift all boats.
Much of the discussion on Sunday, the first day of the meeting, will focus on growth and international cooperation during a working lunch of the leaders and their developing-world counterparts. Switzerland's president will also attend, acknowledging Swiss help in arranging the Evian meeting. The 12 developing-world leaders are staying in Lausanne, on the Swiss shore facing Evian, and will travel to the meeting by boat.
Noting that Africa's share of global trade had dropped to 1.6 percent by 2000, from 3.3 percent in 1980, while the African share of world investment fell to 1.8 percent, from 4 percent, one French official emphasized that "the African continent runs the risk of marginalization."
Mr. Chirac is eager to restart a commitment made at last year's meeting in the Canadian resort village of Kananaskis for the industrialized world to provide billions of dollars in aid to African nations that reform their economies and governments.
Sunday evening, a progress report on the program, called the New Partnership for Africa's Development, will be given to the Group of 8 by the leaders of Algeria, Egypt, Nigeria, Senegal and South Africa.
Secretary General Kofi Annan of the United Nations and the directors of the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organization will attend Sunday's discussions.
On Monday, the Group of 8 leaders will focus on classic topics: the global economy and world security. The agenda will include what Mr. Chirac refers to as "durable development," embracing growth but also struggling against world poverty and disease and providing poorer nations with better access to drugs to combat diseases like AIDS.
Business leaders also hope the leaders will accelerate completion of the latest world trade negotiations, the so-called Doha round. A framework must be agreed on by Sept. 14 for the round to be concluded by January 2005.
Over lunch on Monday, the Group of 8 leaders will tackle several intractable political issues: terrorism, arms proliferation and regional troubles, including the Israeli-Palestinian conflict and the situations in Iraq and North Korea.
The meeting is to end on Tuesday after a summary session. Mr. Bush will move on to the meatier portion of his trip, a meeting in Jordan with the Israeli and Palestinian prime ministers.
European observers are clearly skeptical that Mr. Chirac's broadening of the agenda and his inclusion of developing-world leaders will galvanize any commitment to their needs, given present trans-Atlantic differences, of which Iraq was a symbol.
Patrick Sabatier, an editorialist for the French leftist daily Liberation, wrote this week that Mr. Bush's decision to limit his presence at Evian to one day "underscores that, viewed from Washington, problems of hard power -- Iraq, the Middle East, terrorism -- are more durable and far more important for the future of the planet than the concerns of soft power -- development, the environment, social justice -- that the G-8, the opponents of globalization and Chirac place at the top of the planetary agenda."

GRAPHIC: Chart/Photos: "The Group of 8 in Evian"On Sunday the Group of 8 summit meeting opens in Evian, France, bringing together the leaders of the seven major industrial powers and Russia. Also invited are the leaders of China, of a dozen emerging economies and switzerland, and the heads of the World Bank, International Monetary Fund, World Trade Organization, European Union and United Nations. Many of the advocates and opponents of war with Iraq will be together for the first time since the fall of Saddam Hussein's government. It will also be a chance for Group of 8 and African leaders to assess progress on last year's commitment to development aid and debt relief for Africa. President Bush says he will push for more international participation in a global AIDS fund. LEADERS AT THE MEETING Silvio Berlusconi -- ItalyTony Blair -- BritainGeorge W. Bush -- United StatesJacques Chirac -- FranceJunichiro Koizumi -- JapanJean Chretien -- CanadaVladimir V. Putin -- RussiaGerhard Schroder -- Germany OTHER LEADERS ATTENDING Abdelaziz Bouteflika -- AlgeriaLuiz Inacio Lula da Silva -- BrazilHu Jintao -- ChinaHosni Mubarak -- EgyptAtal Bihari Vajpayee -- IndiaDr. Mahathir Mohamad -- MalaysiaVicente Fox -- MexicoKing Mohammed VI -- MoroccoOlusegun Obasanjo -- NigeriaPrince Abdullah -- Saudi ArabiaAbdoulaye Wade -- SenegalThabo Mbeki -- South AfricaPascal Couchepin -- SwitzerlandKofi Annan -- United NationsJames Wolfensohn -- World BankSupachai Panitchpakdi -- World Trade OrganizationHorst Kohler -- International Monetary FundRomano Prodi -- European CommissionKonstantinos Simitis -- European Council AMONG THE TOP ISSUES Stimulating growth in the global economy.The sagging value of the dollar.The reconstruction of Iraq and Afghanistan.Terrorism and nuclear proliferation.Sustainable economic development and the environment.A new round of trade liberalization talks. (Source: Evian Summit 2003)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (91%); IRAQ WAR (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); LAKES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (87%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BOTTLED WATER (77%); GLOBALIZATION (76%); TERRORISM (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (72%); TRENDS (70%); DEFLATION (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (94%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%); INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%); UNITED NATIONS (59%); WORLD TRADE ORGANIZATION (59%) ;GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); ABDELAZIZ BOUTEFLIKA (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%); LUIZ INACIO LULA DA SILVA (58%); TONY BLAIR (56%) CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) QUEBEC, CANADA (79%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (94%); ITALY (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); CANADA (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); GERMANY (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); ASIA (79%); JAPAN (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (53%) EVIAN-LES-BAINS (FRANCE); FRANCE; JAPAN; GERMANY; ITALY; GREAT BRITAIN; CANADA; RUSSIA; IRAQ; AFRICA

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



47 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: 2ND STUDY FINDS GAPS IN TAX CUTS 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, May 31 

 BODY:
A new study by groups critical of the tax law that President Bush signed on Wednesday has found that 8 million mostly low-income taxpayers will not receive any benefit from the law.
 Republicans have said for weeks that the new tax law was designed to benefit all those who pay income taxes. 
 This is the second time since Congress passed the bill that critics have pointed out how some of its provisions would not help millions of people in the lowest tax brackets. In response to earlier disclosures about the complex bill's fine print, the Senate's chief Republican writer of tax legislation said on Friday that Congress should revise at least some of the law's provisions, involving child tax credits, to broaden their effect.
The new analysis says that the taxpayers who get nothing from the tax law are primarily low-income single people who do not have children and lack income from dividends or capital gains. A large number of low- and moderate-income single parents with children over 16 will also get no benefit from the law, because it didnot change the tax rate for such parents who are unmarried. 
The study was conducted by two groups who have been critical of the law, the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, which is affiliated with the Brookings Institution and the Urban Institute, and the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities, a liberal research group.
Last week, the two groups, along with Citizens for Tax Justice, found that 6.5 million minimum-wage families -- with nearly 12 million children -- would not receive the $400-per-child increase in the child tax credit contained in the new law. The families were left out of the tax law in last-minute Congressional negotiations over how much to cut the tax on stock dividends and capital gains, while keeping the entire bill under the Senate limit of $350 billion.
In combination with the children who were cut from the bill's benefits by the Congressional negotiators, the study says, there are 50 million households -- 36 percent of all households in the nation -- who will receive no benefit from the tax law. The figure includes people who do not earn enough to owe income tax.
On Friday, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he would propose legislation next week to provide the increased child credit to those minimum-wage families, and to make the increase permanent for all taxpayers instead of its expiring in 2005. Such a measure, which would cost at least $61.5 billion over the next 10 years, would require 60 votes to pass in the Senate. Democrats have said they would support the cuts for the minimum-wage families, but the prospects for the full child credit extension are unclear. A spokesman for House Speaker J. Dennis Hastert, Republican of Illinois, said the House leadership would take a serious look at the measure.
The Republican National Committee Web site describes the law in detail and summarizes the point that many members of Congress have also made this week.
"Who benefits under the president's plan?" the Web site asks. "Everyone who pays taxes -- especially middle-income Americans -- as tax rate reductions passed by Congress in 2001 are made effective immediately."
Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, made a similar point in his news briefing on Thursday, saying that people in the lowest tax bracket would "benefit the most" from the bill. "This certainly does deliver tax relief to the people who pay income taxes," he said, referring particularly to families with children. And Mr. Grassley said last week that "all taxpayers will see more money in their paychecks."
But the new study found five million taxpayers in the lowest tax bracket who get no benefit from the law, and 2.5 million single parents with children who also pay taxes but get nothing.
In the first category are taxpayers in the 10 percent bracket who have no children and no dividend or capital gains income. This group, which constitutes 89 percent of all single taxpayers in the lowest bracket, do not benefit from the expansion of the 10 percent bracket because they are already in it. They have no children, so they do not get the child credit, and they do not benefit from the law's relief for married couples. Members of this group, who make $9,300 to $13,800 a year, now pay up to $600 in income taxes.
The second group consists of 2.5 million taxpayers in the head-of-household filing status -- mostly single parents -- who have a child over 16 and who are in the two lowest tax brackets. The study found that they will not receive a tax cut, even though they pay as much as $5,200 in income taxes, because the lowest bracket is not expanded for head-of-household filers under the new law. The child credit is not available, either, because of the age of the children.
There are about a half-million additional taxpayers at all income levels who will not benefit from the new law because they fall between the cracks. They include a childless married couple in the lowest tax bracket who itemize their deductions and cannot take advantage of the increased standard deduction for couples. About 12,000 taxpayers making more than $200,000 will also receive no benefit because they have no dividend or capital gains income, and make too much money to take advantage of the increased exemptions from the alternative minimum tax in the law.
"It's another illustration that the real purpose of this tax bill was not to give a boost to the economy now," said Robert Greenstein, executive director of the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities. "The bill really consists of new provisions, like dividend tax cuts, that administration officials and their supporters in Congress have long wanted for other reasons. If they were really serious about boosting the economy, they would not have excluded these people, because they're the ones who spend rather than save."
Mr. Fleischer, contacted Friday on the president's trip to Europe, said the study failed to take into account that many people who did not benefit from this tax bill received benefits in the president's first tax cut, in 2001.
"If any taxpayers did not get tax relief in this bill, it is because it was such a priority to get them a head start on tax cuts in 2001," he said. "They had a two-year head start, because they were prioritized over upper-income taxpayers. The upper income taxpayers had to wait for tax relief for this bill."
Other Republican officials noted that Congress had also passed an extension of unemployment benefits, and had included $10 billion in the tax law in new spending on Medicaid, the health care program for the poor. Rob Nichols, the chief spokesman for the Treasury Department, said the number of people who would not benefit from this bill was small compared with those who would.
"This legislation helps the working families and small businesses, women, married couples, families with children and elderly taxpayers," Mr. Nichols said. "It's broad-based, and 91 million taxpayers will get relief under this bill, including 69 million taxpayers who benefit from accelerating the expansion of the 10 percent bracket. We view that as very positive."
But the study's authors noted that there are 40 times as many taxpayers who get no benefit from the cuts as there are millionaires who will get 44 percent of the law's tax benefits in 2005.
"This group, more than 8 million taxpayers, ranked lower in the administration's priorities than the 200,000 taxpayers with incomes of a million dollars or more," said Peter Orszag, a senior fellow at Brookings who is co-director of the Tax Policy Center. "That just demonstrates how regressive this tax law is." Mr. Orszag was an economic policy adviser to President Bill Clinton.
Democrats said the failure of the bill to cover all taxpayers was no accident.
"It was a conscious decision to deny relief to taxpayers at the bottom in favor of the very top," said Senator Tom Daschle, the Democratic leader. "And what's so regrettable is that it wasn't a mistake -- it's part of a deliberate plan."
But the Democratic outrage brought a chuckle from John Feehery, the spokesman for Mr. Hastert.
"It's interesting that we're having thisdebate, considering that we tried to make this tax cut as expansive as possible given the constraints we were under," he said. "Democrats on the one hand were saying that we cut taxes too much, but now they're saying we didn't cut taxes enough. Their inconsistency is quite remarkable."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Charles E. Grassley of Iowa, the Senate's chief Republican writer of tax legislation. (Associated Press)(pg. 29) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Tax Cut Not for Everyone"According to the Urban-Brookings Tax Policy Center, more than eight million taxpayers will not receive a tax cut under the new tax cut law. ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: Less than $10,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 1,600,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 19.8 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $10,000 - $20,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 3,979,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 49.3 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $20,000 - $30,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 1,036,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 12.8 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $30,000 - $40,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 858,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 10.6 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $40,000 - $50,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 453,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 5.6 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: $50,000 - $75,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 130,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 1.6 ADJUSTED GROSS INCOME: More than $75,000NUMBER OF TAXPAYERS NOT RECIEVING A TAX CUT: 21,000PERCENT OF ALL NON-RECIPIENTS: 0.3 TOTAL: 8,077,000 (pg. 29)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (99%); TAX LAW (97%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); INCOME TAX (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); RESEARCH REPORTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (89%); FAMILY (89%); CHILDREN (88%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); PARENTS (78%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); DIVIDENDS (72%); LIBERALISM (70%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (64%) TAXATION; CAPITAL GAINS TAX; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TAX CREDITS 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (82%); URBAN INSTITUTE (54%); BROOKINGS INSTITUTION (54%); CITIZENS FOR TAX JUSTICE (54%) URBAN-BROOKINGS TAX POLICY CENTER; CENTER ON BUDGET AND POLICY PRIORITIES 

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (78%) GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN); FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



48 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT IN EUROPE: ALLIANCE; 
PRAISING ALLIANCE, BUSH ASKS EUROPE TO WORK WITH U.S.

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: ST. PETERSBURG, Russia, May 31 

 BODY:
President Bush affirmed today his commitment to the half-century relationship between Europe and the United States, but he indicated that he expected traditional allies that opposed him in the war on Iraq, like Germany and France, to conform to an American vision of a shared future.
 "This is no time to stir up divisions in a great alliance," Mr. Bush said in a speech on a warm, sun-drenched morning at Wawel Castle in Krakow, Poland, before arriving here this evening for meetings with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and a celebration of St. Petersburg's founding 300 years ago by Peter the Great. 
 In the trans-Atlantic quarrel over Iraq, Mr. Bush said, "We have seen unity and common purpose. We have also seen debate -- some of it healthy, some of it divisive." 
Europeans who were listening for words of reconciliation from the American president got almost none, while France and Germany received an implicit reprimand for their past criticisms of his host, Poland, over its steadfast support of the American-led invasion of Iraq.
"You also struggled to become a full member of the Atlantic alliance," Mr. Bush said to several hundred Poles gathered in the small, ivy-covered courtyard of the castle, where Polish and American flags hung from the balconies. "Yet you have not come all this way, through occupations and tyranny and brave uprisings, only to be told that you must now chose between Europe and America."
Poland, he said, "is a good citizen of Europe, and Poland is a good friend of America, and there is no conflict between the two."
Tonight, Mr. Bush and his wife, Laura, joined Mr. Putin and other world leaders for a dinner at Peterhof Palace, the grandest of the czars' summer homes, about 20 miles outside the city on the Gulf of Finland.
After the dinner, around 10 p.m., the group watched outdoor ballet performances set to the music of Russia's greatest composers, with the "1812" Overture as the grand finale. Fireworks displays burst overhead while the skies were still light, in this period known as St. Petersburg's "white nights." The city is so close to the Arctic Circle that in late spring and summer there is only a brief period of twilight between sunset and sunrise.
Mr. Bush did not speak publicly here tonight -- he is to have a joint news conference with Mr. Putin on Sunday -- but his words in Krakow were heard all over Europe. The vision of the trans-Atlantic alliance that he put forth there was one that operated under American values.
"I have come to Krakow to state the intentions of my country," he said. "The United States is committed to a strong Atlantic alliance, to ensure our security, to advance human freedom and to keep peace in the world."
But the president did reach out to the alliance for help in solving the Middle East conflict and the global problems of AIDS and poverty.
"To meet these goals of security and peace and a hopeful future for the developing world, we welcome, we need the help, the advice and the wisdom, of our European friends and allies," he said.
The president made his remarks on the first leg of a seven-day, six-nation trip to Europe and the Middle East from a site that overlooks the Vistula River and Kazimierz, the home of the largest Jewish population in Europe before World War II. By 1943, the Nazis had moved the inhabitants to ghettos or sent them to the nearby concentration camps of Auschwitz and Birkenau, which Mr. Bush toured with his wife before his speech this morning.
Reporters who accompanied the couple said the president seemed restless and unsettled as he stood next to two reconstructed ovens used to cremate Jews killed in the gas chambers, and afterward, he related the experience to the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001, on the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and his campaign against terrorism.
"The death camps still bear witness," he said. "They remind us that evil is real and must be called by name and must be opposed."
History, he said, "asks more than memory, because hatred and aggression and murderous ambition are still alive in the world."
The events of Sept. 11, the president said, "were as decisive as the attack on Pearl Harbor and the treachery of another September in 1939," when the Nazis invaded Poland. He also noted that Poland would soon be a fully integrated member of the European Union and strongly praised the nation for the troops it sent to the two wars that have marked the two years of his presidency.
"In the battles of Afghanistan and Iraq, Polish forces served with skill and honor," Mr. Bush said. "America will not forget that Poland rose to the moment."
He also usedhis speech to announce an effort to fight the spread and transport of nuclear, biological and chemical weapons, which he called the Proliferation Security Initiative. He said the United States and its close allies, including Poland, had begun working on new agreements to seize illegal weapons and to search planes and ships carrying suspicious cargo.
"Over time, we will extend this partnership as broadly as possible to keep the world's most destructive weapons away from our shores and out of the hands of our common enemies," Mr. Bush said.
White House officials said today that a conference would be organized, probably next month in Europe, to begin exploring how the United States and its allies can intercept shipments of arms and suspected nuclear, chemical and biological components. Last year, the United States intercepted a North Korean missile shipment on its way to Yemen, but had to release it after the Yemenis complained that there was no legal basis for the seizure.
In St. Petersburg on Sunday, Mr. Bush is expected to discuss concerns regarding Iran with Mr. Putin, including Russia's continuing assistance to Iran's nuclear development projects. Last spring, during a visit to St. Petersburg and Moscow, Mr. Bush told Mr. Putin that he believed that Iran was using the program to develop weapons, and asked him to stop all nuclear aid. The Russians said they believe that the program was peaceful, but recently have indicated some suspicions about Iran's intentions.
In an interview released by the White House today, Mr. Bush was asked by RTR, the Russian state television network, if the United States' next military target was Iran and if American forces would use bases in the former Soviet republics of Azerbaijan and Armenia. The interview was conducted on Thursday in Washington.
"We've had all kinds of reports that we're going to use force in Syria," Mr. Bush said, even though he was not asked about Syria. "And now some on the left, I guess, are saying force in Iran or force here and force there. You know, it's pure speculation. And we used force in Iraq after a long, long period of diplomacy."
He also said in the interview that he supported a "strong dollar" and that he expected to see it rise as the economy grows. He added that "the market, at this point in time, has devalued the dollar, which is contrary to our policy."
Remarks by Treasury Secretary John W. Snow earlier this month that the dollar's decline was helping exports set off a sale of the currency by those who thought it indicated little American commitment to strengthening it.
On Sunday afternoon, Mr. Bush will leave St. Petersburg for Evian-les-Bains and a meeting of the world's leading industrialized democracies.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia, President Bush, Laura Bush and Ludmila Putin on the balcony of Peterhof Palace in St. Petersburg yesterday. They took part in festivities marking the city's 300th anniversary. (Reuters)(pg. 1) Chart: "The Presidents Tour: Poland, Russia, France" SATURDAYTours Auschwitz and Birkenau camps, meets with Polish leaders and addresses the people of Poland. He travels to Russia to celebrate St. Petersburgs 300th anniversary. SUNDAYMeets with President Vladimir V. Putin. Travels to vian, France, for a meeting with President Jacques Chirac and leaders of the G-8. An evening meeting with President Hu Jintao of China is planned (Source: National Security Council)(pg. 14) Map of Europe highlighting tour. (pg. 14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (79%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (61%); BALLET (50%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; CONCENTRATION CAMPS 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (90%); HU JINTAO (74%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (98%); POLAND (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); IRAQ (94%); FRANCE (94%); GERMANY (90%); CHINA (79%); FINLAND (79%); ARCTIC (57%) KRAKOW (POLAND); RUSSIA; IRAQ; POLAND; EUROPE; FRANCE; GERMANY; ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA); AUSCHWITZ (POLAND); BIRKENAU (POLAND)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



49 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT IN EUROPE: DEATH CAMP; 
Witness to Auschwitz Evil, Bush Draws a Lesson

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: KRAKOW, Poland, May 31 

 BODY:
The train tracks into Birkenau were quiet, leaving President Bush and his wife, Laura, to imagine this morning what it was like 60 years ago as hundreds of thousands of people came off the cattle cars and were corralled into the "bathhouse," the gas chambers.
 Today those tracks still run long and straight through the barbed-wire fence dividing the brick women's barracks, the way stations of death that still stand, from the ruins of the wooden barracks for the men. The rail spur dead-ends at the ruins of the crematories, where Mr. Bush, after walking the length of the tracks, laid a wreath this morning. 
 He glanced around at the vastness of the place -- and it is the enormousness of the place that no visitor can prepare for even after seeing the pictures of the desperate and the dying. 
Mr. Bush made the Auschwitz complex of slave-labor camps and extermination camps, of which Birkenau is a horrific part, his first stop in Europe. This morning he called it "a sobering reminder of the power of evil and the need for people to resist evil."
So it was that a president who rarely talks in public about the influences of history, but who has several times compared the mission of his presidency to the mission of those who defeated Hitler, appeared this morning under the gate that still reads "Arbeit Macht Frei," or "Work Makes You Free."
It was one of the more unusual moments in the 28 months of Mr. Bush's presidency. Never one to linger at sightseeing, he took in the camps, the barracks, the gas chambers and the scenes of torture in about an hour and a half. Grim-faced, walking slowly as he held hands with his wife, Mr. Bush listened to the senior curator of the Auschwitz Museum, Teresa Swiebocka. He said little. In the dark, low-ceilinged crematory, the president shifted his weight from foot to foot restlessly and did not stay for long. 
Mr. Bush is not the first president to tour Auschwitz while in office -- Gerald R. Ford made a much briefer stop, under half an hour, in 1975. President Ronald Reagan visited the Bergen-Belsen death camp in Germany 10 years later, during a raging controversy over his decision to visit the Bitburg cemetery that contained the graves of Nazi Waffen SS troops. Mr. Bush's father came here to Auschwitz a few years later, when he was still vice president.
But those visits were in the midst of the cold war, and Mr. Bush arrived here today in a far different, transformative moment in America's relationship with Europe, in which Poland is being hailed as a far better NATO ally than France or Germany. The president himself frequently uses the image of confronting evil to explain the pre-emptive turn in American foreign policy, and to force Europeans to make choices that, in their view, are far less stark than the one that confronted the world in World War II.
So for Mr. Bush, Auschwitz today served not only a symbolic purpose, but a diplomatic one. He arrived here today to drive home his argument -- without ever quite saying so directly -- that America's traditional allies made a huge historical mistake when they opposed decisive military action against Saddam Hussein. 
In a speech at Wawel Castle here a few hours after leaving Auschwitz, he cited the experience of prisoner A70713 -- Elie Wiesel, the writer and Nobel Peace Prize laureate -- and said the death camps were a reminder of why America and its allies could never again make the mistake of waitingtoo long to confront a tyrant.
"All the good that has come to this continent -- all the progress, the prosperity, the peace -- came because beyond the barbed wire there were people willing to take up arms against evil," Mr. Bush said.
It was a searing indictment of modern France and Germany, though not as blunt as those of his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, who still seethes when she talks of how some of America's traditional allies tried to organize the world against a confrontation with Iraq. On Thursday, she told European journalists that "there were times that it appeared that American power was seen to be more dangerous than, perhaps, Saddam Hussein."
She was recalling a time before the Iraq war when Mr. Bush openly likened Mr. Hussein to Hitler, a comparison that fell flat in much of Europe though it was embraced here in Poland. In the weeks since the military phase of the war ended, Mr. Bush has cited new evidence of Mr. Hussein's atrocities in Iraq to vindicate his decision to oust him -- especially in the absence, so far, of compelling evidence of vast Iraqi stores of weapons of mass destruction.
The parallels were obvious in his tour this morning. Mr. Bush's press secretary, Ari Fleischer -- whose maternal grandfather lost most of his family in the camps -- described to reporters this morning how Mr. Bush walked into the "Extermination Building," one of the series of long, redbrick buildings in the first of the Auschwitz camps, and looked at spent canisters of gas. Then Mr. and Mrs. Bush moved to an exhibit of the hair that was shorn off the condemned, a pile of their artificial limbs, and the Jewish prayer shawls that were confiscated from their spare luggage.
"All the little baby shoes," Mr. Bush said at one point, looking at the exhibits, Mr. Fleischer said. (His comments were out of earshot of the small group of reporters who trailed behind and a separate group that included Ms. Rice, Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and the White House chief of staff, Andrew H. Card Jr.) Mr. Bush walked into the small cells where, his guide said, 39 people were kept, claw marks from their fingernails still visible on the wooden door.
At one point Mr. Bush turned to Ms. Swiebocka and asked, "Do people challenge the accuracy of what you present?" Mr. Fleischer, who was accompanying the president a few paces behind, said he could not hear the answer.
Yet what was also so striking during Mr. Bush's visit, apart from the vastness of Heinrich Himmler's death factory, was how much ordinary life has crept back up to the edge of the barbed wire. 
The village of Oswiecim has grown so close to the scene of terror that some residents could step out of their front doors to see the president walking around the remains of the Auschwitz-Birkenau complex. Once the village was deliberately cut off from the world.
But on Friday afternoon as workers prepared for Mr. Bush's tour, a visitor saw from the guard towers the chimneys of the barracks and the ditches dug by prisoners on one side, and then turned around for a vista of modern, neat houses with satellite dishes on every roof. Boys performed wheelies on their bicycles not far from the Birkenau gates, and songbirds chirped from the tall trees around the execution sites, all the louder in the human hush.
Those birds were chirping again this morning, members of Mr. Bush's entourage said, as the president viewed the site.
Outside the camp, the trains were running again on the same main lines that once carried prisoners and now take the commerce of a bustling economy. The touristbuses were beginning to arrive, as they do each day.
At the end of his visit, Mr. Bush walked nearly half a mile along the Birkenau rail spur. He spoke briefly to reporters, but seemed unable to describe his emotions in any detail. He inscribed the words "never forget" in a guest book, and alighted his motorcade to return to Krakow and make his argument that America was remembering, but much of Europe was not.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 1 about President Bush's visit to Krakow, Poland, during his seven-day trip to Europe and the Middle East misstated the ranking of that city's Jewish community among those in Europe just before World War II. With approximately 70,000 Jews, it was not the largest. Warsaw had 500,000.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush and his wife, Laura, toured a crematory yesterday at the concentration camp Auschwitz. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOLOCAUST (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); ARMED FORCES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); COLD WAR (62%); CREMATION (57%) NAZI POLICIES TOWARD JEWS AND MINORITIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (90%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (58%) HUSSEIN, SADDAM (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (94%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%) IRAQ; BIRKENAU (POLAND); AUSCHWITZ (POLAND); POLAND

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



50 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 3443 words

HEADLINE: Commencement Speeches; 
Reflections on War, Peace, and How to Live Vitally and Act Globally

BYLINE:  By SAM DILLON 

 BODY:
America's debate over the Iraq war continued at colleges and universities this spring, as commencement speakers weighed in with reflections on the conflict.
 Supporters and officials of the Bush administration used appearances before campus audiences to characterize the military action as a triumph of American beliefs. 
 "What better explains the stunning success of our military in Afghanistan and Iraq than their core faith in the values of our nation?" said James A. Baker III, the former secretary of state, speaking to graduates at Texas A & M University.
The secretary general of the United Nations, Kofi Annan, spoke at Duke University, his alma mater. He said that while the United Nations was unable to prevent the war in Iraq, it has reduced poverty, led humanitarian efforts that have helped millions and is as essential as ever. Several Democratic leaders warned other commencement audiences that militarism could undermine American democracy. 
"History has shown that nations with unmatched military power have, time and again, made tragic mistakes that have led to their downfall," Senator Patrick Leahy of Vermont told students at Norwich University.
Vice President Dick Cheney told cadets at the United States Military Academy in West Point yesterday that they were graduating at a "crucial hour" in the nation's history and that the fight against terrorism would shape their military careers. "The greatest security is the advancement of freedom," he said.
Seamus Heaney, the poet and Nobel Prize winner, described to graduates at Emory University the "ominous foreboding" he felt in reaction to the terrorism of Sept. 11, as well as to the awesome technological might that United States forces unleashed in Iraq.
"These have been astounding events, yet our consciousness hasn't quite got the measure of them," he said. "Twin towers bursting into flame, human bodies falling like plummets, sorties of black-winged bombers taking off, as terrible and phantasmagorical as black-winged devils of the medieval mind, explosions appearing in the coordinates of a reconnaissance camera, looking as harmlessly white and fluttery as snowflakes."
Perhaps the least-civilized expression of ideas in the debate came at Rockford College, in northern Illinois, where students heckled Chris Hedges, a New York Times reporter and the author of a recent book on war. In his commencement address, Mr. Hedges questioned the Bush administration's moral rationale for waging the war in Iraq. After some students mounted the stage and cut power to the microphone, Mr. Hedges ended his speech early.
"It's easy, maybe too easy, to condemn the behavior of the students at Rockford," Susan Sontag said in her own address at Vassar, using the treatment of Mr. Hedges to discuss intolerance. "No one, I would wager, is likely to be driven off the stage at Vassar for opposing American bellicosity. But suppose someone took this platform and uttered stridently racist remarks or gleefully recounted misogynistic anecdotes. What would we -- you, I -- do then?"
If discussion of the Iraq war dominated many commencement speeches, the business executives, television anchors, musicians, actors, novelists, and assorted luminaries who delivered hundreds of other addresses organized them around traditional formulas, like pledges to keep oratory brief and chestnuts of advice and life-living wisdom.
"My principal exhortation to you today is to go forth and raise hell," the "Doonesbury" cartoonist Garry Trudeau said at Trinity College in Hartford. "Surprise yourselves. Surprise your parents. Surprise the world."
Following are other excerpts:

George J. Mitchell
Former United States senator
Susquehanna University, Selinsgrove, Pa.
For most human beings, life, when reduced to its essence, is a never-ending search for respect. First and most important, self-respect, then the respect of others. There are many ways to achieve respect but none more certain and rewarding than in service to others. . . . What you will find is that fulfillment in life will come, not from acquiring things, not from leisure, not from self-indulgence. Real fulfillment in your life will come from striving with all of your physical and spiritual might for a worthwhile objective that helps others and is larger than your self-interest. I hope that each of you is fortunate enough to find such an objective in your life. 

Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu
Nobel Peace Prize winner
University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia
You in this country helped us to become free. You helped us to become democratic. You helped us to become a country that is seeking to be nonracial and nonsexist. You didn't bomb us into liberation. We became free nonviolently. And the country demonstrated that there are other ways of dealing with difference, with disagreement, with conflict: the way of forgiveness, the way of compromise, the way of reconciliation.

Antwone Fisher
Author
Cleveland State University
You can make yourself live forever through writing. Do not pass through life without leaving something behind for others to learn from your experiences -- even if no one but your children read it. Write of your dreams. Write alone and in a quiet place. Be honest. You may discover a you you've never known.

Susan Sontag
Author
Vassar College, Poughkeepsie, N.Y.
 Despise violence. Despise national vanity and self-love. Protect the territory of conscience.
Try to imagine at least once a day that you are not an American. Go even further: try to imagine at least once a day that you belong to the vast, the overwhelming majority of people on this planet who don't have passports, don't live in dwellings equipped with both refrigerators and telephones, who have never even once flown in a plane.
Be extremely skeptical of all claims made by your government. Remember, it may not be the best thing for America or for the world for the president of the United States to be the president of the planet. Be just as skeptical of other governments, too.
It's hard not to be afraid. Be less afraid.
It's good to laugh a lot, as long as it doesn't mean you're trying to kill your feelings.
Don't allow yourself to be patronized, condescended to -- which, if you are a woman, happens, and will continue to happen, all the time.
Do stuff. Be clenched, curious. Not waiting for inspiration's shove or society's kiss on your forehead. . . . Pay attention. It's all about paying attention. It's all about taking in as much of what's out there as you can, and not letting the excuses and the dreariness of some of the obligations you'll soon be incurring narrow your lives. Attention is vitality. It connects you with others. It makes you eager. Stay eager.
You'll notice that I haven't talked about love. Or about happiness. I've talked about becoming -- or remaining -- the person who can be happy, a lot of the time, without thinking that being happy is what it's all about. It's not. It's about becoming the largest, most inclusive, most responsive person you can be. 

Vice President Dick Cheney
United States Military Academy,
West Point, N.Y.
The battle of Iraq was a major victory in the war on terror, but the war itself is far from over. We cannot allow ourselves to grow complacent. We cannot forget that the terrorists remain determined to kill as many Americans as possible, both abroad and here at home, and they are still seeking weapons of mass destruction to use against us. With such an enemy, no peace treaty is possible; no policy of containment or deterrence will prove effective. The only way to deal with this threat is to destroy it, completely and utterly.

Garry Trudeau
Cartoonist
Trinity College, Hartford
The impertinent question is the glory and engine of human inquiry. Copernicus asked it and shook the foundations of Renaissance Europe. Darwin asked it and redefined humankind's very sense of itself. Thomas Jefferson asked it and was so invigorated by the asking that he declared it one of our inalienable rights. 
Two hundred years years later, Martin Luther King asked it, and forced the country to honor those rights. Daniel Defoe asked the impertinent question and invented the novel. James Joyce asked it and reinvented the novel, which was promptly banned. Jean-Paul Sartre asked it and inspired Simone de Beauvoir, who asked it and inspired a whole generation of women to question what they were doing with men like Jean-Paul Sartre. The Wright brothers asked it and were ignored for five years. Bill Gates asked it and was ignored for five minutes, which was long enough for him to dominate the industry. 
Whether reviled or reveredin their lifetimes, history's movers framed their questions in ways that were entirely disrespectful of conventional wisdom. Civilization has always advanced in the shimmering wake of its discontents.

Tommy G. Thompson
Secretary of health and human services
University of Wisconsin-Eau Claire
The better you care for your mind and body, the better you can serve your neighbor and care for your family. And you owe them that service. Some of your plans won't work out. Some of your assumptions will be wrong. But a few simple things are in your power, and they are all you need. A sound mind. A strong body. A loving heart. A virtuous soul. A rich imagination. A close family. A handful of lifelong friends. A few memorable achievements. A treasure of stories. A few dreams that you can attain. A few more that you can pass on to others. These are all you need. 

Senator Patrick Leahy
Norwich University, Northfield, Vt.
 History has shown that nations with unmatched military power have, time and again, made tragic mistakes that have led to their downfall. The Romans, the Ottomans, and the Soviet Union are but a few. Some of these governments became so obsessed with extending their empires far beyond their borders that their core values as a society withered, and the outside world, or their own people, turned violently against them. 
We must learn from history. We must remember the value of humility, and that our overwhelming military supremacy is no cure for the many challenges that we continue to face at home -- racial disparities, overcrowded schools, millions of Americans without health insurance, and factory closings and job losses on a scale we have not faced for quite awhile. 

Sydney Pollack
Director
Binghamton (N.Y.) University
 We all live rather prescribed and narrow lives. I'm just this one white guy, 60-something years old. I'll never be anything else except older. I've got one set of kids. I've got one wife. That's it for me. But then there's this great, great library of experiences that's housed in the liberal arts. Fictional worlds created that I can put on like this gown or coat, eyes I can borrow through which to see the world. 
I can be a black housewife. I can be a king. I can be a 19th-century fur trapper. I can be a C.I.A. spy. I can be a warrior. I can learn what it feels like to be tried and convicted, to confess, to win the beautiful girl, lose the beautiful girl. It's a way of understanding the world that functions beyond intellect and it teaches and touches through feeling and experience even when the experience is purely that of the imagination. Compassion finally is the great gift of literature. Fiction, and by that I mean the aesthetic creation of all artificial worlds, must persuade you to interpret the world through compassion.

Kofi Annan
U.N. secretary general
Duke University, Durham, N.C.
 Issues that once seemed very far away are very much in your backyard. What happens in South America or Southern Africa -- from democratic advances to deforestation to the fight against AIDS -- can affect your lives here in North Carolina. And your choices here -- what you buy, how you vote -- can resound far away.
As someone once said about water pollution, we all live downstream. This interdependence generates a host of new and urgent demands. Towns and villages have their planning boards, fire departments and recycling centers. Nations have their legislatures and judicial bodies. Our globalizing world also needs institutions and standards. I am not talking about world government; such anidea never was, and never could be, either practical or desirable. I mean laws and norms that countries negotiate together, and agree to uphold as the "rules of the road." And I mean a forum where sovereign states can come together to share burdens, address common problems and seize common opportunities.

Anna Wintour
Editor in chief, Vogue magazine
Fashion Institute of Technology,
New York City
You are heading out into a different industry than the one I entered. The fashion world is more inclusive than ever, and more in demand than ever. You will not have failed to notice that since you've been in school, celebrities -- actresses, singers, TV anchorwomen -- have all turned into fashion experts. This is not just about fearing red-carpet scrutiny. It's about these women realizing that they can look chic without compromising their professional seriousness or their mainstream appeal. A certain generation of actresses, for example -- I'm thinking Meryl Streep, Jodie Foster, Diane Keaton, even Julia Roberts -- became stars of great standing without ever venturing much past Armani; and even then, only on Oscar nights. To have asked them about the clothes hanging in their closets would have been inappropriate. (At that time, we had the supermodels to show us how to wear Versace.) The more recent crop of movie stars -- Nicole, Halle, Salma, Renee, -- are completely different. Although they're every bit as serious about their careers, they are also serious about their wardrobes.

Seamus Heaney
Poet
Emory University, Atlanta
 If literature has a virtue, if those works of the human imagination that have been preserved by teachers and librarians for millennia have a virtue, it is surely their ability to make us realize fully and feelingly what is happening to us as individuals and as nations. As human beings, we need this realization. And one of the most observable proofs that we do need it was the quest, in the wake of the Sept. 11 atrocities, the general and urgent quest for poems that would be equal to that bewildering moment. 
Just then, people needed interior possessions that would keep standing, as it were, even as the rubble of the outer world kept falling around them. What they required was work that addressed itself to the place of ultimate suffering and decision in each and every one of us. 
You graduate at a solemn moment, in the aftermath of grave suffering endured on your shores and grave action taken beyond them. And, as citizens of this more somber world, you will be faced with the challenge to maintain both balance of mind and quickness of sympathy. To maintain what the poet Wilfred Owen called during the First World War "the eternal reciprocity of tears." Or to put it more simply, you will be challenged to be wise and to be good. 

Lani Guinier
Harvard law professor
Bard College,
Annandale-on-Hudson, N.Y.
 My aunt was born in Panama, but she was from Jamaica and a member of the Episcopal faith. When she and her husband moved to Crown Heights in Brooklyn, she looked for a church and found one, a couple of blocks from her home, and she went there one Sunday in 1950, and there was a white man standing at the door greeting people as they came to the church. And, as my aunt walked up, the greeter took a step to his right, crossed his arms, and said, "You must be looking for the colored church." And he pointed to the bus. 
Well, my aunt was humiliated. But my aunt also had the nerve of failure. She had the courage to face the possibility of defeat without being morally defeated, and she returned to that church the next week. My aunt got my grandmother and many of my aunts to faithfully attend this church, until one day the priest read a notice that the church was going to be sold because of poor attendance. Well, my aunt and my grandmother took the Long Island Rail Road to visit the bishop of the diocese. And my grandmother said, "We build churches; we don't sell them." And the bishop offered them a deal. He said, "Well, if you can recruit at least 50 families to become tithing members of this church, we won't sell the church."
Well, my aunt and grandmother took the bishop's offer and started recruiting people to join the church. The church was not sold, and, in fact, St. Mark's is the second-largest Episcopal church in Brooklyn. At her funeral, the church was overflowing with people. Even the bishop came for the service. 
And this was an important story, not just because she had remade the church in her own image, but she had shown how important it was for all of us, those who are black and those who are white, to link our fate to those who have been left out, marginalized, underrepresented.

James A. Baker III
Former secretary of state
Texas A & M University, College Station
 I sometimes refer to the last quarter-century as an "Era of Transformation." The cold war ended and a wave of political and economic freedom swept the globe -- very imperfect in many cases, but promising and full of hope. We know it happened, but the more fundamental question is "Why?" With all respect to those in the audience who may not be Americans, and to the nations and cultures they represent, the answer, I believe, is found in the 227-year-old American Revolution, the constitutional republic it created, and -- most importantly -- the values on which it was all based. This country of ours is not perfect, but it is good, and its goodness is the product of its values.

John Sexton
New York University president
New York University
Consider this reality: There are only 85 human institutions that have been in continuous operation for more than 500 years. Two you could get with a little thought: the Catholic Church and the British Parliament. If I tell you there are eight cantons in Switzerland, you're up to 10. 
But the striking point is that of the remaining 75 human institutions that have been in continuous operation for more than five centuries, 70 of them are universities, beginning with Al-Azhar University in Egypt. That universities endure in this way testifies powerfully to the ideal that knowledge and learning deserve a special house of their own, and all of us -- faculty, students and everyone associated with our university -- are privileged to be the inhabitants of that house.

Bill Clinton
Syracuse University
Here's what I want to say to you as you go out with your education. There's a big difference between the trend lines and the headlines. And one of the things that you need to be able to do as you leave here is to draw that distinction. I think of all the things that have happened that are good in the four years you've been here. An international consortium of scientists sequenced the human genome. Our great adversaries in the cold war, China and Russia, have largely been reconciled to the West. And you don't worry about a nuclear explosion destroying all of humanity, as I did when I was your age.

Queen Noor of Jordan
Ursinus College, Collegeville, Pa.
Globalization is connection -- for good and for ill. The crucial factor is what we choose to connect. If only money, markets, commodities, then we can expect more of what we have right now -- economic and environmental degradation, political and cultural dissatisfaction, injustice and conflict. But if we use the almost limitless power of global networks to connect people, to cross boundaries, the possibilities are just as limitless.

Renee Fleming
Opera singer
The Juilliard School, New York City
While you're standing in the grocery line holding Spam instead of foie gras for a few years ponder the following: Those of you who perform -- musicians and dancers -- will have by now practiced perhaps 3,000 hours a year, times 15 years, which equals 45,000 hours. Which means collectively that you as a group will have practiced 11 million hours. Challenge the idea that the arts are for a select few -- teach, make more people love what you love, and help them to understand why you dedicated those 11 million hours in the first place.

George J. Tenet
C.I.A. director
University of Oklahoma, Norman
Today, the United States is the lone superpower, with global interests and worldwide reach -- part of everyone's problem and everyone's solution. And by this I mean more than Afghanistan and Iraq, where crises called forth from us a military response. There is another, underlying story that must be told: the story of societies and peoples who are left behind, excluded from the benefits of an expanding global economy, whose lives of hunger, disease, and displacement may become wellsprings of disaffection and extremism. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 3, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Sunday about college commencement addresses and a roundup of excerpts referred incorrectly to a speech by Kofi Annan, secretary general of the United Nations.
Mr. Annan was ill on May 11 and did not attend the Duke University commencement; Duke's president, Nannerl O. Keohane, read excerpts from his speech. The university provided The Times with an Internet link to the text but did not mention the circumstances. The Times should have verified that Mr. Annan had given the speech.
The article also misstated Mr. Annan's connection to Duke. He was receiving an honorary degree; his own degrees include one from Macalester College.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Kristie Malley of Teachers College at Columbia University and Archbishop Desmond M. Tutu before a graduation ceremony on May 20. A day earlier, the archbishop spoke at the University of Pennsylvania's commencement in Philadelphia. (James Estrin/The New York Times); (Associated Press); (Librado Romero/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (91%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IRAQ WAR (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WRITERS (86%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HISTORY (78%); BOMBINGS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); TERRORISM (70%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); AWARDS & PRIZES (64%); RACE & RACISM (62%); POLITICAL PARTIES (53%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (91%); DUKE UNIVERSITY (83%); UNITED NATIONS (83%); TEXAS A & M UNIVERSITY (83%); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN (59%); CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (59%); SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY (59%); UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (59%); UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA (59%) SUSQUEHANNA UNIVERSITY; CLEVELAND STATE UNIVERSITY; VASSAR COLLEGE; UNITED STATES MILITARY ACADEMY (WEST POINT, NY); TRINITY COLLEGE (HARTFORD); UNIVERSITY OF WISCONSIN-EAU CLAIRE; NORWICH UNIVERSITY; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT BINGHAMTON; DUKE UNIVERSITY; FASHION INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY; EMORY UNIVERSITY; BARD COLLEGE; TEXAS A&M UNIVERSITY; NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; SYRACUSE UNIVERSITY; URSINUS COLLEGE; JUILLIARD SCHOOL; UNIVERSITY OF OKLAHOMA 

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (74%); TOMMY THOMPSON (58%); GEORGE J MITCHELL (57%) DILLON, SAM; MITCHELL, GEORGE J; FISHER, ANTWONE; SONTAG, SUSAN; CHENEY, DICK (VICE PRES); TRUDEAU, GARRY; THOMPSON, TOMMY G (SEC); LEAHY, PATRICK J (SEN); POLLACK, SYDNEY; ANNAN, KOFI; WINTOUR, ANNA; HEANEY, SEAMUS; GUINIER, LANI; BAKER, JAMES A III; SEXTON, JOHN; CLINTON, BILL; NOOR AL-HUSSEIN (QUEEN); FLEMING, RENEE; TENET, GEORGE#000T031220SRAQA01# 

GEOGRAPHIC: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (79%); EAU CLAIRE, WI, USA (79%); BINGHAMTON, NY, USA (71%); ROCKFORD, IL, USA (66%) PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); VERMONT, USA (79%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); IRAQ (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



51 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 1, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2458 words

HEADLINE: A Peek at the New Plum Island 

BYLINE:  By JOHN RATHER

 BODY:
FOR some years now the federal Department of Agriculture has been trying to convince Long Islanders that research conducted at its mystery-shrouded Plum Island Animal Disease Center, while vital to protecting the nation's agricultural industries, was hardly top secret or cause for alarm.
 As the Department of Homeland Security prepared to formally take over the laboratory today,, there was every expectation that the curtain of secrecy would close tighter than ever. 
 This time the secrecy will be official, and indeed a matter of law, because the Department of Homeland Security has a mandate to conduct classified research. Some people say that this could push the laboratory in a new, ultra-hush-hush direction, and that any of the 200 or so administrators, scientists or employees who say too much about what goes on at the 850-acre island, which is less than two miles off the North Fork, will risk committing a criminal act.
All of which made it even more surprising that the homeland security official who will be in charge, Dr. Maureen McCarthy, the acting director for research and development in the department's science and technology directorate, said last week that openness and closer community ties were a high priority. 
"Public involvement is absolutely critical for us," Dr. McCarthy said. "It is critical for us to hear and address the concerns of the local community as we develop our plans and move forward." She said she would support creation of a community advisory board as "an integral element of how we need to do business." 
The pledge, which Dr. McCarthy said in an interview would extend to including local as well as state and federal officials in emergency preparedness for the island, came as Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton and Representative Timothy H. Bishop told the homeland security secretary, Tom Ridge, in a May 27 letter that better communications would be vital to allay community concerns.
"We believe that it is absolutely imperative for us to get off to a positive start by establishing open lines of communication between the department and the surrounding community and public from the moment of the transfer," said the letter, which noted residents' "longstanding concerns about the safety and security" of the laboratory and the readiness of local communities to respond to an emergency.
Senator Clinton and Representative Bishop were to have met with Secretary Ridge last month to discuss the transfer. But the meeting was pre-empted by Mr. Ridge's announcement of an elevated terrorist alert. 
In their letter, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop urged Mr. Ridge to reject any plan for a Biosafety Level 4 designation for Plum Island. This would allow scientists there to study the most virulent toxins and viruses and the so-called zoonotic diseases, which can pass from animals to humans and can kill both.
"Any upgrade would potentially jeopardize the safety of the millions of residents residing in surrounding communities," the letter said. 
Dr. McCarthy dismissed the possibility that there were plans for Biosafety Level 4 labs on Plum Island, the highest security classification. "I can state definitively that we have no plans, either near-term or long-term, for BSL4 containment labs," Dr. McCarthy said in a telephone interview from her Washington office. She also said there are no plans to study mad cow disease at the lab. 
But Dr. McCarthy said the Biosafety Level 3 labs now operating, where Agriculture scientists study foreign animal diseases, fulfilled an immediate and critical need for homeland security. "Scientists at Plum Island are using them now," she said. "We intend to be a part of that research in accordance with our mission." 
Officials of both the Agriculture and Homeland Security Departments said last week that Plum Island scientists would continue to conduct the same kind of animal disease research done at the laboratory since its beginnings in 1954, when the island was designated as the only place in the country for the study of foot-and-mouth disease. 
What will change, Dr. McCarthy said, was that research would be refocused on what she called countermeasures to agri-terrorism, or ways to prevent, respond to and quickly recover from an intentional introduction of an animal disease in the United States. .
Agriculture Department scientists on the Plum Island staff, who will remain employees of that department, would play a leading role in that research, she said. "There are not a lot of scientists who have been working in these areas," she said. 
Dr. McCarthy said that security for Plum Island would now become the responsibility of the Homeland Security Department, although it would work with the Agriculture Department, in what she described as a strategic partnership, to review what needs to be done. She said there were no plans for a permanent no-fly zone over the island, which has been requested by at least one local group. 
In February, more than 500 residents attended a public meeting convened by Senator Clinton and Representative Bishop to discuss safety concerns at Plum Island, which was then in the middle of a labor dispute, and the coming transfer to the Homeland Security Department. The audience applauded and cheered when Senator Clinton, complaining about the lack of information about what the transfer might mean, said the Bush Administration was using the threat of domestic terrorism to "create a secret government in the United States" that was unreasonably withholding information from the public. The two officials and residents who spoke expressed fears that safety on the island had plummeted after unionized employees who maintained and operated the laboratory struck in August 2002 over wages and working conditions.
The private company holding the maintenance contract, LB&B Associates of Columbia, Md., brought in replacement workers, and a series of accidents, including power failures and security breaches, followed. The strikers, members of International Union of Operating Engineers Local 30, eventually agreed to drop wage demands but were locked out by the contractor. 
LB&B, which has since formed a partnership with an Alaskan Indian group to meet Agriculture Department contract bidding requirements, has insisted that the replacement workers are capable and well trained.
But a striking worker and former Local 30 shop steward, Martin Weinmiller of Middle Island, said last week that replacement workers were not up to their jobs. "They are untrained, unskilled and unqualified," he said. "Conditions are so deplorable I got a call from one of the scabs asking how we could get the union back on the island because that's how bad it was." 
In their letter to Mr. Ridge, Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop also criticizedthe use of replacement workers, calling on Mr. Ridge to federalize the work force and rehire the some 70 strikers.
The letter also said that "serious questions have been raised about inadequate safety measures on Plum Island that cast doubt on the ability of the island to continue to function as a top-notch research facility."
"Well-documented security breaches have escalated fears that Plum Island could be vulnerable to a potential terrorist attack that could undermine the security of our nation's food supply," said the letter, which urged Mr. Ridge to heed findings of a security audit the General Accounting Office is expected to complete soon. 
"A meaningful security overhaul of Plum Island will go a long way towards reassuring residents and protecting both the physical safety and economic stability of Long Island," the letter said. 
The letter also said that despite complaints from volunteer fire department officials and medical workers that the laboratory had done nothing to prepare them for dealing with an emergency on the island, "no real steps" had been taken for training since the February meeting. 
Dr. McCarthy said her department would expand on the security improvements the Agriculture Department made three years ago. She said a review of security policies and procedures was planned and that the department would communicate with local officials and emergency personnel about training and preparedness.
She said that while the department was "committed to managing the facility in the most safe, secure and cost-effective manner that we possibly can," she could not say whether maintenance and operations workers would be federalized and whether strikers would be returned to their jobs. "It would be premature for us to make that kind of commitment," she said. "I can tell you that we are examining all options."
Dr. McCarthy visited Plum Island last month (she will continue to maintain her office in Washington). She did not respond directly to a question about whether she found substandard conditions on the island during her visit. "There is a need for attention to the capital facilities," she said. "There will need to be additional improvements there."
Mr. Bishop applauded the Homeland Security Department for ruling out Biosafety Level 4 labs and promising greater openness. "That's welcome news," he said. He said he was gratified that Dr. McCarthy had expressed willingness to consider the option of rehiring of the striking workers as federal employees. "I will be urging that she make that the option," he said.
Asked for a reaction for Dr. McCarthy's comments on Tuesday, Mrs. Clinton's office had no immediate response.
Dr. Michael D. Ruff, the director of homeland security for the Agricultural Research Service, an arm of the Agriculture Department, described the island's new status as a property transfer. He said the Agriculture Department would remain responsible for security procedures within the Biosafety Level 3 labs, including the control of pathogens. "The Department of Homeland Security will do physical security of the island, guards and that sort of thing," he said. 
Asked for his understanding of how Homeland Security would use the laboratories for in the future, he said, "I have absolutely no idea what they are going to decide to do."
Another agriculture official, Dr. Henry S. Parker, the Agriculture Research Service's associate director for the North Atlantic area, said that with the transfer, the Department of Homeland Security became a landlord leasing space to Agriculture Department researchers. "They are the landlord, and they would have the ultimate say over the use of the space," he said. The Plum Island operation has an annual budget of about $22.5 million. 
A new coalition, Concerned Citizens for Safety and Security of Plum Island, has joined Mrs. Clinton and Mr. Bishop in pressing for more information. "The general public certainly has not been in the loop," said Debra O'Kane, the executive director of the North Fork Environmental Council in Mattituck, a founder of the coalition. "We just want to make sure that local residents have a chance to weigh in. And we're hoping that the lines of communication stay open."
Ms. O'Kane said Dr. McCarthy's pledge of openness was reassuring. "It sounds like they are heading in the right direction," she said. But she said a protest rally would still be held as scheduled on June 8. 
Others said concerns about the transfer were overstated and possible benefits had been overlooked. David Kapell, the mayor of Greenport, said he hoped the transfer would mean increased federal investment in the laboratory, to the benefit the village. Asked if people in the village were expressing apprehension about what the shift in ownership might mean, he said: "I haven't heard that at all, not in my community."
Mr. Kapell said he accepted the need for secrecy on Plum Island. "I cannot imagine that the federal government would share all the information," he said. "It would be inappropriate. On the other hand, I take it as a matter of faith that they will have the level of security that is appropriate for the activities that would be occurring."
"You are talking about extremely sensitive national security, and why would they want to make that public?" he said. "An argument could be made that we would be better off if they didn't make it public. There has to be an element of faith in the thing."
Supervisor Joshua Y. Horton of the Town of Southold, the nearest town to the island, said: "I feel like this shift is happening very quickly, and I get the sense that even our federal legislators don't have a complete handle on this undertaking. I'd like some more information."
Paul ConnorIII, the chief executive officer of Eastern Long Island Hospital in Greenport, the nearest hospital to Plum Island, said that in recent months Plum Island officials had met with hospital staff members to discuss the hospital's role in an emergency. He said a second meeting had been planned.
Mr. Connor had said at the community meeting in February that the hospital was ill-prepared to deal with an emergency and that information from lab officials was difficult to get.
"Now we have their cooperation and attention, and we are on a path to be able to include each other in our emergency plans," he said last week. 
He said he was concerned that these gains not be lost when Homeland Security takes over. 
"To the extent that they are going to be conducting research on new viruses, we need to be prepared on a one-by-one or mass casualty basis," he said.
He said the need to know became paramount if zoonotic diseases ---- diseases that can kill animals and humans -- were studied on the island. "Some zoonotic diseases begin with flulike symptoms," he said, and hospital medical staff members who treat anyone infected need to know the risks so they can protect themselves and other patients. 
While Dr. McCarthy emphasized that existing research would continue at the laboratory, she did not rule out future research on pathogens not now studied at the lab.
She also did not rule out zoonotic diseases. "We have no plans to do zoonotic at this point," she said. 
If Mr. Kapell found no apprehension in Greenport, residents in Orient, a hamlet farther to the east and nearer Plum Island, felt differently. "I think it's absolutely safe and noncontroversial to say that the residents of Orient, living as close as we do, are terribly concerned about the safety and security of the island," said Anne Hopkins, the president of the Orient Association. "The transfer to Homeland Security doesn't fill me with any kind of confidence. It's basically an unknown." 
"I remember learning about Plum Island," said Ms. Hopkins, who moved to Orient in 1978. "And I learned to be wary of it, and, of course, the secrecy has always added to it."
Asked if she thought the secrecy would now increase, Ms. Hopkins said: "I don't think it ever really went away. I don't think we have ever really known what was going on there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: OFF LIMITS -- The Plum Island Animal Disease Center, seen from Orient Point with the Orient Point Lighthouse in the middle distance, has been shrouded in secrecy for years. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Members of the Concerned Citizens for Safety and Security of Plum Island, shown above at Orient Beach State Park with the island in the background, are calling for more information on what sort of research is being conducted at the Plum Island Animal Disease Center, left. (Gordon M. Grant for The New York Times; United States Department of Agriculture inset )(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ISLANDS & REEFS (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); TROPICAL MEDICINE (78%); TERRORISM (77%); DISASTER PLANNING (77%); INTERVIEWS (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (91%); US DEPARTMENT OF AGRICULTURE (90%); NEW YORK ISLANDERS (84%)

PERSON: HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (75%); TIMOTHY H BISHOP (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2003 



52 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 536 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Air Canada Reaches Deal With Pilots on Cutbacks
Air Canada reached a tentative agreement with the union representing its 3,150 pilots on cutbacks, clearing a crucial hurdle in its effort to restructure under bankruptcy protection.
 The agreement comes after deals with eight other unions on wage cuts, layoffs, more flexible work rules and other concessions that the airline says are essential if it is to stay in business. Page C2. 

Cisco Seen in Deal with BellSouth
Cisco Systems, the leader in Internet data network equipment, plans to announce a major development agreement today with BellSouth. The deal is the latest indication that Cisco is cultivating a part of the industry that formerly viewed it with mistrust. C6.

Supercomputer Policy Challenged
Two leading American computer researchers -- Jim Gray and Gordon Bell at Microsoft's Bay Area Research Center in California -- are challenging the government's policy of heavily underwriting elaborate centers to house the world's fastest supercomputers. They argue that the federal money should be shifted to vast data-storage systems. C4.

AOL Seeks to Halt Swap Software
AOL Time Warner is seeking to stop the spread of a new file-sharing program released by its Nullsoft division, whose founder, Justin Frankel, is a programmer known for leaking his work onto the Internet and causing headaches for his employer. C6.

The Random House division of Bertelsmann has stepped forward once again in the bidding for the books division of AOL Time Warner, people briefed on the auction say. C8.

TiVo to Sell Data on Viewing Habits
TiVo, the maker of digital video recorders, is starting to sell information about the viewing patterns of its customers to advertisers and programmers. The information will be gathered in aggregate and filtered through a third party so that the habits of individual users will remain anonymous, the company said. C8.

Marketing of an Unlikely Pop Idol
Clay Aiken's close second-place finish in the most recent "American Idol" contest on Fox was enough for the music impresario Clive Davis to sign him to the RCA record label he oversees the day after the contest ended. But since prevailing pop-star theory fails in many ways to explain the popularity of Mr. Aikenty, above, RCA will be navigating uncharted marketing currents as it releases a single on June 10 and later an album, which is expected in August or September. C8.

U.S. Sets Date to Rule on Hynix Tariff
Donald L. Evans, the United States commerce secretary, said on Saturday that his department would decide on June 16 whether to approve a 57 percent tariff on memory chips made by Hynix Semiconductor. C2.

Counteracting the Internet Rumor
An e-mail message about Starbucks, which had announced it was pulling out of Israel, had a nefarious tone, and it spread quickly. The company worked to distribute correct information in an effort to prevent widespread protests. New Economy. C4.

Internet Brands Expand Offline
Online retailers and media companies are finding creative ways to use their brands and expertise beyond the Internet -- whether by producing TV shows, forging offline alliances or selling goods wholesale to other merchants. Bob Tedeschi: E-Commerce Report. C7.

GRAPHIC: Photos Chart: "LAST WEEK"Dow industrials -- 8,850.26 up 248.88Nasdaq composite -- 1,595.91 up 85.8210-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.37% up 0.04The euro -- $1.1779 down 0.0048The dollar -- 119.30 yen up 2.45

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); APPROVALS (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (87%); DIGITAL RECORDERS (86%); STOCK INDEXES (85%); LAYOFFS (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); AUCTIONS (75%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (75%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (75%); COMPUTER SCIENCE (74%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (74%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); NETWORKING EQUIPMENT (71%); COMPUTER CHIPS (69%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (69%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (69%); CELEBRITIES (67%); REALITY TELEVISION (66%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (66%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (65%); BOOK PUBLISHING (65%); RECORD INDUSTRY (65%); CD & DVD DRIVES (64%); MEMORY CHIPS (60%); SEMICONDUCTORS (60%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: AOL INC (92%); AIR CANADA (91%); CISCO SYSTEMS INC (74%); SK HYNIX INC (61%); AT&T SOUTHEAST (57%); MICROSOFT CORP (56%)

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (92%); AC.A (TSX) (91%); CSCO (NASDAQ) (74%); HY9H (FRA) (61%); 000660 (KSE) (61%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (92%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (74%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (74%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (61%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (61%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (57%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (57%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



53 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1449 words

HEADLINE: TV News That Looks Local, Even if It's Not 

BYLINE:  By JIM RUTENBERG with MICHELINE MAYNARD 

 BODY:
When viewers in Flint, Mich., tuned in to the Fox 66 "News at 10" last Thursday night, the station's resident firebrand, Mark Hyman, was at the ready to serve up some passionate punditry.
 "Black, Asian and Hispanic seniors are graduating from colleges this spring in ethnically themed ceremonies that are out of bounds for whites," Mr. Hyman, the station's commentator, inveighed. Before passing the camera's attention back to his colleagues on the Flint news team, he added, "Segregated ceremonies have no place in America's college campuses." 
 If Mr. Hyman's tan looked out of place in central Michigan, or if his commentary seemed ill suited to a city with a large population of minority groups, there was good reason. Mr. Hyman was actually in a studio just outside Baltimore, not sharing a set with the Flint news team. As he does most nights, Mr. Hyman also addressed audiences of local news programs in cities across the country, including Pittsburgh, Oklahoma City and Rochester, from right where he sat in Hunt Valley, Md. 
Mr. Hyman is part of a national team of anchors, commentators and weathercasters that, when plans are complete, will report for all 62 television stations owned by the Sinclair Broadcast Group. Sinclair calls it "Central Casting." To the company, it is an efficient way to cut the costs of local journalism, bringing news to small stations that otherwise would go without.
But to opponents of a proposal before the Federal Communications Commission to loosen media ownership rules, the set in Maryland is a frightening sign of things to come.
Today the commission is expected to enact new rules that will allow media companies to increase the percentage of the national television audience they can reach from 35 to possibly 45. It is also expected to make it easier for companies to own two or even three stations in a single market -- or a newspaper and television station in a single market.
For all of the derision local news sometimes takes for segments about surfing dogs or waterskiing squirrels, it has become a focal point in the complicated debate over media consolidation.
Several civic groups have warned that the more stations a company like Sinclair can own, the more likely that company will make all those stations similar -- often based on its own out-of-town taste or political disposition.
"The goal is homogenization in order to contain costs," said Jeff Chester, executive director of the Center for Digital Democracy, a group fighting deregulation. "But that homogenization creates a kind of cookie-cutter blandness."
Station owners say that such predictions overlook the complexities of the television business: broadcast stations ultimately succeed by offering viewers quality newscasts with unique local programming.
"We don't want to be limited in our ability to grow because of some bogeyman out there," said Fred Reynolds, president of the Viacom Television Stations Group.
Those opposed to deregulation say that there is already an example that proves Mr. Reynolds's bogeyman could become real for the American television audience: Clear Channel Communications.
After the F.C.C. loosened radio station ownership caps in the mid-1990's, Clear Channel's radio group grew from 36 stations to nearly 1,200. It has been criticized for having similar music lineups across the country, and for passing off some D.J.'s who are really in San Diego or other cities as if they were broadcasting directly from stations in smaller towns. (The company says it has only done this in a small percentage of its stations and that it gives its local program directors far more control than its critics acknowledge.)
"We can point to experience on the radio side as the canary in the mine shaft, showing where we're going," said Andrew Jay Schwartzman, president of the Media Access Project, a consumer advocacy group.
Advocates like Mr. Schwartzman cite various examples where consolidated television station ownership, which was allowed to occur under waivers from the commission, has led to the loss of a distinct local news voice.
For instance, after Viacom acquired KCAL-TV in Los Angeles last year it merged its news operations with the CBS station it owns there, turning two separate newsrooms into one.
Likewise, Clear Channel merged the news operations of its two television stations in Jacksonville, Fla., WAWS and WTEV.
But Sinclair has caused the most stir with Central Casting. 
The experiment began in late October at Sinclair's Flint station, WSMH, a Fox affiliate. WSMH's new 10 p.m. newcast begins with a Flint-based team that presents seven minutes of local news. After a commercial break, an anchor on a similar set in Maryland presents national and international news, which is also delivered live to other Sinclair stations around the country with a graphic that labels it "News Central." At another point, the Flint-based anchor may banter about the frigid local weather with one of the meteorologists in the Maryland studio who will act as if he were in Flint. On Friday, Scott Padgett, a Sinclair anchor in Baltimore, said there would be a high of "57 for us here in Flint."
With such centralized reports, said Mr. Hyman, who doubles as Sinclair's vice president for corporate relations, the Flint station could finally afford a news program. On its own, he said, the station would have needed the 30 or more staff members its competitors employ to produce news programs. With help from the central Sinclair news desk, he said, it needs only 18. "What we're doing we could not do if we only had a single station in Flint," Mr. Hyman said. And the station's news staff, he said, is free to focus on local issues. 
Since October, Sinclair has rolled out Central Casting to Raleigh, N.C., Oklahoma City, Pittsburgh and Rochester. In the next 60 days, seven more markets are to get the feed, including Tampa, Fla., and Birmingham, Ala. The centralized news desk, Mr. Hyman said, will ultimately allow the company to bring news programs to 30 news-bereft television stations -- most of them WB, UPN or Fox affiliates in medium and small markets.
The other Sinclair stations that do have local news programs will also become part of the system, sharing camera time with the staff members at Central Casting. Most of the local news programs' sets will eventually be identical to the one in Maryland, Mr. Hyman said.
Instead of criticizing the company, Mr. Hyman said, advocates "ought to be applauding us."
But Sinclair's new newscasts have received mixed reviews. James Bleicher, news director of the ABC station in Flint, WJRT, credited Sinclair with introducing a news program to an area that could use more and for showing some initiative in its local reporting. For instance, on Friday it included a locally produced "investigation" into whether warehouse clubs were cheaper than local grocery stores. But, he said, "It's a pretty disjointed newcast -- there's a local segment and then they go away. They've had very little connectivity with the home audience here."
(The New York Times Company owns stations that compete with those owned by Sinclair in Oklahoma City, Des Moines, Iowa, and Norfolk, Va.)
Many of Sinclair's competitors said they would not follow its lead too closely, because they would not want to risk losing the connection they have with their audience.
"If you consistently air a high-quality, serious newscast that reflects a local community's interests, you can create this kind of durable relationship with viewers that is a powerful asset from a business point of view," said Robert W. Decherd, chief executive of Belo, an owner of television stations and newspapers.
Mr. Reynolds of Viacom said: "We're in the business of making money. The more diverse you are, the bigger audience you'll garner. Why in the world would we want to have the same voice across multiple television stations?"
Though critics in Los Angeles have complained that the same reporters have shown up on both Viacom-owned stations there, Mr. Reynolds said, the one newsroom now serving them has more people to devote to big local stories than the separate newsrooms had combined. 
Others, like the News Corporation, note that they have resisted merging news divisions at the stationsthey own in the same markets.
But opponents of deregulation said the media companies were on their best civic behavior so as not to cause any controversy while the F.C.C. makes a decision in their favor.
"They're sitting, waiting for the sword of consolidation to fall," said Mona Mangan, executive director of the Writers Guild of America East, which represents screen writers. "We have every confidence that the economies of scale will prove irresistible to these corporations."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a sports bar in Fenton, Mich., patrons watch the weather forecast on Flint's WSMH Fox 66. Part of the broadcast comes from outside Baltimore, using a backdrop identical to the one in the Flint studio. (Andy Sacks for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (87%); DEREGULATION (87%); JOURNALISM (78%); MAMMALS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (72%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (71%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (69%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (69%); WATER SPORTS (66%); WATERSKIING (50%) TELEVISION; TELEVISION AND RADIO PROGRAMMING; FINANCES; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

COMPANY: SINCLAIR BROADCAST GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (82%) SINCLAIR BROADCAST GROUP INC; FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

TICKER: SBGI (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (55%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (55%)

PERSON: RUTENBERG, JIM; MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: OKLAHOMA CITY, OK, USA (79%); FLINT, MI, USA (73%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (71%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (91%); OKLAHOMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



54 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1446 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
Digital Media Becomes Focus As Microsoft And AOL Settle

BYLINE:  By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
The corporate armistice declared last week between Microsoft and AOL Time Warner reflected two companies moving from the past to the future.
 The abandoned past included a last lingering vestige of the Internet browser wars of the 1990's, a private antitrust suit that Microsoft has now agreed to pay AOL Time Warner $750 million to settle. 
 The future involves using the Internet to deliver commercial program content, mainly movies and music, to consumers who are equipped with a growing array of digital devices to receive it, from personal computers to digital televisions to smart cellphones. And the two companies must do so in a way that is convenient for users and profitable for media companies, while keeping digital piracy to a manageable minimum.
Both Bill Gates, the chairman of Microsoft, and Richard D. Parsons, his counterpart at AOL Time Warner, spoke last Thursday about how their collaboration could accelerate the adoption of digital media for the Internet while maintaining copyright protection. 
The central technology in pursuit of that goal is the software for handling and protecting digital media. And last week's pact included a long-term, nonexclusive license agreement allowing AOL Time Warner to use Microsoft's Windows Media software for distributing and playing back digital media.
The media player is the crucial piece in the puzzle. It resides on the user's computer or other device and opens a portal to what the industry calls rich media -- movies, music, video -- delivered over the Internet, just as the browser is a portal for viewing Web pages. The media player takes on additional importance because it seems to be the likely vehicle for some of the vital technology in the emerging field of digital rights management -- a fancy name for piracy protection. 
"The big battleground in software is going to be the media player itself," said Chris Charron, an analyst for Forrester Research. "The media player will become a more important link to own than the browser, and Microsoft recognizes that."
Can Microsoft dominate the market for digital media distribution software as it came to dominate the browser market?
The media-player market today looks quite similar in some ways to the browser market in, say, 1997. An early media-player leader, Real Networks, is under pressure from Microsoft, just as the commercial pioneer of the browser market, Netscape, was then.
Microsoft bundles its digital media software with its Windows operating system, a monopoly product running on about 95 percent of all personal computers. As for user acceptance, at the moment Microsoft's player is neck and neck with Real Network's Real One Player, with each having more than 300 million registered users.
But Real Networks, founded in Seattle in 1995 by Rob Glaser, a former Microsoft executive, is an embattled challenger. It lost $2.8 million on revenue of $47 million in the first quarter of this year, bringing its cumulative loss since it started to $261 million. A former highflier on Wall Street that raised a lot of money early, Real Networks still has $320 million in cash, so it has financial staying power for a while, but it must find a way to make money.
Yet there are significant differences between the markets for digital media software and browser software. One is simply the legal legacy of the browser wars. A federal appeals court has ruled that Microsoft repeatedly violated antitrust laws in its campaign to thwart the challenge that Netscape at one time seemed to pose to Microsoft's desktop monopoly. Last week's $750 million payment was to settle a related private antitrust suit brought by Netscape, which AOL purchased in 1999.
In an antitrust settlement last year with the government and several states, Microsoft agreed that it would no longer bully industry partners and others to choose its software over competitors' offerings. So some of the tactics Microsoft used in the browser battle should no longer be in the Microsoft arsenal.
In addition, an investigation of Microsoft by the European Commission is still in progress, and one of the remedies under consideration involves forcing Microsoft to unbundle its media player from its Windows operating system. Microsoft replies that, as with the browser, consumers benefit from the convenience of having the media player included with the operating system. The antitrust settlement in the United States did not require Microsoft to distribute the browser or the media player separately.
More important, the nature of the market for media software is different. For a browser maker, the crucial relationship -- and channel of distribution -- was with the PC makers, who were beholden to Microsoft because of its Windows monopoly. In digital media software, by contrast, the crucial relationship is with the owners of the content, the big media conglomerates, who have plenty of independent power and are not beholden to Microsoft.
Significantly, the long-term licensing deal included in the cooperation pact last week between Microsoft and AOL Time Warner was not exclusive. AOL Time Warner has been working with Real Networks for some time and will continue to do so.
The chances that AOL Time Warner will adopt Microsoft's technology are a lot better today than they were a week ago. "It's hard to be a partner with someone who is holding a gun to your head in court," observed Will Poole, a Microsoft senior vice president responsible for Windows and its digital media software.
But the agreement is by no means a guarantee that Microsoft will become AOL Time Warner's preferred media software supplier. "We don't ask for exclusive deals in this space," Mr. Poole noted.
Indeed, most major media companies are expected to deliver their movies and music formatted for both the Real Networks and Microsoft media players. For example, Movielink is a movie service set up last November by five Hollywood studios, including Warner Brothers. It charges $3 to $5 for movies sent over the Internet, and uses both Real Networks and Microsoft technology.
Though Real Networks and Microsoft are the leaders, there are other competitors in the field, and some big potential entrants. Apple Computer offers QuickTime media software, and with the recent introduction of Apple Computer's iStore online music sales service, first for Macintosh computers and later for Windows PC's, the company is becoming a more serious competitor.
Big consumer electronics companies like Sony, Phillips and Matsushita are also working on some software elements, like the MPEG-4 digital movie standard. Sony is also building up its capabilities in the digital rights management area; it created a stir in the software industry last year when it paid $28.5 million to license digital rights software and patents for InterTrust, a struggling startup.
It seems doubtful that either the major media companies or the consumer electronics makers would allow themselves to become overly dependent on Microsoft technology.
Another difference is that the market for digital media seems to be far less centered on the PC than the browser market was in the late 1990's. The number of cellphones that can receive music and video clips is growing quickly, though mainly in Europe and Asia so far. Cellphone makers have resisted Microsoft's effort to persuade them to incorporate its software.
For example, Nokia, the industry leader, plans to ship 12 million cellphones this year that can receive streaming media; they use a pared-down version of the Real Networks media player.
Dan Sheeran, vice president of marketing for Real Networks, noted that nearly three times as many cellphones are shipped each years as PC's. "When you move beyond PC's, Microsoft's history in the PC business puts it at a disadvantage," Mr. Sheeran said.
Another force that seems to work against a tilt to any single technology supplier, including Microsoft, is the thorny set of technical and business issues surrounding digital rights management. Technically, any copy protection mechanism, especially one that depends only on software, is susceptible to being broken. And then, any PC connected to the Internet can become a piracy factory -- as the music file-sharing systems starting with Napster have shown in recent years. Fear of piracy has made media companies reluctant to offer their products on the Internet or adjust their business models for lower-cost Internet distribution.
"If the media folks could put copy protection in your ears and eyeballs, they would," said David Farber, a computer scientist at the University of Pennsylvania and a former chief technologist at the Federal Communications Commission. "They don't trust software." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); SOFTWARE MAKERS (89%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (89%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (89%); INTERNET BROWSERS (89%); WEB SITES & PORTALS (89%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (89%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (88%); ONLINE PIRACY (77%); ONLINE CONTENT & INFORMATION SERVICES (77%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (77%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (76%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); DIGITAL RIGHTS MANAGEMENT (76%); COPYRIGHT LAW (74%); COMPANY PROFITS (74%); LICENSING AGREEMENTS (74%); MULTIMEDIA SOFTWARE (73%); LITIGATION (72%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (70%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (70%); COPYRIGHT (69%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (55%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (55%); SMARTPHONES (55%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SUITS AND LITIGATION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; COMPUTER SOFTWARE 

COMPANY: AOL INC (96%); MICROSOFT CORP (91%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: MICROSOFT CORP; AOL TIME WARNER INC 

TICKER: AOL (NYSE) (96%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (91%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (96%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (96%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; SIC7375 ON-LINE INFORMATION SERVICES; 

PERSON: BILL GATES (58%); RICHARD D PARSONS (58%) LOHR, STEVE 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



55 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Column 3; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1110 words

HEADLINE: Risk Taker Gambles on a Woodstock-Like Rock Festival 

BYLINE:  By PAUL von ZIELBAUER 

 BODY:
Andrew Dreskin is a gambler. 
 Not necessarily the kind that turns lunch money into a month's rent at a felt table in the back of a smoky room with no windows -- although word is he can hold his own there, too -- but a talented risk taker in the world of commercial enterprise. 
 Back in 1994, for instance, not long after a secretary showed him how e-mail worked, he had, as he put it, "this realization that some day music would be bought and sold in digital form," and went on to create a savvy little company that built Web pages for clueless large companies for a $10,000 fee. 
Then less than two years later, he teamed up with an Oakland, Calif., software engineer who had invented this wacky new way to sell concert tickets -- through the Internet -- at a time when it was still easier to buy them over the phone. And in 1998, Mr. Dreskin, a successful entrepreneur, put his growing fortune into technology stocks, watched them triple in value during the boom of the late 1990's and sold them all in February 2000, he said, weeks before the tech bubble burst. 
For his latest gamble, however, Andrew Mark Dreskin, a Livingston, N.J., native who earned his wealth over a decade in the Bay Area, has returned to the East Coast and rediscovered his roots in live-music promotion. As executive producer of Field Day, envisioned to be a sprawling two-day outdoor art and music weekend in Riverhead on the North Fork of Long Island on Saturday and Sunday, he is the self-described C.E.O. of the largest and most uncorporate outdoor rock festival since the disaster that was Woodstock '99. 
Last week, the entire festival suddenly seemed on the verge of collapse. A State Supreme Court judge was considering a lawsuit filed by environmentalists to block the concert. Suffolk County health officials have refused to issue Field Day a necessary permit, and unless they and Mr. Dreskin can reach an understanding soon, the show may not go on at all. Of course, Mr. Dreskin, for now, believes it will. On Friday the judge dismissed the lawsuit, and Mr. Dreskin restated his belief that he could work things out with the county. Though the concert is to be held outdoors on an abandoned airfield near a small New York town whose economy could use a jolt from thousands of young people flooding in for the weekend, Field Day will not be a reprise of the 1999 weekend in Rome, N.Y., that ended in flames and riots. 
First of all, the acts headlining Field Day -- Radiohead, Beck, the Beastie Boys -- are not the kind that make young men want to fight and rip down the infrastructure. Second, bottles of water will sell for $2.50, not the $4 that outraged the Woodstock '99 kids, Mr. Dreskin said. "We spent a lot of time looking at where, I think, the promoters of Woodstock '99 went wrong," Mr. Dreskin, 34, said in an interview in Field Day's office in Manhattan. Later in the interview, he added: "This is not going to be Woodstock '99. This is not going to be a corporate event. It's going to be a camping festival."
Got it? 
In a way, Field Day is very far, and not that far removed, from the time Mr. Dreskin, as a history major at Tulane, made his first killing in the music-promotion business. The Radiators were a well-known local act, and Mr. Dreskin and three pals convinced the band to play an old-fashioned three-hour set at a bar. "We came away with a pile of cash," he said, "and I said to myself, 'Man, this is a cool way to make a living.' "
Mr. Dreskin may still look like a college student, but he is a millionaire several times over who owns New York real estate, part of an Idaho music-theater company and the company Andrew Dreskin Investments L.L.C., which is bankrolling roughly half of Field Day's $3 million cost. 
As a middle-class high school student in Livingston, Mr. Dreskin said, he was neither jock, freak, nerd nor geek. But music was a medium that spoke to him early in life, and he felt a need to engage it. "I was the guy with 900 cassette tapes and music posters in his room," he recalled. "In 1981, when I turned on MTV for the first time, I was hooked."
After college, he lived with his parents and found a job with an independent record label in New Jersey. His friends were moving West, and after his girlfriend moved to Vail, Colo., for the skiing, Mr. Dreskin said, "I decided I needed to do something interesting."
Which is, as he tells it, where his career as a gambler of a different sort began. After stopping in Vail to confirm that his relationship was over, he and a friend drove 19 hours to Reno, Nev., before stopping for the cheapest room they could find -- at a casino, naturally. 
"We had no money," Mr. Dreskin said. At 9 a.m. the next day, Mr. Dreskin said, he ventured downstairs to a craps table with a crumpled $10 bill. A few rolls later, he cashed out with $300, and drove to California with a renewed optimism.
He made his fortune through the Web, but Mr. Dreskin said he was "not a technologist by any means." Like many successful businesspeople, though, he has a gift for being at the right place at the right time; namely, in San Francisco as the Internet economy was about to blossom. In 1994, after reading an article in Billboard magazine about the nascent online music industry, Mr. Dreskin said, he put up $2,500 to start Energy Media, a Web-building company that created sites for Midnight Oil and Yanni, among other clients. A year or so later, he said, he and his partner sold the business for $50,000.
In 1995 he met Rick Tyler, a software engineer from Oakland. Earlier that year, Mr. Tyler started a company, TicketWeb, that allowed promoters to sell, and fans to buy, concert tickets online. The two became partners and turned TicketWeb, then a modest business, into a profitable online venture.
Mr. Dreskin said that he and Mr. Tyler founded TicketWeb in late 1995. But according to Mr. Tyler and the 1995 tax forms that list him as the sole owner, Mr. Tyler started the company and hired Mr. Dreskin in 1996. "He's taken some liberty with some aspects of the story," Mr. Tyler, who plans to open a restaurant in Oakland this fall, said of Mr. Dreskin. "But I couldn't have done it without him. He signed up pretty much the whole Bay Area."
One other item Mr. Dreskin does not usually mention about TicketWeb, which Ticketmaster bought in 2000 for $35.4 million, is how Mr. Tyler left the company. 
"He went to the board and basically got the board to fire me," Mr. Tyler said, with no trace of bitterness. Both men became wealthy, and Mr. Tyler said he considered Mr. Dreskin a close friend. "On balance, he's really good people," he said. "He taught me that in business, you can't take it personally."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The promoter Andrew Dreskin hopes to hold a festival on Long Island. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (86%); LITIGATION (85%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (77%); INTERNET & WWW (76%); RIOTS (72%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (72%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (69%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (69%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (69%); JUDGES (67%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (67%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); SUPREME COURTS (62%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (50%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (50%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (50%) MUSIC; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; FIELD DAY (MUSIC FESTIVAL); SUITS AND LITIGATION 

PERSON: VON ZIELBAUER, PAUL; DRESKIN, ANDREW 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (92%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) RIVERHEAD (NY); SUFFOLK COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



56 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 810 words

HEADLINE: Nepal's Maoist Guerrillas Let the Revolution Rest, for Now 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: KATMANDU, Nepal, May 30 

 BODY:
Down a brick alley here, beyond the Music Nepal shop, a red flag with a gold hammer and sickle hangs from a balcony. Nepal's Maoists, who once vowed to raise high the glorious red banner over Everest, are settling for a rented row house.
 Nepal's rural guerrillas have come here to the capital, not by strangling the city from the countryside as they once vowed, but under a cease-fire that has virtually stopped the political violence since it took effect four months ago. 
 From 1996 until last year, Nepal's civil war festered out of the sight of Katmandu, as a faraway irritant that claimed about 500 deaths a year in a nation of 24 million people. Then, last year, the Maoists' fight with royalist troops exploded tenfold, claiming 4,655 lives. Nepal's economy shrank by 1 percent, and foreign tourist arrivals fell to 216,000, half the level of 2000. 
Desperate for a solution, King Gyanendra last fall stepped out of the role of constitutional monarch, fired the prime minister and made secret feelers to the Maoists. A cease-fire agreement was signed on Jan. 29, five Maoist leaders surfaced in town, and peace talks began.
"In our assessment, we had reached a strategic equilibrium of military power," Krishna Bahadur Mahara, a Maoist leader, said in an interview here, speaking freely now that a $70,000 bounty has been lifted from his head.
As the red flag hung limply in the heat outside their new "contact house," he added, "We had reached a point where neither side could defeat the other side."
On one side, the Maoists say that they control 80 percent of the countryside and that their student and labor unions have made deep inroads in cities and towns. On the other side, the king is overseeing a 50 percent increase in the Royal Nepal Army, to 65,000 soldiers by 2006, with new weapons and equipment arriving from India, Britain and the United States.
Left out of matters of peace and war are Nepal's five political parties. This week, a series of street demonstrations here culminated with the resignation of the king's handpicked prime minister, Lokendra Bahadur Chand, Nepal's 12th prime minister since 1990.
 On Sunday, leaders of the five parties said they had chosen a new prime minister, Madhav Kumar Nepal, leader of a socialist party. But the king gave no indication that he would accept the choice. 
While the political parties jockey for a return for power, the major question here is this: Are the Maoists serious about talking, or are they using the time to gain military strength for a new phase of the war?
"This time the Maoists are definitely more serious than last time," Narayan Singh Pun, the government's chief negotiator, said in an interview here, contrasting today with failed talks in 2001.
"I am quite confident that we will be able to take this peace process forward," the negotiator continued. "I was talking with them for almost three and a half months before the cease-fire took place."
Internationally, the Maoists are isolated. Fearful of having a Communist neighbor to the north, India started cracking down last year on Maoist support networks in its own border areas. While India is the largest military donor here, American military aid rose to $14 million last year, largely for training and the supply of 20,000 M-16 rifles.
"We are not happy with the way the Bush administration is moving," said Mr. Mahara, a former member of Parliament. "We are not Taliban. We are not Al Qaeda. We are not Iraq. We are Nepali. We are different. Nepal is different. Our party is a political party."
China, which also borders on Nepal, has repeatedly denounced the guerrillas as "so-called" Maoists and has emphasized its support for the king.
But the anti-Maoist forces are in a race against poverty and corruption. In a nation where almost half of the population is under 20, young people leave school and discover that their most promising option is to emigrate -- the poor ones to India, the better off ones to the Persian Gulf states or to South Korea.
In New Delhi, the average wage for a Nepali house guard has fallen by one-third, to $1 a day. In Nepal, newspapers carried articles this week about hundreds of workers in a food-for-work program who stopped the construction of a road because the project manager had stolen the food.
Advocates of cautious pessimism about the peace talks note that the guerrillas have always been entirely self-financing and that their command-and-control system seems to be intact. Since the cease-fire started, only 18 people have been killed, and most of them in the first few weeks, when the word might not have gotten across this Wisconsin-sized nation.
"At what point will the Maoists decide this is not going where they want, and go back to war?" one Western diplomat here asked about the peace talks. "Whenever they decide to break off, they will go back to fighting in a matter of hours."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Krishna Bahadur Mahara is a leader of the Maoists in Nepal. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (91%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); INTERVIEWS (87%); ARMIES (76%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); ARMED FORCES (73%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); LABOR UNIONS (55%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (53%) CIVIL WAR AND GUERRILLA WARFARE; FOREIGN AID; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES; GYANENDRA (KING); MAHARA, KRISHNA BAHADUR 

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (73%); MOUNT EVEREST (73%) NEPAL (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) NEPAL; KATMANDU (NEPAL); INDIA; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



57 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 872 words

HEADLINE: Orchestra Maneuver 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
The merger agreement between the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall raises some knotty questions for the future of classical music in New York. What would become of Carnegie Hall? More important, perhaps, what would be left of Lincoln Center?
 The Philharmonic's decision to leave comes on the heels of New York City Opera's proposal to leave Lincoln Center, too, for a new site at ground zero. Simultaneously, the weak economy has forced Lincoln Center's new management team to scale back plans drastically for the institution's redevelopment -- a project now expected to cost less than a third of the $1.5 billion originally projected. 
 The defection of the Philharmonic is just the latest in a string of high-profile blows to Lincoln Center since its redevelopment was first announced in 1999. The project has been plagued by tensions among the 11 participating groups, which include the Metropolitan Opera, the New York City Ballet and Lincoln Center Theater.
Lincoln Center, the country's leading performing arts institution, is now at an important crossroads in its 48-year history. Is there still a place for a centralized classical arts center? With two of its key constituent groups jumping ship, should Lincoln Center consider changing course? Does the combining of two institutions like the Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall leave the cultural landscape with fewer options, or more?
In many ways, the decision to absorb the Philharmonic seems to be a victory for Carnegie Hall, which would regain the prestigious orchestra it lost to Lincoln Center in 1962. Carnegie also would get a stable resident and built-in subscriptions at a time when arts groups nationwide are struggling to fill their seats. 
But Carnegie Hall would also be sacrificing some independence. First, its administration and board would have to clear decisions with the Philharmonic. And second, with the Philharmonic'sbusy season of some 125 performances a year at its home base, Carnegie Hall would have difficulty providing audiences the eclectic mix of programming that currently ranges from the Orchestra of St. Luke's to the JVC Jazz Festival to the New York Pops.
Robert J. Harth, the executive and artistic director of Carnegie Hall, said that with the addition this autumn of a third stage, Judy and Arthur Zankel Hall, the roster of events would remain varied. "We've actually increased our capacity by half," he said. "So you'll see a tremendous variety of music on all three stages."
Some arts executives suggest that by taking in the Philharmonic, Carnegie Hall seems to be regressing rather than trying to develop more risky fare. Mr. Harth disagreed. "What we have here is an opportunity to develop a highly inventive new kind of musical organization that's going to reflect forward thinking and not a return to the past," he said.
The merger agreement also seems a victory for the Philharmonic. The orchestra would regain a historic hall with excellent acoustics. It also would gain more independence, to the extent that it would get out from under Lincoln Center and become a managing partner.
But the Philharmonic has also had it pretty good at Lincoln Center, with first claim on Avery Fisher Hall and a loyal audience. Moreover, given Sanford I. Weill's reputation as a strong chairman of Carnegie, the management structure would hold potential for problems.
While Lincoln Center would have to devote considerable resources to filling Avery Fisher Hall, the Philharmonic's departure would also present an artistic opportunity. The Philharmonic has long been criticized for playing it safe with a classical repertory and establishment conductors, like the current music director, Lorin Maazel. 
Lincoln Center could now fill the prime performance dates typically spoken for by the Philharmonic with its own programming. Up to now, Great Performers, Mostly Mozart and the Lincoln Center Festival, Lincoln Center's presenting organizations, have had to work around the Philharmonic's schedule and even to use stages off campus.
Lincoln Center could now open its doors to more outside performers. "One of the things missing from Lincoln Center has been the ability to show a great amount of guest work, because the permanent tenants take up so much of the time," said Michael M. Kaiser, the president of the Kennedy Center in Washington. "Maybe it will allow for more of a balance between visiting performers and the home team."
If City Opera goes ahead with its plan to leave the New York State Theater, which it shares with the New York City Ballet, the company is expected to sever its ties to Lincoln Center -- unlike Jazz at Lincoln Center, which will remain linked to its new location in Columbus Circle. "If we go downtown, it would be very hard to even pretend there's an affiliation," said Irwin Schneiderman, the chairman of City Opera. 
Whether the Philharmonic's merger with Carnegie Hall is ultimately good or bad for Lincoln Center, the institution's executives acknowledge that it signals a new chapter. 
"Times have changed, a half century has passed and we have to do business somewhat differently," said Bruce Crawford, Lincoln Center's chairman. "But we still can be and should be the world's greatest performing arts center." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (91%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MERGERS (89%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (89%); JAZZ & BLUES (78%); FESTIVALS (78%); OPERA (76%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (73%); THEATER (72%); DANCE COMPANIES (72%); DANCE (72%); BALLET (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (92%); VICTOR CO OF JAPAN LTD (58%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (92%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3651 HOUSEHOLD AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



58 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2633 words

HEADLINE: New York's Pain, Reflected on a City Block 

BYLINE:  By ANTHONY DePALMA 

 BODY:
In the realm of dreams, it may hold no more than a minor rank.
 But on a block in Queens with stoops and aluminum siding and hopscotch lines chalked on the sidewalk, Rosemere Messina's desire to hold a party for her son Danny's first Holy Communion next May is one of the highest order. 
 And one that is now in the gravest doubt.
 Mrs. Messina, a hairdresser at Salvatore's Unisex Barbershop on 101st Avenue and 103rd Street in Ozone Park, and her husband, Danny Sr., a longtime custodian at the Queens Borough Public Library, were putting away $10 a week in an envelope to help cover the cost of renting a hall big enough to fit all her in-laws. 
 Then subway fares rose last month by 50 cents a ride, and Mr. Messina had to come up with an extra $5 a week for his daily commute. The party envelope went begging, and so did Mrs. Messina's designs for the future. The combined salary of a hairdresser and a library custodian -- about $34,000 a year -- does not go far.
"This is New York, for God's sake -- back home this is the dream place," said Mrs. Messina, who came here from her native Brazil 13 years ago bright with expectations of earning enough in three months to return home and open her own beauty parlor. "Now look at the way we're living." 
 Mrs. Messina is hurting, and so is New York, as city officials scramble to close a $3.8 billion budget gap. While this is not the first time New Yorkers have been forced to dig deeper into their pockets, never has the city asked so much of so many in such a short time. 
Besides the 33 percent transit-fare increase, now under appeal, property taxes have surged 18.5 percent, regulated rents are increasing 5.5 percent a year, and tolls on some tunnels and bridges have gone up 50 cents, to $4, all in the past few weeks. And that's not the half of it. The new state budget raises income and sales taxes. Sewer and water rates are climbing, and the list of cut city services and jobs grows ever longer. 
While public officials can say with some precision how much money the new taxes and higher tolls will generate, they do not know how those costs will change the lives of individual New Yorkers. 
 But on a single city block the effects are visible, in the small measures and basic decisions of the people, like Mrs. Messina, who live, work or do business here. 
This block in Queens has neither the stratospheric salaries of the Upper East Side of Manhattan nor the grinding poverty of East New York, Brooklyn. But census figures show that its broad mix of ethnicities and incomes, of apartment dwellers and homeowners, of residences and businesses, make it a mirror of the city's diversity. 
It is a place of small houses and big families. Though the names on the mailboxes have changed in the past two decades from almost exclusively Italian and Irish to a mix of Dominican, Indian and Guyanese, the ambitions of the families have remained the same. 
It is the kind of block where homeowners use garbage cans to reserve parking spaces. Where the Mister Softee truck lingers at dusk. Where getting cable television is the first sign of good times, and dropping it is the first hint that times are turning bad. 
 Even now, before all the tax increases and layoffs have taken effect, everyone has been touched in one way or another. Some, like George Mena -- who has a wife and four children, but no job -- were already so close to the edge that the city's money problems have made them sick with worry. Others, like Mrs. Messina, have steady work, but the rising costs mean immediate sacrifices.
A few people, like Sal Infante, a businessman, are relatively comfortable and can absorb whatever higher bills apply to them. The impact on them is less financial than psychological -- less whether they can pay than whether they will stay. 
Then there are stalwart New Yorkers like Joseph Raia, a landlord who could handle the latest round of hard times the classic way, by passing along the extra costs to his tenants. But an all-but-forgotten spirit of the city has made it nearly impossible. 
The coming months on the block will show the ways New Yorkers respond to the city's greatest fiscal challenge in a generation.

Near the Edge
Times Are Tough, With No End In Sight
The great green copper roof of St. Mary Gate of Heaven Roman Catholic Church looms over the block, and the church's tolling bells mark the passage of time as they have for generations. 
 This area of Queens once was one of New York's Elysian Fields, an outlying quarter with green grass, fresh air and elbow room. It was called Ozone Park because at that time the word "ozone" hinted at purity, suggesting that the new neighborhood was a healthy refuge from the stale air and congested streets of Brooklyn and Manhattan.
The word now conveys a different meaning, but the block -- bounded by 103rd and 104th streets, from 101st Avenue, where the church is, up to 97th Avenue -- is still a refuge of sorts. Crime is low, traffic is bearable and peeling sycamore trees lean out into the streets. But some of the old wood-frame houses, swaddled in siding, lean against each other like the elderly couples who pad to the senior citizen center in the Gate of Heaven basement. 
It was to this block that George Mena and his family fled last year after he lost his job at a trucking company in Brooklyn. Now, with the city's fiscal problems straining their meager resources beyond the breaking point, the block feels like a trap. 
The only work Mr. Mena, 38, has found is as an itinerant motorcycle repairman, but he has not earned much making the circuit of shops in Queens and Brooklyn. To make matters worse, the landlord of the nice apartment they moved into on 103rd Street rigged the fuse box so that Mr. Mena and his wife, Miriam Estevez, were paying the Con Edison bill for the landlord and other tenants.
In early May the family moved across the street to another three-bedroom apartment, where the rent was the same, $1,350, but at least the electricity bill was their own. But Ms. Estevez, 37, took a day off from her $12.50-an-hour cashier's job to complete the move, and her employer later suspended her for a day. 
"Whenever we feel like we might be able to start saving, something happens," she said.
They live day to day, and some days are much worse than others. Ms. Estevez went food shopping recently and had to ask her mother, who lives nearby, to pay.
But she cannot ask her mother to pay for the MetroCards she and Mr. Mena need to get to work. It takes her almost an hour on the A train express to get to Times Square, where she works. Mr. Mena sometimes rides the subways and buses several times a day as he runs from one cycle shop to another.
For them, the 50-cent fare increase might as well have been $50, because the money simply is not there. They do not know what they will do if their new landlord raises the rent to recoup some of the newly approved increase in property taxes. And they are afraid that the new sales tax increases will make the sneakers, school supplies and everything else their children need cost more than they can afford. 
"Here, check this out," Mr. Mena said, removing his cap to show a spot over his right ear about the size of a half-dollar where his thick black hair has fallen out in the past few weeks. "That's just from the stress of trying to make it here."

Cutting Corners
Small Things Go First; Bigger Things Follow
The seven barber chairs at Salvatore's areempty more often than not, which leaves Rosemere Messina plenty of time to think about the direction her life has taken. Sitting alone at the table where women get their nails done, she thinks back to life in Minas, Brazil, and how much she used to enjoy telling exciting tales about New York whenever she went back.
But she has not made the trip for several years because relatives expect her to bring fine gifts. They assume that because she lives in New York, she has it made. 
In truth, she and her husband have made a good life for themselves here. But even with both of them working hard, it seems there never is enough money. The Messinas, all six of them, live in a two-bedroom, $832-a-month rent-regulated apartment a few blocks from the salon. Even before transit fares were raised, they had given up cable TV to cut costs. They had also dropped their long distance telephone and Internet service, despite loud objections from their four children. 
The city's fiscal problems simply mean giving up more of the things they hold dear. Even if a judge knocks subway fares back down to $1.50, Mrs. Messina will have a hard time paying for her son's first-communion party next year, and she definitely does not want to come up short. She remembers how embarrassing it was the last time she held a big party, inviting her husband's family to dinner after Danny's baptism at Gate of Heaven.
Her credit card limit then was $500, which she figured was enough for dinner for her in-laws at a Howard Beach restaurant. "But it came to $600 and change," she said. Mrs. Messina went to the ladies' room, where she opened the gift envelopes they had pressed into her hands earlier, and removed the $20 and $50 bills nestled inside to cover the bill.
 She is a practical woman, shaped by pragmatism born of hardship, but also a proud woman, and she would not want to rip open the envelopes before Danny's communion party was over. She has considered working an extra day at the barbershop to help save more for the party, but since 9/11, Salvatore's has just not been busy enough.
It hurts Mrs. Messina to admit it, but with so many city workers being laid off, she had hoped her husband would be among them. "So we could move to Florida or someplace else," she said. "I keep asking him and asking him to move, and he always says, 'Don't worry, one day.' "

Eyeing the Exits
When Is the Cost Too High to Stay?
 When Sal Infante opened the Caffe 2000 on 101st Avenue 27 years ago, he wanted it to look like one of the high-class coffee bars in his native Naples, Italy. Its long wood-and-glass bar holds cannoli and flavored gelato, and the walls are covered with posters of Italian soccer teams, a photo of Sophia Loren and some recent additions: "No Smoking" signs. 
 The smoking ban has hurt business, Mr. Infante said, but he is not too worried. "I made my money here a long time ago," he said. He does not work in the cafe so much as hold court these days, greeting old friends in Italian and making business deals on his cellphone. 
Mr. Infante, 54, is one of the few people on the block comfortable enough to bear the city's new fiscal burdens without hurting too much. Along with Caffe 2000, he owns the Fursi Ravioli and Catering Company next door and the two buildings in which the businesses are located. He drives a Mercedes and pays someone to make homemade wine for him. 
For him, the recent fiscal burdens imposed by the city are inconveniences, or insults -- especially the property tax increase, which will bring his taxes on the two buildings to more than $16,000 a year.He says he is being penalized because both of his two-story buildings are assessed as commercial properties, which means higher taxes, even though there is an apartment above each one. His father lives in one, and a Dominican family lives in the other. The commercial space in each building exceeds the apartment space by only a few hundred feet.
Unlike Mrs. Messina, who dreams of leaving New York but cannot, Mr. Infante is well-off enough to go elsewhere. One recent weekend, he and his wife, Phyllis, went house-shopping on Long Island. Their 14-year-old daughter, Roseanne, will start high school in September, and her younger brother is just a few years behind. Mr. Infante is disappointed with the quality of the local public high schools, and he thinks the city's budget-cutting will only make them worse. 
 The Infantes looked at houses priced around $500,000 -- nothing spectacular, Mr. Infante said, but in good school districts. Property taxes are higher, but he can save $16,000 a year in private school tuition. The tougher tradeoff, he said, would be commuting two hours a day. For someone used to living minutes away from his stores, that is infuriating. 
 "Just to send my daughter to school I have to change my entire lifestyle," he said. "How much do you have to sacrifice to achieve a normal life?"

Sharing the Pain
Tightening the Belt Can Do Only So Much
 Around the corner, in one of the oldest houses on the block, Joseph Raia is creating his own world. 
He already has part of a town erected in his basement, and a mountain pass that he built with his 9-year-old helper, Petey Cappello, who lives with his sister, Sabrina, and their parents in the upstairs apartment. 
As he puts together his HO gauge universe, Mr. Raia, 56, plans to add farms, forests and people, lots of people. The model railroad catalog on his kitchen table has everything he and Petey need, but he is not buying anything right now. 
The city's money problems have borne down on Mr. Raia like a locomotive. He has to come up with extra money to help pay the higher property taxes and other costs, but he has no way of doing so except by raising the rent on Petey's parents. Passing along high costs to tenants or customers is a time-tested way of dealing with rising costs, but not an easy one for Mr. Raia. 
"I can't raise them much," he said repeatedly. "I can't."
Mr. Raia's finances are small scale, like his trains. He spent 25 years working for the Kollsman Instrument Company of Elmhurst, assembling and repairing aviation gauges. But that kind of work can drain eyes and backs. He finally gave in to the pain five years ago and went out on permanent disability. 
Now he cobbles together an income -- roughly $1,200 a month in disability, $138 a month in his Kollsman pension and $750 in rent money -- all together not bad for a bachelor without a mortgage. But last year he paid about $2,100 in taxes on the 100-year-old house with asbestos shingles that he has lived in since his father bought it in 1951, and he expects the latest increase to push his tax bill to more than $2,500. 
Mr. Raia does not blame the city, because the price of everything is going up, he said. Heat cost him almost $2,000 this winter, double last year's bill, and he just had to repair the boiler. He has to pay more in sewer charges and water, too. 
 In almost 13 years that Peter and Terri Cappello have lived in his house, Mr. Raia has raised the rent only three times. He went so long between increases that last year the Cappellos actually raised their own rent $50 a month, to the current $750 for their roomy three-bedroom apartment. 
 "Peter and I talked about it one day," Mrs. Cappello said, "and he just said, 'I think we ought to do it ourselves.' "
 But this year is different. Mr. Cappello, a union plumber, was out of work for six months before the union called with work in early May. Mrs. Cappello does not work outside the home. They pay $3,700 in tuition at Gate of Heaven School. Their dingy 1981 Datsun adds a new dimension to the term "durable goods."
Mr. Raia has tightened his own belt, canceling his yearly vacation to Las Vegas, putting off the purchase of a new TV to replace the 15-year-old one with the fuzzy picture. But it is not enough. 
That leaves the rent, and the decision to pass along the pain, or endure it himself. Leaning on the railing of his porch, in the spot where he's worn out the red paint on the floor, Mr. Raia dejectedly conceded that in the end he will probably ask for an increase. 
And the Cappellos will probably understand. "We help each other out," Mr. Cappello said. "We've got to try to make do with what we have, right?"

Hard Times
 This is the first in a series of articles about the impact of New York's fiscal crisis on the people who live, work and spend time on a single block in Queens.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A thumbnail explanation on Monday about the selection of a block in Ozone Park, Queens, for The Times's series of articles about the lives of its residents against the background of New York City's fiscal crisis misspelled the name of another Queens neighborhood where two blocks had also been considered. It is Bellerose, not Belrose.

GRAPHIC:  The initial goal was to find a typical block, one that included all the ethnic and economic tribes of New York City. But that had to change."The typical New York block is a typical," said an expert at the Department of City Planning. Nearly all blocks and the neighborhoods they are intend to be segregated.It was possible, though, the planners said, to look for an area that could be fairly described as reflecting the overall diversity of New York. The first step in doing so was a review of the city's 2,200 census tracts. Of those, all but 130 are dominated by a single ethnic or racial group.Eighty-five percent of those 130 tracts are in Queens, widely recognized as the nation's most diverse county, and six appeared to have the city's diversity. On closer examination, two in Belrose were found to contain too much high-income housing. Two others in Jackson Heights were diverse over all, but block by block appeared to be segregated.That left two tracts, one in Ozone Park on the border of Richmond Hill, and the other in South Ozone Park.The former, tract number 116, seemed to better mirror New York. The single block chosen has a mix of commercial and residential space, of single-family houses and apartment buildings, of people living in comfort and those close to despair. A DEMOGRAPHIC LOOK AT TRACT 116Detailed data for just the block is not available. Figures are from the 2000 census. Percentages may not add to a 100 because of rounding. Race and Ethnicity TRACT 116Hispanic: 35.2%White: 21.3Asian: 19.8Black: 11.2Other: 12.4 NEW YORK CITYHispanic: 27.0%White: 35.0Asian: 9.7Black: 24.5Other: 3.8 Median Household Income (In 1999)TRACT 116: $41,772NEW YORK CITY: $38,293 Map of Queens highlighting Census tract 116. Map of the block highlights the following:103rd Street97th Avenue104rd StreetCAFFE 2000JOSEPH RAIAFURSI RAVIOLI AND CATERING COMPANYGEORGE MENA AND MIRIAM ESTEVEZSALVATORE'S BARBER SHOPST. MARY GATE OF HEAVEN CHURCH (pg. B4)Photos: Danny Messina helped out as his mother, Rosemere, worked last week at a barbershop in Ozone Park. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. A1); Below, George Mena and his wife, Miriam Estevez, in their new apartment with their children, Corey Mena, left; Ethan Mena; and Gina Roman. At left, Joseph Raia relaxed on the porch with Terri Cappello and her children, Petey and Sabrina. The Cappellos have rented from Mr. Raia for almost 13 years. Above, Sal Infante ouside Caffe 2000, his coffee bar on 101st Avenue. (Photographs by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. B4) Chart: "How the Block Was Chosen" The initial goal was to find a typical block, one that included all the ethnic and economic tribes of New York City. But that had to change."The typical New York block is a typical," said an expert at the Department of City Planning. Nearly all blocks and the neighborhoods they are intend to be segregated.It was possible, though, the planners said, to look for an area that could be fairly described as reflecting the overall diversity of New York. The first step in doing so was a review of the city's 2,200 census tracts. Of those, all but 130 are dominated by a single ethnic or racial group.Eighty-five percent of those 130 tracts are in Queens, widely recognized as the nation's most diverse county, and six appeared to have the city's diversity. On closer examination, two in Belrose were found to contain too much high-income housing. Two others in Jackson Heights were diverse over all, but block by block appeared to be segregated.That left two tracts, one in Ozone Park on the border of Richmond Hill, and the other in South Ozone Park.The former, tract number 116, seemed to better mirror New York. The single block chosen has a mix of commercial and residential space, of single-family houses and apartment buildings, of people living in comfort and those close to despair. A DEMOGRAPHIC LOOK AT TRACT 116Detailed data for just the block is not available. Figures are from the 2000 census. Percentages may not add to a 100 because of rounding. Race and Ethnicity TRACT 116Hispanic: 35.2%White: 21.3Asian: 19.8Black: 11.2Other: 12.4 NEW YORK CITYHispanic: 27.0%White: 35.0Asian: 9.7Black: 24.5Other: 3.8 Median Household Income (In 1999)TRACT 116: $41,772NEW YORK CITY: $38,293 Map of Queens highlighting Census tract 116. Map of the block highlights the following:103rd Street97th Avenue104rd StreetCAFFE 2000JOSEPH RAIAFURSI RAVIOLI AND CATERING COMPANYGEORGE MENA AND MIRIAM ESTEVEZSALVATORE'S BARBER SHOPST. MARY GATE OF HEAVEN CHURCH (pg. B4)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); BARBER SHOPS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (75%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (74%); PRICE INCREASES (74%); TAX LAW (74%); RENT CONTROL (74%); TRENDS (73%); PROPERTY TAX (71%); LIBRARIES (70%); CITIES (70%); SALES TAX (69%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (67%); UTILITY RATES (65%); PERSONAL CARE SERVICES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (50%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (50%); CENSUS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SURVEYS AND SERIES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); TAXATION 

PERSON: DEPALMA, ANTHONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) NEW YORK CITY; 

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



59 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: New Economy; 
How Starbucks was puton the defensive by an attack on the Internet rumor mill that would not go away.

BYLINE:  By Sherri Day 

 BODY:
After receiving an e-mail message one evening in April, Clara Miller thought her love affair with Starbucks was over.
 According to the e-mail message, titled "Starbucks vs. Israel," the Starbucks Corporation was closing all its stores in Israel in May. The note did not include information about why the company had decided to pull out of Israel, but its tone suggested a nefarious intent. Some people assumed that Starbucks was joining an Arab boycott of American businesses in Israel, while others thought the company had decided to abandon its business in the country for fear of terrorist attacks. 
 The e-mail message also called for action, asking readers to stop patronizing Starbucks, to e-mail or phone the company to complain and to pass the note on to "everyone you can."
For Mrs. Miller, 39, a private investment manager who lives in Greenwich, Conn., the e-mail message meant the immediate end of almost daily runs to Starbucks for a tall decaf caramel macchiato or a Frappuccino.
"I was determined that I was not going back to Starbucks," said Mrs. Miller, who said she believed the e-mail message because it came from a person she considered to be a reputable source. That day she forwarded the message to about 30 of her cyberbuddies.
But Mrs. Miller's boycott lasted only one day because the implication of the e-mail message was not true. Starbucks had said it was pulling out of Israel because it was dissolving its ties with a partner in the country and because of an economic downturn in the area. 
Starbucks, a company that has fast become a battle-scarred veteran of Internet rumor wars, was facing an increasingly common problem: the Internet rumor that would not go away.
By mounting a campaign in which the company sought to discreetly disseminate the correct information to interested parties while taking care to avoid spreading the rumor to the masses, Starbucks was able to counteract an e-mail message that could have sparked widespread protests and hurt its business.
Members of Starbucks' customer relations team fielded calls and e-mail messages from concerned customers and supplied them with information about why the company had decided to leave Israel. Howard Schultz, the company's chairman, began making calls to Jewish leaders in the United States and Israel to explain the company's decision and its plans to return to the country at some point.
The rumor was particularly troubling for Mr. Schultz, a Jewish American who has long been supportive of Jewish organizations and causes in the United States and in Israel.
"At the time, we underestimated the reaction we would get" to the original announcement, said Mr. Schultz, who has steered Starbucks through several Internet rumors, including a summer 2002 Internet hoax in which counterfeit coupons for products were distributed. The company knew it would return to Israel, he said, "and we thought that was implicit in how we communicated it." Mr. Schultz admitted that the initial communication on its decision to leave Israel "was not as strong as it should have been."
Perhaps the most effective of the company's weapons used to combat the rumor, experts said, came from the Anti-Defamation League, which lent support. Starbucks, which is based in Seattle, did not place any messages refuting the rumor on its Web site. But the Anti-Defamation League contacted the company to investigate the matter and later circulated the company's message to interested parties on its Web site and in telephone calls. The organization said it was confident that the Starbucks move was "purely a business decision."
While the Internet campaign tarnished -- if only momentarily -- the company's reputation, officials at Starbucks said that the company had not seen a decline in sales since the e-mail message began circulating.
Other companies have not been as fortunate as Starbucks. The feminine hygiene industry played down an Internet rumor that claimed that tampon manufacturers had included chemicals in their products that caused women to need a greater supply of them. That rumor is still circulating. Kentucky Fried Chicken, which is owned by Yum Brands Inc., became the subject of an Internet rumor when it shortened its name to KFC. The rumor, which the company says is "ridiculous," claimed that the company changed its name because it was serving mutated birds without beaks or feet instead of healthy chickens. The Procter & Gamble Company is still fighting the rumor, which originated in the late 1970's but grew with the advent of the Internet, that linked the company to Satanism.
According to a 2001 study conducted at Wake Forest University, only 3 of 24 Fortune 500 companies that have recently been the subjects of Internet rumors or hoaxes handled the rumors in a responsible manner.
"If you think about what these people do conventionally to try to get along with the public and you think about what they do in the cyberworld, they do so much less," said John T. Llewellyn, an associate professor of communication at Wake Forest University and an urban legends expert. "If they handled sales with the same care they handled Internet rumors, they wouldn't be companies very long."
Communication experts said that companies should handle Internet rumors by responding quickly to the accusations with information on their Web sites, select the wording of responses carefully and seek an objective party to verify that the rumors are not true. But often companies falter, out of fear or simple disregard for the effect that far-fetched rumors can have on their customers.
"If you remain silent and hope it blows over, people take silence as guilt," said Mary Frances Luce, who teaches marketing at the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania. "If you're too aggressive about addressing this in a very public forum, what you can do is publicize the rumor and also you can strengthen the association in people's minds with the rumor."
Professor Luce added, "There's a fine line in being too loud about it or not loud enough."
Mrs. Miller has learned her lesson about spreading Internet rumors. After she sent out the message, she received several e-mail responses that the call to boycott Starbucks had been misguided. When she realized that she had distributed incorrect information, she sent out another mass e-mail message to her online circle that included the statement from the Anti-Defamation League. And she returned to Starbucks.
But that did not completely solve the trail of misinformation. Earlier this month, people were still getting e-mail messages calling for a boycott of Starbucks. Others are hearing about the rumor the old-fashioned way.
"There may have been other people that I made a comment to, but forgot about it," Mrs. Miller said. The ones that are on my e-mail are easy to track. But there's still the fact that when you get misinformation there is leakage into other areas that are hard to correct afterwards."

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEW ECONOMY (89%); BOYCOTTS (89%); JEWS & JUDAISM (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); INTERNET & WWW (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (64%); COUNTERFEITING (50%) ELECTRONIC MAIL; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); BOYCOTTS; PUBLIC RELATIONS AND PUBLICITY 

COMPANY: STARBUCKS CORP (93%)

ORGANIZATION: STARBUCKS CORP 

TICKER: SBUX (NASDAQ) (93%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (93%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (93%) SIC5499 MISC. FOOD STORES; 

PERSON: HOWARD SCHULTZ (78%) DAY, SHERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (94%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



60 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Spotlight Leaves Arafat, but He's Still in the Show 

BYLINE:  By GREG MYRE 

DATELINE: RAMALLAH, West Bank, May 31 

 BODY:
The street outside the modest offices of the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, is buzzing. A pair of American envoys have come and gone. A cabinet meeting has just ended, and as ministers emerge with cellphones glued to their ears, journalists encircle them and press for details of the latest peace plans.
 A couple of miles away, the scene at the rocket-scorched compound of Yasir Arafat, the Palestinian leader, can only be described as listless. The lone security guard is so bored that he invites a journalist to ask him some questions. Mr. Arafat's close aide, Nabil Aburdeineh, emerges from the sandbagged headquarters for his daily stroll around the large, deserted parking lot, where the globe-trotting Mr. Arafat used to begin and end his frequent travels with a helicopter ride. 
 The international spotlight that Mr. Arafat so relishes has been dimmed by an Israeli boycott and a not-so-veiled warning that he might not be allowed back from any trip abroad. But Palestinian officials and analysts insist that he will still be the most influential Palestinian figure in renewed peace negotiations, even if he is working behind the scenes.
"No Palestinian would dare sit with the Israelis or the Americans without his approval," Mr. Aburdeineh said of Mr. Arafat. "Nobody here can even go see his wife without the green light from him."
While Mr. Arafat retains considerable influence, the dynamics of the Middle East conflict have been changing in the month since Mr. Abbas assumed office.
Israel and the United States now have a Palestinian leader they are prepared to meet, and the Middle East dialogue is suddenly taking place at a level not seen since January 2001, when peace talks collapsed after the first few months of the current fighting.
Mr. Abbas's cabinet meets weekly without Mr. Arafat, and the new government is seeking to assert its authority. Mr. Abbas says he hopes to reach a cease-fire deal this week with the Islamic militant group Hamas and perhaps other radical Palestinian organizations. Israel is demanding more than a temporary cease-fire, something Mr. Arafat was never able to deliver.
Perhaps the most striking example of Mr. Arafat's lower profile will occur this week at the regional summit meeting at the Red Sea resort of Aqaba in Jordan, where more than half the population is of Palestinian origin. President Bush will meet there with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and Mr. Abbas. Mr. Arafat is not invited.
"He's not invited to the party, but his presence will be felt," said Asher Arian, senior fellow at the Israel Democracy Institute in Jerusalem. "If this leads to a modicum of security for Israel, it will be defined as Arafat being contained."
Despite a less visible role, Mr. Arafat still has any number of ways to influence events.
He remains head of the Palestinian Authority, and is authorized to fire the prime minister. He is also the leader of the Palestine Liberation Organization, which is ultimately responsible for peace negotiations. And he heads the Fatah movement, the leading faction in the P.L.O.
"He still has all the strings attached to his fingers," said Ali B. Jarbawi, a political science professor at Bir Zeit University in Ramallah. Mr. Arafat in effect delayed by a day Mr. Sharon's meeting with Mr. Abbas on Thursday.
The Palestinian leader insisted that the P.L.O.'s executive committee approve the talks in advance. The committee, which Mr. Arafat dominates, will debate the details of any peace proposal.
When Mr. Abbas and Mr. Sharon completed their three-hour meeting in Jerusalem around midnight, Mr. Abbas immediately headed to Mr. Arafat's compound for a briefing that lasted past 2 a.m.
In the face of international pressure, Mr. Arafat grudgingly agreed to create the post of prime minister, and give it to Mr. Abbas, his longtime deputy. The two men have a history of quarreling, and then making up. After Mr. Abbas's appointment, they immediately fought over the makeup of the cabinet, though relations have settled down since then.
The two men are seen as holding similar positions regarding negotiations with Israel, though Mr. Abbas has been much more critical of the Palestinian violence in the current fighting than Mr. Arafat has.
They have been meeting at least twice a week at Mr. Arafat's compound, and they speak by phone daily, Palestinian officials said.
Mr. Abbas, who seems to dislike public attention as much as Mr. Arafat enjoys it, is trying to generate public support, but is unlikely to win it unless he can persuade Israel to ease its punitive measures and improve economic conditions, said Mr. Jarbawi, the political scientist.
If Mr. Abbas attends too many international gatherings while Mr. Arafat remains constrained, it could backfire and harm the prime minister's reputation among Palestinians, some of whom see him as a creation of the Israelis and the Americans.
"The American and Israeli game plan is to show that Mahmoud Abbas can deliver what Arafat could not, and raise Abbas's standing in Palestinian society," said Gerald Steinberg, professor of political science at Bar-Ilan University in Israel. "Arafat's role now is one of the spoiler. He can put obstacles in the way to make the talks more difficult."
Mr. Aburdeineh, who lives in Mr. Arafat's compound, said the Palestinian leader was able to work effectively despite the restrictions.
He noted that Mr. Arafat was not present when Israelis and Palestinians reached their first agreement in 1993, which was worked out secretly in Oslo. The Palestinian team was led by Ahmed Qureia, now the speaker of the Palestinian parliament.
Israel began confining Mr. Arafat in December 2001 after a surge in Palestinian suicide bombings, and he has left Ramallah only once since then. That day trip in May of last year, which included brief stops in three Palestinian cities in the West Bank, was also the last time Mr. Arafat left his compound, according to Mr. Aburdeineh.
In an effort to further isolate Mr. Arafat, Mr. Sharon has announced that he will not meet any diplomat who sees him. But this past week, the French and Spanish foreign ministers both visited Mr. Arafat.
The possibility of exiling Mr. Arafat comes up periodically at Israeli cabinet meetings, and was again debated two weeks ago during the latest wave of suicide bombings. But Mr. Sharon has told the Americans that he will not physically harm Mr. Arafat, and, Israeli officials say, that policy is unlikely to change.
Israel's security agencies also oppose sending Mr. Arafat into exile, believing that it would only strengthen his popular support.
"The Israelis keep trying to weaken him, but it's a futile effort," said Mr. Aburdeineh, noting that the Palestinians are demanding that Mr. Arafat be allowed to travel. "There must be a solution to this issue."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yasir Arafat outside his office in Ramallah yesterday. Despite his physical isolation, he has many ways to influence the course of events. (Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (91%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); HAMAS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); FUNDAMENTALISM (78%); PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (78%); AL FATAH (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (71%); RESORTS (70%); RELIGION (66%); HELICOPTERS (54%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (54%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION (59%); HAMAS (59%) PALESTINE LIBERATION ORGANIZATION; PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY; FATAH, AL (ORGN); HAMAS (ISLAMIC FUNDAMENTALIST MOVEMENT) 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (68%) MYRE, GREG; ARAFAT, YASIR; ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (51%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (99%); ISRAEL (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%) ISRAEL; JORDAN

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



61 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Neediest Cases Fund to Underwrite 1,000 Summer Jobs 

BYLINE:  By SUSAN SAULNY

 BODY:
The New York Times Neediest Cases Fund plans to announce the creation of a new summer jobs program today for low-income youths. 
 Officials with the fund, which provides money to seven charities that help New Yorkers in need, said they planned to donate $1.4 million -- about 5 percent of the fund's endowment -- to create 1,000 jobs in communities in all five boroughs. The employees, who are expected to range from 14 to 18 years old, will work six hours a day, four days a week, at the minimum wage of $5.15 an hour, with the fifth weekday devoted to classes in career development and college preparedness. 
 "These really are poor kids for whom the money is desperately needed," said Jack Rosenthal, president of The New York Times Company Foundation, which administers the fund. "In some cases, the money is needed to keep the family afloat." 
Over the last several weeks, Mr. Rosenthal said, foundation officials began thinking about what the fund could do to mitigate the effects of a reduction in government spending on city youth this summer. In looking for an answer to that question, he said, the officials consulted the seven social service agencies that receive funds from the annual Neediest Cases campaign. The agencies are: Brooklyn Bureau of Community Service; Catholic Charities, Archdiocese of New York; Catholic Charities, Brooklyn and Queens; Children's Aid Society; Community Service Society of New York; Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies; and UJA-Federation of New York.
"It was unanimous in the first minute," Mr. Rosenthal recalled of the conversations. "Summer jobs, summer jobs, summer jobs." 
The seven agencies will create the jobs, a mix of work in day camps, summer schools and programs for at-risk children. The new initiative, to be called the Neediest Summer Jobs Program, will be administered by the After-School Corporation, a nonprofit group that serves about 45,000 children in the city by creating donor-program partnerships. 
The Neediest Cases Fund is inviting individual and corporate donors to help by either creating blocks of summer jobs or making cash contributions to provide additional jobs. Each job costs about $1,300, which provides a teenager's salary, training and supervision, fund officials said.
In 2001, government funds supported 50,000 summer jobs in New York City, officials at the After-School Corporation said. Last summer, the number fell to 35,000. This summer is expected to be worse still, officials who work with poor children said, although an exact number is not yet available.
"Most of these kids would be on the street," said Lucy N. Friedman, the president of the After-School Corporation. "Trouble would find them or they would find trouble. But now they will be actively engaged, learning and bringing income to their families."
The program is expected to have a trickle-down effect on the camps and summer schools where the young people will be working, as additional staffing will lessen the impact of any cutbacks.
"The employees in turn will be given opportunities that they might not have gotten, such as going to a park," Ms. Friedman said. "For some kids, it may be the first time they plant a garden, look through a pair of binoculars, go to the zoo. The data is very strong about how much kids lose during the summertime if they do not have exposure to books and reading."
The creation of the Neediest Summer Jobs Program represents a departure from the usual manner in which the fund spends money from its $26.2 million endowment. Usually, only the endowment's annual income is spent, Mr. Rosenthal said. But three years ago, the fund adopted a policy allowing it to tap into the capital in times of economic stress. The goal was to be "countercyclical," Mr. Rosenthal said, "so that if times turned tough, we'd go into the fund to try to make a difference, both directly and by trying to set an example."
Companies interested in the program may write to Mary Bleiberg, vice president for policy and planning, the After-School Corporation, 925 Ninth Avenue, New York, N.Y. 10019; send an e-mail message to mbleiberg@tascorp.org; or call (212) 547-6923. Cash contributions can also be sent to that mailing address. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHARITIES (91%); SEASONAL WORKERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILD WELFARE (87%); RELIGION (86%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); CHILD POVERTY (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); FAMILY (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (77%); CITIES (76%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEW YORK RESTAURANT GROUP INC (92%)

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



62 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1074 words

HEADLINE: Reshaping Medicare, Rural Roots in Mind 

BYLINE:  By ROBIN TONER 

DATELINE: CRESTON, Iowa, May 28 

 BODY:
When it comes to running the all-powerful Senate Finance Committee, geography is often destiny.
 As the committee begins an overhaul of Medicare, it matters that the chairman is from Iowa: Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican, farmer, a man who says he spends, on average, two nights a week in his bed on his 710-acre corn and soybean farm in New Hartford. 
 If Mr. Grassley has his way, the interests of rural America will loom large in the push to enact a Medicare law. And that could make life complicated for the Bush administration and its conservative allies, who want to transform Medicare from a traditional government health insurance program for the elderly to a new marketplace of competing private health plans. 
Mr. Grassley, 69 and fresh from a brutal battle over tax cuts, in which his committee also played a central role, describes his challenge on Medicare as twofold: getting enough Democratic support for a bill to prevent a filibuster, and holding onto the more conservative Republicans that he describes as "the purists."
Along the way, he wants to raise the reimbursements for doctors and hospitals in rural areas and look after the interests of elderly beneficiaries in places like Iowa. They are overwhelmingly reliant on traditional Medicare and skeptical that health maintenance organizations and other private plans will ever really be accessible to them. And not without reason.
Until now, H.M.O.'s have not been available to Medicare beneficiaries in many rural areas.
"I don't have any quibbling with the desires of my colleagues who are more purist," Mr. Grassley said one night recently, over an Iowa pork chop. "But the practical thing is, you've got to sell it here at the grass-roots, not only in Iowa but all over the country."
That means promising people, he said, that they can stay with the traditional program, where they have free choice of doctors and hospitals, and still get a comprehensive new drug benefit. In contrast, the Bush administration and many of its conservative allies would prefer to use drug benefits as an incentive to entice people into the private plans; as a result, they have proposed offering far less generous drug coverage in the traditional program.
As Mr. Grassley made the rounds of town meetings in southwestern Iowa this week, he said that he disagreed with that approach. Asked by a skeptical doctor at a meeting in Atlantic whether Mr. Grassley would not, in the end, push the Bush plan, the senator replied: "No. Well, some elements of it would be."
"But let me explain," he added, while about 75 Iowans hung on his words. "When it finally got said and done, Bush never had a bill to present to Congress, because they didn't really know what they were doing. Not that their ideas were wrong, but they didn't have them well thought out, or put together in a perfect piece of legislation. So they ended up just establishing some principles.
"Now, those of us who have been working on Medicare and prescription drugs for the last two or three years, we feel like we know how to do it. So what we finally talked the president into, back in probably February or early March, was, 'We ain't going to wait for a bill; we're going to go ahead.' "
Mr. Grassley added, very plainly and carefully, his words highlighting the political risk of this issue: "We're going to give seniors a maximum of choice. If they want to keep their current Medicare, they can get it with prescription drugs. And if they want to go into a new Medicare, they can get that with prescription drugs, too."
Mr. Grassley is hardly the only member of the Finance Committee who is sensitive to rural America. In fact, the 21-member committee also includes senators from Montana, West Virginia, South Dakota, North Dakota, Maine, Vermont and Wyoming. It makes a difference, Mr. Grassley said, and he added, with a smile, that New York did well on Medicare issues when Senators Daniel Patrick Moynihan and Alfonse M. D'Amato of New York were on the Finance Committee.
The committee is expected to begin voting on a Medicare bill in early June, and Republican leaders in the House and Senate hope to act on the legislation before the July Fourth recess. 
It will require Mr. Grassley once again to work closely with his counterpart in the House, the chairman of the Ways and Means Committee, Representative Bill Thomas, Republican of California. The tension between the men was apparent, repeatedly, in the battle over tax cuts.
Mr. Grassley said he assumed the relationship had healed, but added, "Have you ever seen him explode?"
"I just say the reality of it," said Mr. Grassley, who struggled to hold together his party's one-vote majority on the committee. At one point, Mr. Grassley said with some amusement, he told Mr. Thomas that more changes were needed in the tax bill to hold the Republican Senate moderates, and Mr. Thomas stormed from the room -- even though it was his own office.
"They don't understand us," Mr. Grassley said of the House. "I can understand them. I served in the House. What it amounts to is, the majority party can get anything done they want to get done there."
Not so in the Senate, where some say Mr. Grassley will need significant Democratic support to get a bill passed. 
"If this proposal significantly moves toward privatizing Medicare, I think there's a reasonable chance that Democrats will feel so strongly about defending the program that 60 votes will be needed to overcome a filibuster," said Ron Pollack, executive director of Families USA, a liberal advocacy group.
Mr. Grassley, who grew up on a farm but has spent the last 44 years in the state Legislature, the House and the Senate, carries himself modestly, happy to stay at economy motels on his round of town meetings, stopping by Wal-Mart at the end of the day. He is up for re-election next year and says he expects to raise "a massive amount of money" to meet what he expects to be a stiff challenge from the Democrats. He won 68 percent of the vote in 1998 and 70 percent in 1992. 
Even after 23 years in the Senate and becoming chairman of a powerful committee, Mr. Grassley seems determined to present himself as an Iowan, first and foremost. 
Doug Sickler, a retired banker active in economic development in Corning, told Mr. Grassley this week: "This is the heartland of America. Don't forget about us."
Mr. Grassley replied: "I come home every weekend. It's not easy to forget Iowa when you come home every weekend."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Alice Benscoter of Westphalia, Iowa, questioned Senator Charles E. Grassley on Friday in Harlan during a town meeting. Mr. Grassley, right, was in his home state to discuss Medicare reform. (Photographs by Mark Kegans for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (92%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (91%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FILIBUSTER (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); HEALTH CARE LAW (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (75%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (73%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (73%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (72%); SOYBEAN FARMING (72%); TAX LAW (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); AGING (69%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; AGED; HEALTH INSURANCE; HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS AND MANAGED CARE; RURAL AREAS 

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (92%) TONER, ROBIN; GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



63 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 980 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: DEVELOPING NATIONS; 
Global AIDS Fund Is Given Attention, but Not Money

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France, June 1 

 BODY:
The leaders of the Group of 8 met with leaders of 12 developing nations today, but there was little progress in the effort to expand a fund to support the global struggle against AIDS and other diseases that are debilitating the developing world.
 France's president, Jacques Chirac, praised as "historic" a decision by President Bush to ask Congress to authorize up to $1 billion a year for five years into a matching fund to finance the battle against AIDS, malaria and tuberculosis. 
 Under Congressional authorization, the United States could pay up to $1 billion into the Geneva-based Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria, on condition that the amount not exceed one-third of the total contribution by its allies in the European Union and among the Group of 8 wealthiest nations, notably Canada, Japan and Russia.
Representatives of nongovernmental organizations promoting access to effective and affordable medicines for developing countries had been expecting Mr. Chirac, the host of the meeting, to announce a matching commitment by the European Union. But while Mr. Chirac said France would triple its annual payment to the fund, to $150 million from $50 million now, he said at a news conference that a decision by all 15 members of the European Union would have to await a summit meeting of their leaders scheduled for June 26 in Salonika, Greece. 
He said he hoped the French decision would be "followed by the other European countries and by the European Union."
Mr. Chirac said Mr. Bush "has taken a decision in this area that I would not hesitate to qualify as historic," adding that "this supposes an international cooperation."
He said he would press the European Commission, the executive body of the European Union, to release funds from the European Development Fund, a $10 billion economic development fund. "I have the impression that Europe will take up this challenge," he said.
Representatives of private groups observing the meeting were clearly disappointed with the outcome.
"We hoped it would be a kind of contest," said Jennifer Brant, a trade policy adviser for Oxfam America. "But it didn't pan out."
Paul Davis of Health GAP, an American-based organization that lobbies governments for better access in developing countries to medicines for AIDS, said a meeting scheduled for July in Paris to discuss contributions to the fund was now being described as a "supporters meeting," rather than a donors meeting. "They are calling it supporters, because they don't want to give," he said.
But Jamie Drummond, the spokesman for an organization called Debt AIDS Trade Africa, or DATA, called Mr. Chirac's announcement a "crucial step" in urging Europe to match the American commitment. "That's good news for Africa and the developing world," he said.
At a separate briefing, Romano Prodi, the president of the European Commission, said he supported a European contribution of $1 billion to match the American commitment.
The idea for the fund was born at a Group of 8 meeting in Okinawa, Japan, three years ago. Disbursements of about $3 billion began at the end of 2002, about 60 percent of the money for the struggle against AIDS, because AIDS medication is considerably more costly than drugs to fight tuberculosis or malaria.
The fund could be depleted by the end of 2004 if more money is not appropriated soon. Congress authorized the Bush administration to make the payments, but it has not appropriated the financing for them.
The United States has pledged $1.65 billion of the $3.37 billion so far promised the fund. The American donation is to be spread over five years.
The United Nations secretary general, Kofi Annan, who attended the discussions today, appealed to the Group of 8 leaders to increase their contributions to the fund and to devise a long-term strategy to ensure sufficient food supplies to Africa.
"The time for additional funding has arrived," Mr. Annan said, according to a transcript of his remarks provided to reporters. He said he hoped the leaders, "who played such an important role in getting the fund up and running will now endow it with the further resources it needs to achieve our shared goals."
The Western proposals for help on health matters for the developing world are not entirely altruistic. International aid groups have argued that developing countries, most notably in Africa, are threatened with the loss of the most productive parts of their population, and consequent loss of economic growth. That, in turn, it is argued, would burden growth in the developed world.
Discussion of the health initiative came on a day when the Group of 8 leaders met with leaders of Algeria, Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Malaysia, Mexico, Morocco, Nigeria, Saudi Arabia, Senegal and South Africa for a luncheon and discussion of their needs.
Among the proposals laid before the eight leaders were several initiatives put forward by the newly elected president of Brazil, Luiz Inacio Lula da Silva, including one for the elimination of restrictions on farm imports from the developing world, the creation of a fund to combat hunger and an unusual idea for a tax on international weapons sales.
"I think a tax on weapons is not at all unjustified," Mr. Chirac said.
This evening, the eight leaders met for dinner to hear a progress report on the New Partnership for Africa's Development, a program intended to aid African countries that undertake improvements to their economic and political systems. The dinner was also attended by the leaders of Algeria, Nigeria, Senegal and South Africa. President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt, who had been scheduled to attend, left Evian this afternoon.
Mr. Annan, in his remarks, also urged the Group of 8 to develop a long-term strategy that would support investment in rural research and infrastructure, like water supplies, that would reinforce the World Food Program's efforts in Africa. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (93%); MALARIA (90%); TUBERCULOSIS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (89%); MATCHING GIFTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); NONGOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (77%); LOBBYING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (74%); RELIEF ORGANIZATIONS (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%) ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME; THIRD WORLD AND DEVELOPING COUNTRIES; FOREIGN AID; MALARIA; TUBERCULOSIS 

COMPANY: PANASONIC APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (63%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (94%); GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%) EUROPEAN UNION; GROUP OF EIGHT 

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (63%)

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ROMANO PRODI (57%) TAGLIABUE, JOHN; CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (92%); JAPAN (79%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (71%); GREECE (56%) FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



64 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1401 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-9

Bush Urges More Pressure On Spread of Nuclear Arms
President Bush arrived in France for the Group of Eight summit meeting, where he saw the European leaders who vociferously opposed the war in Iraq. But rather than rehash their differences he tried to steer the focus towards increasing pressure on Iran and North Korea to give up their nuclear weapons programs. A1

Tens of thousands of protesters turned out in response to the G-8 meeting to voice their concerns about global poverty, the war in Iraq and other causes. Some turned violent, blocking roads and bridges, spraying graffiti on buildings, destroying property and hurling rocks, bottles and insults at police. A9

Gun Battle in Baghdad
Attackers firing rocket-propelled grenades and assault rifles struck an American military convoy in Baghdad. At least one American soldier was injured and one Iraqi civilian was killed in the firefight that erupted. A1

New Mission for Weary Soldiers
Falluja, a town 40 miles west of Baghdad, has become a symbol of anti-American resistance, with an incident every few days. It is also the new challenge for the soldiers from theSpartan Brigade of the Third Infantry Division, who had hoped to be going home soon. A10

Basra Protests British Rule
British occupation forces in Basra tried to put a new local governing council in place, but residents were angry that it was handpicked by the British. At the opening meeting, the carefully laid plans began to fall apart, as several thousand protesters denounced the new setup as antidemocratic. A10

U.S. Steers Mideast Talks
American officials, seeking a concrete outcome from a Middle East summit meeting in Jordan on Wednesday, are working behind the scenes to secure Israeli and Palestinian agreement to specific statements about advancing the new peace process. A1

A Rights Challenge in China
A petition to the Chinese national legislature by three young legal scholars challenges a traditional infringement of citizens' rights: the system by which big-city police officers detain, fine and expel rural migrants at will, with no judicial oversight. A3

Myanmar Censors Democracy
The military rulers of Myanmar continued a crackdown on pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and her party. Analysts say it appears to signal a new, harsher period that will leave little room for the activities of the opposition. A2

Cutting Germany's Social Net
Chancellor Gerhard Schroder's plan to enact economic reform by reducing the network of social protections in Germany was approved by 90 percent of the delegates at a meeting of his Social Democratic Party. The program must still be voted on by Parliament. A9

NATIONAL A11-15

Support for Bomb Suspect May Cloud Investigation
After the authorities arrested Eric Robert Rudolph, the 36-year-old survivalist who had been wanted in connection with the 1996 Olympic bombing and attacks on abortion clinics, it is becoming clearer how fiercely loyal people were in the North Carolina community where he was found. With Mr. Rudolph in jail, the investigation is shifting to who might have helped him. A1

From one view, Eric Robert Rudolph was just a loner, the quietest of three brothers -- responsible, honest boys. From another, he was a young man who spent his days slumped on a couch reading the magazine Soldier of Fortune. In still another, his anger was directed toward the federal government for refusing to approve a drug that he believed would have cured his father's cancer. But some elements link all these views. A15

Mourning Those Presumed Safe
Even as Americans viewed the conflict with Iraq as mostly over and the nation's attention turned elsewhere, the Department of Defense reported the deaths of about 40 service members. For families who had just begun to allow themselves to think their loved ones might be safe, the news was all the more jarring. A11

Hearing to Affect Terror Trials
The Justice Department's ability to continue prosecuting members of Al Qaeda in civilian courts is on the line in a landmark appeals court hearing in the government's case against Zacarias Moussaoui. At issue is whether Mr. Moussaoui has the right to question captured Qaeda members held overseas whose testimony may aid in his defense. A12

Drought Worsens in the West
Eleven Western states are experiencing extreme or exceptional drought conditions, and there is little evidence to suggest relief is coming any time soon. States are coping with the strain in different ways, including the distribution of aid to the driest communities and in some cases the declaration of emergencies. A13

Legality of a Tell-All
A Circuit Court order in Florida forbids a man from posting to the Internet a long, scathing account of his relationship with a former beauty queen. It has alarmed experts in First Amendment law, who say such orders prohibiting future publications, prior restraints, are essentially unknown in American law. A13

A New Medicare, Roots In Mind
As the Senate Finance Committee begins an overhaul of Medicare, Senator Charles E. Grassley, the committee chairman, a Republican and farmer, could keep the interests of rural America at the forefront in the push to enact a Medicare law, potentially threatening the Bush administration's pitch for a new marketplace of competing private health plans. A14

ARTS E1-10

Merger to Bring Orchestra Back to Carnegie Hall
Leaders of the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall said that they had agreed on a merger that would move the orchestra back to its historic home in the renowned hall on West 57th Street. The move could come as soon as 2006. The plan has jolted the Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts where the orchestra has made been for the last 40 years. A1

The proposed New York Philharmonic-Carnegie Hall merger and the orchestra's defection, coupled with the New York City Opera's decision to leave Lincoln Center, raise some serious questions about the future of the arts center. Namely, is there still a place for a centralized classical arts center? B8

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Agency to Re-examine Death
New Jersey's child welfare agency said it would re-examine the 2001 death of a toddler whose parents were arrested Saturday after another one of their children drowned in a bathtub. B1

Mislaid Art May Be Reclaimed
A Manhattan picture framer who left two precious pieces of art on a subway platform -- an original Picasso print and a study by Sophie Matisse -- has heard from a man who said he would return the art in exchange for the $1,000 reward. B1

No More No-Tax Sales
Shoppers sighed as New York City's tax exemption on clothing and shoes priced under $110 was lifted on the same day the state sales tax rose. B1

SPORTS D1-8

OBITUARIES B9

SCIENCE/HEALTH

New Tacts in Cancer Treatment
Two experimental drugs that fight cancer in novel ways, attacking a particular growth mechanism, have succeeded in clinical trials, ending lingering doubts about their effectiveness and promising a new era in the treatment of the disease, doctors said. A1

BUSINESS DAY C1-12

The Price of "Law & Order"
NBC, which already pays the highest prices in television for two of its long-running hit shows, "Friends" and "E.R.," now faces an earlier-than-expected renegotiation of another cornerstone of its top-rated line-up: its successful franchise of three "Law & Order" dramas. C1

Air Canada Cutbacks
Air Canada reached a tentative agreement with the union representing its pilots on cutbacks, clearing a crucial hurdle in its effort to restructure under bankruptcy protection. C2

Cisco and BellSouth Talks
Cisco Systems, the leader in Internet data network equipment, plans to announce a major development agreement today with the regional telephone company BellSouth. The deal is the latest indication that Cisco is cultivating a part of the industry that formerly viewed it with mistrust. C6

AOL Fights Software's Spread
AOL Time Warner is trying to stop the spread of new file-sharing software released by its Nullsoft division, whose founder and lead programmer, Justin Frankel, is known for leaking his work onto the Internet and causing headaches for his employer. C6

Business Digest C1

EDITORIAL A16-17

Editorials: Nuclear mirage; dawdling over food labels; a needed human rights law; good places to stash a crony.

Columns: William Safire and Bob Herbert.

Bridge E8
TV Listings E8
Crossword E4
Weather D9
Metro Diary B2

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY WEAPONS (91%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (89%); PEACE PROCESS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); POLITICS (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (77%); BOMBINGS (77%); IRAQ WAR (77%); FIREARMS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (76%); POLICE FORCES (74%); GUNSHOT WOUNDS (74%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); VANDALISM (71%); PETITIONS (71%); ARRESTS (69%); INVESTIGATIONS (67%); APPROVALS (64%); POLITICAL PARTIES (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (55%); ABORTION (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (91%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%); AUNG SAN SUU KYI (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (93%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); EUROPE (92%); CHINA (92%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GERMANY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); FRANCE (90%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



65 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1310 words

HEADLINE: Political Memo; 
Same Mayor, New Glimpse

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
The conventional wisdom among political pundits, elected officials and even some City Hall officials is that after 17 months in office, no one knows the real Michael R. Bloomberg. He needs to get out more, the thinking goes -- to Staten Island dinner dances, to town hall meetings in Queens -- and to hold news conferences where he toots his own horn a little louder, or risk losing whatever support he has left among voters.
 The feeling is that Mr. Bloomberg is an enigma wrapped in a Paul Stuart suit, a wealthy businessman whose good fortunes have left him out of touch with ordinary New Yorkers. 
 But in the last two weeks, events have brought the mayor's personal style into sharp relief as he has confronted the deaths of two black New Yorkers at the hands of police, wrestled with an increasingly hostile work force and faced down at least one potential Democratic rival who appears to be seizing on his weakness in the polls. 
It has left him with a slim hope that even as the home-owning, predominantly white New Yorkers who helped elect him to office denounce his mayoralty and rant about higher taxes and an alleged ticket blitz, he may be cultivating a new base, one among liberals and perhaps members of minorities, too.
Mr. Bloomberg reveals himself best in situations in which he clearly takes a singular view of a problem, when core Bloombergian principles are at stake. 
He moved swiftly to take responsibility after a 57-year-old Harlem woman, Alberta Spruill, died when a group of heavily armed officers used a concussion grenade in a mistaken raid of her apartment.
During a May 24 church service on West 145th Street, in a startling departure from responses to similar tragic incidents under previous administrations, Mr. Bloomberg said, "As mayor, I failed to protect someone." He then moved to quickly discipline three police officials.
Mitchell Moss, the director of the Urban Research Center at New York University and an adviser to the mayor, said: "The point about Bloomberg is that he believes in personal accountability. The people in Harlem saw the real mayor that day." 
Mr. Bloomberg also discussed at length the city's response to the death of Ousmane Zongo, who was shot dead on May 22 by a police officer after a raid at a self-storage warehouse in Chelsea. 
While the Rev. Al Sharpton has tried to arouse rage over the deaths of Ms. Spruill and Mr. Zongo, the response has been much more muted than it might have been a few years ago, when racial tensions in the city were more raw.
Representative Gregory W. Meeks of southeast Queens, for example, praised Mr. Bloomberg for promising thorough investigations of each incident. (Ms. Spruill's relatives have indicated that they plan to sue the city for $500 million.)
"He has ended racial animosities to a great extent," said Edward I. Koch, the former mayor. "Had those two deaths occurred on Giuliani's watch, there would have been enormous tensions."
That is one Mike Bloomberg: the man who goes to Harlem to apologize for errors made by the police, who agrees to call income tax increases "Mike's hikes" and who continues to defend a smoking ban that has further damaged his foundering popularity. 
There is another Mike Bloomberg, well known to his friends and dinner companions but almost never in the public eye. That is the man who is quick with a joke (often salty), who is fabulously interested in discussing his past exploits, and who is charming as he recalls repairing to a Howard Johnson's for fried clams with his father to avoid his mother's kosher kitchen. That is the Mr. Bloomberg who is prone to politically incorrect statements and perceived gaffes. He is the one who makes his press secretary squirm if caught off guard.
"He learned the hard way during the campaign that the media is unforgiving and points of view that would go unnoticed around a dinner table get blown up into 40-point headlines in the tabloids," said the presssecretary, Edward Skyler, with more than a trace of rancor.
But neither of these versions of the mayor -- each as legitimate as the other -- embodies a politician hungry to stay in power, and it is becoming increasingly clear that New York may never meet that Mr. Bloomberg. 
"I don't think he is a good hand-to-hand politician," said William B. Eimicke, a professor of public administration at Columbia University. "He is clearly uncomfortable walking through a crowd, and he can be prone to gaffes."
The problem, many political experts say, is that the bad budget news and Mr. Bloomberg's aversion to public relations events have made it difficult for the mayor to drive home any resonating message to New Yorkers. 
For instance, many experts said, New Yorkers know he has changed the way the public schools are run, but they have a foggy notion, at best, of what that really means to the city's 1.8 million school children. They are vaguely aware that crime remains low, but do not seem tuned in to Mr. Bloomberg's various new police initiatives. Outside of his opposition to smoking, few people link him to the kind of mayoral obsession that is the wont of New York City's top leaders. 
"Some of the people around him should be doing a better job of showing the people what he has been doing," said Guy V. Molinari, the former Staten Island borough president, who was one of Mr. Bloomberg's most vocal supporters during the 2001 campaign. "But part of the problem is Mike Bloomberg himself, because he just won't spend time in the political arena."
Mr. Skyler said the problem is media apathy. "Trust me, nobody is more frustrated with the lack of positive media attention our efforts garner than I am," he said.
But it is also true that beyond holding a news conference or two, Mr. Bloomberg is not wild about running around town selling an agenda. He loathes large public forums like town hall meetings, which he has more or less abandoned, and favors small breakfasts and lunches, often off the public schedule, with voters. 
On Monday, before marching in a parade, he met with a group of six Queens residents in a diner in Rosedale. Rolaine F. Antoine, who runs an association for Haitian-Americans, said that before the breakfast, she was quite prepared to dislike the mayor.
"There are a lot of changes being made to the budget that affected my family members, and I also heard the police were giving out more tickets," Mrs. Antoine said. "But when we talked, he clarified things."
On Wednesday night, Mr. Bloomberg was warmly received in Richmond Hill, Queens, by about 75 residents who came to hear him speak about the city's economy. 
Whether these microefforts can win back hearts is far from clear, and there is a lot of time for outside factors, especially the economy, to affect the equation for Mr. Bloomberg's re-election. In his favor are his millions of dollars available for campaign advertising. 
But while the mayor engenders the most intensely negative responses from many of those who voted for him last time around -- home owners in Queens and Staten Island, traditional Republicans, Rudy Democrats -- some political analysts see signs that his efforts and interests could win over traditionally liberal New Yorkers who cast their vote another way last time.
It is those voters who William C. Thompson Jr., the city comptroller, may have been eyeing last week when he attacked the mayor's budget, which he characterized as favoring Manhattan over the other boroughs, and the mayor's plans to amend the city charter to impose nonpartisan elections. 
Former Mayor Koch said: "He should be looking to pick up support from the liberals in this town who own brownstones, who want their city to function and want peace. The coalition that can put him back in office will be the same one I had. Moderates, Jews, the emerging black middle class -- those are his constituents. They may want someone like me, a liberal with sanity."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg spoke last month at the funeral of Alberta Spruill, who died after a police raid on her Harlem home. (Associated Press)(pg. B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); CITIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (88%); POLICE FORCES (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (74%); LIBERALISM (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (70%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (67%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (64%); PRESS CONFERENCES (57%); BRAIN INJURIES (50%); SELF STORAGE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); GREGORY W MEEKS (58%); AL SHARPTON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



66 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1617 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: GROUP OF 8; 
BUSH PRESSES CASE ON IRAN AND KOREA AT ECONOMIC TALKS

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France, June 1 

 BODY:
President Bush stepped onto French soil today to meet the European leaders who vociferously opposed the war in Iraq, but rather than rehash their differences he spent the day trying to increase pressure on two other nations he regards as major threats -- Iran and North Korea -- to give up their nuclear weapons programs.
 Mr. Bush arrived here from St. Petersburg, Russia, after a meeting with President Vladimir V. Putin that both men used to put differences over Iraq behind them, and to sign the recently ratified treaty that requires both sides to reduce their nuclear arsenals. 
 There was no such warmth during Mr. Bush's pro forma handshake and chitchat with President Jacques Chirac of France this afternoon, just as there was none with the German chancellor, Gerhard Schroder, when the two men met in Russia on Saturday night. Mr. Bush believed that those two European leaders undercut his effort against Saddam Hussein, and White House officials have made clear that there would be little effort to mend fences here at the meeting of the Group of 8, the major industrialized nations plus Russia. 
Mr. Chirac described his encounter with Mr. Bush as "positive," but then curtly ended questions on the issue by declaring that he had no "discomfort" in dealing with the American president.
Rather than dwell on their differences, Mr. Bush pressed the main issue on his agenda -- nonproliferation. By the end of the day, the president appeared to have won at least a new hearing from Mr. Putin on Russia's technological aid to Iran's nuclear programs. There were also signs from China that North Korea, its close ally, might be willing to meet for a second negotiating session, this time with Japan and South Korea present, as Mr. Bush has demanded. 
The president's aides worked behind the scenes to sign countries up for a new White House initiative to create an international legal basis for seizing missiles, chemical and biological agents, and nuclear components on the high seas or in the air. The proposal is clearly intended to give countries broader authority to quarantine North Korea, and perhaps Iran as well. 
It was unclear how many of the traditionally American allies here would agree, at a moment when many Europeans view Mr. Bush and the United States as far too powerful and too willing to use military force to shape the world to America's liking.
Mr. Chirac made clear that American dominance was still one of his chief concerns. "I have no doubt whatsoever that the multipolar vision of the world that I have defended for some time is certainly supported by alarge majority of countries throughout the world," he said to reporters this evening on his way to a dinner with the other leaders. 
The concerns about American empire were also echoed in the huge protests -- involving tens of thousands of Europeans -- that moved through the streets of Geneva and villages in both Switzerland and France today. The police tried to contain the threat of violence with tear gas, and the Swiss had to send German antiriot police officers into their streets.
But while there was a good deal of window-breaking and stone-throwing, the mix of antiglobalization protesters, anti-Bush protesters and others did not appear as serious as the kind of rioting that marred the Group of 8 meeting in Genoa, Italy, two years ago.
This year the protesters were kept miles from Hotel Royal, where the leaders of the United States, France, Britain, Italy, Canada, Germany, Japan and Russia were meeting on the edge of the lake, and heard none of their chants. 
Mr. Bush, in whose White House the word "globalization" is rarely uttered, has said nothing so far about the protesters' concerns, insisting that the main economic challenge he must confront is getting the major economies of the world growing again. On Monday the leaders are expected to discuss for the first time the threat of deflation in Japan and Germany -- and to a lesser degree the United States -- and the fast-declining value of the dollar. 
One of Mr. Bush's aides said today that the United States was "virtually alone now as an engine of growth in the global economy," though in the period before the opening session today Mr. Bush's aides talked about no new global initiatives to synchronize get the three largest world economies in sync. That was the traditional purpose of this annual meeting, though one that has often gotten lost with the other competing agendas.
"If they deal with trade, exchange rates, and Iraqi reconstruction in an acrimonious fashion, that is likely to be very unsettling for the dollar and thus for the financial markets," said Robert D. Hormats, a veteran of many of these economic summit meetings and now the vice chairman of Goldman Sachs International. 
But those are also the issues that least invigorate Mr. Bush, who sees these meetings largely as a forum to press his case for the fight against terrorism, and to argue, as he did at the beginning of his trip this weekend, that the world must unify behind an American vision of confronting tyrants and unconventional weapons.
Mr. Bush began his day in St. Petersburg, where he briefly took part in the celebration of the city's 300th anniversary. There he pressed Mr. Putin, once again, to end the multimillion-dollar contracts that Russia is fulfilling with Iran for the construction of its nuclear reactors part of a program that the White House alleged again today was a "cover for their larger nuclear weapons program."
Mr. Putin, speaking at a joint news conference with Mr. Bush, said that he, too, was concerned about Iran's intentions and said that reports of differences with Washington on the issue were exaggerated. But then, in a direct challenge to Mr. Bush, he said, "We are against using the pretext of nuclear weapons program of Iran as a leverage in -- as an instrument of unfair competition against us."
A senior administration official said later that he was apparently referring to the help that British firms had given Iran years ago. Ari Fleischer, the president's press secretary, told reporters here tonight that "it would not be the first time President Putin said something for a domestic constituency."
Within hours of his arrival at this small town on the southern bank of Lake Geneva, Mr. Bush turned from Iran's nuclear threats to North Korea's. He met with Hu Jintao, the new Chinese president. Mr. Hu is one of the 12 leaders of developing nations who were invited here by Mr. Chirac in an effort to, in his favorite phrase, "enlarge the dialogue" beyond the world's wealthiest nations.
Mr. Bush has met Mr. Hu twice before, but not since the Chinese leader formally succeeded Jiang Zemin as president. In the interim, China has taken an active role in the North Korean nuclear crisis, acting partly as an intermediary, and partly as a neighbor who wants neither a nuclear North nor a collapsing government next door, with the inevitable flow of desperately poor refugees over the Chinese border.
Mr. Hu, a senior administration official said tonight, told Mr. Bush that he believed that the North Koreans would drop their demand to negotiate only with the United States, leaving Japan and South Korea on the sidelines. Now, Mr. Hu suggested, the North would probably agree to multiparty talks as long as it was guaranteed that negotiators could talk directly to the Americans, ignoring others in the room.
"The president said, 'Look, in a multilateral format, sure, the North Koreans can look us in the eyes and say something,' " the senior American official said. That was essentially the approach that Deputy Secretary of State Richard L. Armitage described to Congress several months ago, angering many at the White House who saw it as a way around Mr. Bush's strictures about how talks with North Korea's Communist government must be pursued. Now, Mr. Bush appears to have come around to Mr. Armitage's viewpoint.
Mr. Bush was clearly trying to cultivate a relationship with Mr. Hu today, one that would contrast sharply with the formal, sometimes icy relations he had with Mr. Jiang. 
"It's a generational thing," one senior aide to Mr. Bush said recently. "He and Jiang were just from different planets. He has a chance now to have a relationship with the Chinese president akin to the one with Putin." 
Mr. Bush is clearly trying to gain authority for a broader set of interdictions of unconventional weapons, and he has begun to discuss informally his new initiative to organize countries to seize such weapons. The initiative was driven, one administration official said, by the bitter experience of last year, when Mr. Bush had to let a North Korean missile shipment to Yemen resume its journey after it had been stopped by Spanish forces.
The president is using the summit meeting here today to demonstrate that he can work with the traditional allies, even while bitterness over Iraq remains. 
"The most important thing, particularly after all the differences there have been over Iraq, is that the international community comes together and gives a very strong statement," Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain, Mr. Bush's greatest ally in the group here, said today, referring to an expected statement on the need to halt proliferation. "It will be the quality of intent that is as important as anything else." 
Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada, who also opposed the Iraq war, said, "Everybody was concentrating on creating a mood of solidarity."
But mostly what Evian creates, of course, is water -- lots of it. It is unclear whether solidarity can also be created, and by the time the answer comes, on Tuesday, Mr. Bush will be long gone -- having cut his stay here short to move on to talks in the Middle East.

GRAPHIC: Photos: President Bush and President Jacques Chirac of France yesterday on the terrace of Hotel Royal in Evian-les-Bains, France, as leaders began arriving for the meeting of the Group of 8. The handshake was pro forma. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A1); Tony Blair, left, yesterday with Silvio Berlusconi, far right, Junichiro Koizumi and Crown Prince Abdullah. (Pool photo by Laurent Rebours)(pg. A8) Chart/Map: "The President's Tour: France, Egypt"SUNDAYMet with President Vladimir V. Putin. Traveled to Evian, France, for a meeting with President Jacques Chirac and other leaders of the G-8. Met in the evening with President Hu Jintao of China. MONDAYMeeting with G-8 leaders, and later with Mr. Chirac. In the evening, is expected to travel to Sharm el-Sheik, Egypt, via Geneva, Switzerland. Map of Europe, the Middle East, and Northen Africa highlighting stops the President made along his route. (Source: National Security Council)(pg. A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); IRAQ WAR (78%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (76%); TRENDS (72%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (69%); MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS (66%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); TERRORISM (59%) UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ATOMIC WEAPONS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; TERRORISM; MISSILES AND MISSILE DEFENSE SYSTEMS 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (95%); NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (91%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (79%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (74%); GERHARD SCHRODER (68%); HU JINTAO (61%); TONY BLAIR (59%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (59%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (97%); EUROPE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); IRAQ (94%); SWITZERLAND (93%); CHINA (92%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%); EGYPT (92%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); AFRICA (79%); GERMANY (73%) EUROPE; IRAQ; NORTH KOREA; SWITZERLAND; GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); FRANCE; GERMANY; IRAN

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



67 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 2, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 781 words

HEADLINE: Burmese Rulers Close More Offices of Pro-Democracy Party 

BYLINE:  By SETH MYDANS 

DATELINE: BANGKOK, June 1 

 BODY:
The military rulers of Myanmar continued a crackdown today that analysts said appeared to signal a new, harsher period that would leave little room for the activities of the democratic opposition.
 One day after announcing that it had detained the pro-democracy leader Daw Aung San Suu Kyi and padlocked her party headquarters, the government moved to close other party offices around the country, according to reports from Myanmar, the former Burma. 
 It also shut down universities, as it has periodically in the past in order to prevent students from protesting government actions and demanding more freedoms. Student riots led to a pro-democracy uprising in 1988 that was crushed by force and that brought the current junta to power. 
The government appeared today to have cut the telephone lines of members of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party, the National League for Democracy, and it was impossible to reach them for their account of events.
Diplomats in Yangon, the former Rangoon, said they had been turned away by officials when they tried to visit the party headquarters.
The government said Saturday that it had taken Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and 19 officials of her party into "protective custody" after a melee involving her supporters and a pro-government group that had caused 4 deaths and 50 injuries.
An unconfirmed report from a Washington-based Myanmar pro-democracy group, the National Coalition Government of the Union of Burma, described the incident as far more serious, involving a direct attack by the military and a military-supported civilian group that left scores of people dead. 
The incident took place in northern Myanmar, where Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was on her seventh trip to visit supporters around the country since being freed from house arrest a year ago.
A government spokesman declined to say where or how long they would be held or how long the party headquarters would be shut.
But analysts said that the crackdown was clearly a major one and that the government appeared to be shutting off the limited political freedom it had allowed Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and her party since her release.
That release appeared to be an experiment by the government aimed at reaching an accommodation with the democratic opposition.
But whether it had ever intended to, the government never followed through on its promises to free political prisoners and begin discussions with Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi.
It may have been that the enthusiastic receptions she received from ever larger crowds caused the government to have second thoughts.
"What was happening was that more and more people kept coming from greater distances just to come and see her and give her that godlike treatment," said Josef Silverstein, a longtime expert on Myanmar at Rutgers University.
"Aslong as she has this charismatic hold over the people, the military will never be accepting of it," he said. "Even when they were harassed, people still showed up."
He said the military might have felt ready to take harsh steps now because it had been working to insulate itself against pressure from the West by strengthening relations with its large Asian neighbors, China, India and Bangladesh.
"I think the Burmese have been on a long-term trajectory here on two grounds," Mr. Silverstein said. "One, of altering their international position and, two, of finally trying to eliminate Aung San Suu Kyi."
In recent months, he said, government leaders have visited their three big neighbors to build up personal relationships and make large-scale business deals. Those include loans, construction agreements, highway links and an agreement on natural gas resources as a buffer against Western economic penalties and denials of loans from major lenders like the World Bank.
These Asian neighbors are not as committed to democracy in Myanmar as Western nations are. Their support could free the government's hands to try to shut down Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's activities and seal her off once again in house arrest. But the government has not shown itself to be a very good judge of the public mood. It was taken by surprise and ended up annulling the results of a parliamentary election in 1990 when Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's party won 80 percent of the seats.
It has failed to turn the public against her with repeated campaigns of vilification in the press.
As her year of freedom drew to an end and harassment increased, Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi was already voicing growing discouragement.
"Ignoring the results of the 1990 election amounts to insulting the people and disrespecting the people," she said on May 27. "We, the National League for Democracy party, stand firm for implementation of the results of the 1990 election."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Burmese woman held a poster of Aung San Suu Kyi as she chanted slogans against Myanmar's rulers during a protest in Tokyo yesterday. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (77%); POLITICS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (76%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (75%); RIOTS (75%); HUMAN RIGHTS (71%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (71%); HOUSE ARREST (63%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%) MYDANS, SETH; AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%) MYANMAR (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%) MYANMAR

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2003 



68 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Science Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1704 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Race to Detect SARS, But First They Must Test the Test 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW POLLACK and LAWRENCE K. ALTMAN 

 BODY:
As scientists and companies race to develop diagnostic tests to quickly determine whether a person has SARS, they face a big challenge: testing whether the tests themselves are accurate.
 A number of experimental tests have been developed or are being developed, scientists, government officials and corporate executives said in recent interviews and at a meeting on SARS research at the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases in Bethesda, Md., on Friday. 
 But such development "has progressed more slowly than initially hoped" because people produce only small amounts of the SARS virus in the first few days of illness, unlike most other viral diseases, the World Health Organization said yesterday.
This unusual feature of SARS will require highly sensitive tests, and it will probably be several months before doctors will be able to use a single test to determine whether a person must be isolated because he or she has SARS.
Before a test can be relied upon, it must be run on specimens known to contain the virus to make sure it is accurate. And it has been difficult, scientists said, to procure enough specimens from patients at different stages of the disease to do this. 
An accurate test is vital for public health because the consequences of a wrong diagnosis can be severe. If SARS is missed, the disease can spread. And a false diagnosis can mean unnecessary isolation, quarantines and economic havoc.
"We need a test to help us with our definition, to know we are isolating the right people and not isolating too many of those who don't have SARS," Dr. David L. Heymann, the executive director of communicable disease programs at the World Health Organization, said in an interview. But as Dr. Heymann noted in a recent news conference, "Unfortunately, we still don't have a test which can diagnose the disease when it's occurring -- that is, immediately when it's occurring."
A diagnosis of probable SARS is now based on a checklist of symptoms, chest X-rays and information about whether a person has been exposed to someone with the disease or has traveled to a region where SARS is widespread.
The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has developed a test that detects antibodies to the SARS virus in blood. But it usually takes 21 days for a person to make enough antibodies to be detected. So the usefulness of such tests is generally limited to epidemiological studies.
Most efforts to develop quicker tests rely on a technique called P.C.R., for polymerase chain reaction, the same method used in the DNA tests for crime solving.
This technique can detect even tiny amounts of a virus's genetic material.
Scientists have to prime the test by putting in a genetic sequence to search for. But since the genome of the SARS virus has been sequenced, that should be relatively straightforward. The C.D.C. has developed a polymerase test and a number of companies have developed their own tests. One of the first was Artus of German, which is already providing its test to labs around the world.
To get it to market quickly, Abbott Laboratories, one of the largest companies in diagnostic testing, reached a deal to help sell the Artus test in the United States, Canada and other countries.
Roche, another leader in diagnostics, said it hoped to have a test developed in a few weeks. Others developing tests include EraGen BioSciences of Madison, Wis., and Prodessecoei of Waukesha, Wis.
Polymerase tests can theoretically produce results in two to six hours, though in actual practice results may not be ready for a day or two, especially if the samples have to be sent somewhere for testing.
But just having a test that can detect genetic viral DNA or RNA material is not enough.
"That is not the same as saying you have a test that can go out into the field and reliably and reproducibly work," said Dr. Daniel Kacian, chief scientist at Gen-Probe, a diagnostics company in San Diego.
Dr. Kacian said it took his company six to nine months to develop a test to screen donated blood for West Nile virus. The test has just entered clinical trials.
Dr. Heymann of the W.H.O. said some of the early SARS tests produced "many false negatives," meaning that they missed the virus. The C.D.C. says polymerase chain reaction tests also tend to produce false positives, so that any positive finding should be confirmed by repeating the test or having the specimen tested by another laboratory.
One of the biggest problems now is that scientists do not yet know how and when to take samples to have the best chance of finding the virus. It can be found at different times in nasal and lung fluids, stool and blood. Fewer SARS viruses seem to be present in the first five days of illness than later, presenting a major challenge in developing diagnostic tests, said Dr. Malik Peiris of the University of Hong Kong.
Patients for testing have been hard to come by. That is a common quandary for companies, said Dr. Peter Heseltine, medical director for infectious diseases at Quest Diagnostics, the nation's largest clinical laboratory company, which is developing its own SARS test.
Part of the problem, especially for American companies, is that a vast majority of SARS cases are in Asia. Doctors there are often too busy coping with the immediate crisis to send samples to researchers developing tests. In some cases, large fees are demanded and in other cases government officials are reluctant to allow samples to be exported. 
"The countries, such as China, are very reluctant to ship specimens out to western countries," said Heiner Dreismann, the president of Roche Molecular Systems. Dr. Dreismann said the company had shifted its test verification operations to China, where it is receiving cooperation.
He also said some package delivery services had refused to carry SARS specimens. "We've never seen this before, even when working on a test for anthrax," he said. The authorities say there has been no known case of SARS infection from shipment of samples.
With few specimens to test, some companies are taking the virus samples they do have -- or just viral RNA snippets, which are safer to use -- and in the laboratory are putting them in specimens taken from people without SARS to see if the tests can detect the virus. "You spike clinical samples and that's the best you can do," said Dr. Kelly Henrickson, the chief scientist for Prodesse.
Tommy G. Thompson, secretary of health and human services, and senior officials of the C.D.C. and the Food and Drug Administration, met with nine diagnostic companies in Washington on Thursday. The officials urged the companies to develop SARS tests and promised to work with the companies.
"We are trying to work with the Chinese government to improve our access to samples from patients in China," Dr. Mark B. McClellan, the commissioner of the F.D.A., said in an interview. Other countries with many SARS cases have also raised obstacles, Dr. McClellan said."It's been a challenge but we're trying to do more," he said. "These are countries that are facing an urgent public health threat."
Dr. Klaus Stohr, who directs the W.H.O.'s scientific investigation of SARS, said his agency had developed a specimen bank in Hong Kong that scientists could tap at no charge. "We ask in return that if companies develop a licensed test they donate or sell it at a low price" to poor countries, Dr. Stohr said.
So far no company has applied for approval of a SARS diagnostic test. Tests that are offered as a service by clinical laboratories or used for research do not require F.D.A. approval, so some test developers are distributing tests without approval. But if a test is to be widely sold and used to guide treatment, the F.D.A. expects the developers to seek approval, agency officials said.
Several scientists said that because of the severe consequences of a missed diagnosis, a SARS test should have rates of false negatives and false positives of less than 5 percent, and preferably much smaller. Given the crisis, however, "you take what you can get," said Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, the director of the infectious disease institute.
Some first-generation tests can detect the SARS virus but not the amount present. Such quantitative information could be useful in determining who might spread the virus or in monitoring a treatment.
The tests also are not likely to provide results fast enough to be used, say, for airport screening. Participants at Friday's meeting in Bethesda urged development of a type of test that looks for viral proteins that might be able to do that.
Another test that could be useful is one that looks for a type of antibody called immunoglobulin M, said Dr. William Bellini, a C.D.C. scientist involved in development of SARS tests. Existing tests look for a variety of antibody types.
Immunoglobulin M tests exist for other respiratory viral infections and can detect them within a few days, Dr. Bellini said. But Dr. Heseltine of Quest said the tests were tricky and not always reliable.
There could also be business obstacles to developing tests. The market for such tests could be small if SARS does not remain a serious health threat. If it is found that SARS can be transmitted through blood, the market would grow because blood donations would have to be screened.
Test companies could also eventually be blocked from selling their product if someone else wins a patent on the virus or its genetic sequences, or on a similar diagnostic test. There is already a scramble to patent findings related to SARS.
But the companies say they will deal with that when they have to, probably by paying royalties.
"We're not letting it deter us," said Dr. James Koziarz, the vice president for research and development for Abbott's diagnostics division. Despite the obstacles, the development of SARS diagnostics has proceeded very rapidly by historical standards, a result of technology and greater cooperation among scientists.
"I know it seems like it's taking a while here," Dr. Julie L. Gerberding, the director of the C.D.C., said in a briefing last month. "But from our frame of reference, given how long it typically has taken to develop diagnostic tests, I still think this has got to be the fastest test development process that I'm aware of."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 4, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption in Science Times yesterday about efforts to develop diagnostic tests for SARS reversed the identities of two scientists. Dr. Anthony S. Fauci, director of the National Institute of Allergyand Infectious Diseases, was at the top, above Dr. Malik Peiris of the University of Hong Kong.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Dr. William Bellini of the Centers for Disease Control is among those seeking a test for SARS. (Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. F1); Dr. Malik Peiris, top, and Dr. Anthony S. Fauci spoke at a SARS meeting in Maryland on Friday. (Photographs by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)(pg. F6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (92%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (91%); SARS (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (90%); MEDICAL DIAGNOSTICS SCREENING & TESTING (90%); GENETIC ANALYTIC TECHNIQUES (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (89%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (89%); VIRUSES (89%); IMMUNODIAGNOSTICS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); DNA (78%); GENETIC SCREENING (78%); EPIDEMIOLOGY (78%); ALLERGIES (76%); DNA TESTING (73%); RADIOLOGY (69%); FORENSIC DNA TESTING (64%) SARS (SEVERE ACUTE RESPIRATORY SYNDROME); TESTS AND TESTING; POLYMERASE CHAIN REACTION (PCR); RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (83%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (59%); NATIONAL INSTITUTE OF ALLERGY & INFECTIOUS DISEASES (57%) WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; ALTMAN, LAWRENCE K; HEYMANN, DAVID L (DR)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



69 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Editorial Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 194 words

HEADLINE: Tax-Cut Fallout Is Worse Than You Think 

 BODY:
To the Editor:
 Re "Stating the Obvious," by Paul Krugman (column, May 27): Many Democrats have been saying for months that the president's tax cuts are part of a deliberate plan to starve government of all resources to do anything other than defense. 
 While I commend Mr. Krugman, he understates the damage the Bush plan will cause when he writes that either taxes will go up again or vital programs will be gutted. In fact, both will occur. States and cities have already raised property, sales and excise taxes to try to meet the responsibilities the Bush administration is shirking. These taxes hit middle-income families first.
The Social Security and Medicare trust funds -- financed through the payroll tax on workers -- are being rapidly funneled out to "give the money back" to wealthy taxpayers. This lays the groundwork for the end of those two programs -- not reform, end -- because the money will simply not be there.
The runaway debt and erosion of confidence in our economy will eventually shipwreck our entire society, and all the money in the world won't buy a life raft.

CHARLES B. RANGEL
Member of Congress, 15th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, May 29, 2003

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX LAW (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX RELIEF (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EXCISE TAX (72%); TRUST ARRANGEMENTS (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (72%); MEDICARE (72%); REAL ESTATE (70%); CORPORATE TAX (70%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (69%); FAMILY (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (88%); CHARLES B RANGEL (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



70 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1198 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
These Days, Business Risk Is Often the Journey

BYLINE:  By FRANCINE PARNES 

 BODY:
When Sally Blower experienced chest pains and shivers before boarding her flight from London to Brazil in late March, she did not even consider canceling her trip. As production manager for a British auto-racing television show, missing her assignment to cover the Brazilian Grand Prix would have been "unthinkable," she later said.
 But even more unthinkable at the time was what was about to happen to her body. Ms. Blower, who dozed fitfully during nearly 12 hours in flight, was hospitalized in Brazil with a suspected case of severe acute respiratory syndrome. The ordeal has impelled her to slow down, reassess her job and even consider leaving her profession. 
 After entering a hospital in Sao Paulo in a feverish delirium, "the afternoon and night passed in a blur of intravenous drips, needles, chest X-rays, blood tests, throat swabs, constant blood pressure, oxygen-saturation and temperature checks," said Ms. Blower, whose doctor suspected SARS as soon as he found out she had recently been in Singapore and Malaysia. 
During her 10-day quarantine, even TV was terrifying. 
"When I saw the CNN news ticker change to 'Brazil reports first suspected case of deadly virus,' I realized they were talking about me," she said.
Hers may be an extreme case, but any medical emergency, like a heart attacks or traffic accident injuries, can derail a business trip, if not a career. Business travelers today, facing deterrents like terror threats and a flimsy economy, may not want to contemplate a brush with life-threatening illness or injury on the road, but frequent fliers would be well advised to do so, experts say.
When the prospects include unfamiliar doctors and emergency rooms far from home, travelers can take many precautions before they board the plane, not only to protect against the worst, but also to ensure that if the worst happens, insurance will be there to cover their hospital care.
"Make sure your health policy covers you abroad," said Bradley A. Connor, medical director of the New York Center for Travel and Tropical Medicine, a clinic in Manhattan. "And even for domestic travel, with business travelers enrolled in H.M.O.'s and other managed care plans, make sure your plan covers you at a different location from where you live. Some policies are very restrictive if you're in an area with no network physicians."
It is also helpful to have a travelers' protection plan that flies you to a hospital closer to home in case of medical emergency, said Roy Berger, president of Medjet Assistance in Birmingham, Ala., a yearly membership program that provides jets with medical equipment and professionals to fly sick or injured travelers home.
For Andy Fliss, 38, marketing director for Micro Advantage, a provider of audio-visual and computer accessories in Manhattan, a Dallas business trip in March turned nightmarish when he felt chest pains while walking alone to his car.
"By the time I reached the car, the pain had grown and was forcing small moans from my throat," Mr. Fliss said. "I looked around and considered heading back, but couldn't walk any further." With no one, not even a parking attendant, in sight, he got in his car and drove to street level. By then, he said, he was gripped with fear at the realization he was having a heart attack.
Things became worse. The street looked nearly deserted, a police officer disappeared from view before he could be summoned and his cellphone cut off in midconversation, said Mr. Fliss, who managed to drive the few blocks to his hotel. "I called to the valet, 'Call an ambulance! I'm having a heart attack!' You should've seen their faces. One guy stood over me praying."
Today, as Mr. Fliss recovers, he is making plans to use a cellphone service that would enable a "911" operator to find him if he called.
But finding solutions to the business consequences of his heart attack has not been so easy. Mr. Fliss is one of Micro Advantage's four founders, and his absence at a crucial early stage of its development has dealt the company a severe blow.
"Micro Advantage is a small company in our first year of operation," he said. "We were picking up momentum with our brand. People were beginning to recognize the name and consider our products for major projects. When I was knocked out of the picture, the name was allowed to fade from the market. It will take a great deal to rebuild that recognition."
One of the most common hazards for business travelers of going on the road is the road itself. Mark Martincic found that out in a recent motorcycle accident.
Mr. Martincic, a 54-year-old consultant to motorcycle dealers in Birmingham, was riding his motorcycle to a biking event in Daytona Beach, Fla., in early March, when he was hit by a hit-and-run driver. His leg and ankle were broken in several spots, and he spent a week in intensive care.
When he was released from the hospital, his frantic traveling schedule was over. In the past, he said, he typically spent at least part of 40 to 45 weeks on the road; last year alone, he traveled 150,000 miles by plane. Today, by contrast, he mostly works from home in a wheelchair, though he is starting to get out more.
"Now it's a real chore to get into a car, let alone fly over the continent," Mr. Martincic said. "I have offices in Birmingham; Portland, Ore.; and Miami, and for about four weeks after the accident I could not even get to my office in Birmingham where I live.' 
With less mobility, he says, he is forced to find new ways every day to do business. He has quickly mastered the management maxim that you can achieve a lot if you delegate more. Beyond that, he said, "I am surprised at how much business you can accomplish with telephones and computers." He added, "I have accomplished things that before the accident I assumed had to be done in person."
Aside from healing their bodies and repairing the damage to their careers, many travelers who have experienced medical traumas on the road have had to cope with the emotional aftermath. Ms. Blower's brush with probable SARS, for example, left her deeply disappointed in some colleagues who did not bother to contact her during her hospital stay.
"As a 41-year-old singleton, very committed to my job, I realized that my entire emotional energy is devoted to the people I work with," Ms. Blower said. "Yet when I needed my colleagues to give me emotional support back, I didn't feel that I got it -- certainly not until after I'd yelled at people -- and this came as quite a shock."
There was more frustration to come. After returning to work at her London office in late April, she had a disagreement with her employer stemming from her illness. And she was so upset at her television network for showing the outside of her home on a news program that she is considering filing a complaint against it for violating her privacy.
A result of her disillusionment has been a determination to reassess her professional life. 
'I think I expected too much from the wrong people," Ms. Blower said. "I obviously need to change my focus, and I'm struggling to work out how to achieve that. I don't know how I feel about the work I'm doing anymore. Do I need to do something with more emotional rewards?"

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mark Martincic, 54, a consultant to motorcycle dealers in Birmingham, Ala., holds a photograph of the wreckage of his motorcycle. He was seriously injured in the accident during a business trip to a biking event in Daytona Beach, Fla., in March. (Gary Tramontina for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (78%); TRAVELERS HEALTH (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (78%); AUTO RACING (77%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (76%); SARS (75%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (75%); ISOLATION & QUARANTINE (75%); HOSPITALS (75%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (75%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (74%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (74%); ACCIDENTAL INJURIES (74%); HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); AMBULANCE & RESCUE SERVICES (70%); RADIOLOGY (69%); HEART DISEASE (68%); VIRUSES (66%); TRAFFIC ACCIDENTS (65%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (61%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; MEDICINE AND HEALTH 

COMPANY: FOR THE EARTH CORP (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339112 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS311111 DOG & CAT FOOD MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3841 SURGICAL & MEDICAL INSTRUMENTS & APPARATUS (51%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (51%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (51%)

PERSON: PARNES, FRANCINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); DAYTONA BEACH, FL, USA (74%); LONDON, ENGLAND (73%); SAO PAULO, BRAZIL (73%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (65%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (90%); FLORIDA, USA (79%) BRAZIL (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); SINGAPORE (79%); MALAYSIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



71 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Manufacturing Showed Gains Last Month 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Manufacturing activity increased in May, suggesting that the worst may be over for factories that slowed production during the war in Iraq, an industry report showed yesterday.
 The Institute for Supply Management's manufacturing index rose to 49.4 in May from 45.4 in April, the biggest monthly gain since December. Order backlogs grew for the first time since June. 
 The reading below 50 signals that manufacturing was still contracting, just not as much as in the previous month.
"The sector may be on the verge of recovery from its recent doldrums," John Ryding, chief market economist at Bear Stearns, said in a report. "New orders and order backlogs point to further expansion in June. The weakest area remains employment."
Companies have cut production in recent months because of lackluster demand. The manufacturing report added to the evidence that pressure on manufacturers may be starting to ease, economists said.
Separate reports last week showed that factories in the Chicago area unexpectedly expanded in May and that consumer confidence rose to the highest point in a year.
Economists expected a reading of 48.7 in the factory index, based on the median of 68 forecasts in a Bloomberg News survey. The supply managers group, which is based in Tempe, Ariz., surveys more than 400 companies in 20 industries, including clothing, printing, furniture and plastics. Manufacturing accounts for about one-seventh of the economy.
The Institute for Supply Management's survey came after a report from the National Association of Purchasing Management-Chicago and Federal Reserve surveys in the Philadelphia region and New York State that showed gains in manufacturing.
"We have to look at it more as a reversal of trend," said Norbert Ore, chairman of the institute's survey committee. "It's at least a respite that we see. This certainly is in keeping" with modest growth in the second half of the year.
The economy will be given additional help by the $330 billion tax cut signed last week by President Bush, economists at Lehman Brothers said.
They raised their growth forecasts to an average annual rate of 3.5 percent from July to December. Their previous projections were for annual rates of 3 percent for the third quarter and 3.2 percent for the final three months. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (91%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (91%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); FACTORY ORDERS (79%); BUSINESS CONDITIONS INDEX (79%); TRENDS (78%); NEW ORDERS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); PLASTICS (50%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FACTORIES AND INDUSTRIAL PLANTS; PRODUCTION 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (93%); BEAR STEARNS COS INC (57%); BLOOMBERG LP (55%); LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF PURCHASING MANAGEMENT (54%) INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) IRAQ (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



72 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Trying to sort out the broader trends behind the big surge in spending on TV commercials.

BYLINE:  By Stuart Elliott 

 BODY:
WHETHER or not Funny Cide wins the Belmont on Saturday, television sales executives are beaming about the Triple Crown they have scored in booking commitments for commercial time for the 2003-4 season.
 Advertisers are already setting records with their upfront spending for the coming television season on national broadcast networks and national cable networks. Then, late last week, syndicators of shows on local broadcast stations -- including reruns of network series like "Friends" as well as original entries like "Oprah" -- reported revenue gains estimated at 15 percent to 20 percent compared with last spring. 
 But the surprisingly robust strength of demand for commercial time in the different television marketplaces could end up diminishing revenue for other media. Some advertising executives say they believe that marketers, having agreed to spend more than they had budgeted for TV, will have to cut back on spending in other realms like print, radio, direct marketing, the Internet and outdoor advertising. 
"As advertisers make a commitment to 'get it done' on television, with the magnitude of the increases so far there could be some softness elsewhere in order to fund television spending for the short term," said Rich Hamilton, the chief executive of American operations at the ZenithOptimedia Group in New York.
"If the increases are over all in the range of 10 to 12 percent, might a third of that come from other media budgets?" Mr. Hamilton asked. "It's possible." ZenithOptimedia is owned by the Cordiant Communications Group and the Publicis Groupe.
Peter Gardiner, partner and chief media officer at Deutsch in New York, part of the Interpublic Group of Companies, said, "For most marketers, TV is the primary medium, so some of the other media are going to be affected."
"But when TV costs outpace effectiveness," he said, advertisers must consider other options. "We're not there yet, but we are looking at that for a couple of clients."
Other executives, however, say the intense demand for television commercials is an early indicator of a recovering national economy, which would also benefit the other media.
Andy Donchin, director for national broadcast at Carat USA in New York, part of the Carat division of the Aegis Group, said he believed that the fast and furious TV upfront market portended that advertisers "are banking on a stronger economy as we move into '04."
"If people feel the economy is getting better," Mr. Donchin said, "the other media will do well" along with television. In the meantime, he added, "we're just trying to keep costs in line as best we can."
Offering another perspective was John Muszynski, executive vice president and chief broadcast investment officer at Starcom Worldwide in Chicago. He said part of the bonanza for the television media in the upfront market could be attributed to the shifting of dollars from one type of TV budget to another.
"People are moving money to the upfront from the scatter market," he said, referring to budgets for commercial time bought during the season rather than before it starts. "They're protecting themselves," he added, from the kinds of steep increases in prices that were being charged during the last few months in the scatter market. Starcom Worldwide is part of the Starcom MediaVest division of Publicis.
The demand for commercial time on syndicated programs surprised even the president of the Syndicated Network Television Association in New York, Gene DeWitt, who represents studios like the Walt Disney Company and Viacom that sell shows to local stations.
"A year ago our upfront market took two weeks, and the year before it took four months," Mr. DeWitt said. "This time, it was done in about three days last week."
"The consolidation of sellers and buyers has made it easy to move a market quickly," Mr. DeWitt said, referring to the shrinking number of media agencies that buy time as well as the reduced number of sellers across the table from them. That consolidation could intensify on both sides, particularly after the decision yesterday by the Federal Communications Commission to loosen media ownership strictures.
Mr. DeWitt estimated that the upfront market for syndication would total $2.3 billion to $2.4 billion, compared with about $2 billion last spring before the start of the 2002-3 season. The trade publications Mediaweek and Television Week are both estimating $2.3 billion.
Significantly higher rates appear to have been concentrated in programs that Mr. Muszynski identified as "top tier" and "tried and true." First-run, or original syndicated programming, would include game shows like "Jeopardy" and "Wheel of Fortune" and talk shows like "Oprah" and "Dr. Phil." In the area of "off-network" programs -- a polite term for reruns -- the higher rates are being charged by syndicators of series like "Everybody Loves Raymond," "Friends," "Seinfeld" and "Will & Grace."
Mr. DeWitt noted that sellers of syndicated shows benefited from a trend "in some markets for shows like 'Dr. Phil' to move into prime-time" hours like 8 or 9 p.m., where they can command higher rates for spots, from the traditional morning or afternoon time slots. He listed three markets where the voluble Phil McGraw has been deemed ready for prime time: Jacksonville, Fla., on WJXT; San Francisco, on KRON; and Seattle, on KONG.
With the conclusion of the syndicated upfront market, the total upfront for 2003-4 is being estimated at $16.9 billion to $17.6 billion, pending the completion of the cable upfront, expected this month. That compares with the record of $14 billion, set last spring. 
The estimates for cable so far are $5.5 billion to $6 billion. The estimates for the broadcast upfront, completed last month, are $9.2 billion to $9.3 billion.
The commitments made in the upfront market are tentative and subject to change. Some agency executives speculated that some "holds" now being placed on spots would be given up as the season begins and marketers realize they may have overpaid for time. But that did not happen during the 2002-3 season, as advertisers canceled only a handful of their commitments.

GRAPHIC: Photo: "Seinfeld" reruns command some of the highest commercial prices, joined by "Everybody Loves Raymond," "Friends" and "Will & Grace." (Photofest) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (90%); TRENDS (90%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (89%); MEDIA SYNDICATION (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); DIRECT MARKETING (77%); CABLE INDUSTRY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (73%); ONLINE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (70%) TELEVISION; ADVERTISING 

COMPANY: PUBLICIS GROUPE SA (84%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (84%); AEGIS GROUP PLC (63%); ZENITH MEDIA SERVICES INC (55%); CORDIANT COMMUNICATIONS GROUP PLC (54%)

TICKER: PUB (PAR) (84%); IPG (NYSE) (84%); AGS (LSE) (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); SIC7311 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541830 MEDIA BUYING AGENCIES (63%); SIC7319 ADVERTISING, NEC (63%)

PERSON: ELLIOTT, STUART 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



73 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 689 words

HEADLINE: TECHNOLOGY; 
PeopleSoft to Acquire Rival In $1.7 Billion Stock Deal

BYLINE:  By LAURIE J. FLYNN

 BODY:
PeopleSoft Inc., a maker of business software for large corporations, announced yesterday that it would acquire a rivalsoftware maker, J. D. Edwards & Company, in a stock deal worth $1.7 billion.
 The acquisition will make PeopleSoft, based in Pleasanton, Calif., the second-largest maker worldwide of software that companies use to run their business. SAP of Germany, which holds more than a third of the $20 billion market, is the largest. 
 PeopleSoft, with revenue of $1.9 billion, sells software that tracks inventory and manages payroll systems to large companies primarily in service industries like health care and finance. J. D. Edwards, based in Denver, reported revenue of $886 million last year. It sells software primarily to midsize companies. 
The deal calls for each share of J. D. Edwards stock to be exchanged for 0.86 share of PeopleSoft. PeopleSoft's stock closed yesterday at $14.97, down $1.42.
The acquisition is part of a trend toward consolidation in an industry that is increasingly global and dominated by SAP. Without the merger, PeopleSoft is the third-largest company, behind the business software unit of the Oracle Corporation. While PeopleSoft has been steadily taking market share from Oracle the last few years, the continuing slump in sales of information technology to corporations has made competing with SAP difficult, according to analysts.
Both PeopleSoft and J. D. Edwards have been hit hard by the decline in corporate spending in recent quarters. In April, PeopleSoft reported that net income fell 14 percent from a year earlier. Revenue declined 4.8 percent, to $460.3 million, which the company attributed to the war in Iraq and to general economic conditions. J. D. Edwards posted a loss of $393,000 in the latest quarter, as revenue fell 9 percent.
"This has become a global market, where in order to compete effectively you have to be able to serve markets around the world, in different languages," said Jim Shepherd, a senior vice president of AMR Research, a software market research company in Boston. "If you want to compete you have to be big, and you have to try to match the R&D spending of SAP." Mr. Shepherd said neither PeopleSoft nor J. D. Edwards alone had enough of a presence in the global market nor enough software developers to compete with SAP.
The acquisition gives PeopleSoft a stronger footing in the market that serves midsize businesses, and analysts say that is the fastest-growing segment in business software. PeopleSoft also stands to benefit from J. D. Edwards's strength in selling to the manufacturing industry.
"This could not be a more compelling merger," said Craig Conway, chief executive of PeopleSoft, in a conference call announcing the merger. "It brings together two companies whose strengths are extraordinarily complementary." Executives from both companies said their similar corporate cultures should help ensure that the merger goes smoothly. 
But the midsize-business market is itself becoming more competitive. Most notably, Microsoft is in the position to increase its share of that market through its acquisition of Great Plains Software, a leader in accounting software, and Navision, which it acquired last July. "Microsoft is making all these companies, including PeopleSoft, shiver in the spine," said Trip Chowdhry, an analyst with FTN Midwest Research in Cincinnati. 
Mr. Chowdhry described PeopleSoft's acquisition of J. D. Edwards as an attempt "to show relevancy in the midmarket," where its competitors are gaining strength.
Under the terms of the deal, which is expected to close in the fall, J. D. Edwards will become a wholly owned subsidiary of PeopleSoft. The combined company will have annual revenue of $2.8 billion and roughly 13,000 employees. The companies said the merger would enable the merged company to reduce operating expenses by $80 million annually, through improvements in operational efficiencies. 
The company will maintain offices in Denver, where J. D. Edwards now has its corporate headquarters. After the closing, J. D. Edwards's shareholders will control roughly 25 percent of the combined company's shares.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "A Growing Rival"With its acquisition of J.D. Edwards, PeopleSoft will become the second- largest seller of business software, with 15% of the worldwide market. Top sellers of business software, '02 SAPMARKET SHARE: $7.0REVENUE, IN BILLIONS: 35% Oracle GroupMARKET SHARE: 2.5REVENUE, IN BILLIONS: 13 PeopleSoftMARKET SHARE: 1.9REVENUE, IN BILLIONS: 10 J.D. EdwardsMARKET SHARE: 0.9REVENUE, IN BILLIONS: 5 (Source: AMR Research) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (91%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); COMPANY REVENUES (89%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (78%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); CORPORATE CULTURE (78%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (76%); COMPANY EARNINGS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (75%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); TRENDS (74%); MARKET SHARE (74%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (73%); GLOBALIZATION (72%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (71%); CONFERENCE CALLS (69%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (63%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (61%) MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (98%); SAP AG (92%)

ORGANIZATION: PEOPLESOFT INC (PSFT); SAP AG 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (98%); SAP (NYSE) (92%); SAP (FRA) (92%); SAP (BIT) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (98%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (98%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (98%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (98%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (98%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



74 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 919 words

HEADLINE: Prices of Homes Are Still Rising, But More Slowly 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
The growth of house prices has slowed sharply over the last year, increasing by the smallest amount in five years during the first three months of 2003, according to a government report released today.
 But the report relieved some of the growing fears that the housing market was a bubble beginning to burst, particularly in California, the Northeast and other places where home values soared over the last decade. During the first quarter, prices fell in only 13 of the 220 metropolitan areas ranked by the government, down from 22 during the fourth quarter of last year and 33 during the third quarter. 
 "No one has anything to be concerned about in the immediate future," said Shelly Dreiman, a senior economist at the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight, which compiles the data. Over the next few years, "it depends on what happens with the economy," she added. 
Avoiding a housing slump is crucial to the economic recovery that most forecasters are predicting for the rest of this year, they say. Even the current slowdown in prices could damp economic growth, however, by reducing the amount of money people receive after they sell their homes or refinance their mortgages.
Nationwide, house prices rose at an annual rate of 3.8 percent during the first three months of 2003, down from 5.4 percent at the end of 2002 and 8 percent at the start of last year, the government said.
The biggest recent price increases have come mostly in places that are on the outskirts of big metropolitan areas and have become havens for people unable to afford homes closer to the city. Between early 2002 and early 2003, the price of a typical home jumped at least 13 percent on Long Island; in Dutchess County and Newburgh, N.Y.; in Santa Barbara, Calif.; in Providence, R.I.; and in Port St. Lucie, Fla., which is north of Miami.
In the New York metropolitan area, prices rose at an annual rate of almost 9 percent during the first three months of the year, up slightly from late last year.
The 13 areas where prices fell during the first three months of 2003 were a mixture of once-booming technology centers, like Boulder, Colo., and San Jose, Calif., and cities in the country's thinly populated middle, like Kalamazoo, Mich., and Jackson, Miss.
But the decreases were small and have been occurring for only a few months. Over the last 12 months, prices rose in all 220 metropolitan areas ranked by the government -- even in the industrial city of Kokomo in northern Indiana, where the increase was less than 1 percent, the smallest for any ranked area.
Housing has become an increasingly important part of the economy over the last decade as the percentage of Americans who own their homes has risen and changes in the banking business have allowed people to refinance their mortgages more easily. The rapid price increases since 2000 have allowed many households to spend money more quickly than their incomes alone would have permitted, lifting growth at a time when businesses have been cutting their spending.
But few economists thought that annual house price increases of 7 percent to 8 percent would continue for very long. Instead, they have wondered whether many local markets had turned into bubbles that would pop like the stock market or whether the price increases would merely slow.
"You've got a tug of war going on," said Karl Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College.
"We're not gaining jobs, and the economy is still pretty much in the doldrums," he said. "But there are two things going for the housing market: interest rates are very low, and there's nowhere else to put your money."
California, Florida and the Northeast have attracted the most attention as bubble suspects because prices have risen 50 percent to 75 percent in many places there over the last five years. But other than in San Jose, which is in Silicon Valley, prices continued to rise during the first three months of 2003, despite a worsening of the economic slump that is now more than two years old.
In both the Los Angeles and Miami metropolitan areas, prices rose at an annual rate of 7.9 percent. The increase was 6.1 percent in the Washington area, 5.8 in the Boston area and 2.9 percent in the San Francisco area, according to the government data, which compares a house's sale price to its previous sale price.
Over the last year, the biggest increases occurred in the Redding, Calif., and Chico, Calif., areas, both of which are in the north-central part of the state.
The study does not include the top end of the housing market because it is based on information collected by Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, two government-chartered mortgage agencies that rarely handle loans larger than $322,700. Prices of the most expensive homes have fallen in some areas, real estate agents say.
But the declines appear to be isolated. Data compiled by both Fiserv CSW, a research company in Cambridge, Mass., and the National Association of Realtors also show that house prices continued to rise in almost every metropolitan area over the last few months. The two groups analyze homes in all parts of the market.
In the first three months of the year, the median home -- the one worth more than half of all houses and less than half -- cost $161,500, up 7 percent from early 2002, according to the Realtors' group. With a median price of $509,000, the San Francisco area had the most expensive homes, followed by Orange County, Calif., at $448,000, and Boston, at $414,000. The median price in the New York area was $329,000.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A chart in Business Day on Tuesday showing the rise in home prices in the first quarter of 2003 for parts of New York, California, Florida and Massachusetts carried an incorrect label from a document provided by the Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight for increases during a longer period. The gains were for the last five years, not since 1980.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Data showing house prices still growing, albeit slowly, so far this year have eased fears of the housing market being a bubble about to burst. (Tim Boyle/Getty Images)(pg. C5) Graph: "Still Growing"The pace of growth in house prices has slowed over the last two years but remains well ahead of the pace of the early 1990's. Graph tracks annual rate of change in house prices, quarterly since 1991.(Source: Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight)(pg. C1) Chart: "Home Appreciation"Homes in parts of New York, California, Florida and Massachusetts had the largest gains in prices during the first quarter. Dutchess County, N.Y.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +3.4GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +14.9GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +62.4 Santa Barbara-Santa Maria-Lompoc, Calif.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +3.1GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +15.0GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +89.1 Sarasota-Bradenton, Fla.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +3.0GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +11.4GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +50.3 Nassau-Suffolk, N.Y.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +3.0GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +15.0GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +81.7 San DiegoGROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +2.8GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +15.2GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +84.7 Fitchburg-Leominster, Mass.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +2.7GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +12.4GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +71.0 Fresno, Calif.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +2.7GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +15.9GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +38.9 Redding, Calif.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +2.6GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +16.4GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +43.0 Fort Pierce-Port St. Lucie, Fla.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +2.5GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +14.6GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +44.5 Barnstable-Yarmouth, Mass.GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FIRST QUARTER 2003, ANNUAL RATE -- +2.5GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: FROM YEAR EARLIER -- +13.7GROWTH IN HOME PRICES: SINCE 1980 -- +97.7 (Source: Office of Federal Housing Enterprise Oversight)(pg. C5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (94%); REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CITIES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); STATISTICS (88%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); REAL ESTATE BUBBLE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOUSING BUBBLE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (66%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (66%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING FINANCE AGENCY (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); FRESNO, CA, USA (79%); JACKSON, MS, USA (79%); SAN JOSE, CA, USA (79%); SARASOTA, FL, USA (79%); PROVIDENCE, RI, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (97%); FLORIDA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



75 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 406 words

HEADLINE: Secretary at Brooklyn Law Office Is Slashed in Face by Intruders 

BYLINE:  By TINA KELLEY 

 BODY:
A secretary was slashed in the face yesterday as she worked at a Brooklyn law firm in what the police called a puzzling attack by two men.
 A friend who witnessed the attack, a former employee of the law firm who gave only her first name, Agata, said she was in the law office, at 288 Driggs Avenue in Greenpoint, to retrieve some belongings around 10:20 a.m., when two men entered through a door that the secretary had left ajar to let in some fresh air. The men stood on either side of the victim, who is 27. The police did not release the victim's name, and Agata declined to give it. 
 When asked what they wanted, one man raised a finger to his lips and whispered, "Shh." One of the men briefly touched a locked desk drawer.
Agata, who was five feet away from the victim, said one of the men grabbed her friend by her hair and struck the woman in the face with a fist, in which he held what looked like a small cellular phone, cutting her. 
The other man threw a brownish liquid on her from a large glass bottle, and both men walked out the door. The police have not yet identified the weapon the woman was cut with, or the liquid, some of which landed on the woman's face, irritating the skin, said Detective Kevin Czartoryski. 
The victim was taken to Bellevue Hospital Center, where she received about 40 stitches for a cut to the right side of her face that reached from her temple across her upper lip, Agata said. She said doctors predicted that her friend would have a permanent scar.
"I feel so sorry for her," Agata said. "She's an absolutely innocent person."
Agata said her friend came to New York last June from Szczecin, a large city in northern Poland. She added that her friend earned a master's degree in economics in Poland and lives with her boyfriend and a roommate in Ridgewood, Queens.
Iwona Kurek, a legal assistant at the law office, which belongs to Michael M. Obregon, said its practice consisted of some criminal law, some family law and some immigration law. The clients of the firm are primarily Polish, she said.
Agata said that during the attack, which lasted little more than 30 seconds, she was in shock, but did not want to leave the office because she feared her friend would be hurt more severely.
There have been no arrests, and the investigation is continuing, the police said. They said they were looking into whether the attack was related to domestic violence, or to any of Mr. Obregon's clients. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Tuesday about a woman who was cut in the face by intruders while working in a Brooklyn office misidentified the employer of the victim and the former employer of a witness. It is Nassau Consulting, a social services group that works with recent Polish immigrants. (Michael M. Obregon, a lawyer, has a satellite office that shares space and one employee with that group.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EYEWITNESSES (89%); LEGAL SERVICES (89%); LAWYERS (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CRIMINAL LAW (73%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (66%); FAMILY LAW (66%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (66%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (62%); FAMILY (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (52%); IMMIGRATION (50%) ASSAULTS; POLISH-AMERICANS 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%); POLAND (67%); CENTRAL EUROPE (52%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



76 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1317 words

HEADLINE: HOSPITALS FEARING MALPRACTICE CRISIS 

BYLINE:  By RICHARD PEREZ-PENA

 BODY:
A quirk in New York State law, a $140 million malpractice judgment and a recent ruling by the state's highest court have hospitals and insurers saying that malpractice premiums for hospitals are about to soar, and they are petitioning the Legislature to change the law.
 In a suit filed on behalf of a child who suffered permanent brain damage after surgery, a Manhattan jury found New York-Presbyterian Hospital liable for $40 million in damages over the child's expected life span. But a 1985 state law required the judge in the case to increase that verdict to $140 million -- one of the largest malpractice awards ever made by a New York court. It was a stark reversal of the frequent pattern nationally of judges' reducing large jury awards. 
 An Appellate Division panel grudgingly upheld the increase, and in April, the State Court of Appeals, the state's highest, did so as well. 
In a unanimous decision that drew little attention at the time, judges on the Court of Appeals took the unusual step of pleading with the Legislature to consider amending a law that they said was producing unintended consequences. In concurring opinions, one judge wrote that it would be easy to conclude "that the Legislature could not possibly have intended this result." Another judge called the award "absurd."
The problem with the law, its critics say, is that it requires the judge to apply an annual 4 percent increase in the amount of the award, even if the jury has already adjusted the annual amount for inflation. Critics say that means a double adjustment for inflation in some cases, like this one.
Lawyers, hospital officials and insurers all say the law was poorly drafted and ismore confusing than those in most other states.
"That statute has caused more argument, more difficulty, more consternation, more time loss, than anything I know of," said Jeff Lichtman, president of the New York State Trial Lawyers Association. "But the same group that is crying about it now is the group that in 1985, when there was a hue and cry about tort reform, articulated the need for it, crafted it and lobbied for it."
In light of the Court of Appeals ruling, malpractice insurers are telling New York hospitals that their premiums will double, or more, or that in some cases they may not be able to get coverage at all. For a large hospital in New York City, that could mean a premium increase of $20 million a year. Hospital officials say some hospitals could be forced to shut down high-risk services like obstetrics and emergency rooms in order to get coverage.
"Assuming there is no fix, we're projecting that medical malpractice premium costs will at least double, and in some cases, particularly some of the smaller hospitals, I think the insurers just won't write coverage at all," said Ronald B. Milch, president and chief executive of the Combined Coordinating Council Inc., one of a handful of self-insurance pools created by the hospitals that provide malpractice coverage.
Daniel Sisto, president of the Hospital Association of New York State, said, "This law and this decision could have disastrous consequences."
Mr. Lichtman did not dismiss such claims out of hand, saying he did not know the details of the hospitals' situation. But in other, recent public arguments over malpractice insurance -- particularly for doctors -- trial lawyers and consumer advocates have argued that rising premiums and denial of coverage result largely from insurers' bad investments. The lawyers and advocates say the claims are a scare tactic intended to persuade Congress and the states to curb damage awards.
In this case, the actual cost of the ruling to New York-Presbyterian's insurers is not $140 million, but the cost of buying an annuity that will pay out that amount over 55 years, or between $20 million and $30 million, insurance executives say. Mr. Lichtman also noted that if the plaintiff were to die before the 55 years were up, the insurers would stop paying.
Hospitals and insurance companies have been unhappy with the law for years. Through a series of lawsuits, they have tried, without success, to get courts to interpret it restrictively. But several factors set this case apart and, critics say, contributed to the sense of crisis.
First, few malpractice cases carry the prospect of damages in the tens of millions of dollars. Second, very few plaintiffs have an expected life span of 55 years, as the jury found this one did. Under the law, each added year compounds the potential discrepancy between the damages a jury finds and the higher figure awarded by the judge. And third, the way the jury in this case calculated the damages greatly increased the final award.
New York's hospitals and insurers have begun lobbying the Legislature to change the law in the 16 days left in this year's scheduled legislative session. They said that they are not seeking the strict limits on damage awards that doctors and others have lobbied for here and in Washington, but a fairly narrow, technical fix that would affect only judgments paid out over many years.
But with big items like renewal of state rent controls and toxic waste clean-up laws still unresolved, it is unclear whether the Legislature will be inclined to devote its time to the malpractice issue this year.
The Republicans who control the State Senate have repeatedly favored legislation that would reduce damage awards, but the Democrats who run the Assembly have not. The current dispute pits the hospitals and the trial lawyers against each other. Those two interest groups have been most closely allied with Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver, who is, himself, a trial lawyer who has handled personal injury cases. Through a spokesman, Mr. Silver said yesterday that several proposals for amending the law were under consideration by his house, and he declined to handicap them.
Until 1985, malpractice awards intended to cover many years of medical care were given as a lump sum. The new law required "structured judgments," paid out in annual installments.
Mr. Lichtman, of the trial lawyers' group, said that, rather than amend the law, the correct approach would be to repeal it and return to the lump-sum approach. That was precisely the practice the hospitals wanted to abolish in 1985, saying, in language remarkably similar to the words they use today, that such judgments were creating a financial crisis.
The suit decided by the Court of Appeals was the case of Samuel Desiderio, who was born with a condition that caused fluid to accumulate in his brain. A shunt installed to drain the fluid allowed him to live fairly normally, but in 1990, just before he turned 4, the shunt began to malfunction.
At New York-Presbyterian, a new shunt was put in, but it failed to relieve the pressure on his brain, and doctors did not react in time to prevent permanent brain damage. Now he needs constant care.
At trial in State Supreme Court in Manhattan in 1999, the jury calculated the cost of nursing care for Samuel -- by far the largest part of the award -- at $262,800 per year. The jury then adjusted that figure, for inflation, year by year for 55 years. It arrived at a total award, over the 55 years, including nursing care and other damages, of $40 million.
But the 1985 law required Justice Alice Schlesinger to take some additional steps. First, she was required, for some parts of the judgment, to take the average of the 55 annual payments calculated by the jury, and set that as the first year's payment. For nursing care, that meant a first-year figure of $635,594, not the $262,800 determined by the jury.
Then, the law required her to adjust that figure upward, 4 percent per year, for 55 years, for a total award over that time of $140 million. The law does not specifically say that the 4 percent annual adjustment is meant to compensate for inflation, but many lawyers, judges and lawmakers have interpreted it that way. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); PROFESSIONAL LIABILITY INSURANCE (90%); VERDICTS (90%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (90%); HOSPITALS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MEDICAL MALPRACTICE (90%); DAMAGES (90%); APPEALS COURTS (90%); PROFESSIONAL NEGLIGENCE (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); INSURANCE (89%); APPEALS (89%); LITIGATION (89%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (89%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); LAWYERS (78%); PETITIONS (78%); TORTS (78%); JUDGES (78%); EMERGENCY ROOMS (73%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (73%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (73%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (71%); TORT REFORM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



77 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: DEREGULATING THE MEDIA: NEWS ANALYSIS; 
New Rules Give Big Media Chance to Get Even Bigger

BYLINE:  By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK

 BODY:
As consumer advocates deplored yesterday's changes to media ownership rules as a blow to democracy, investors bought up shares of the biggest media companies. 
 Both advocates and investors agree that the latest rule changes are likely to let media leviathans like the News Corporation and Viacom fortify their positions while increasing the odds against newcomers and small fry. 
 The changes mainly loosen restrictions on the ownership of local television stations. But even in the one area -- the radio industry -- where the Federal Communications Commission tightened the rules on media consolidation, the changes will have the unintended effect of making it more difficult for smaller rivals to challenge the dominance of the industry giant, Clear Channel Communications. 
To curtail the swift consolidation of radio broadcasting since its deregulation in 1996, the commission set new limits on the maximum number of stations one company can own in certain cities and towns. The new rules will impede Clear Channel's future expansion. But at the same time, the commission let Clear Channel keep its clusters of stations that exceed the new caps, preventing its smaller competitors like Cumulus Media and Citadel Broadcasting from ever catching up. 
Citadel had sought rules that would force it to sell some of its approximately 200 stations, in the hopes of forcing Clear Channel to shed some of its 1,200. 
"Whether you call it revolution or evolution, the big companies now have the opportunity to be even bigger and stronger," said Blair Levin, a former top official for the commission who is now an analyst at the investment bank Legg Mason. 
"Everyone in the business has to wake up tomorrow and ask, Do I want to be a buyer or a seller? In a relatively condensed time frame -- three or five years -- there will be a pretty large turnover in the way the map looks," Mr. Levin said. 
Together with recent deals like News Corporation's proposed acquisition of the satellite broadcaster DirecTV, the changes may create opportunities and pressures for more mega-mergers. 
In a little-noticed shift, the commission declined to reinstate a rule that blocked cable companies from owning local television stations.
For the first time, the cable giant Comcast could now merge with the Walt Disney Company, owner of ABC and some of its owned-and-operated broadcast television stations. AOL Time Warner, owner of Time Warner Cable, could buy NBC from General Electric. Both moves have come up for discussion by analysts and investment bankers as logical responses to match the new power of News Corporation, which will now combine studios, major broadcast and cable networks, and pay television distribution. Another investment banker fantasy: Viacom, owner of Paramount, CBS and MTV, might merge with the other satellite service, Echostar. 
The centerpiece of the changes effectively makes it easier for networks, newspaper publishers, radio station owners and others to buy local television stations. Broadcasters sought the new rules to help support free over-the-air stations, which face growing competition from cable and satellite services as well as higher costs for programs and digital upgrading, said Victor Miller, an analyst at Bear, Stearns.
Owning local television stations in tandem with other television or radio stations, newspapers or cable systems in the same market offers the prospect of more economies of scale in producing news or selling advertising. 
The change was a victory for the major networks, raising the cap on the maximum share of the national audience one company can reach with its stations to 45 percent from 35. News Corporation's Fox television subsidiary and Viacom's CBS division already own stations reaching about 40 percent of the market. 
But owning more stations gives the networks more power over their affiliates in negotiations over fees and what programs to show. It also enables the biggest companies to consolidate the advantages of size over their smaller competitors. 
One side effect of the rules, for example, caps the number of stations in some markets that can enjoy the benefits of merging with a local rival. The rules preclude a company from owning more than one of the top four stations in a market, so in markets with just five or six stations one or two will inevitably be left to go it alone. The loners in the market will face a permanent disadvantage, said Tom W. Davidson, a lawyer at Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer & Feld who represents the station owner Granite Broadcasting.
In recent weeks, some in the industry, most notably the entrepreneurs Ted Turner and Barry Diller, have raised alarms that the changes will make it harder for new or independent voices to be heard in television programming. 
But most analysts do not expect quick or earth-shaking reactions to yesterday's changes, or the start of a race to snap up local stations. "You could argue that not much might come of it," Mr. Miller of Bear, Stearns said. "We don't think there are a lot of natural buyers and few major potential targets." 
He said the newspaper publishers McClatchy and Pulitzer and the publisher and station owner Hearst might be candidates to trade or merge with broadcasters. Gannett might buy newspapers and the Tribune Company might buy television stations.
Analysts said broadcasters were likely to swap stations to amass positions in certain markets, effectively carving up territories among themselves.
Dissatisfied companies and consumer advocates are expected to challenge the ruling in court. Yesterday, Clear Channel, the radio broadcaster, denounced the new rules because they limit its ability to expand or to sell some of its clusters of stations without breaking them up. "Radio has got a bad rap," said Andrew Levin, a spokesman for Clear Channel. He called it "an urban myth" that the industry's ownership had become concentrated.
"Everyone has something to litigate about," said Michael Russell, an analyst at Morgan Stanley, noting that recent F.C.C. decisions have often been overturned by courts. "That is going to be the hard part of all this. This was as we expected, but is this going to be what we get?" 

GRAPHIC: Photos: After the F.C.C. acted, three senators, Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, left; Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi; and Ernest F. Hollings, Democrat of South Carolina, criticized the decision. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)(pg. C9); Howard James of Eagle, Colo., yesterday protested the changes in rules for media companies like the radio giant Clear Channel Communications. (Reuters)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (91%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); INDUSTRY CONSOLIDATION (90%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); CABLE INDUSTRY (89%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); SATELLITE BROADCASTING (89%); CABLE TELEVISION (89%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); CABLE & OTHER DISTRIBUTION (85%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (78%); CONSUMER LAW (78%); MERGERS (78%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (76%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (74%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (72%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (50%) NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA 

COMPANY: CLEAR CHANNEL COMMUNICATIONS INC (92%); NEWS CORP (86%); WALT DISNEY CO (63%); AOL INC (62%); VIACOM INC (58%); CUMULUS MEDIA INC (57%); CITADEL BROADCASTING CORP (55%); LEGG MASON INC (54%); TIME WARNER CABLE INC (51%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (86%); NWS (ASX) (86%); DIS (NYSE) (63%); AOL (NYSE) (62%); VIA (NASDAQ) (58%); CMLS (NASDAQ) (57%); LM (NYSE) (54%); TWC (NYSE) (51%); GNE (PAR) (51%); GEC (LSE) (51%); GE (SWX) (51%); GE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541850 OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (92%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (92%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (92%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (92%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (86%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (63%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (63%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (63%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (62%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (62%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (54%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (54%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (51%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: TRENT LOTT (59%); BYRON DORGAN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



78 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2004 words

HEADLINE: DEREGULATING THE MEDIA: THE OVERVIEW; 
REGULATORS EASE RULES GOVERNING MEDIA OWNERSHIP

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
The Federal Communications Commission today narrowly approved the most important changes to the nation's media ownership rules in a generation.
 By a partisan 3-to-2 vote, the Republican-controlled commission relaxed many of the most significant restrictions on the ability of broadcast and newspaper conglomerates to both expand into new markets and to extend their reach in the cities where they already have a presence. 
 The decision is among the most far-reaching deregulatory steps taken during the Bush administration. It will permit a company to own up to three television stations, eight radio stations, a daily newspaper and a cable operator in the largest cities. It will also permit the television networks to buy more stations. 
The agency's chairman, Michael K. Powell, who was the architect of the changes, said in a telephone interview this afternoon that court challenges were inevitable, both from critics who say the agency went too far and from some companies, like the television networks, which wanted the commission to go further. Huge commercial interests are at play in the rules, and some analysts expect a robust trade in media properties to be fueled by the changes.
On Capitol Hill, a growing number of Republicans and Democrats have vowed to press legislation aimed at reversing portions of today's decision. More than 150 lawmakers, including many Republicans, had asked the agency to postpone its final rule-making to allow more time to study the issues.
While all sides have heavily lobbied for and against the rules in Congress, the concern among many of these politicians -- who have as many dealings with their local television stations and newspapers as any newsmakers -- was that the regulations would promote greater consolidation and put too much media power in the hands of too few interests.
"I want to emphasize that there is not a partisan position here," said Senator Trent Lott, Republican of Mississippi, who joined two Democratic colleagues, Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina and Byron L. Dorgan of North Dakota, at a news conference where they criticized the F.C.C. action. "A lot of Republicans -- in fact, probably most of the Republicans in the Congress -- would not agree with this decision."
But there is hardly a consensus over how to proceed. Representative Billy Tauzin, the Louisiana Republican who heads the House Energy and Commerce Committee, applauded the commissioners' decision, saying that the majority had "taken a big step toward removing the regulatory muzzle from American broadcasters." But he added that the F.C.C. should have gone even further.
The Bush administration endorsed the agency's vote.
"I commend the F.C.C. for its action on media ownership today," Secretary Donald L. Evans of the Commerce Department said. "The F.C.C. has answered the call of Congress and the courts to modernize its rules."
The overhaul of regulations developed over more than six decades drew intense lobbying and more public attention in recent weeks than any other proceeding in the commission's history. Commission officials said they received more than 520,000 public comments, mostly in opposition.
The critics represented an ideologically diverse array of organizations. They included the National Rifle Association, the National Organization for Women, Common Cause, the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, the Leadership Conference on Civil Rights, the Writers Guild of America and the Parents Television Council.
The groups said they worried that the new rules would make it harder to get diverse views on the airwaves, a position that was disputed by the advocates for change. Many of the nation's biggest newspaper companies, including Gannett, Tribune and The New York Times Company, had long sought the elimination of the restrictions on owning both a newspaper and a broadcast station in the same market. And the operators of television networks -- notably the News Corporation, the parent of Fox; and Viacom, the parent of CBS and UPN -- had sought even looser rules governing how many stations they can own.
But they faced sharp opposition from other companies that own local television stations. The owners of network affiliates -- led by the National Association of Broadcasters -- argued that letting the networks own too many stations would tip the commercial balance in their favor. That could make it harder for affiliate owners to reject network shows, discourage production of local news programs in favor of national broadcasts, and lead to more homogenized programming, they contended.
Mr. Powell and his two Republican allies on the F.C.C. said the changes were vital in light of a series of court opinions questioning the old rules and a marketplace where consumers can subscribe to cable and satellite television services with hundreds of channels and delve into the limitless offerings of the Internet.
According to Mr. Powell, the new rules aim to achieve three goals. First, he said, was to establish broadcast ownership limits promoting "diversity, localism and competition" that courts would uphold. Second was to write rules that recognized "the explosion of new media outlets for news information and entertainment." Finally, he said, the F.C.C. wanted to strike a balance that would allow media deal-making "while ensuring that no company can monopolize the medium."
Kathleen Q. Abernathy, another Republican commissioner, said that the fears raised by the opponents of the new rules were unfounded.
"Those who oppose our decision will continue to fear a mythical media monopoly that will descend upon our media landscape without any regulatory review of its power," she said. "But the reality is that under today's order there will continue to be hundreds of pathways into the American home in the average American city or town."
Kevin J. Martin, the third commissioner supporting the changes, said, "People today have access to more information from more sources than at any point in our history."
But critics argued that a handful of large companies already provide the most popular programming for the Internet, television and newspapers. The decision was denounced today by two Democratic contenders for the White House, Senator John Kerry of Massachusetts and Senator John Edwards of North Carolina.
"The F.C.C. should do more than rubber-stamp the business plans of narrow economic interests," Mr. Kerry said in a statement issued by his office.
Mr. Edwards said the decision "by President Bush's allies on the F.C.C exemplifies everything that is wrong with this administration."
Another Democratic candidate, Howard Dean, the former Vermont governor, criticized the rules last week.
During this morning's proceedings, the two Democratic commissioners, Michael J. Copps and Jonathan S. Adelstein, delivered lengthy statements deploring the changes.
"Today the Federal Communications Commission empowers America's new media elite with unacceptable levels of influence over the ideas and information upon which our society and our democracy so heavily depend," said Mr. Copps, who held a series of hearings around the country to marshal opposition to the changes.
"The decision we five make today will recast our entire media landscape for years to come," he said. "At issue is whether a few corporations will be ceded enhanced gatekeeper control over the civil dialogue of our country; more content control over our music, entertainment and information; and veto power over the majority of what our families watch, hear and read."
Mr. Adelstein said the decision stripped media consumers of important protections.
"As big media companies get bigger, they're likely to broadcast even more homogenized programming that increasingly appeals to the lowest common denominator," he said. Playing on the famous description of television by a former F.C.C. chairman, Mark S. Fowler, he added, "If this is the toaster with pictures, soon only Wonder Bread will pop out."
The commission, ordered by Congress to review the media rules every two years and criticized repeatedly by a federal appeals court for failing to adequately justify its regulations, took the following actions:
*The commission revised the rule limiting cross-ownership of a newspaper and a broadcast station in a market, as well as the radio-television cross-ownership rule, which prohibited a company from owning more than eight radio and television stations in the same community. In markets with nine or more television stations, no cross-ownership restrictions will apply. In markets with three or fewer television stations, no cross-ownership will be permitted among television, radio and newspapers. In markets with four to eight television stations, some kinds of cross-ownership will be permitted.
*The commission revised the rule on multiple ownership of television stations in the same market. In the largest markets, a company now will be allowed to own three stations. But a company owning a station in the top four in ratings cannot purchase another in the top four.
*The commision ruled that a network may own television stations reaching up to 45 percent of the national viewership, an increase from 35 percent. However, by retaining, at least for the time being, a formula that discounts viewers of UHF stations, the change permits a network to reach as much as 90 percent of the nation's television audience over all. The commission said it would phase out the formula over a period that could last many years.
*The commission retained the local radio ownership limit, which permits a company to own up to eight stations in the largest cities, but changed the way it defines markets in a way that proponents say tightens the rule and critics say loosens it.
*The commission retained the dual-network ownership prohibition, which prevents a merger of any of the top four national networks.
The 3-to-2 vote followed a spirited, though largely scripted, proceeding at which both supporters and opponents of the new rules debated whether the First Amendment was meant more to protect media companies seeking the greatest reach or to assure the access of viewers and listeners to the most diverse points of view.
"The First Amendment to the Constitution protects the rights of free speech and free press and tells me that, in my capacity as an F.C.C. commissioner, I cannot tell the American people what they should believe, what they should read, or what they should watch or listen to for their own good," Ms. Abernathy said. "Any restraint placed on broadcasters' free-speech rights must be a reasonable means to further our public interest goals."
But the Democrats said that the commission had struck a new balance favoring the largest corporations.
"It violates every tenet of a free democratic society to let a handful of powerful companies control our media," Mr. Adelstein said. "Without a diverse, independent media, citizen access to information crumbles, along with political and social participation. For the sake of our democracy, we should encourage the widest possible dissemination of free expression through the public airwaves."
Mr. Adelstein and Mr. Copps said that the widespread consolidation in the radio industry, which they say has led to an eroding number of listeners and declining variety and quality of programming, was a harbinger of what would follow the changing rules in television and newspaper ownership.
"Radio is a very sick canary in the coal mine, and we're about to infect television with the same disease," Mr. Adelstein said.
But Mr. Powell said that projections of a wave of industry consolidation, and of the decline in diversity or quality of programming, were nonsense.
"I am quite skeptical you will see anything approaching a gold rush," he said in the interview after the vote, disputing the title of a recent report by a Merrill Lynch analyst predicting just that. "There's been some inflated fear-mongering. If half the stuff that was said were true, I'd be freaked out, too. The scenarios of the end of the world are exaggerated."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 5, 2003

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on Tuesday about the easing of media ownership rules referred incorrectly in some copies to the former chairman of the Federal Communications Commission who described television as a toaster with pictures. He is Mark S. Fowler, not Newton N. Minow.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael K. Powell, F.C.C. chairman, far right, listens to Michael J. Copps, second from left in foreground. To Mr. Copps's left is Jonathan S. Adelstein. At Mr. Powell's right are Kathleen Q. Abernathy and Kevin J. Martin. (Doug Mills/The New York Times)(pg. C9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CABLE INDUSTRY (78%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BUSINESS EXPANSION (57%) CORPORATIONS AND MANAGEMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; TELEVISION 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (93%)

PERSON: KEVIN MARTIN (58%); TRENT LOTT (57%); BYRON DORGAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



79 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 668 words

HEADLINE: Official Says U.S. Will Reposition Its Troops in South Korea 

BYLINE:  By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: TOKYO, Tuesday, June 3 

 BODY:
After two days of talks with South Korean officials, a senior United States Defense Department official said Monday that a major realignment was being planned in American troop deployments in that country in order to meet the threat posed by North Korea.
 The deputy secretary of defense, Paul D. Wolfowitz, all but stated that American troops would be withdrawn from the demilitarized zone separating North and South Korea, a move intended to take them out of easy range of North Korean artillery, and theoretically position the United States to mount a pre-emptive attack against the North. 
 "Of course, any basic changes we make to our ground posture here will affect the Second Infantry Division," Mr. Wolfowitz told a news conference in Seoul. "That's the heart of what we have here in peace time." 
In recent months, South Korea has opposed the move, fearing that it would raise tensions on the Korean peninsula, making a war more likely. The country's new president, Roh Moo Hyun, has asked the Bush administration to postpone any redeployment of the Second Infantry Division until "after the nuclear issue has been resolved."
Mr. Roh's comments refer to North Korea's suspected development of nuclear weapons. North Korea provoked a crisis over the issue in December, when it withdrew from a nuclear nonproliferation agreement and expelled international nuclear inspectors from the country.
At a news conference here today, Mr. Wolfowitz said: "What we are talking in terms of the future of the alliance we have undertaken with our Korean allies is how best to enhance, and shape and align our forces and the forces of our allies to most effectively provide for deterrence from attack. It is not something which should wait until the nuclear problem is solved, as though it is going to weaken our posture. On the contrary, it is going to strengthen our overall posture."
Mr. Wolfowitz, who flew to Tokyo on Monday night to meet with Japanese officials for discussions that were also expected to focus on North Korea, sought to allay fears in the region that the United States was emphasizing military measures in its approach to the impoverished communist country.
North Korea "is teetering on the edge of economic collapse," The Associated Press quoted Mr. Wolfowitz as saying. "That, I believe, is a major point of leverage."
United States officials said Washington was willing to hold a new round of multilateral talks with North Korea, following three-party talks held in China in April.
In discussing the coming realignment of American troops, Pentagon officials have recently made clear that the changes were being made with the possibility of war in mind.
"While we can't completely compensate for the fact that North Korea has so much stuff right up forward on the DMZ, we could begin taking it down from the first hour of the war, and that would make a big difference," a senior Pentagon official told Reuters.
"It would save lives and ultimately it has to strengthen deterrence."
Officials said that in case of war, American and South Korean troops could be dispatched directly to the interior of the north in pursuit of the North Korean leadership, a strategy that was inspired, in part, by the American military experience in Iraq.
The Wolfowitz visit coincided with a rare trip to North Korea by a delegation of American Congressmen, who said they had confirmed both that North Korea was building nuclear weapons, and that it was willing to potentially negotiate those weapons away, in exchange for security guarantees.
"They admitted to having just about completed the reprocessing of 8,000 rods, and they admitted to an effort to expand their nuclear production program," Representative Curt Weldon, a Pennsylvania Republican, was quoted as telling Reuters in Seoul.
"I believe North Korea is willing to end their nuclear program for some assurances from the United States that we are not seeking a regime change there," Representative Eliot Engel, a New York Democrat, said in a written statement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (74%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: ASSOCIATED PRESS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF DEFENSE (84%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (67%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (97%); UNITED STATES (97%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (95%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%); NORTHERN ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



80 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: DEREGULATING THE MEDIA: LOBBYISTS; 
Comments Showed Solid Opposition

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER 8.LEE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
To some political analysts here, the remarkable fact about today's Federal Communications Commission media decisions was not their deregulatory sweep but that so much public outcry had been mustered against them.
 After all, today's actions were high on the agenda of the F.C.C. chairman, Michael K. Powell, supported by the Republican leadership of the House and Senate and by the White House and given momentum by the near-perfect alignment of industry lobbyists. 
 But compared with 18 months ago, when the dry details of caps, cross-ownership and market contours were almost exclusively debated by corporate lawyers, the F.C.C. staff and the federal courts, the public had recently rallied to the issue -- in strident opposition.
More than 520,000 comments on the proceeding were sent in by citizens. And as the two dissenting commissioners pointed out in their statements today, nearly all of them were against relaxing the media ownership rules. 
While the public opposition did not dissuade Mr. Powell and his two Republican colleagues on the commission from voting in favor of the rule changes, some consumer advocates say the protests may have helped set some boundaries -- like the slight tightening of radio ownership rules -- and could prove useful as some members of Congress seek to roll back the F.C.C.'s actions and opponents mount appeals in federal court.
The public outcry was in part a result of a fervent cross-country campaign to stop the rule changes by Michael Copps, a Democratic F.C.C. commissioner. With critics of the proposals tending to portray them as a gutting of all of the media ownership rules -- rather than a relaxation -- the public almost intuitively rose up against the F.C.C.'s plans. 
Playing a major role in spreading the populist message were four longtime consumer advocates, working in tandem, with a deliberate division of labor.
One was Gene Kimmelman, the Washington director of Consumers Union, who focused his attention on galvanizing Congress. A former Senate staff member, Mr. Kimmelman has focused on trying to stimulate bipartisan support for legislation to reinstate the rule that prevents a network from owning television stations that reach more than 35 percent of the nation's viewers -- a limit that the F.C.C. raised today to 45 percent. 
Andrew Schwartzman, the director of another public-interest group, the Media Access Project, had responsibility for lobbying the F.C.C. The number cruncher was Mark Cooper, a research director for the Consumer Federation of America, whose economic analysis of the various media markets at issue in today's proceeding was sharply at odds with the F.C.C.'s own assessment of the diversity of voices in the media. Where the F.C.C. diversity index placed only limited value on the size of a media outlet's audience, Mr. Cooper and his staff gave heavy weighting to audience "voice count."
The message man was Jeff Chester of the Center for Digital Democracy, whose job was to make the news media aware of his groups' positions.
Rarely meeting in person, but keeping in touch with one another through e-mail exchanges and phone calls, the four conducted a surprisingly effective public message campaign in the view of Blair Levin, a former F.C.C. staff member who is now a media analyst at the investment firm Legg Mason.
"It was a very impressive display," said Mr. Levin, who noted the large number of e-mail messages from the public.
Of the six regulations that were changed, only the national television ownership limit pitted one industry group, the major broadcast networks, against another -- local affiliate stations. 
In the other cases, the public interest groups found themselves facing off against a largely unified media industry and some of the largest Washington lobbying firms, including Skadden Arps (whose clients included Fox, NBC/Telemundo, Viacom, and Radio One); Hogan & Hartson (which represented the radio giant Clear Channel Communications, Fox Broadcasting, Disney, Viacom, as well as the studios Fox, MGM, Sony, and Vivendi); Covington Burling (lobbying on behalf of Microsoft, as well as ABC, CBS, Fox and NBC television network affiliate associations), and Wiley Rein & Fielding (whose many clients include the Gannett and Belo newspaper holding companies, and Clear Channel).
"It's a few public-interest lawyers and researchers versus an army of Washington lobbyists," Mr. Kimmelman said. 
Despite the prospect of further action in Congress and appeals in federal court, Mr. Kimmelman's colleagues were far from declaring victory today. 
In the end though, only three votes mattered. "We won public opinion and we still lost," Mr. Schwartzman said. "We got whomped today."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gene Kimmelman, a director of Consumers Union, focused on trying to get support for legislation that would limit station ownership. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); LOBBYING (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); POLITICS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (89%); CONSUMER LAW (89%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (74%); LAWYERS (68%) TELEVISION; CONSUMER PROTECTION; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; RADIO; NEWSPAPERS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

PERSON: LEE, JENNIFER 8 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



81 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: Market Place; 
The American Exchange is being sold as NASD focuses on being a regulatory organization.

BYLINE:  By Floyd Norris

 BODY:
AS Henny Youngman might have said, "Take my exchange, please."
 For the second time in four years, the American Stock Exchange is being sold, this time to a private equity firm that has agreed to invest $110 million in what was once known as the Curb Exchange because it operated out of doors. 
 The seller is NASD, the regulatory organization that bought the Amex in 1999. NASD will not keep any of the money being spent on the exchange by the private equity firm making the investment, GTCR Golder Rauner. 
Instead, all of that money is to be invested in the Amex.
What NASD will get is, in a word, out. It will be exempted from the remaining financial obligations that it undertook when it agreed to buy the Amex.
It appears that NASD lost money on its ownership of the Amex, although no one was willing yesterday to say just how much.
When NASD announced plans to buy the Amex in 1998, it talked about creating a "market of markets," but few synergies developed.
NASD is also in the process of divesting its stake in the Nasdaq stock market, which is now partly owned by the public. When that is completed, it will be solely a regulatory organization. But it will not even keep the self-regulatory functions of the Amex, which will stay with the exchange when it is sold.
The buyer is not really parting with nearly as much money as might appear from the $110 million price. The money is to go back to the Amex, with part of it used to complete the investment obligations made when NASD took over the exchange. The Amex has about $50 million in cash, said one person who has seen the exchange's books, and that money will remain with the exchange.
At the time of its purchase, NASD pledged to invest $110 million in technology and to set up a $50 million seat-stabilization fund to protect the investment of Amex members, who must own or lease seats to have the right to trade on the exchange. There are 864 seats.
An NASD official said the fund owned 10 seats that it had bought from members who wanted to sell. Another person involved in the deal said the fund now had less than $30 million in it, which would be distributed to the seat holders.
They also are to end up owning slightly less than 10 percent of the exchange, according to one person briefed on the details of the deal, which were not disclosed.
Nonetheless, the seat holders have not done very well since the merger, although an Amex official pointed out that prices at other exchanges that specialize in options and other derivative securities had also fallen rapidly since the stock bubble burst.
At the end of the first quarter, the most recent period for which data is available, the last price for an Amex seat was $140,000, down from a peak of $725,000 in 2000.
The deal announced yesterday is subject to the approval of seat holders, as well as of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
The buyer of the exchange, GTCR, has made investments in several companies involved in the processing of securities transactions. Yesterday, Collin E. Roche, a principal of the firm, was offering few details on what it planned to do with the Amex, although he said the management team would stay in place. 
"Over the years, the American Stock Exchange has demonstrated tremendous innovation and ingenuity," Mr. Roche said in a statement. "In the dynamic securities industry, we believe that the Amex has strong opportunities to grow in its existing product classes while also introducing new products." In an interview, he declined to say what new products he had in mind.
Mr. Roche, who has been with GTCR since 1996, previously worked for Goldman Sachs and Everen Securities. 
The Amex long held the No. 2 position as a stock market in the United States, but it fell to No. 3 with the rise of Nasdaq. If all it traded was stocks, it probably would have gone out of business years ago.
But over time it has been far more entrepreneurial than its much larger competitor, the New York Stock Exchange. It was an early participant in the listed stock options market in the 1970's and continues to be a significant player in that arena, and it is the dominant market for exchange-traded funds, which it began trading a decade ago.
The Amex traces its history to the 19th century, when traders gathered in the streets of Lower Manhattan to buy and sell securities that were not listed on the New York Stock Exchange. But it was not until 1921 that the Curb Exchange, as it was then known, moved indoors.
When NASD bought the Amex, there was a lot of talk about synergies and about the ability of the two markets to offer companies a choice of trading systems. Like other stock exchanges, the Amex uses a specialist system, with each security having one firm that is required to make a market in the security. Nasdaq uses competitive market makers in a dealer system.
The management of Nasdaq at the time thought that many smaller companies listed on Nasdaq might be better off going to the Amex, where they could be sure of a dedicated market maker. At Nasdaq, some of those companies were having trouble attracting the attention of market makers.
But by the time the merger was completed, in 1999, the bubble was beginning to grow and virtually no companies wanted to leave Nasdaq, where a listing had acquired a certain cachet. Few, if any, companies made the move.
With no financial information on the Amex's profits or losses available, it is impossible to assess the price GTCR is paying.
But it clearly is getting the exchange from a motivated seller that wanted to get out, and to do so as quickly as possible.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A Seat on the Amex"Price for a seat on the American Stock Exchange, based on the last sale at end of each quarter. Graph tracks the price of a seat on the American Stock Exchange since 1998.(Source: Amex) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); SELF REGULATING ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRIVATE EQUITY (90%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); DIVESTITURES (78%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); BONDS (72%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (72%) AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (AMEX); STOCKS AND BONDS 

COMPANY: GTCR GOLDER RAUNER LLC (58%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (95%)

TICKER: NDAQ (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523910 MISCELLANEOUS INTERMEDIATION (58%); SIC6799 INVESTORS, NEC (58%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



82 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 742 words

HEADLINE: Administration Promotes Private Health Plans as Money Saver 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 2 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said today that greater use of private health plans to provide prescription drug benefits and medical services would save money for Medicare.
 Thomas A. Scully, administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, said private plans would provide "better benefits and lower costs" than the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program. 
 Many economists disagree, and Mr. Scully himself said that the Congressional Budget Office disagreed. 
In an apparent pre-emptive strike, intended to answer the skeptics, Mr. Scully praised the value of private health plans as Congress reconvened today for a month of intense debate on Medicare, the federal health program for 40 million people who are elderly or disabled.
President Bush and many of his allies on Capitol Hill say they want to use drug benefits as an incentive to encourage older Americans to enroll in private health plans. People who stay with the traditional, government-run Medicare program would receive modest drug benefits, while those who join private plans would get much more extensive coverage. 
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, said, "The political environment is right, the legislative stars are aligned" for passage of legislation adding drug benefits to Medicare this year.
But Senator Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader, mocked Republicans who argue that private health plans would be more efficient than the fee-for-service Medicare program.
Mr. Daschle said administrative costs accounted for 2 percent to 3 percent of spending in the traditional Medicare program, but could consume up to 15 percent of spending by private insurers.
About 88 percent of Medicare beneficiaries are in the fee-for-service program, which allows patients to go to any doctor or hospital. The Bush administration would encourage people to join networks of doctors and hospitals known as preferred provider organizations, or P.P.O.'s. Most people under 65 with private insurance are in such preferred provider plans. They typically pay more if they go to doctors or hospitals outside the network.
Medicare officials said that 66,000 Medicare beneficiaries had joined P.P.O.'s under a demonstration project begun this year.
Mr. Scully said competition among private health plans, as envisioned by the president, would save Medicare $22 billion over 10 years. Under current law, the program is expected to spend $3.8 trillion in those years.
The budget office "will say that P.P.O.'s cost 10 percent to 12 percent more" than the fee-for-service Medicare program, Mr. Scully said. He asserted that the analysis by the budget office was "fundamentally flawed," but such estimates are normally binding on members of Congress. The budget office refused to comment on Mr. Scully's remarks, saying its estimates were preliminary and confidential.
New evidence compiled by several economists shows that private health plans pay doctors and hospitals more than Medicare pays. So, the economists say, the private plans would probably not save money for Medicare any time soon.
The Bush administration acknowledged that private plans had higher administrative costs than the fee-for-service Medicare program. But it said the private plans could do a better job of managing care, and could thus eliminate much wasteful or unnecessary spending.
Mr. Scully said the administration still believed that Medicare should provide less extensive drug coverage to people in the fee-for-service program than to those in private health plans.
If the drug benefits are equal, he said, 31 percent of Medicare beneficiaries will join private plans, and the remainder will stay in the traditional Medicare program. But if the private plans offer superior drug benefits, as Mr. Bush proposed, 51 percent of Medicare patients will join such plans, Mr. Scully said.
In recent years, many health maintenance organizations have pulled out of Medicare, saying the government did not pay enough to cover their costs. But Mr. Scully said he was "fairly confident" that private insurers would want to participate in the Medicare marketplace proposed by the president.
Among the insurers that have expressed interest, Mr. Scully said, are Aetna, Humana, Cigna, WellPoint Health Networks, the UnitedHealth Group and many Blue Cross and Blue Shield plans.
Under the president's proposal, Medicare would sign contracts with three P.P.O.'s in each of 10 regions. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); HOSPITALS (89%); HEALTH MAINTENANCE ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (88%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (86%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); SENIOR CITIZENS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (74%); INSURANCE (64%); MEDICAID (58%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (84%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (57%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); TOM DASCHLE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



83 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS TRAVEL; 
MEMO PAD

BYLINE:  By JOE SHARKEY 

 BODY:
Getting to Kabul Could Be All the Fun
Most of us think of a business trip as a hectic but usually pleasant visit to a thriving city, perhaps with a stay at a nice Hyatt Regency, room service included. 
 But there are other kinds of business travelers, among them the legions of workers whose business takes them to war-torn spots that are not only dangerous but difficult to reach. 
 Take Afghanistan, where infrastructure rebuilding means a steady flow -- much of it from Washington -- of United States government workers, as well as employees of the World Bank, the United Nations and other multinational organizations. 
"There're a couple of hundred people a week traveling between the U.S. and Kabul," said Kevin Mitchell, chairman of the Business Travel Coalition, a business-travel advocacy group. The journey is usually a study in travel misery, taking up to 40 hours, along multistop routes where armed guards, not flight attendants, sometimes provide the basic necessities.
But starting in mid-July, a new Geneva-based air service, Swiss Skies, will offer twice-weekly regularly scheduled flights to Kabul, in partnership with World Airways, a United States carrier that has long had specialized transportation and air-lift contracts with the United States government.
The 18-hour Swiss Skies flights will be between Washington and Kabul, with a stopover in Geneva, where many multinational relief groups are based. Mr. Mitchell, who has been hired to help market the venture, said that the flights would operate on World Airways MD-11's, featuring business-class service. Fares will be slightly higher than typical current fares for a flight to Afghanistan, but will ensure a safer and far better flight, he said. JOE SHARKEY

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (91%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (90%); AIR SERVICE (90%); BUSINESS TRAVEL SERVICES (78%); AIRLINE EMPLOYEES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (75%); WAR & CONFLICT (72%); INFRASTRUCTURE (56%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (55%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION; FOREIGN AID 

COMPANY: HYATT HOTELS CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%) SWISS SKIES (AIRLINE); WORLD AIRWAYS INC 

TICKER: H (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (58%); SIC6519 LESSORS OF REAL PROPERTY, NEC (58%)

PERSON: SHARKEY, JOE 

GEOGRAPHIC: KABUL, AFGHANISTAN (95%); GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (93%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) AFGHANISTAN (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); SWITZERLAND (93%) WASHINGTON (DC); KABUL (AFGHANISTAN); GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); AFGHANISTAN

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



84 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 375 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES; 
Dollar Rises on Factory Report And Comments by Bush on Policy

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
The dollar rose modestly against the euro yesterday as manufacturing reports suggested that the United States economy was gaining momentum and President Bush was quoted as saying he wanted to stem the dollar's slide.
 A weaker dollar is "contrary to our policy," Mr. Bush said in an interview on Russian television that was made public over the weekend. The dollar's 25 percent slide against the euro in the last year has eroded demand for European exports, deepening the region's economic slump. 
 In New York trading yesterday, the euro settled at $1.1763, down from $1.1779 on Friday. It lost ground against the yen, selling at 118.54, down from 119.30 on Friday.
United States manufacturing improved in May, suggesting that the worst may be over for factories, according to a report from the Institute for Supply Management.
And Mr. Bush's remarks on the dollar led some to conclude that the administration wanted to slow the currency's slide on concern that it might deter foreign investors from buying United States bonds.
"The market, at this point in time, has devalued the dollar, which is contrary to our policy," Mr. Bush was quoted as saying in an interview in Washington last Thursday with the Russian television network RTR, which the White House released on Saturday.
"The policy of my administration," Mr. Bush said, "is for there to be a strong U.S. dollar."
And yesterday at the meeting of leaders of the Group of 8 industrial nations in Evian, France, "Bush affirmed very clearly that he wants a strong dollar," according to Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy.
Treasury Secretary John W. Snow rattled the currency markets two weeks ago with a comment that the decline in the dollar "really is a fairly modest realignmentof currencies," and thereafter its decline accelerated. Yesterday, though, a Treasury spokesman, Rob Nichols, said in Washington that Mr. Snow "has said he favors a strong dollar" and that he and the president are "clearly in lock step" on dollar policy.
A Japanese portfolio manager, Masahiro Nishida of the Kokusai Asset Management Company in Tokyo, said: "The U.S. appears to be trying to stop a decline in the dollar, as it has dropped quite sharply already. They probably don't want to see a further slide."

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks Euro to the dollar, since December 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (91%); EURO (91%); INTERVIEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); DEVALUATION (78%); EXPORT TRADE (75%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (68%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (67%); PRIME MINISTERS (64%) CURRENCY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (69%); UNITED STATES MANUFACTURING CO (PASADENA, CA) (58%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC3842 ORTHOPEDIC, PROSTHETIC, & SURGICAL APPLIANCES & SUPPLIES (58%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (58%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (51%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (92%); CANADA (79%); JAPAN (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); FRANCE (79%) EUROPE; EUROPEAN UNION

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



85 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: Bringing China In From the Cold 

BYLINE:  By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF; E-mail: nicholas@nytimes.com

 BODY:
The loopiest aspect of the Group of 8 conclave in Evian is the notion that global leaders are confronting the challenges of the 21st century in the absence of the nation that may well dominate the century.
 That's right: China. 
 Even if China's gross domestic product is measured using its official, undervalued exchange rate, its economy is far bigger than those of G-8 members like Canada or Italy -- and almost three times the size of Russia's. If one values China's economy using another approach, purchasing power parity, then it is already easily the biggest economy outside the U.S.
As it happens, France invited China's new leader -- Hu Jintao -- to Evian, where he may have the highest I.Q. in town (he's an engineer with close to a photographic memory, along with a third-rate conscience). But Mr. Hu may be the second most important man in the world, and he deserves a place in a Group of 9. 
On short- and long-term issues that the G-8 grapples with -- from dealing with North Korea to preventing global warming -- the two key players in the world are China and the U.S. And it's ridiculous to include Russia in the G-8 but not China (which adds a Russia's worth of economic output to the world every two years).
Several objections can be raised to expanding the G-8 to include China:
It's a summit meeting for industrialized nations, and China isn't one. It's true that China has more peasants than any country in the world, but it also has more industrialists. Hey, it's China.
China exports more manufactured goods than Canada, Italy or Russia; it is launching a space program to put a man on the moon; its biotechnology is superb (thank goodness it wasn't during the Cultural Revolution, or we would have a billion Mao clones). And while the industrialization of China is still in its early stages, the world needs to wrestle with what that means: if the Chinese come to use as much energy per capita as Americans do, that will amount to more than the total amount of energy now produced worldwide.
China isn't a democracy but a thuggish Communist dictatorship. Yup. I was at Tiananmen Square when troops opened fire in 1989, and all that blood will never be washed from my memory. But today China is not Communist but fascist, in the sense of a nationalistic one-party dictatorship controlling a free-enterprise economy. In any case, the key question is not whether some of China's rulers are thugs but whether they are thugs we can work with. And they are.
China is an irresponsible power that can't be a team player. It's true that China's mishandling of SARS, for example, allowed the disease to spread worldwide. And it has often cheated on agreements and imprisoned dissidents. But China has steadily become more responsible over the years on issues ranging from trade to terror, and in the last few months it has shown real leadership on resolving the North Korean crisis.
President Bush has managed relations with China very well, mostly because Pentagon hawks who had been trying to turn Beijing into The Enemy were distracted by 9/11. There are real risks that we will become enemies -- there could be clashes between the U.S. and China over Taiwan, the Senkaku Islands, the South China Sea -- but they will be lessened if we give China opportunities for global leadership.
Some experts predict that SARS will be to China what Chernobyl was to the Soviet Union: the crack that eventually brings the entire facade tumbling down. I doubt it. Chinese reformers have long urged (behind closed Politburo doors) a freer press, but the party remains instinctively repressive. 
Last week, China sentenced Xu Wei, a journalist, to prison for 10 years just for talking about politics with friends; he said he had been beaten as well. Seok Jae Hyun, a South Korean photographer (who regularly takes pictures for The New York Times) got two years in prison for photographing North Koreans escaping through China.
No, Hu Jintao is no Gorbachev.
He's more like a Franco, a Pinochet, a Park. And, knock wood, the China he rules will follow Spain, Chile and South Korea in fostering the educated middle class that will lead it to democracy.
In the meantime, China is too important to leave out in the cold. As the leaders in Evian struggle over SARS, AIDS, Iran and North Korea, they need China within their ranks, as a member of the G-9. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); GLOBAL WARMING (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); WAR & CONFLICT (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (92%)

PERSON: HU JINTAO (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); FRANCE (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



86 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1422 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: PEACE TALKS; 
Bush, in Egypt, Finds Warmth And Wariness

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER and JAMES DAO

DATELINE: SHARM EL SHEIK, Egypt, June 2 

 BODY:
President Bush arrived in the Mideast tonight for the first time in his presidency, preparing to face Arab leaders skeptical of American intentions in Iraq and to mediate between the Israelis and the Palestinians, a role he has long avoided.
 When Air Force One landed here tonight on the southern tip of the Sinai Peninsula, Mr. Bush was greeted with a hug by the Egyptian president, Hosni Mubarak. But the warm welcome masked undercurrents of wariness. 
 Mr. Bush will be meeting with Mr. Mubarak and Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia, King Hamad of Bahrain and King Abdullah of Jordan amid deepening Arab fears that the American presence in Iraq will be lengthy and chaotic. The Arab leaders also worry that Mr. Bush will be insufficiently tough with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel on the abandonment of Israeli settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, part of the phased peace plan Mr. Bush calls the road map. 
Mr. Bush's personal involvement in the peace effort represents a considerable political risk, but one he said today that he was willing to take. "My expectations in the Middle East are to call all the respective parties to their responsibility to achieve peace," Mr. Bush said this afternoon in Evian-les-Bains, France, during a brief lunch with the French president, Jacques Chirac, in which the Mideast was the main subject of discussion.
Answering critics who have raised doubts that he would risk much political capital on the peace effort, Mr. Bush said he would "make it very clear that my country, and I, will put in as much time as necessary to achieve the vision of two states living side by side in peace." A senior Bush adviser said that now -- after a successful war in Iraq and a year and a half away from the next presidential election -- was "the right moment" for Mr. Bush to make a move.
Mr. Bush himself seemed to try to dampen expectations, saying, "I fully understand this is going to be a difficult process."
But his secretary of state, Colin L. Powell, insisted tonight that this was the right moment to act. 
"The president turned his attention to this issue because he sees that there are these new dynamics in the equation," Mr. Powell said on ABC tonight. "And everybody knows we can't stay where we are. The Palestinian economy has been destroyed. The Israeli economy is in difficulty. Israel doesn't want to keep its troops deployed forever in the cities and towns. So I think all the pieces have come together, and we are here at Sharm el Sheik to take advantage of the new elements in the equation and this window of opportunity that has opened." 
Other American presidents, of course, thought they had a moment here as well -- as Mr. Bush was reminded tonight when his limousine sped past a giant mural of President Bill Clinton at the first peacemaking summit meetinghere in 1996. Mr. Clinton returned four years later but left office with little to show for his efforts.
It is a measure of the tension Mr. Bush confronts here that the Egyptians, while embracing the peace plan, did not want Mr. Sharon on their soil for the first meeting. As a result, Mr. Bush is to move on to Jordan on Wednesday to meet Mr. Sharon and the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas.
Mr. Abbas will also attend the meeting on Tuesday. Administration officials have embraced him as an alternative to Yasir Arafat, the longtime Palestinian leader whom Mr. Bush has called untrustworthy and has refused to meet. But it is unclear what kind of authority Mr. Abbas has to cut a deal independently of Mr. Arafat, something Mr. Bush will be seeking to explore.
"He is going to be on the world stage as the prime minister of the Palestinian people, standing with the prime minister of Israel and with the president of the United States," Mr. Powell said today, referring to Mr. Abbas. Mr. Powell was speaking aboard his plane as he flew from Rome to join Mr. Bush.
Prior to arriving in this Red Sea resort -- part of the lands Israel seized in the 1967 war and returned to Egypt in 1982 -- Mr. Bush spent much of his day seeking support from European leaders for his Mideast plan. He received that from Mr. Chirac, a significant gesture considering that the French president was among those urging Mr. Bush last year to deal with Mr. Arafat.
A senior Bush administration official who briefed reporters after the meeting in Evian today said that Mr. Bush and Mr. Chirac had a lengthy discussion about Syria and Lebanon, and that Mr. Bush asked Mr. Chirac about the prospects of bringing them into the peace effort. Mr. Chirac was close to Hafez al-Assad, the late father of the current president, Bashar al-Assad.
"He had some interesting ideas about how to make certain that Syria does the right things," the senior official said, without offering specifics. Syria will not be present at the Arab meeting tomorrow, one indication of the sharp fault lines within the Arab world about the Bush plan.
At a news conference, Mr. Chirac said that the European Union's principal foreign policy official, Javier Solana, was considering preparing his own road map to end the hostility between Israel and the closely aligned Syria and Lebanon.
"If there is war between Israel and the Palestinians," Mr. Chirac said, "equally there is war between Israel and Syria and Lebanon." Hence, he said, it was "legitimate" to have a road map for ending that conflict.
He said the idea was "not a French initiative," and that an "eventual initiative" would be undertaken by Mr. Solana under the auspices of the European Union.
At the meeting on Tuesday, the Arab leaders are expected to embrace anew both the peace plan and its recognition of an Israeli state and a Palestinian state existing side by side. Mr. Powell said today that he would also press the Arabs to issue a strong statement against terrorism, an effort to marginalize Arab extremist groups, including Hamas. He met with a number of Arab foreign ministers this evening, hoping to pave the way for a political success for Mr. Bush on Tuesday.
Even as Mr. Abbas prepared to step into the role of a significant Arab leader, there were signs that Mr. Arafat would cast a shadow over the summit meeting even in absentia. Ahmed Maher, the Egyptian foreign minister, said it was "nonsense" for the United States to groom Mr. Abbas, also known as Abu Mazen, as a "rival" to Mr. Arafat. 
"Arafat is the elected legitimate leader of the Palestinian people, and Abu Mazen is the prime minister," Mr. Maher told reporters before a meeting with Mr. Powell this evening, Agence France-Presse reported. 
European leaders have also expressed an unwillingness to marginalize Mr. Arafat. The French foreign minister, Dominique de Villepin, met with Mr. Arafat last week in Ramallah -- a subject that Mr. Bush and Mr. Chirac apparently avoided during their lunch today. 
In Rome today, Franco Frattini, Italy's foreign minister, told Mr. Powell that the European Union would continue to deal with Mr. Arafat. Italy assumes the European Union's presidency on July 1. 
Mr. Powell was careful in his assessment of what the Israeli-Palestinian summit meeting could accomplish. He said he was encouraged by pre-summit negotiations but unwilling to speculate on whether the Israelis and Palestinians could issue meaningful statements -- as they are supposed to do as a first step toward peace -- before the meeting concludes. 
Mr. Bush will have to address several major sticking points in his meetings with Mr. Sharon and Mr. Abbas on Wednesday.
Principal among them is Israeli resistance to dismantling settlements in the West Bank and Gaza, and Palestinian insistence that refugees from the 1948 war for independence have a a "right of return" to what is now Israel.
Mr. Powell sidestepped a question today about which Israeli settlements should be frozen or dismantled, a subject of heated debate in Israel. Israel has settled more than 200,000 of its citizens in the West Bank and Gaza.
But Mr. Powell did say that settlement outposts built since Mr. Sharon took office in 2001 are "not there properly and will have to be removed," adding that they would have to be dealt with "at the very beginning of this process."
Mr. Powell also said he was heartened that Mr. Sharon recently used the word "occupation" for the first time in describing the presence of Israeli forces in Palestinian territory. 
"I think it shows that he recognizes that whichever interpretation you put on it, the occupation of particular cities or territory, it's a situation that is unsustainable over time," Mr. Powell said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush was welcomed to Egypt by President Hosni Mubarak yesterday upon his arrival at Sharm el Sheik. Mr. Bush will meet there today with Arab leaders, marking his personal involvement in the peace effort. (Agence France-Presse)(pg. A13) Chart/Map: "The President's Tour: Egypt"MORNINGPresident Bush meets with President Hosni Mubarak of Egypt. Later, the two leaders meet with Crown Prince Abdullah of Saudi Arabia; King Abdullah of Jordan; King Hamad of Bahrain; and the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas. AFTERNOONPresident Bush and the Arab leaders meet again over lunch. Map of Europe, the Middle East, and Northern Africa highlights the president's route. (Source: National Security Council)(pg. A13) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PEACE PROCESS (92%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); ARMED FORCES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); IRAQ WAR (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY COUNCIL (59%)

PERSON: ABDULLAH BIN ABDUL AZIZ (91%); HOSNI MUBARAK (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (90%); JACQUES CHIRAC (59%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (96%); EGYPT (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (94%); JORDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (92%); BAHRAIN (92%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



87 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 399 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: CURRENCY; 
Bush Said to Affirm Commitment To a Stronger Dollar Overseas

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE

DATELINE: EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France, June 2 

 BODY:
President Bush gave renewed assurances today that the United States had not deserted its strong-dollar policy, prompting expectations that the dollar may soon gain against the euro. 
 The Group of 8 leaders, anxious to project an image of cooperation after the corrosive disagreements over Iraq, said they were confident of a global economic recovery, probably in the second half of this year. 
 But Mr. Bush and the other leaders -- from Britain, Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia -- made no significant progress in removing differences that would enable them to complete the latest round of trade talks, the so-called Doha round. 
In addition, they were not expected to give a clear signal on how to deal with currency fluctuations. In recent months, the dollar has dropped sharply in value against the euro, upsetting European governments because when it does so, it makes European exports more expensive and slows economic growth.
Italy's prime minister, Silvio Berlusconi, said Mr. Bush denied that the United States was allowing the dollar to fall and thereby make American exports cheaper in order to, in theory, stoke the sluggish American economy.
"Bush affirmed very clearly that he wants a strong dollar," Mr. Berlusconi told reporters. 
That and similar remarks were expected to propel the dollar higher in coming days. 
The dollar has fallen sharply over the past few weeks, most notably after a meeting of Group of 8 finance ministers in the French resort of Deauville last month, at which the United States treasury secretary, John Snow, appeared to redefine Washington's strong-dollar policy.
Mr. Berlusconi said Mr. Bush had also preached the value of a "virtuous deficit" to his Group of 8 counterparts. Italy has been one of several European countries seeking a loosening of strict rules on deficits agreed to by the 12 countries using the euro.
A Japanese official, briefing reporters, said it was his understanding that "they have currently not yet decided whether the exchange rate issue should be included in the final summary," which will be approved Tuesday when the remaining leaders end the meeting.
Mr. Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain left the meeting today.
The G-8 leaders discussed concerns of possible deflation in several countries, including Japan and Germany, but officials from those two countries questioned the risk of such a decline. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EURO (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); EXCHANGE RATES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); PRIME MINISTERS (77%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (76%); DEFLATION (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); APPROVALS (69%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (79%); TONY BLAIR (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (93%); EUROPE (92%); GERMANY (92%); ITALY (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (92%); IRAQ (92%); FRANCE (92%); CANADA (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



88 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1167 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: GROUP OF 8; 
Summit Leaders Talk Tough On Spread of Nuclear Arms

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE and ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France, June 2 

 BODY:
President Bush and leaders of the major industrialized countries today called nuclear proliferation "the pre-eminent threat to international security" and suggested that force could in some circumstances be used to meet the threat.
 At the conclusion of a meeting of the Group of 8 leading industrial democracies, the leaders urged North Korea and Iran to curb their nuclear programs, saying they would not "ignore the proliferation implications of Iran's nuclear program." Excerpts, Page A12. 
 The leaders said they had at their disposal a range of tools, like inspections and export controls, to deal with the threat of proliferation. In a clear reference to force, they added that they could employ, "if necessary, other means in accordance with international law." 
The United States has accused Iran of developing nuclear weapons under the cover of its civilian nuclear program, and there has been speculation that it could become the next target of the Bush administration. But today, according to Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi of Italy, Mr. Bush said he had no intention of attacking Iran.
"Bush made a clear statement that the idea of an armed operation by American forces in Iran is completely without foundation," Mr. Berlusconi said. He did not say whether Mr. Bush had addressed the use of force against North Korea. In the past, the White House has insisted that the North Korea issue will be resolved diplomatically.
The leaders called on North Korea "to visibly, verifiably and irreversibly dismantle any nuclear weapons programs." 
Mr. Bush left the summit meeting this afternoon, but not before telling his fellow leaders that he expected the American economy to achieve growth of 2.9 percent in the second half of this year, according to Alfred Tacke, a senior aide to Chancellor Gerhard Schroder of Germany.
The meeting provided the first opportunity for the deep trans-Atlantic rifts caused by the Iraq war to be addressed in person by the leaders involved. The summit leaders' statement avoided any reference to Iraq.
Mr. Bush and President Jacques Chirac of France had a cheerful photo session on a terrace overlooking Lake Geneva before a 25-minute private meeting, their first since the Iraq war divided them. "We can have disagreements," Mr. Bush said, "but it doesn't mean we have to be disagreeable to each other."
Mr. Bush, who had implicitly reprimanded the French as recently as the weekend for the divisions in the Atlantic alliance, seemed to go out of his way to flatter Mr. Chirac. He was particularly solicitous of his advice on the peace talks that the American president will hold with Israeli, Palestinian and other Arab leaders in Egypt and Jordan this week.
"I'm going to meet with Jacques here in a little bit and ask his advice on the Middle East," Mr. Bush said. "He's a man who knows a lot about the Middle East, he has got good judgment about the Middle East, and we will spend some time discussing that."
Mr. Chirac later said it was "possible and probable" that he would travel to the United States before the opening of the United Nations General Assembly in the fall, and that he would then meet Mr. Bush again.
Turning to the world economy, the leaders said the conditions were in place for a revival of economic growth. But they continued to differ on the best means to accelerate the process, with Mr. Bush stressing the value of his new $350 billion of federal tax cuts as an effective remedy, while leaders from Europe and Japan stressed the long-term changes to the structure of their economies now under way.
Mr. Tacke said Mr. Bush had "confirmed that a policy of a strong dollar remains." The president's recent remarks in support of a strong dollar have caused it to stem a months-long slide against the euro.
Mr. Chirac, at a news conference, cited the dissipation of uncertainties following the conclusion of the Iraq war, stable oil prices and low interest rates as among the grounds given by the leaders for their optimism.
Clearly, though, the focus of the meetings was on nuclear weapons proliferation, against the backdrop of the continuing efforts to thwart international terrorism. A senior Bush administration official said the tough language on Iran's and North Korea's nuclear programs was made possible by support from France, Germany and Russia, the nations that had been less than supportive on the war in Iraq. "What's key is that the only two countries named are North Korea and Iran and that the language is very strong," the official said, adding that it was the Russians who suggested that the communique declare that North Korean behavior was undermining agreements curbing nuclear arms. 
The statement on Iran, the official said, clears the way for the International Atomic Energy Agency to deal with Iran on June 16. "Iran's going to be on the griddle," the official said. "This statement confirms it."
Iran's president, Mohammed Khatami, responding to the growing world attention to his country's nuclear program, said today in Tehran that the Islamic republic had no plans to develop nuclear weapons. He noted that Iran was one of the first nations in the Middle East to propose that the region become a zone free of nuclear weapons. 
"All of Iran's nuclear activity is under the inspection of the International Atomic Energy Agency, and we have no intention of obtaining nuclear arms," Mr. Khatami said at a diplomatic reception. "Don't use this as a pretext to pressure and threaten Iran."
A senior administration official in Evian, asked whether Mr. Bush had told the leaders that the United States would not invade Iran, as Mr. Berlusconi said, replied: "I actually don't recall that conversation per se. Iran was talked about in the context of proliferation. He may have said, as I recall, something that that kind of speculation was not warranted."
Most of the G-8 leaders were set to meet one last time on Tuesday morning to summarize the results of their meetings, but with the departure of Mr. Bush, much of the wind had gone out of the meeting's sails. And the bulk of the work has been completed.
On the economy, the leaders discussed trade issues, including the latest the Doha round of trade negotiations, where they are seeking to narrow their differences before a crucial meeting in Mexico, in September. But a French official said that they had only "agreed to be in agreement," and that low-ranking officials would be delegated to resolve remaining differences.
The leaders also approved an action plan on health to help developing nations overcome shortages of essential medications. France had proposed a draft version that included measures like ensuring greater access to generic drugs in developing countries, improving access to branded drugs through differential pricing and stimulating local production and technology transfer. But most of these measures were expunged from the final version at the insistence of the United States, which saw them as a menace to intellectual property rights in pharmaceuticals.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush met with President Vladimir V. Putin of Russia and President Jacques Chirac of France before a Group of 8 session yesterday. The group's leaders urged Iran and North Korea to curb their nuclear programs. (Pool photo by Patrick Kovarik)(pg. A12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NUCLEAR WEAPONS (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); MILITARY WEAPONS (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); DISARMAMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (74%); PRIME MINISTERS (73%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); EXPORT TRADE (73%); INTERNATIONAL LAW (73%); EXPORT CONTROLS (70%); IRAQ WAR (67%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (93%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%); JACQUES CHIRAC (89%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (74%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (93%); FRANCE (90%); JORDAN (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); EGYPT (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



89 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1025 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A3-15

Iran, North Korea Warned To Curb Nuclear Programs
At the conclusion of a meeting of the Group of 8 leading industrial democracies, President Bush and other leaders called nuclear proliferation "the pre-eminent threat to international security," urging North Korea and Iran to curb their programs. A1

Bush Visits Middle East
George W. Bush arrived in the Middle East for the first time in his presidency, preparing to answer Arab leaders who are deeply wary of America's intentions in Iraq and to step in as the face-to-face intermediary between Israel and the Palestinians, a role he has long avoided. A1

Islamic Law in Pakistan
A provincial assembly dominated by an alliance of religious parties voted unanimously to introduce Islamic law to Pakistan's North-West Frontier Province, fulfilling an election promise that has worried the national government and its American allies. A3

Mugabe Opponent Arrested
The Zimbabwe opposition leader, Morgan Tsvangirai, was arrested and charged with contempt of court as authorities beat protesters and fired tear gas and warning shots to quell demonstrations aimed at presenting the most significant challenge yet to President Robert Mugabe. A11

U.N. Report on Iraqi Weapons
The United Nations Monitoring, Verification and Inspection Commission released a report saying that many open questions remain about whether Saddam Hussein's government destroyed Iraq's chemical and biological agents. A15

Trial of Bali Bomb Suspect
Imam Samudra, the Islamic militant described as the brains behind the Bali nightclub bombing last October, did not deny the charges against him. More than 30 people will stand trial in this case, and Mr. Samudra is one of four defendants who will be tried individually. A19

NATIONAL A18-29

Government Report Faults Detentions After Sept. 11
The Justice Department's roundup of hundreds of illegal immigrants in the months after the Sept. 11 attacks was plagued with "significant problems" that forced many people with no connection to terrorism to languish in jails in unduly harsh conditions, an internal report found. A1

Bombing Trial to Be in Alabama
The federal authorities decided that Eric Robert Rudolph, the anti-government survivalist who was on the run for five years, would be tried first in Birmingham, Ala., not in Atlanta, where he is charged in the pipe bombing at the 1996 Olympics. A20

Catholic Bishop Gets Immunity
The Roman Catholic bishop of Phoenix has signed an agreement admitting that he knew of accusations of sexual abuse by priests but transferred them without telling their new superiors or parishioners, an Arizona prosecutor said. In exchange for his admission, the bishop will avoid prosecution. A20

Floods Close Interstate
High temperatures, runoff from melting snow, and thunderstorms have caused raging floods in Colorado forcing officials to close Interstate 70 when a sinkhole formed under it. A20

Court Rules on Copyright Case
The Supreme Court ruled in a dispute between two filmmakers that, once the copyright on a creative work has expired, others may copy it and pass it off as their own without incurring liability. A26

Action on Child Tax Credit
A bipartisan coalition of senators introduced a bill that would provide an increased child tax credit to more than 6.5 million low-income families who did not receive it in the tax law signed by President Bush. A29

Private Health Plans Promoted
The Bush administration said that greater use of private health plans to provide prescription drug benefits and medical services would save money for Medicare. A29

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Insurers, Citing State Law, Warn of Raised Premiums
In the wake of New York State court rulling upholding a $140 million malpractice judgment against a hospital, insurers are telling New York hospitals that their premiums will double, or more. Insurers are now petitioning the State Legislature to change a 1985 law that requires the judge to adjust the award for inflation, whether or not the jury has done so already. A1

Anger in Wake of Merger
Several members of the New York Philharmonic's board expressed frustration at the decision to merge the Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall, saying it had been presented as a fait accompli. Board members of each organization assert they were left in the dark, with no chances to negotiate. A1

Subway Picasso Returned
A New York framer who left behind a portfolio case that contained a Picasso and a piece by a relative of Henri Matisse welcomed the two works back after a street vendor returned them. B1

SCIENCE TIMES F1-10

Health & Fitness F5

SPORTS D1-7

OBITUARIES B9

ARTS E1-8

Septuagenarians Top Charts
Last month, albums by Johnny Cash and George Jones were in Billboard magazine's Top 20 for country music and Willie Nelson had a Top 10 country single with a duet. None of this would be especially noteworthy, except that Mr. Cash and Mr. Jones are 71 and Mr. Nelson is 70. E1

BUSINESS DAY C1-15

F.C.C. Eases Restrictions
The Federal Communications Commission approved changes to the nation's media ownership rules that relaxed many restrictions on the expansion of broadcast and newspaper conglomerates to new markets. A1

Wall Street Inquiry Continues
Federal regulators have demanded copies of e-mail messages and other documents from 12 large Wall Street firms as they open a new phase of their investigation into stock research. C1

Housing Boom Cools Off
The growth of house prices has slowed sharply over the last year, increasing by the smallest amount in five years during the first three months of 2003, according to a grovernment report. C1

New Hewlett Initiative
Hewlett-Packard plans to announce a technology initiative that it says can reduce corporations' personal computer costs by up to 45 percent by shifting processing power to a central bank of shared computers. C4

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A30-31

Editorials: The abusive detentions of Sept. 11; a new twist at Lincoln Center; Francis X. Clines on re-educating the voters about Texas' schools.

Columns: Paul Krugman, Nicholas D. Kristof.

Crossword E6
Public Lives D8
TV Listings E8
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); RELIGION (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (88%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (88%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (88%); INSPECTIONS (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (77%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (77%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (72%); SEXUAL ASSAULT (72%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); ARRESTS (72%); LITIGATION (72%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (71%); WEATHER (71%); FLOODS & FLOODING (70%); COPYRIGHT LAW (69%); TERRORISM (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); SUPREME COURTS (67%); COPYRIGHT (62%); OLYMPICS (60%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (84%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS MONITORING VERIFICATION & INSPECTION COMMISSION (55%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%); MORGAN RICHARD TSVANGIRAI (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (79%); PHOENIX, AZ, USA (66%); BIRMINGHAM, AL, USA (52%) ALABAMA, USA (92%); GEORGIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); PAKISTAN (92%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



90 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 3, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: THE IRAQI JOBLESS; 
U.S. Administrator Seeks to Restore a Broken Economy

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 2 

 BODY:
The top American civilian administrator in Iraq turned his attention to this country's shattered economy today, saying that joblessness "is a tremendous problem" but that he would not be "blackmailed" by thousands of former Iraqi soldiers who are protesting their new unemployment.
 "I want to start the process now of turning this economy around into an economy which can offer real jobs with real wages for the millions of citizens who need and deserve them," said the official, L. Paul Bremer III, who is overseeing the reconstruction of postwar Iraq. 
 About 3,000 dismissed Iraqi Army officers protested noisily today outside American civilian headquarters, which are inside a former palace of Saddam Hussein, and some demonstrators issued vague threats of suicide bombings if nobody helped them.
The protests came just two days after others by former workers at what had been the Ministry of Information, the agency that oversaw the vast propaganda and censorship machinery of the former president. 
No one knows exactly how high Iraq's unemployment rate is at the moment, but experts say it may be well above 30 percent and that it is likely to climb higher in the near future.
Baghdad has slowly begun to enjoy regular electricity. But normality has not returned to people's lives, and Iraqis are clamoring with growing insistence for work and money.
Mr. Bremer recently announced that the Iraqi Army and the former government's information ministries would be dissolved and that most employees would be dismissed with a single severance payment.
Those measures come in addition to a broad effort to purge the government of members of Mr. Hussein's Baath Party, and are almost certain to be followed by moves to eliminate thousands of make-work and no-show jobs that were common under Mr. Hussein.
In a wide-ranging news conference today, Mr. Bremer said the United States would spend up to $70 million for a temporary program aimed at collecting trash and rebuilding schools.
He also said the American government would recruit ex-soldiers, though not senior officers, for what he called a New Iraqi Corps that could become operational within the next few months.
But Mr. Bremer refused to soften his opposition to finding work for the tens of thousands of career military officers and other employees of the old Ministry of Defense. Asked whether he was concerned about threats voiced by some of the angry army officers, Mr. Bremer said, "We are not going to be blackmailed."
The more crucial question was whether Iraqi and foreign private investors would begin to fill the vacuum left by the collapsed government, which was by far the country's biggest employer before the war.
Many of Iraq's wealthy exiles, who built up hundreds of millions of dollars in assets outside the country during the past two decades, say that they and other foreign investors consider Iraq too unstable for large investment.
"They are all afraid, and I am concerned that the situation may be getting worse," said one prominent Iraqi business executive who fled the country nearly a decade ago and returned shortly after American forces seized Baghdad.
The initial reluctance arose from the widespread looting and lawlessness that has plagued Iraq since the former government collapsed.
But the latest fear stems from the accelerating pace of guerrilla attacks on American soldiers and the threat of a cycle of retaliation and fresh attacks. "I'm afraid this will lead to a cycle of violence, which will not be good for either Americans or Iraqis," the businessman said today, speaking on condition that he not be identified.
In placing heavy emphasis on Iraq's underlying economic problems, Mr. Bremer appeared to be signaling a new phase in the American-led reconstruction efforts.
He said that daily electricity production in Baghdad, which has been a huge problem ever since the war, had doubled in the past week and that Iraqi oil fields were now pumping about 700,000 barrels a day, still less than one-third of Iraq's prewar capacity but double the level of several weeks ago. Mr. Bremer also made it clear that plans to create a national assembly of Iraqi leaders have been put on hold and that he would maintain his authority at least until basic services and security are restored in the country.
But he acknowledged that Iraqis want to govern themselves as soon as possible.
"I found in my consultations that most Iraqis were anxious to move ahead quickly to establish the interim authority," he said. "We agreed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMIES (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); BOMBINGS (73%); SEVERANCE PAY (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (65%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (62%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

PERSON: SADDAM HUSSEIN (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (98%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2003 



91 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 514 words

HEADLINE: Turnarounds Are Drawing Prospectors To Japan 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: TOKYO, June 3 

 BODY:
Proving that there is money to be made in Japan, Wilbur Ross, the American corporate turnaround artist, is selling a regional bank and a credit card company for $410 million, "which is two times what we paid for them in February 2001," he said in an interview here today.
 Under the deal, Bank of Kansai Ltd., owned by the Sumitomo Mitsui Financial Group, is to pay 80 percent in cash and 20 percent in stock on July 1 to buy Kansai Sawayaka Bank Ltd. from Nippon Investment Partners, which Mr. Ross controls. 
 The announcement comes as hundreds of American employees of financial firms pack their bags to depart Japan this summer, leaving empty desks in classrooms at the American School in Japan and empty deck chairs by the pool at the Tokyo American Club.
"That's the bull market crowd leaving," said one American who was laid off by a European bank, but reinvented himself as an expert in distressed equities. "The crowd that is staying are much more focused on squeezing costs, filling buildings no one else can fill. It is a different skill set."
Poking around Tokyo's markets for value, foreign investors in May helped push the Nikkei average up 10.7 percent, the biggest monthly jump in 4 years, and a relief after the index hit a 20-year low in April.
"There are stocks listed in Tokyo that are trading at a price per share with no enterprise value ascribed to them by the price, with no value ascribed to the fixed assets, and only a fraction ascribed to their working capital," Mr. Ross said in a telephone interview. "These companies do nothing to make themselves accessible. There are no research reports on them. They don't put out press releases. They don't have outside directors. They are just there."
By buying low and diplomatically installing new management and new practices, an investor can make enterprises like Kansai Sawayaka Bank profitable and attractive to new investors, said Mr. Ross, who is managing a private equity fund that concentrates on turning around small Japanese companies. Six weeks ago, the California Public Employees' Retirement System announced that it would invest $200 million in the fund, which has a goal of $1 billion in investments.
Many of the investment banks that are radically downsizing here had bet on a financial services boom. Mr. Ross said that one essential to making money in Japan is to operate on the premise that the Japanese economy will basically remain flat for the foreseeable future.
But by buying low and reorganizing, value can be added, said Mr. Ross, a former Rothschild Inc. banker who helped reorganize Texaco and Continental Airlines in the 1980's. In South Korea, Mr. Ross is negotiating to buy Kia Steel, which collapsed during the Asian currency crisis five years ago.
In Japan, Ripplewood Holdings, another American investment fund specializing in distressed properties, is also planning a major new purchase. According to a report in the Nihon Keizai, Ripplewood is in the final stages of negotiating the purchase of the land-line division of Japan Telecom Holdings, a sale that could be worth $2.2 billion.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wilbur Ross runs an equity fund, and sees opportunity in Japan. (Bloomberg News)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); INTERVIEWS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (88%); LAYOFFS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (76%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (73%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (73%); PRIVATE EQUITY (70%); TRENDS (66%); CURRENCIES (64%); WORKING CAPITAL (50%) FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: SUMITOMO MITSUI FINANCIAL GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF KANSAI LTD (84%); ROTHSCHILD INC (60%); ROSS CONTROLS (57%); UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (50%); RIPPLEWOOD HOLDINGS LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NIPPON INVESTMENT PARTNERS; KANSAI SAWAYAKA BANK LTD; BANK OF KANSAI LTD 

TICKER: SMFG (NYSE) (90%); 8316 (TSE) (90%); UAL (NYSE) (50%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS332912 FLUID POWER VALVE & HOSE FITTING MANUFACTURING (57%); SIC3492 FLUID POWER VALVES & HOSE FITTINGS (57%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (50%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (50%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (50%); SIC6719 OFFICES OF HOLDING COMPANIES, NEC (50%) SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS; 

PERSON: ROSS, WILBUR; BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) JAPAN (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



92 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 884 words

PERSON: GEORGE McDONALD 

HEADLINE: PUBLIC LIVES; 
A Blue Jumpsuit and a Path to Self-Sufficiency

BYLINE:  By LYNDA RICHARDSON 

 BODY:
GEORGE McDONALD walks briskly through the 198-bed shelter for men in Harlem run by the Doe Fund, a nonprofit organization that he founded in 1985. It is payday. Cash. Is that why the men are all smiles, with so many nice things to say? The men are trainees of the fund's Ready, Willing and Able program, the guys in the ubiquitous royal-blue jumpsuits who sweep sidewalks, bag garbage, clear street gutters. They must work for the right to stay in the shelter.
 Mr. McDonald, a tall, garrulous man with bushy eyebrows and horn-rimmed glasses, has driven uptown on a recent afternoon from the brownstone that is his office and home on East 84th Street to give a shelter tour and to champion his initiative to put homeless people to work. 
 His program recently got a big boost when a state appeals court cleared the way for a new 400-bed men's shelter in East Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The Doe Fund will own and operate the shelter in a 22-year, $176 million city contract that dates from the Giuliani administration. The fund will now run three shelters, including one in Bedford-Stuyvesant, out of about 40 shelters for single adults in New York City.
"I have something to offer the guy when he is laying on the street, and that's a hand up, not a handout," Mr. McDonald says. "I'm extremely excited about the opportunity to be able to expand our program by 400 more men, and to be able to help them accept responsibility and move into this great economic system we have, the larger program called America."
Mr. McDonald, who is 59, can't seem to keep still. He rocks from side to side when standing, and stomps his foot or slaps his thigh when sitting. He carries on like a politician.
Not that he hasn't tried that. A former apparel marketing executive, he sought the Democratic nomination for Congress from the East Side in the 1980's before parlaying his crusade for the homeless into the nonprofit fund. While campaigning, he says, he spent 700 straight nights feeding the homeless in Grand Central Terminal. Among them was a diminutive, white-haired woman who came to be known as Mama Doe after she died of pneumonia in the terminal. Mr. McDonald identified her corpse in the morgue, and named the fund after her.
In the shelter on 155th Street, Mr. McDonald is describing how Ready, Willing and Able has trained 1,500 men and women. He takes an interviewer into an intake room, where a robotic machine is testing urine samples for drugs. He pokes his head into administrative offices and dormitory-style rooms where a few men sit on single beds, tidy rows of shoes beneath their feet. He is joined on the tour by his wife, Harriet Karr-McDonald, a former screenwriter who is the fund's vice president, and a shelter director, Alton Johnson.
Mr. McDonald tosses out questions to the men, most of whom have histories of substance abuse and prison. What was the shelter like before the fund took over management from the city in 1996? Was it crime-infested? Were people using crack? The response: You've got that right, Mr. McDonald.
The fact that Mr. McDonald touts a work-for-shelter policy -- the fund pays trainees up to $6.50 an hour -- puts him at odds with many homeless services providers, and so does the fact that trainees get evicted from the shelter if they break rules, like missing work assignments or using drugs.
Mr. McDonald believes he is creating self-sufficiency. And he expects good results from the Williamsburg shelter, even though it drew bitter opposition. Business owners and residents worried that crime would go up in the industrial area. Elected officials criticized the city for selecting the Doe Fund under an accelerated bidding process. The Coalition for the Homeless argued that the shelter was not a wise use of taxpayers' money, which would be better spent on permanent housing.
Mentioning criticism from the coalition elicits a strong reaction from Mr. McDonald, who once volunteered for the group. It sort of reminds one of the old vaudeville routine, "Niagara Falls/Slo-o-wly I turned." His face reddens. He lashes out. He calls the group jealous.
"They obviously know you can't take people from off the street and put them into permanent housing, but they are disingenuous with their criticism," Mr. McDonald said. "It really does get my Irish up, I tell you," he added.
MR. McDONALD says his philosophy stems from his background. "I was a businessman, and brought it to bear on a social problem, and I did that because I wanted to be a politician, and somewhere along the line the politics went away."
In his Upper East Side office, there are pictures of John F. Kennedy and Robert F. Kennedy on the burgundy-colored walls. Mr. McDonald was the statewide director of volunteers for Edward M. Kennedy's presidential campaign in 1980. He says he is a registered Democrat, but describes himself as nonpartisan when it comes to city politics.
Growing up in Spring Lake, N.J., an upper-middle-class enclave, the son of an insurance company executive, he recalls, with some amusement, how the nuns in parochial school used the ruler for more than just measuring. He says they also drilled into him the importance of giving back to the community.
"Why am I this way? I don't know. Go ask the nuns. Go ask God. I know when I see a guy lying in the street, I want to help him up."

GRAPHIC: Photo: GEORGE McDONALD (Keith Bedford for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Biography 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOMELESS SHELTERS (90%); TEMPORARY SHELTERS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); HOMELESSNESS (89%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (63%); EXECUTIVES (61%); APPEALS COURTS (53%); ROBOTICS (50%); PNEUMONIA (50%) HOMELESS PERSONS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

ORGANIZATION: DOE FUND 

RICHARDSON, LYNDA; MCDONALD, GEORGE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) NEW YORK CITY

CATEGORY: Philanthropy 

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



93 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 798 words

HEADLINE: Coalition Adds New Support For a Harbor Freight Tunnel 

BYLINE:  By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
A proposal to reduce truck traffic in New York City and the region by building a rail freight tunnel under New York Harbor got new support yesterday when a broad group of business, labor, environmental and civic leaders announced that they had formed a coalition to lobby for federal money for the project.
 The coalition, which includes representatives of groups ranging from the Sierra Club and the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce to the state A.F.L.-C.I.O. and the Rev. Calvin O. Butts III, pastor of the Abyssinian Baptist Church, wants Congress to help pay for the project out of a transportation spending bill currently up for reauthorization. 
 The group, called MoveNY, says the tunnel would divert nearly a million truck trips a year from the George Washington Bridge, reduce pollution in city neighborhoods with high asthma rates, cut traffic delays in the region, generate tens of thousands of jobs, save highway maintenance costs and limit the risks of terrorism presented by unscreened trucks. 
"It's clearly technically feasible to do this tunnel," said Francis X. McArdle, managing director of the General Contractors Association of New York and a member of the coalition. "And we believe that it is an economic advantage to this region to make this investment. Not only will it help us to continually grow, but it gives us some opportunities for economic development that we would not otherwise have."
Representative Jerrold L. Nadler, a Manhattan Democrat, has been interested in the project throughout the last 20 years. Skeptics who considered the idea in its earlier incarnations have argued that the reduction in truck traffic would be smaller than proponents contend because most freight would still move by truck within the city. They have also said the city was no longer a competitive location for the kind of high-volume, mass-production industries that rely heavily on rail. 
"It's a 19th-century project that's two centuries too late," said Mitchell L. Moss, director of the Taub Urban Research Center at New York University and a co-author of a 1998 analysis of the tunnel idea. "And this project represents a threat to much more important priorities to the city and the region."
The idea of a rail freight connection by tunnel between New Jersey and the area across New York Harbor has been tossed around since the 1920's, Mr. McArdle and others said. For many years, rail freight was transported across the harbor by float bridge. But even that ended after the merger of the Pennsylvania and New York Central Railroads in 1968 and the subsequent creation of Conrail in 1976.
Now less than 2 percent of all freight coming in and out of the region is transported by rail, compared with 40 percent in cities nationally, Mr. Nadler said. The nearest railroad crossing over the Hudson is 140 miles north of the city in Selkirk, just south of Albany.
"We've got a real crisis now in goods movement, and it's only going to get worse," said Robert D. Yaro, president of the Regional Plan Association and a member of the coalition. "The volumes of freight moving into and through the region are increasing at about 3 percent a year. Over a decade, that's by a third. And you think about what congestion is like on the George Washington Bridge and the Tappan Zee now. There's just no place to put it."
The 19 coalition members range from labor union leaders including Dennis Rivera, president of Local 1199 of the Service Employees International Union; and environmentalists like James T. B. Tripp, general counsel for Environmental Defense, formerly the Environmental Defense Fund; to business leaders like Kenneth Adams, president of the Brooklyn Chamber of Commerce; and civic activists like Dr. Rafael A. Lantigua, chairman of the board of directors of Alianza Dominicana, the largest Dominican social service agency in the city.
Dr. Lantigua, an internist and professor of clinical medicine at Columbia University, said he joined the coalition because he has lived in Washington Heights his entire life and works there. He has "no doubt that the amount of bronchial asthma that we see in this area is linked to the pollution of the traffic across the George Washington Bridge."
The tunnel would create a Hudson River crossing connecting freight railroads in New Jersey to unused railroads in Sunset Park, Brooklyn. Mr. Nadler said the most recent estimate of the cost of the tunnel alone was $1.8 billion; the cost of the entire project, including rail improvements, has been put at $7 billion.
Members of the coalition said they wanted to persuade Congress to pay for the design and perhaps the next steps of the project out of the Transportation Equity Act for the 21st Century, a pending bill that is intended to pay for major transportation projects for the next six years.

GRAPHIC: Map of New York shows the location of the proposed rail-freight tunnel: A coalition will lobby for federal aid in building a freight tunnel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL FREIGHT (90%); LOBBYING (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (89%); CITY LIFE (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (75%); LEGISLATION (73%); RAIL CROSSINGS (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROPRIATIONS (72%); ASTHMA (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE MAINTENANCE (69%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (62%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (53%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (53%); TERRORISM (53%) RAILROADS; BRIDGES AND TUNNELS; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ROADS AND TRAFFIC; TRUCKS AND TRUCKING; GEORGE WASHINGTON BRIDGE 

ORGANIZATION: SIERRA CLUB (57%); AFL-CIO (57%) MOVENY (ORGN) 

PERSON: JERROLD NADLER (58%) SCOTT, JANNY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (97%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK HARBOR

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



94 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1154 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Sees Sizable Loss For Quarter 

BYLINE:  By MICHELINE MAYNARD 

DATELINE: DETROIT, June 3 

 BODY:
Vividly illustrating the toll that incentives are taking on the American automobile industry, the Chrysler Corporation said today that it would post a $1.2 billion operating loss for the second quarter and would be only marginally profitable this year.
 The announcement that Chrysler and its parent, DaimlerChrysler, expected to miss their earnings goals came as automakers announced sales data showing that May was a tepid month over all, despite incentive programs that include big rebates and interest-free loans. 
 Cars and trucks sold at an annual rate of 16.1 million vehicles in May. That was better than the 15.7 million selling rate a year earlier but a marked slowdown both from the sales level at the end of 2002 and from periods recently when dealerships were comparably awash in incentives. 
The figures are one of the earliest formal measures of the economy's health in the wake of the war in Iraq, and auto executives described them as solid under the circumstances. 
"When you consider all that the economy has been through -- the uncertainty clouding the war in Iraq, the equity prices going nowhere, energy prices going up, the uncertainty that was coming through in consumer confidence -- this level of sales is pretty good," said George Pipas, the sales statistician at the Ford Motor Company.
General Motors, outspending its competitors on incentives, said its sales rose 4 percent from a year earlier, the first time this year that G.M.'s sales have climbed. Ford said its sales fell 0.7 percent. Both G.M. and Ford announced plans to cut third-quarter production, on top of cuts in the second quarter.
Chrysler said its sales fell 3 percent in May. But with lower inventories than some of its rivals, the company does not plan to cut production.
On Monday, Chrysler -- which has tried to position itself as a premium brand with an import flair -- reversed its conservative course on incentives and unveiled a sweeping program, offering a choice of rebates as large as $4,500 a vehicle or interest-free financing.
And indeed, DaimlerChrysler said today that Chrysler now was unlikely to earn the $2 billion operating profit this year that was the declared goal of the turnaround effort being led by Dieter Zetsche, Chrysler's chief executive. DaimlerChrysler said it still expected Chrysler to be modestly profitable for 2003. But the parent company, which had said it could beat last year's $5.6 billion group profit, now only expects to match it.
Standard & Poor's immediately lowered its outlook for DaimlerChrysler from stable to negative, calling the quarterly Chrysler loss "staggering." The Chrysler announcement came after the close of American stock trading. DaimlerChrysler shares closed at $31.65, down 11 cents, on the New York Stock Exchange.
Ford said it was reaffirming its second-quarter profit estimate of 70 cents a share. G.M. did not comment on the quarterly outlook. But its chief executive, Rick Wagoner, said at G.M.'s annual meeting in Wilmington, Del., that it might be difficult for the company to achieve its target of $10 a share in annual earnings by mid-decade, because of brutal industry competition.
Under Mr. Zetsche, Chrysler has cut costs and achieved profitability, earning $1.6 billion last year, and $166 million during this year's first quarter.
But Mr. Zetsche, in a telephone interview from Stuttgart, said a series of factors had been devastating to Chrysler's outlook. After May's modest sales decline, sales at Chrysler in recent days have fallen 10 percent or more from levels a year ago; the company, he said, had expected sales to bounce back after the conclusion of fighting in Iraq.
"We didn't see that happening," Mr. Zetsche said. "We didn't see spring momentum building. On top of that, we saw incentive increases."
Though in the past he has likened incentives to heroin, Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler felt it had to expand its spending to match G.M.'s, which he said had risen by $500 a vehicle in the last month. "We never drove it and will not drive it," he said of incentives. But, he added, "we have to somewhat follow it."
In doing so, however, Chrysler must book the cost of increased incentives on the 500,000 vehicles already on dealer lots as well as on future vehicles; Mr. Zetsche would not say how much that would cost the company.
Also, Chrysler will incur an undisclosed charge because incentives have lowered the resale value of vehicles that it buys back from car-rental companies, Mr. Zetsche added.
The timing of Chrysler's announcement -- coming in the final month of the quarter -- raised some analysts' eyebrows, but DaimlerChrysler had recently begun warning that Chrysler was encountering trouble. "Obviously, they've got a feel as for what the month of June is likely to be like, i.e., intensely competitive," said Joseph Phillippi, an industry analyst with Auto Trends in Short Hills, N.J. "It was incumbent upon them to get this out." 
Chrysler's expected loss is the latest demonstration of how vulnerable the company is to shifts in industry winds. Just before Mr. Zetsche came to Chrysler's headquarters in Auburn Hills, Mich., Chrysler lost $5 billion in two months, when it was caught unprepared by an industry slowdown and subsequent expansion of incentives.
Last Friday, Chrysler announced the resignation of its chief marketing executive, James C. Schroer, who is being replaced by a DaimlerChrysler executive, Joseph Eberhardt. 
Mr. Zetsche would not comment today on the departure of Mr. Schroer, who, like him, tried to keep Chrysler out of the incentive spiral. Asked whether he regretted his past reticence on incentives, Mr. Zetsche replied: "If I would have to do it again, I would try to slow the incentive game and not fuel it up. I do believe it's a zero-sum game."
Mr. Zetsche said Chrysler did not see a need to cut production, since it has only a 60-day supply of vehicles, less than the 65-day supply that is considered ideal during the spring selling season. But Ford said yesterday that it ended May with close to 80 days in inventories and would cut third-quarter production by 15 percent, in large part by slowing output of the Ford Taurus and Mercury Sable sedans. G.M. did not disclose its inventories, but it announced a 6 percent production cut.
Officials at G.M. and Ford said that they were optimistic for the fourth quarter and beyond, citing the expected impact of federal tax cuts and their sense that consumer confidence and the stock market were rebounding with the conclusion of the fighting in Iraq.
A number of foreign-based auto companies, meanwhile, reported strong results in May.
Toyota and Honda reported their best May sales in history. The Infiniti division of Nissan said its sales jumped 40 percent, thanks to the introduction of sexy-looking vehicles like the FX sport utility, built on the chassis of the Z350 sports car. BMW, Mercedes-Benz, Audi, Porsche and Hyundai also said sales rose in May.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dieter Zetsche, chief executive of Chrysler, who said big incentives and poor consumer confidence would lead to a quarterly loss. But the company said it expected a modest annual profit. (Associated Press)(pg. C1) Chart: "Auto Sales in May"ANNUAL SELLING RATEFor cars and light trucks (includes minivans, sport utility vehicles and pickups) sold in the United States. Graph tracks the sales of cars and light trucks from November 2001 through May 2003. (seasonally adjusted) INDUSTRY SALESFor vehicles sold in the United States. Cars2002: 726,8402003: 758,457CHANGE*: -7.7% Light trucks2002: 846,5022003: 748,372CHANGE*: +8.9 Total2002: 1,573,3422003: 1,506,829CHANGE*: +0.6 CAR SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 177,330CHANGE*: -7.0%MARKET SHARE: 24.4% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 112,659CHANGE*: -16.5MARKET SHARE: 15.5 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 103,108CHANGE*: +0.9MARKET SHARE: 14.2 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 78,856CHANGE*: +1.5MARKET SHARE: 10.9 Daimler- Chrysler**NUMBER SOLD: 70,351CHANGE*: -2.3MARKET SHARE: 9.7 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 46,838CHANGE*: +7.1MARKET SHARE: 6.4 TOP-SELLING VEHICLESThe most popular vehicles and changes from a year earlier. Ford F-SeriesNUMBER SOLD: 75,591CHANGE: -2.3% Chevrolet SilveradoNUMBER SOLD: 63,349CHANGE: +14.2 Dodge RamNUMBER SOLD: 44,074CHANGE: +26.1 Toyota CamryNUMBER SOLD: 44,732CHANGE: -3.0 Honda AccordNUMBER SOLD: 37,210CHANGE: +11.5 Toyota CorollaNUMBER SOLD: 35,930CHANGE: +26.9 Ford ExplorerNUMBER SOLD: 35,423CHANGE: -0.1 Chevrolet ImpalaNUMBER SOLD: 29,298CHANGE: +109.8 Honda CivicNUMBER SOLD: 29,143CHANGE: -8.7 Ford TaurusNUMBER SOLD: 26,131CHANGE: -22.1 Chevrolet TrailblazerNUMBER SOLD: 25,708CHANGE: +58.7 Dodge CaravanNUMBER SOLD: 23,872CHANGE: -28.0 LIGHT TRUCK SALESLeading U.S. sellers, ranked according to 2002 sales. G.M.NUMBER SOLD: 254,369CHANGE*: +13.9%MARKET SHARE: 30.1% Ford+NUMBER SOLD: 211,105CHANGE*: +4.7MARKET SHARE: 24.9 Daimler- Chrysler**NUMBER SOLD: 166,264CHANGE*: -3.2MARKET SHARE: 19.6 ToyotaNUMBER SOLD: 83,656CHANGE*: +13.3MARKET SHARE: 9.9 HondaNUMBER SOLD: 51,598CHANGE*: +57.2MARKET SHARE: 6.1 NissanNUMBER SOLD: 24,156CHANGE*: +5.9MARKET SHARE: 2.9 *Based on average daily sales, including fleet sales, adjusted for any differences in the number of selling days in a month.+Includes Volvo and Rover sales.**Includes MercedesBenz sales. (Sources: Ward's AutoInfoBank)(pg. C12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY LOSSES (90%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); SALES REBATES (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (76%); STATISTICS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); IRAQ WAR (74%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (71%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); EXECUTIVES (67%) AUTOMOBILES; SALES 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (54%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: DAIMLERCHRYSLER AG 

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); GM (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (56%) MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (91%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



95 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Education Page; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1020 words

HEADLINE: ON EDUCATION; 
In the Affluent Suburbs, An Invisible Race Gap

BYLINE:  By Michael Winerip 

DATELINE: MAPLEWOOD, N.J. 

 BODY:
ACROSS America, there may be two or three dozen suburban school districts similar to this one, towns like Evanston, Ill.; Shaker Heights, Ohio; Arlington, Va.; White Plains. They are heavily upper middle class, are racially mixed and feature high quality public schools.
 The high school here, Columbia High, is 51 percent black and sends 77 percent of its seniors to four-year colleges. 
 Five percent are accepted to the Ivy League. A lot of black Columbia High graduates go on to big things. Rhena Jasey went to Harvard, Colin Brown to Princeton, Carla Peterman won a Rhodes, Lauryn Hill won five Grammys. 
From afar, these racially mixed suburbs appear to be the fulfillment of the Brown v. Board of Education desegregation ruling a half century ago. Green and tree-lined, they look like the quintessential level playing field. They seem to make the need for affirmative action passe.
But they are not what they appear to be, as Ronald Ferguson, a Harvard professor, knows from surveying 34,000 seventh to eleventh graders in 15 of these racially mixed suburbs across the nation.
Everywhere, he finds the achievement gap, with whites averaging B+ and blacks C+. Professor Ferguson calculates about half the Gap can be explained by economic differences. 
When the wealth of the 15 towns is dissected into four socioeconomic classes, 79 percent of blacks are in the bottom 50 percent; 73 percent of whites are in the top 50 percent. Fifty-three percent of these suburban black children live with one or neither parent, compared with 15 percent of whites.
Twenty-two percent of the blacks have no computer at home compared with 3 percent of whites. Forty percent of blacks own 100 or more books, compared with 80 percent of whites.
All this spills into these schools. "Teachers see black kids not doing as well academically, getting more incompletes on their homework," Professor Ferguson said. "They interpret that to mean black kids don't care, don't work as hard."
Yet whites and blacks taking similar level courses report that they spend the same time on homework. It is just that the results are different: 38 percent of whites who spend two hours on homework nightly get all their work done; only 20 percent of blacks spending two hours finish their homework -- the Gap.
It would be politically convenient for Professor Ferguson, a black man raising his two children plus a nephew in a Boston suburb, if the Gap could be explained away by economics.
It cannot. When he controls for income, half the Gap persists. Among the richest families, blacks average B+, whites A-. How to explain it?
On a political level, he believes the human damage from two centuries of slavery plus legalized segregation that persisted until the mid-1960's will simply not be undone in a generation, not even in suburbia.
On a personal level, he has looked hard at the data for ways to narrow the Gap.
While 31 percent of whites say that a teacher's encouragement motivates them to work hard, 47 percent of blacks cite teacher encouragement as crucial. Professor Ferguson believes this may reflect the black children's insecurity.
"Even in our own towns, we may feel like outsiders," he says. And so, Professor Ferguson runs seminars for teachers that emphasize the importance of encouraging these children to excel.
If whites and blacks spend the same time on homework, and the black child is not getting as much done, says Professor Ferguson, "that's a skills gap." He works with schools to focus on the points in the curriculum where children fall behind, and to develop smarter ways to teach those lessons.
His research shows that in the years before school, white parents spend more time reading to their children, while blacks devote more to song and play -- the start of the Gap. Professor Ferguson writes, "As a black parent, I acknowledge there might be differences in what we do with our preschool children that would put them on a more equal footing with whites on the first day of kindergarten." 
While he practices that at home, quizzing his 3-year-old with math problems, he is hesitant to speak too much publicly about advising black parents.
"If it shows up in The New York Times, it's like, wait a minute, here's another guy saying to black parents, 'It's your fault.' This needs to be done within the community."
In this community, Robert Marchman, 45, a lawyer with the New York Stock Exchange, has taken on the Gap. He is chairman of the South Orange/Maplewood Community Coalition on Race, which has been sponsoring discussions on the Gap and helped bring Professor Ferguson here.
Mr. Marchman is one of a dozen black dads who run a mentoring program for 30 black eighth graders. "We talk about stuff you hear, like, 'being smart is acting white,' " Mr. Marchman said. "I'll say to them, 'So what does being black mean? To be an idiot?' "
Mr. Marchman himself has bridged the Gap. He grew up in a Brooklyn housing project and when he was a senior, took the SAT, without any preparation. In the high school guidance office, he picked a college by starting with the letter "A" which landed him at Alleghany College.
By law school -- at the University of Pennsylvania -- he was no longer making educational decisions based on alphabetical order.
Last summer, before his older son, David, entered 10th grade, Mr. Marchman bought the boy his first SAT study guide.
While Mr. Marchman played basketball ("that's all there was"), he encouraged David to switch from football to lacrosse, because it is a niche sport that might help get him into a top college.
Though Mr. Marchman has made it to the far side of the Gap, he keeps his guard up. At the start of each school year, he makes appointments to see the teachers of his sons, David and Travis. "I put on a business suit," he says. "I want to set the tone with the teachers. I want them to know we have high expectations." His are black children to be encouraged, he wants the teachers to know.
And though Mr. Marchman no longer needs affirmative action, he supports it, for even in this suburban place, he can see more clearly than most all those children still finding their way across the Gap.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (David Suter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); SUBURBS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (87%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); SCHOOL BOARDS (78%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (76%); RANKINGS (72%); FAMILY (71%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (70%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; MINORITIES (US); DISCRIMINATION; SUBURBS; RESEARCH 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (91%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (84%); PRINCETON UNIVERSITY (57%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

PERSON: MIKE FERGUSON (79%) WINERIP, MICHAEL; FERGUSON, RONALD (PROF)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) ILLINOIS, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



96 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: 10% of Units Have Escaped Rent Limits 

BYLINE:  By JOSH BARBANEL 

 BODY:
More than 10 percent of the New York City apartments covered by rent regulations have gone on the open market or otherwise been removed from regulations since the Legislature began loosening the system in 1993, according to a study released yesterday.
 The study, by the New York City Rent Guidelines Board, which sets rent levels on regulated apartments, found that 105,421 units had been reported by owners to have been removed from regulation for various reasons from 1994 to 2002. 
 The report said that at least 27,326 apartments had been removed from rent regulation under provisions allowing deregulation of apartments renting for $2,000 or more, under changes enacted by the Legislature in 1993 and broadened in 1997. This amounts to 3 percent of the 910,000 rent-stabilized apartments registered in 1993. 
The rest were attributed to 32,660 rental units lost as tenants moved out of co-op and condo conversions, 26,476 related to the expiration of temporary controls linked to tax-abatement programs, and smaller numbers linked to conversion of professional buildings, combining apartments and in some cases, demolitions and fires.
The loss of long-regulated units is a flash point in the debate about the nation's most extensive patchwork of rent regulations, which have been in place in one form or another since World War II. 
Tenant groups see the losses as an indicator that New York is losing its stock of affordable housing and that legislative changes that weakened the laws need to be rolled back. Owners say the shift from regulated to market-rate rents is long-overdue relief from a program providing large subsidies for affluent residents of Manhattan and far smaller benefits in the rest of the city.
The losses of these older stabilized apartments were offset in part by about 30,000 new apartments temporarily added to the rent regulation system when owners voluntarily sign up for regulation in exchange for tax abatements. But the starting rents in these new apartments are market rents that are typically much higher than $2,000 a month.
The numbers were released at a meeting of the board in Lower Manhattan as it took testimony and reviewed reports in preparing for a final vote on proposed rent increases for apartments covered by the rent-stabilization program. The proposed increases, which would cover leases renewed after next Oct. 1, would be 5 1/2 percent on one-year lease renewals and 8 1/2 percent on two-year renewals. The increases, the biggest since 1989, were intended in part to offset large increases in city property taxes. The vote is scheduled for June 19, following a public hearing on June 17.
At the meeting, the board heard testimony about the impact of the recession on lower-income New Yorkers. It was also told by Daniel L. Greenberg, president of the Legal Aid Society, that such large increases would eventually result in his staff's struggling to prevent the eviction of hundreds of families and their fall into homelessness. "You have the powerto keep so many of these people from becoming homeless," he said. 
The estimates of the number of apartments removed from regulation because of high rents were lower than many owners and tenants had projected, but the report also showed that the number of such apartments has been rising, and more than doubled in three years. They increased to 6,406 last year from 3,164 in 2000. Nine out of 10 of these apartments were in Manhattan. 
But the board's staff also stressed that the number of deregulated apartments reported were "the floor," or the lower limit for such numbers, since the number was based on filings by landlords with the state, and since owners have not always been required to report the decontrol of units to the state. (The report does not include the 60,000 apartments still covered by an older and more strict rent control law, which are outside the board's jurisdiction.)
The board's figures include provisions of laws adopted since 1993 that allow for the decontrol of vacant apartments when the legal regulated rent reaches $2,000. There were 24,370 of these deregulations recording in filings by landlords with the state.
In addition, apartments can be removed from regulation when the legal rent reaches $2,000 and the current tenant's income exceeds $175,000 a year for two consecutive years. There were 2,956 such apartments removed from regulation between 1994 and 2002, according to filings with the state.
The debate over rent regulation has always been contentious, extending even to basic statistics and a seemingly simple question of how many regulated apartments exist in New York City.
Building owners previously estimated that 30,000 to 50,000 apartments had been deregulated in the same period through the deregulation of high-rent apartments. But yesterday spokesmen for landlord groups cited the new figures, which were lower than their own estimates, to make their case that vacancy decontrol was ineffective and needed to be strengthened.
"What this report says is that 60 years from now we will still have rent regulations choking the city's economy," said Jack Freund, executive vice president of the Rent Stabilization Association, an owners' group.
Tenant advocates, who had released estimates that up to 100,000 apartments had been lost to deregulation, said that the new numbers on high-rent deregulation were meaningless because many owners did not report changes and many more did not bother to register at all with the Rent Guidelines Board.
"The issue is not just protecting people who currently live in rent-regulated apartments," said Michael McKee, associate director of New York State Tenants and Neighbors Coalition. "It is to keep these apartments affordable for people who come to the city and for children who grow up here and need a home of their own."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Rent Guidelines Board, left, heard some testimony yesterday, while tenant advocates, above, protested outside City Hall. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)(pg. B3) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENT CONTROL (94%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); TAX LAW (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (73%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (73%); TAX INCENTIVES (72%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (72%); PROPERTY TAX (72%); TAX RELIEF (72%); RECESSION (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (68%); LEGAL AID (66%); WORLD WAR II (50%) HOUSING; RENTING AND LEASING; RENT CONTROL AND STABILIZATION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); LAW AND LEGISLATION 

ORGANIZATION: RENT GUIDELINES BOARD (NYC) 

PERSON: BARBANEL, JOSH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



97 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words

HEADLINE: World Business Briefing Americas: Canada: Interest Rate Unchanged 

BYLINE:  By Bernard Simon (NYT) 

 BODY:
 The Bank of Canada left its overnight interest rate unchanged at 3.25 percent, saying that inflation had ebbed but that the economy was threatened by weak growth in the United States, the appreciating Canadian dollar and the outbreak of severe acute respiratory syndrome in Toronto. Bernard Simon (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TRENDS (84%); SARS (83%); RESPIRATORY DISEASE (83%) CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS 

ORGANIZATION: BANK OF CANADA 

PERSON: SIMON, BERNARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%) ONTARIO, CANADA (73%) CANADA (96%); UNITED STATES (91%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



98 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 684 words

HEADLINE: AFTER THE WAR: SALARIES; 
Cash for the Kurds Is Assailed as Inadequate

BYLINE:  By SABRINA TAVERNISE 

DATELINE: ERBIL, Iraq, June 3 

 BODY:
Thirty million dollars arrived late last week to pay the April salaries of state workers in the independent Kurdish enclave, but the Kurds were disappointed.
 Officials in Erbil, in the western Kurdish zone, said the money received Friday to pay teachers, hospital workers and other government workers amounted to far less than employees formerly received. They also complained because there was no money for the pesh merga fighters, American allies in the war, and warned that local sentiment could harden against American rule. 
 "If they don't pay more than we did, they should at least pay the same," said the finance minister of the western enclave, Sarkis Agha Jan. "We want our people to feel their lives have gotten better since the Americans have come." 
In Erbil this evening, at his streetside shish kebab stand, Fathel Abdulla, 36, a soft-spoken man who has been a fighter since 1991, had angry words about American rule.
"Pesh merga prepared everything for the Americans," he said, sitting in a plastic lawn chair near his grill. "We liberated this area with our blood. Now they act with us like we are cheap, not human, like some kind of servants." 
The fighters have not been paid since January, and Mr. Abdulla started the tiny grill this spring, when he could not make ends meet for his wife and four children. His fighter friends, in similar straits, come to him for food. He pulled out a small notebook with I.O.U. tallies for dinners. In all, he is owed $700, a small fortune. His monthly salary before the war was $100.
Lt. Col. William Butcher, chief of staff for the Office of Coalition Provisional Authority in the north, said the salaries were simplified in order to pay people more quickly and would be adjusted later. 
"This is an interim salary structure developed by coalition authorities in Baghdad," Colonel Butcher said. "It's a good news story. It's difficult to get all the information you need from 18 different provinces and make it exactly right the first time." 
Kurdish officials have criticized American unwillingness to pay their soldiers, who fought in the north alongside the Americans after Turkey refused to open its border. Allied officials in Baghdad were not available for comment tonight.
The region needs the cash badly. Customs revenues, the main source of income for most of the Kurdish region, an independent enclave since 1991, dried up during the war, and salaries have not been paid since March, the month the war began. 
"We are now going through one of the worst economic situations we have ever known," said Nechirvan Barzani, the governor of the western enclave and the nephew of Massoud Barzani, leader of the Kurdistan Democratic Party. "There are no taxes and trade is at a standstill." 
Even worse, revenue from the United Nations oil-for-food program, once a big part of the region's income, has stopped flowing. That money exceeded that of the regional budget and was a very important cushion for the region's economy.
The money came packed in plastic bags, some in denominations as small as five-dollar and one-dollar bills, said Mr. Jan, who added that he expected to begin distribution to employees "in the next few days." 
The cash injection will help ease the financial crunch, but the Kurds are unhappy with the new 10-grade pay scale the Americans devised, which pays much less to employees than before the war, Mr. Jan said.
For instance, a teacher, who before the war received the equivalent of $120 to $410, will now receive $50 and a $30 bonus. The losses will be more severe for highly paid employees. Judges, for instance, will get $250, far less than the $830 they earned before the war.
In all, pesh merga fighters in the western enclave, which is run by the Kurdisstan Democratic Party, number about 63,000, said Sami Abdul Rahman, a senior party official. 
That leaves Mr. Abdulla and others like him with no savings, no insurance, no security and no pay, except what he can earn from selling grilled meat.
"Please print my words," Mr. Abdulla said, squinting in the smoke. "This is not just my problem. We are all in this situation."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Fathel Abdulla, left, who now makes shish kebab to make ends meet, said the Americans now "act with us like we are cheap, not human." (Warzer Jaff for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAGES & SALARIES (91%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (64%); TRENDS (63%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (60%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (60%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (50%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; KURDS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; FOOD 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (59%) UNITED NATIONS 

PERSON: TAVERNISE, SABRINA 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); IRAQ (93%); TURKEY (79%) IRAQ; ERBIL (IRAQ)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



99 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: It's Voters' Turn on School Budgets, and the Mood Is Angry 

BYLINE:  By LYDIA POLGREEN 

DATELINE: VALHALLA, N.Y. June 3 

 BODY:
Last year, when his school taxes were poised to jump 13 percent, Richard Ciccotelli had no problem voting yes. He had bought a house in this Westchester County hamlet on a New York City police detective's salary precisely because it offered excellent schools for his two young children.
 But this year, facing a proposed tax increase of nearly 9 percent, Detective Ciccotelli decided to vote no. 
 "Look, these are my kids and I want the best for them," he said after casting his vote at an elementary school here this afternoon. "But on top of everything else, I think this is too much." 
"Everything else" is a stew of fiscal misery cooked up by a troubled economy, the state's budget problems, local tax increases and a slumping stock market. It was too soon to know exactly how the vote went today on about 700 local school budgets across the state, but many voters interviewed at the polls said their purse strings were too taut even without new school tax increases.
"Enough is enough," Detective Ciccotelli said, his 6-year-old daughter, Nicole, and 4-year-old son, Eric, playing on a jungle gym nearby. "You have to draw the line somewhere."
Residents of New York City's affluent suburbs have generally accepted high taxes in exchange for a first-rate education. But this year the battles over school budgets have been fierce.
Today, the usual naysayers -- senior citizens and people without children -- were joined by some parents. And even among those who voted for their school district's budget, many said they were feeling depleted.
In Suffolk County, Caren Maldonado reluctantly voted yes to her district's 17 percent tax increase. 
"I have been torn to vote yes because my daughter needs to go to kindergarten and you want the best education for your kids," said Ms. Maldonado, who lives in the Miller Place School District, where the budget was rejected by a margin of 149 votes. "I was laid off six months ago because my company got taken over and I have been home since.
"This entire economy scares me. We are already cutting back a lot on outdoor activities, and we won't even be taking a vacation this year. We are worried about what the future economic situation will be and how our family will tackle it."
Faced with a much smaller tax increase, 5.24 percent, Terri Pritchard, whose daughter attends fifth grade in the Roosevelt Union Free School District in Nassau County, was handing out fliers urging voters to reject the district's proposed budget.
"I'm out here letting the people know we're being scammed," Ms. Pritchard said. She voted for a tax increase last year but this year she opposed it, saying the money was not well spent. "My daughter comes home with old schoolbooks," copyright in the mid-1990's, she said. "How can you teach what's going on today with old books?"
The Roosevelt budget was narrowly approved, 254 to 243.
Budget votes were delayed this year by a pitched battle in the State Legislature over education aid. In his initial budget proposal, Gov. George E. Pataki cut state aid to schools, shocking districts across New York. Some districts said they would have to raise taxes 30 to 40 percent as a result of the governor's plan.
The Legislature restored the money and then overrode the governor's veto. But the amount of aid was frozen at last year's level, so aside from making cuts, districts' only option to cover increasing costs was to increase taxes. 
In some districts, the tax increases are huge. In the city of Troy, across the Hudson River from the state capital, school officials proposed a $65.1 million budget for next year, an increase of about 4 percent. The district, which has more than 4,500 students, proposed a 37 percent tax increase to help pay for the budget.
Kevin Burke, 44, a letter carrier who sends his children to private school, called out that "it's way too high" as he carted mail into an elementary school where polling was taking place.
"I can't see in this day and age, with the cost of living, how they can expect anyone to absorb a 37 percent increase," he said.
Mr. Burke said that if the budget was approved, his school taxes would rise by about $700, to a total of about $2,400. "I didn't get a $700 raise," he said.
Davia Collington, 34, statewide director of the Coalition for After-School Funding, an advocacy group, said that she voted for the budget because her 10-year-old daughter, Arianna, attends public school. "Obviously, it is extremely high, but I have a child in the school system so that is my first priority," she said. "I think it's a shame that we have to pit education against taxes."
Ms. Collington said she would have been opposed to layoffs or major cuts in programs. "I think the schools are struggling enough," she said. "I'm hearing this all across the state."
Farther upstate, the picture seemed even bleaker. Even before the polls opened at 10 a.m., the school superintendent in Lyons, a community of 5,000 people between Syracuse and Rochester, was not optimistic. "If I was a betting man, I'd say the budget doesn't have a good chance of passing," said the superintendent, Frederick Bragan. "That tax levy, it's big."
At 9.1 percent, it is almost double last year's tax increase. The district trimmed spending and did all it could to avoid layoffs. It took out, then put back in, the high school swimming program. "We're a small, rural, poor community," Mr. Bragan said. "We're very dependent on state aid. This community can't afford that big a tax levy."
Persuading voters to approve budgets even as they are squeezed by higher county taxes and a sluggish economy has not been easy, and state and local officials said they would not be surprised if an unusual number of school budgets were rejected this year. David Ernst, director of communications and research at the New York State School Boards Association, said this was a tough year for many districts. 
"The major challenge that most districts are facing is balancing the needs of their communities for a top-notch education system," Mr. Ernst said, "and the demand for a prudently managed system that does not exact too much of a burden on the property-tax payer." 
Still, many voters were convinced that higher school taxes were a worthwhile investment. Barbara Van Bramer moved to Valhalla a year and half ago because it has good schools. High taxes, she said, are a small price to pay. 
"Nobody loves taxes," Ms. Van Bramer said, her 4 1/2--year-old son, Lucas, in tow. "But I don't think there is any better place to spend your money."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Voters at an elementary school in Troy, near Albany, cast ballots on a $65.1 million school budget that includes a tax increase of 37 percent. (Stewart Cairns for The New York Times); In Westchester County, Barbara Van Bramer of Valhalla, with son Lucas, 4 1/2, said good schools were worth high school taxes. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (94%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (92%); TAXES & TAXATION (92%); TAX LAW (91%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CHILDREN (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (77%); POLICE FORCES (77%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (52%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: POLGREEN, LYDIA; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



100 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL; 
Gripped By Manu Mania

BYLINE:  By LARRY ROHTER

DATELINE: BAHIA BLANCA, Argentina, June 2 

 BODY:
To Argentine sports fans, a Boca Juniors-River Plate soccer game is the equivalent of a Yankees-Red Sox matchup. Yet last Saturday, one day before this year's grudge match, the front pages of sports sections of the country's main newspapers focused on a basketball player who plays for a team nearly 6,000 miles away, in San Antonio.
 With the N.B.A. finals scheduled to start Wednesday, this soccer-obsessed nation is being swept by basketball fever and, more specifically, what is being called Manu Mania. Thanks to the playoff exploits of Manu Ginobili, the San Antonio Spurs' gifted25-year-old rookie guard, Argentina suddenly has a new hero, a new passion and new hopes. 
 "For some other sporting event to push a Boca-River match into second place is something that I can never remember ever having seen before, and it's all because of Manu," Gonzalo Bonadeo, a prominent sports commentator on Argentine television, said. "We're not even at the midpoint of the year, but I feel confident in saying that he is the Argentine sportsman of the year." 
Ginobili's emergence comes at a time when Argentina is in desperate need of good news. For the last 18 months, this country of 37 million people has been struggling to rebound from the worst economic crisis in its history, one that has plunged 60 percent of the population into poverty, had the peso lose more than 70 percent of its value against the United States dollar and pushed unemployment to a record high of more than 20 percent.
At the same time, Argentine sports fans are struggling to recover from the shocking and unexpected failure of their national squad at soccer's World Cup in Japan and South Korea a year ago this month. 
After so many disappointments, the sight of an Argentine thriving in the N.B.A. and playing a crucial role in the playoffs has come as balm to people here, reawakening dreams of achievement and acceptance that the sporting press is eager to exploit. "Pinch Me!" blared the front-page account of San Antonio's advance to the N.B.A. finals against the Nets in Saturday's edition of Ole!, the country's leading sports daily.
"To behold the unexpected amount of Spurs fans in the stands of the SBC Center, wearing black-and-white shirts with the No. 20, seems like a dream," the columnist Miguel Romano wrote in the daily La Nacion the same day.
Ginobili, who is 6 feet 6 inches and 210 pounds and averaged 7.6 points during the regular season, has also won praise for being a model citizen. Argentines are accustomed to sports idols like Diego Maradona, the soccer star whose problems with drugs and alcohol and quarrels with other players and the news media have come to overshadow his achievements on the field.
"Manu is doing all of this not in some regular-season game against the likes of Golden State, but in the crucible of the playoffs, with the entire world watching," Bonadeo said. "Yet he remains a guy who is calm, polite, easygoing and focused, so in that sense he really has become a role model."
In a cover story in the Sunday magazine section of the daily Clarin, Ginobili sounded an appropriately humble tone, saying that his Argentine background makes him appreciate everything that is now happening. "I know what it is like to travel 15 hours on a rattletrap bus to play a game and I know what it is not to get paid," he said. "I've been through all of that, and it has helped me not to lose my bearings."
Before he was drafted by the Spurs, Ginobili played for several years in Argentina's ramshackle pro league and later in Italy, for Reggio Calabria and then Bologna. He was the most valuable player in the Italian league in the 2000-1 and 2001-2 seasons. He led Bologna to the championship of the Euroleague in 2000-1.
The burst of interest in basketball and Ginobili can be traced to last August, when the Argentine national team shocked everyone by defeating the United States, 87-80, at the world championships in Indianapolis. Ginobili scored 15 points in that game, but he sprained his ankle against Germany and was unable to play in the final, which Argentina lost in overtime to Yugoslavia.
The fever is strongest here in Ginobili's hometown, a port city of 350,000 people more than 400 miles south of Buenos Aires, where the pampa begins to give way to Patagonia. At the airport, a billboard proclaims, "Welcome to the capital of Argentine basketball," and the local sports bar, Legends, now has a special Manu Ginobili Room devoted to his exploits.
"A kind of madness seems to be reigning all over the country, but I feel it most when I walk the streets here," said Jorge Ginobili, the player's 62-year-old father, a retired tobacco company employee and former basketball player. "People are constantly asking me when the Spurs play again and telling me that they are sleepy from having stayed up late the night before to watch the game."
The youngest of three brothers, Manu Ginobili took to the game early. His family home is barely 100 yards from the Club Bahiense del Norte, an unheated neighborhood recreation center that has basketball courts, tennis courts and a skating rink, and, though a good student, Ginobili became a gym rat.
As a child, Ginobili had a life-sized poster of his idol, Michael Jordan, on a wall in his house and was a Chicago Bulls fan. The poster is still there, and when his mother, Raquel, half-jokingly suggested replacing it with an image of her son, "He was shocked at the idea and told me, 'No way,"' she said.
There is no denying, however, that basketball courts all over the country are now filling up with youngsters who want to be like Ginobili. Though the game's new prestige has not reached the level of soccer, and probably never will, it is now challenging rugby and field hockey as the country's second favorite sport.
"Kids who never showed any interest in basketball before now come up to us at school all excited the day after a playoff game," Mauro Jimenez, a 15-year-old member of the Club Bahiense del Norte's junior varsity, said. "They want to know more about the rules and where they can learn to play."
More than 2,500 children between ages 8 and 18 are already playing in a 22-team league here. Bahiense del Norte stands above the rest, however. Besides Ginobili, the club has also sent Pepe Sanchez to the N.B.A. -- he is with the Detroit Pistons -- and several other prospects have gone on to play for teams in Spain and Italy, including Ginobili's older brothers, Leandro and Sebastian.
Juan Alberto Anton, president of Club Bahiense del Norte, said that scouts for at least two other N.B.A. teams had recently attended games. He also issued a friendly warning to Nets fans, arguing that the Spurs, with Ginobili, are a team of destiny.
"We're proud and happy at what Manu has done, but we also know from having watched his game grow over the years that there are even bigger surprises to come," he said. "Manu hasn't even come near his limit yet." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Much of Argentina will watch the Spurs' Manu Ginobili, right, in the N.B.A. finals. At left, at home in Bahia Blanca with his father, Jorge, and his mother, Raquel. (Photographs by Reuters above ; Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL (93%); SPORTS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SOCCER (90%); SOCCER TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); ATHLETES (78%); CELEBRITIES (78%); SPORTS AWARDS (78%); WRITERS (72%); POOR POPULATION (70%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (64%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (83%); SAN ANTONIO SPURS (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (90%) TEXAS, USA (90%) ARGENTINA (94%); UNITED STATES (90%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); BRAZIL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



101 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1540 words

HEADLINE: Canada Fills U.S. Prescriptions Under the Counter 

BYLINE:  By GARDINER HARRIS 

DATELINE: BOCA RATON, Fla., May 30 

 BODY:
With just three computers, a fax machine and two paper shredders, a tiny storefront operation next to a Dunkin' Donuts shop here hardly seems a threat to the pharmaceutical industry.
 But by helping customers arrange to purchase legal drugs at steep discounts from Canadian pharmacies, compared to the prices at nearby pharmacies, Discount Rx Connection and scores of similar stores around the country are part of a revolution in the American drug market. 
 Drug company executives say the discount stores, which generally make a small commission for arranging each order and delivery, threaten their ability to invest in medical research, and the companies have begun limiting shipments to their Canadian suppliers. Health regulators say the stores, which often operate without regulatory oversight or even licensed pharmacists, are a danger to public health, and they have begun a crackdown.
Still, even if regulators succeed in closing the stores, the underground importation of drugs is already shifting to a more elusive sales channel: drug parties akin to those for Tupperware. 
The parties and the discount stores, which refused to discuss their precise fees, are the latest manifestation of the conflict created by the enormous differences in prescription drug prices around the world. Even as governments in almost every industrialized country mandate steep cuts in drug prices, American consumers are paying among the highest prices in the world, and those prices are increasing annually.
The rising prices have led many Americans, especially elderly consumers on fixed incomes, to reach across international borders for their medicines. Cross-border prescription drug sales have soared to as much as $650 million annually, according to IMS Health, a company that tracks drug sales.
Federal regulators largely looked the other way when consumers first began to obtain prescription drugs from Canadian pharmacies through Web sites. But now that retail outlets are opening in the United States, federal and state health authorities are taking action.
 On Tuesday, Judge Bryan C. Dixon of Oklahoma County District Court in Tulsa granted an injunction requested by the Oklahoma State Board of Pharmacy to close an Rx Depot there but put the closing on hold pending an appeal. 
The F.D.A. is mulling its next move after sending a warning letter on March 21 to an Rx Depot in Lowell, Ark., outlining why the entire industry violates federal law.
"We see a lot of drugs coming in the mail that are counterfeit," said Bill Hubbard, an associate commissioner of the F.D.A. "Patients are gambling with their health." 
Neither Canadian health authorities nor the F.D.A. guarantee the safety of drugs imported from Canada. 
But Barbara Harbin, the proprietor of Discount Rx Connection here, denies there is any problem with the quality of the medications she helps obtain. A 44-year-old wife, mother and former Catholic-school fund-raiser, she said that she would never do anything to hurt her patients and that she even helped her father order drugs.
She will only close her store, she says, if Congress passes a Medicare drug benefit that will satisfy the enormous demand among the elderly for cheaper prescription drugs. 
"If they try to shut us down without putting a drug plan into place, we'll fight it," she said. 
Harriet Cohen dropped into Ms. Harbin's store today to check prices after going to a dental appointment nearby. At 72, Mrs. Cohen said she was worried about paying for her diabetes drugs and the many medicines that her husband, Leonard, desperately needs for a failing heart and emphysema. 
Mr. Cohen is a prime candidate for the types of drugs brokers by Discount Rx Connection and similar stores. Because it can take up to three weeks for drugs to arrive, most orders through the stores are for pills taken chronically, such as hypertension drugs. (Prescription narcotics are not generally available.)
Mrs. Cohen buys some of her husband's drugs from the Department of Veterans Affairs, some from a pharmacy run by their insurer, Humana Inc., and some from stores like Discount Rx Connection. Although she has a computer and knows she can order the drugs online herself, she is hesitant to do so. "I just don't trust it," she said. "I like to talk to people face-to-face."
"They started a rumor that there's something wrong with the drugs from Canada, but that's just because they want you to stop taking them," Mrs. Cohen said. But the pharmaceutical industry says it depends on unregulated drug prices to pay for its research into new medicines. 
"We believe there would be more innovation if price controls were lifted" abroad, said Jeff Trewhitt, a spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers of America, the industry's trade group.
Indeed, as Europe clamped down over the past two decades it lost its lead in pharmaceutical innovation. Even some of the large drug companies still based in Europe, like GlaxoSmithKline and Novartis, are shifting many of their operations to the United States. And the biotechnology industry -- where much of the innovation on drugs is now focused -- is almost entirely American-born. 
Several large drug companies are now going so far as to limit shipments to Canada to keep pharmacies there from filling prescriptions from the United States. GlaxoSmithKline said it recently curtailed shipments to Canadian pharmacies exporting to the United States, and AstraZeneca said it was limiting shipments to Canadian customers that were placing orders much larger than usual. 
For their part, regulators are concerned about the lack of oversight of the new stores. Pharmacies in the United States must be licensed and employ licensed pharmacists, and most of the new stores do neither. 
In addition, the new stores "make the regular guys look bad because seniors go there and think they've been getting ripped off," said Hal Wand, deputy director of the Arizona State Board of Pharmacy. 
Jim Detweiler, a pharmacist at Boswell West in Sun City, Ariz. who objects to the new discounters, complained, "If anybody can import from Canada, why can't we?"
Ms. Harbin of Discount Rx Connection says stores like hers do not have licenses because they do not actually sell drugs. Instead, they "facilitate" a transaction between patients and Canadian pharmacies. Mrs. Harbin shreds the copied prescriptions and medical-history forms her customers give her as soon as her Canadian counterpart signals that the forms have been received.
"We are not a pharmacy; we keep no health records here," she said.
Some of the operators of the new stores say they have been stymied in their efforts to obtain regulatory approval. Joel Korsunsky moved from the Canadian province of Manitoba last year to open Prescriptions Drugs Canada in Scottsdale, Ariz., and offered to seek pharmacy licenses and hire licensed pharmacists, he and the pharmacy board said. But the Arizona State Board of Pharmacy told him he could not get licenses because he was selling Canadian drugs, they said. 
"It's like they're complaining that we're living in sin and that we ought to get married but they won't marry us," Mr. Korsunsky said.
Many state health officials still do not believe the stores break any state laws. "These things are not pharmacies," said Leo Roberge, director of drug control for the Connecticut Department of Consumer Protection. "They are acting as a broker and that doesn't come under our pharmacy law."
Because the new stores are not pharmacies, Mr. Roberge said, they do not need pharmacy licenses, and because they do not have pharmacy licenses, they are not subject to state law.
But Mr. Wand and pharmacy board officials in other states have decided that the Canadian drug stores are indeed acting like unlicensed pharmacies because they collect patient information.
"If a patient walks in with a prescription and hands it in along with their health profile and that store keys it into a computer, that's practicing pharmacy," said Jerry Moore, executive director of the Alabama Board of Pharmacy, who is trying to shut down stores there.
Mr. Hubbard of the F.D.A. said the agency's recent letter to Rx Depot "was meant as a warning to this entire new industry. If they don't stop, both the state and federal government may have to get more active in pursuing them."
Ending drug-sale parties will be much more difficult than closing stores, state regulators say. Ron Ewing, an investigator for the Arkansas State Board of Pharmacy, recently attended one of these parties at a retirement home as part of an ongoing investigation. A representative of a Canadian pharmacy handed out drug-price comparisons along with refreshments, Mr. Ewing said. Anyone wanting to purchase cheaper drugs was asked to fill out a form and provide a copy of a prescription.
"There's a tremendous amount of money to be made by these middlemen," said Charles Campbell, executive director of the Arkansas Board of Pharmacy. "But we want to go on record that this is a threat to the public health."
The warnings do not appear to be intimidating the operators of the new stores. Undaunted by regulators' concerns, Rx Depot's president, Carl Moore, is opening more outlets as fast as he can. "We are absolutely going to survive this," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Amanda Hollmann, left, and Barbara Harbin act as brokers for people seeking medicine from Canada through their store in Boca Raton, Fla. (Richard Patterson for The New York Times)(pg. C2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DRUG PRICES (91%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PHARMACIES (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); DISCOUNT & CLUB STORES (90%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); PHARMACISTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (75%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); DRUG SAFETY (72%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (71%); FUNDRAISING (69%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (66%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); INJUNCTIONS (62%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); DISCOUNT SELLING; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS) 

COMPANY: DUNKIN' BRANDS GROUP INC (91%); IMS HEALTH INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DISCOUNT RX CONNECTION (CO) 

TICKER: DNKN (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS722515 SNACK & NONALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE BARS (91%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (91%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%)

PERSON: HARRIS, GARDINER 

GEOGRAPHIC: TULSA, OK, USA (79%) OKLAHOMA, USA (93%); FLORIDA, USA (93%); HEILONGJIANG, CHINA (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (96%); CHINA (73%) CANADA

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



102 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Greenspan Remarks Help Market Shake I.B.M. Worries

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
An upbeat economic assessment by Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve, prompted investors to bid stocks higher yesterday.
 His comments about the economy helped the market shake off earlier losses, which had followed news of a federal investigation into bookkeeping by I.B.M. 
 The Dow Jones industrial average, having gained 47.55 on Monday, rose 25.14 points, or 0.3 percent, to close yesterday at 8,922.95, its highest closing level since Nov. 27, when it stood at 8,931.68. 
The market's broader gauges were also higher. The Nasdaq composite index gained 12.81 points, or 0.8 percent, to 1,603.56. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 4.56 points, or 0.5 percent, to 971.56. 
The gains were surprising given the news from I.B.M. and the talk from analysts that the market was primed for some profit taking after weeks of rallies. All three of the major gauges have climbed in four of the last five weeks because companies were reporting better-than-expected first-quarter profits and economic news was turning more positive. 
Analysts credited yesterday's gains to Mr. Greenspan, who spoke via satellite to top central bankers in Berlin, saying that he saw indications of a "fairly marked turnaround" in the United States economy, with May data suggesting it had "stabilized." 
Peter Cardillo, president and chief strategist of Global Partner Securities, said: "That adds to the bullish sentiment. The undertone of the market remains extremely strong." 
Among the winners was Brocade Communications, a maker of switches used in data-storage systems. Its stock rose $1.22, to $7.26, after Merrill Lynch upgraded the company to buy from neutral. 
Intel advanced 72 cents, to $21.10, ahead of the midquarter update the company is scheduled to deliver tomorrow. 
School Specialty climbed $3.76, to $25.45, after the company, a provider of school supplies, reported a fourth-quarter loss that was a penny a share lower than Wall Street expected. 
I.B.M. dropped $3.51, to $83.82. It announced on Monday that the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating how the company booked revenue in 2000 and 2001. 
Still, analysts were heartened to see that other stocks did not tumble along with I.B.M.
"One positive is we have not seen a heavy storm of selling," said Alan Ackerman, executive vice president at Fahnestock & Company. 
Other losers included Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, which sank $1.68, to $9.52, after the company announced that its chairwoman and chief executive, Martha Stewart, faced possible criminal charges involving an insider trading scandal.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
 (By Bloomberg News) -- The price of Treasuries rose in New York trading yesterday, sending yields on two-year and five-year notes to the lowest since the early 1950's, on speculation the Federal Reserve will reduce its benchmark interest rate of 1.25 percent this year.
Demand for government debt surged after the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, said in a speech that Fed policy makers "need a wider firebreak" barrier against a significant slowdown in inflation, or an outright decline in prices, deflation.
The Fed is "ready to take some insurance against the risk of deflation by cutting interest rates even if the economy rebounds later this year," said Ian Morris, chief United States economist at HSBC Securities USA. 
The 10-year Treasury note rose 21/32, to a price of 102 15/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, declined to 3.33 percent from 3.41 percent on Monday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 30/32, to 116 2/32. The bond's yield dropped to 4.37 percent from 4.43 percent on Friday.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of four-week bills.

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.911
High Rate: 1.140
Coupon Yield: 1.164
Low Rate: 1.110
Median Rate: 1.130
Total applied for: $42,602,055
Accepted: $20,283,295
Noncompetitive: $48,302

The four-week bills mature July 3, 2003.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Table: "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); COMPANY PROFITS (88%); EXECUTIVES (86%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (77%); COMPANY LOSSES (77%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); BROKER RECOMMENDATIONS (73%); SCANDALS (72%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; INTEREST RATES; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); FAHNESTOCK & CO INC (61%); BLOOMBERG LP (58%); INTEL CORP (53%); MARTHA STEWART LIVING OMNIMEDIA INC (51%)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (53%); MSO (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS512191 TELEPRODUCTION & OTHER POSTPRODUCTION SERVICES (51%); NAICS454113 MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (51%); NAICS423220 HOME FURNISHING MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (51%); NAICS332215 METAL KITCHEN COOKWARE, UTENSIL, CUTLERY & FLATWARE (EXCEPT PRECIOUS) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS327110 POTTERY, CERAMICS & PLUMBING FIXTURE MANUFACTURING (51%) SIC7373 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES; 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); MARTHA STEWART (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



103 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1142 words

HEADLINE: Challenges Expected For Alaska Senator 

BYLINE:  By ADAM CLYMER 

DATELINE: ANCHORAGE, Alaska, June 2 

 BODY:
When Frank Murkowski quit the Senate after being elected governor last fall, he broke up one of the longest-serving delegations in Congressional history -- consisting of himself, Senator Ted Stevens and Representative Don Young. The three had been together in Washington since 1980.
 But there was continuity, at least in last names, because in appointing a successor to finish his term, he chose his daughter, State Representative Lisa Murkowski. 
 Now, as Ms. Murkowski, a Republican, campaigns to be elected in her own right next year, she is trying to set the tone by arguing, "It's important that we have the fresh face I'm offering." But other Alaska politicians are getting ready to argue that it's time for another change -- before she gets entrenched. 
Former Gov. Tony Knowles, a Democrat forced by term limits to give up the governorship last fall after eight years, sounds like a certain candidate. 
Though he says no more about his personal ambitions than "I'm seriously looking at it," he argues that a Democrat can win if he is pro-defense, pro-business, pro-Social Security and a critic of the USA Patriot Act, which the staunchly conservative Alaska Legislature denounced recently. He suggests that description fits him.
Republicans agree that he would be a formidable opponent. "They don't call him 'Slick' because of Brylcreem," said Jerry Hood, a Teamster leader and prominent Republican.
Nationally, Democrats are already focusing their attention on Alaska because they see it as one of their two best chances to pick up a Republican Senate seat (Illinois is the other) in 2004. But before Ms. Murkowski can set about holding off Mr. Knowles, she has to get past a likely Republican primary next September. Although she told a news conference here last week that she was not aware of any challengers, at least three prominent Republicans say they are thinking about running. They are Mr. Hood, Johne Binkley, who runs a Fairbanks riverboat company, and Sarah Palin, the former mayor of Wasilla, whom Mr. Murkowski appointed to the state Oil and Gas Conservation Commission, a $118,000-a-year position.
"A lot of folks believe there is going to be some kind of a challenge," Randy Ruedrich, the state Republican chairman, conceded.
The Republican establishment is doing its best to discourage serious primary opposition that could weaken its grip on the seat, even with President Bush sure to carry Alaska in 2004. The National Republican Senatorial Committee put out a poll last month designed to show that potential primary voters supported her (though also noting that Mr. Knowles's favorability was equivalent to hers). Mr. Stevens and Mr. Young have lined up behind her, and Senator Stevens told the same news conference, "The seniority she has got is very important to a small state."
That may be a stretch. Ms. Murkowski, 46, is 92nd in seniority in the Senate, which hardly puts her in the same league as Mr. Stevens, who is 79. He ranks fifth in the Senate and is chairman of the Appropriations Committee, which he has made one of Alaska's major economic resources. Mr. Young, 69, ranks ninth in the House and heads the Transportation Committee, after six years in charge of the Resources Committee. 
One major asset that Ms. Murkowski appeared to bring to the job -- a reputation for independence in the Legislature on issues from taxes to abortion -- seems to have faded. When Alaskans can be diverted from discussing prospects for the salmon runs, they often offer comments like that of Will Files, a computer consultant in the village of Homer. "It is sort of disappointing to see her go to Washington and spout the party line," Mr. Files said.
In an interview, Ms. Murkowski acknowledged that perception. She said that with the Senate focused on budget matters there was "a great deal of pressure to hold together and back the president." On coming issues, she said, she expects to be more independent. 
She told the Chamber of Commerce in Eagle River that the feedback she was getting amounted to: "Keep it up. You're doing good. You've got a lot to learn."
Mr. Hood, the only possible rival willing to be quoted about her, was more critical. He said her performance had been "lackluster at best," and said resentment over the nepotism of her appointment had not evaporated.
In Washington she has not had a prominent Senate role. Because of Alaska's high unemployment rate, 7.2 percent in April, Republican leaders let her carry a tax bill amendment to extend temporary jobless benefits. But she stumbled when debating it with Senator Edward M. Kennedy of Massachusetts and Senator Don Nickles of Oklahoma, the budget chairman, jumped in to assist.
Ms. Murkowski has supported oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Reserve and construction of a natural gas pipeline to the Middle West, like almost every Alaska politician. But she has also taken up education and health care matters, trying to make sure federal policies make sense in a state that is not rural but "bush," with hundreds of towns connected not by car and truck but by riverboat or snowmobile or helicopter.
One severe problem may be beyond her control -- the historic factionalism of Alaska Republicans. Mr. Knowles was first elected governor in 1994, when Republicans split. Intraparty challenges to establishment candidates are frequent, although long-serving members of Congress have been spared. But this is the first time a Senate seat will be seriously contested since her father won it in 1980.
One heavily Republican group that has its guard up is the Alaska Right to Life committee. Karen Vosburgh, its executive director, said, "More than likely, we're going to have to run someone against her." And Ed Wassell, the group's president, said, "We could probably swing 8 to 15 percent of the vote." 
Ms. Murkowski opposed state legislation to limit financing for abortions, and in Washington supported some amendments to legislation restricting one form of late-term abortion, though she voted for the final bill. "I have a pro-choice position," she said, "though that support is not without qualification."
Finally, the Murkowski name may end up hurting her. Her father is struggling as governor. He campaigned in opposition to all new taxes, then told the Legislature the state needed a sales tax. But he failed to get it passed, and this month he faces the prospect of line-item vetoes on $130 million in popular state activities, from promoting tourism to a "longevity benefit" of up to $250 a month that Alaska pays its elderly residents. 
Mark Mellman, a Democratic pollster from Washington, said her father's unpopularity would hurt her. Mr. Hood agreed. "Her father's negatives are going to drag her down," he predicted. And one moderate Republican state legislator, a supporter of hers, said, "It may well be now that her father's name is a drag."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A constituent, Ron Shattuck, recently presented a pen to Senator Lisa Murkowski, center, to sign a print celebrating women in politics, after a town meeting on Medicare. At right is her press secretary, Kristin Pugh. (Michael Dinneen for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); TERM LIMITS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); US SENATE ELECTIONS (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (77%); CONSERVATISM (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (62%) ELECTIONS; PRIMARIES; ELECTION ISSUES 

ORGANIZATION: SENATE (US) 

PERSON: LISA MURKOWSKI (92%); TED STEVENS (89%); DON YOUNG (78%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); SARAH PALIN (58%) MURKOWSKI, LISA (SEN); MURKOWSKI, FRANK H (GOV); CLYMER, ADAM; KNOWLES, TONY 

GEOGRAPHIC: ANCHORAGE, AK, USA (79%); FAIRBANKS, AK, USA (71%) ALASKA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) ALASKA

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



104 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 851 words

HEADLINE: Summit Leaders Express Unity on Iraq, but Strains Show 

BYLINE:  By JOHN TAGLIABUE 

DATELINE: EVIAN-LES-BAINS, France, June 3 

 BODY:
Leaders of the major industrialized countries managed to put aside their differences over the American-led war on Iraq today, saying they shared a common interest in rebuilding the nation into a stable democracy.
 "Our shared objective is a fully sovereign, stable and democratic Iraq, at peace with its neighbors and firmly on the road to progress," they said in a statement today. 
 Despite the leaders' seeming unity on Iraq, some of the wartime strains were still in evidence. President Jacques Chirac of France, who met with President Bush on Monday in an effort to repair their fractured relationship, repeated his opinion that the war was "illegitimate and illegal." Speaking to reporters as the three-day meeting in this French spa town wound down, Mr. Chirac said, "I didn't approve of it and I still don't approve of it." 
Mr. Chirac and Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi of Japan strongly denied that a statement on nuclear proliferation issued Monday had implied the possible use of military force. In the statement, the leaders urged North Korea and Iran to curb their nuclear programs, saying they could employ "if necessary, other means" than the tools provided by international nonproliferation accords. 
On Monday, senior White House officials said that the unusually strong language was made possible only thanks to support from France, Germany and Russia, countries that had been less than supportive on the war in Iraq. The officials, accompanying President Bush on his trip to the Middle East, could not be reached for comment today.
Mr. Chirac, asked at a news conference whether the appeal to North Korea and Iran implied a clear reference to force, replied: "This interpretation seems extraordinarily daring. There was never a question of using force against anyone in any way."
Supporting Mr. Chirac's view, Mr. Koizumi said there was no intention of using force against North Korea. "We shall pursue through and through peaceful and diplomatic solutions to the North Korean problem." He added, "I think that was agreed upon last evening."
Mr. Bush and Prime Minister Tony Blair of Britain left on Monday, skipping a dinner that evening at which the remaining leaders -- from Canada, France, Germany, Italy, Japan and Russia -- held a freewheeling discussion. Several leaders said the talk focused strongly on the danger of the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction.
Prime Minister Jean Chretien of Canada replied evasively when pressed on whether the leaders intended to imply the threat of force. "We don't have a solution clear in mind at this moment," Mr. Chretien said at a news conference.
The nations' unity is threatened by Russia's contract to help Iran develop its civilian nuclear energy. Despite pressure from the United States to stop, Russia's president, Vladimir V. Putin, said today that Iran "is our neighbor, and we shall continue to cooperate with him." 
In an interview with Agence France-Presse, Mr. Putin said, however, that Russia would insist that Iran comply with the inspections regime of the International Atomic Energy Agency. "We shall insist that all Iranian programs in the nuclear field should be put under control of this organization," he said.
Mr. Koizumi said Japan would argue forcefully to be included together with Russia and South Korea in any future talks with North Korea. The United States held brief and largely unsuccessful talks this spring with the North Koreans through the mediation of China. But Mr. Koizumi said Japan, Russia and South Korea, as close neighbors of the North Koreans, should also sit at any future negotiating table.
"I think we should try our best to see to it that the North Koreans become responsible members of the international community and expeditiously dismantle their nuclear programs," he said.
As the remaining leaders left this afternoon, Mr. Chirac, the host of the meeting, argued that his invitation to leaders of developing countries had paid off. He said it led to agreements on everything from economic growth and debt relief and water to avoiding the risk of terrorist attacks on civilian vessels and aircraft.
The United States is to be the host of the talks next year, and Mr. Chirac said that while he had assurances from Britain, where the meeting will be held in 2005, to continue the invitations to developing nations, he hoped the United States would do likewise.
But representatives from nongovernmental organizations that send observers argue that the invitations have actually led to a prodigious flowering of watered-down documents lacking real teeth by the Group of 8 leaders, who are unable to accommodate their own interests and those of the developing countries.
A representative of Doctors Without Frontiers, Ellen 't Hoen, cited as an example the final draft of a statement calling for access to affordable drugs for developing countries. The passage was stripped of all the concrete proposals contained in an original draft from January, she said, because of opposition from large drug companies in Germany and the United States.
"It's almost like watching a patient die," Ms. 't Hoen said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: At the talks, from left, are Romano Prodi, Italian president of the European Union, Jacques Chirac of France, Junichiro Koizumi of Japan, Jean Chretien of Canada, Costas Simitis of Greece and Vladimir Putin of Russia.; Demonstrators in Geneva protesting the economic summit meeting in the nearby French town of Evian yesterday clashed with riot policemen, running from water cannon and tear gas. The city's police chief described the rioters, who ignored a city ban on demonstrations, as "not just troublemakers, but real criminals." (Photographs by Agence France-Presse) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IRAQ WAR (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (90%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (78%); TRENDS (74%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (73%); POLITICS (72%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; DEMONSTRATIONS AND RIOTS; BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; TERRORISM; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%); EUROPEAN UNION (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (90%); JEAN CHRETIEN (87%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%); VLADIMIR PUTIN (78%); ROMANO PRODI (55%); SILVIO BERLUSCONI (55%); TONY BLAIR (52%); GERHARD SCHRODER (50%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN); CHIRAC, JACQUES (PRES); KOIZUMI, JUNICHIRO (PRIME MIN); PUTIN, VLADIMIR V (PRES); SCHRODER, GERHARD (CHANCELLOR); BERLUSCONI, SILVIO (PRIME MIN); CHRETIEN, JEAN (PRIME MIN); TAGLIABUE, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: GENEVA, SWITZERLAND (92%) FRANCE (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); CANADA (94%); IRAQ (94%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (94%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%); JAPAN (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%); ITALY (92%); GERMANY (91%); EUROPE (79%); GREECE (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (77%) IRAQ; GREAT BRITAIN; FRANCE; EVIAN-LES-BAINS (FRANCE); JAPAN; NORTH KOREA; IRAN; GENEVA (SWITZERLAND); RUSSIA; GERMANY; ITALY; CANADA

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



105 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1047 words

HEADLINE: DeLay Rebuffs Move to Restore Lost Tax Credit 

BYLINE:  By DAVID FIRESTONE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3 

 BODY:
The House majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay, said today that the House would not consider a Democratic measure to provide an increased tax credit to 6.5 million low-income families who did not receive it in the new tax law.
 Mr. DeLay, a Texas Republican, said the increased tax credits would be approved only if they were part of a broader tax-cut package, possibly including permanent repeal of the estate tax or making state sales taxes deductible. A package of that size would require 60 votes to pass in the Senate, and Democratic opposition to big new tax cuts would make such passage almost impossible. 
 Clearly irked at the mounting criticism of Republicans for the last-minute decision not to give the credit to minimum-wage families, Mr. DeLay said those who favored the increased credit had had their chance in the debate over the bill. 
"There are a lot of other things that are more important than that," Mr. DeLay said in a news conference today. "To me, it's a little difficult to give tax relief to people that don't pay income tax."
Mr. DeLay's position puts him at odds with a growing number of Senate Republicans who have signed on to a measure that would extend the $400-per-child increase in the credit to many families making from $10,500 to $26,625. The Senate had approved the increase for those families last month, but it was removed in final negotiations with the House. Six Senate Republicans now support the measure, along with most Democrats.
The $3.5 billion measure, which is paid for by reducing corporate tax shelters and changing some accounting practices, was attached to an unrelated amendment to the energy bill by its chief sponsor, Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas. Republican leaders, concerned that the measure might pass before they took a position on it, pulled the energy amendment from consideration late this afternoon, preferring to debate the child credits on Wednesday or later in the week.
Like Mr. DeLay, many Senate Republicans would prefer to consider the child credits as part of a more expensive bill that would cut other taxes. One such bill, introduced today by the chief Senate tax writer, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Finance Committee, would extend the credit to both minimum-wage families and to far wealthier married couples. While the child credit is now phased out for couples making more than $110,000, Mr. Grassley's bill would begin the phase-out at $150,000.
The White House, which had stayed on the sidelines since President Bush signed the tax law last week, today extended support to Mr. Grassley's bill.
"We want to work with Congress to address it," said Scott McClellan, a White House spokesman. "The president believes Senator Grassley's proposal is one good idea for addressing it."
President Bush had not proposed giving the increased child credit to minimum-wage families in his original tax-cut proposal, but the White House said last week that he would have signed the bill if Congressional negotiators had included the credit.
The credit was dropped in negotiations among House and Senate leaders and White House representatives that included no Democrats.
With six Republicans supporting Ms. Lincoln's bill to extend the credit, it is not clear that Mr. Grassley's bill can muster even a simple majority in the Senate, let alone the 60 votes that would be required for passage. The six Republicans are Senators John W. Warner of Virginia, Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins of Maine, Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania and George V. Voinovich of Ohio. 
Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, is also considering sponsoring the Lincoln bill, putting the bill almost in reach of the 60 votes it may require if Republicans successfully raise budget objections. Democrats are hoping for a ruling that the bill can pass with a simple majority.
"We need to fix this, and fix it fast," said Senator Hillary Rodham Clinton, Democrat of New York, who is a co-sponsor of the Lincoln bill. "How the administration and the House and Senate conferees reached their conclusion that eliminating 12 million children was good for American families, their children and our overall economy defies logic."
The practice of giving tax refunds to poor people who do not pay income tax has been in use since 1975, when Congress enacted the earned-income tax credit, which provides $32 billion in refunds to 19 million households. In 2001, Republicans agreed to give refunds of the child credit to people who do not owe tax, in part to offset the Social Security and Medicare taxes that all wage-earners pay.
In the House, Democratic leaders began a bit of legislative civil disobedience today to protest the leadership's decision not to consider extending the tax credits. The Democrats refused to agree to several routine bills and forced the House to take extra time on procedural matters. They said they would not allow the House to conduct business as usual until the bill was considered.
"They say leave no child behind, but whether you talk about education or tax relief, they are not there to provide this assistance," said Representative Charles E. Rangel, Democrat of New York, referring to Republican leaders. "They are driven, and they can't control themselves. They have to control even moderate Republicans by making certain that the investor group gets the protection and that the funds are just not there to provide other types of relief."
Beginning next month, about 25 million mostly middle-class families will begin receiving checks of $400 per child, representing the increase in the child credit to $1,000 from $600 in the new law. Mr. DeLay said that giving such checks to families who do not pay income tax amounts to a spending program. The Senate could easily have won the credits in the negotiations if it had not been so rigid about fitting the program under a $350 billion ceiling, he said.
"Those that are complaining the most about this being taken out in the negotiations are the ones that were against the tax cuts in the first place, and I think it's pretty shameable that they are now crying for it," he said. "Particularly those in the Senate that required that we have a $350 billion box that we had to work with." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); TAX LAW (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); FAMILY (91%); TAX RELIEF (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); APPROVALS (78%); ESTATE TAX (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (77%); SALES TAX (73%); INCOME TAX (73%); MARRIAGE (72%); CORPORATE TAX (72%); MINIMUM WAGE (69%); ACCOUNTING (68%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (63%); US PRESIDENTS (62%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX CREDITS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; TAX SHELTERS; ACCOUNTING AND ACCOUNTANTS; ENERGY AND POWER 

PERSON: CHUCK GRASSLEY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); BLANCHE LINCOLN (59%) DELAY, TOM (REP); GRASSLEY, CHARLES E (SEN); BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); FIRESTONE, DAVID 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



106 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan Is Upbeat on Economy And Stirs Hope of More Rate Cuts 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 3 

 BODY:
Alan Greenspan, the chairman of the Federal Reserve, said today that the economy had stopped deteriorating last month and that he saw "the makings of a turnaround."
 He also said that inflation was "not something of significance for the Federal Reserve to be concerned about" now, causing investors to believe that the Fed is willing to bolster the economy by cutting short-term interest rates even further when it meets later this month. 
 Mr. Greenspan's remarks, made by satellite to a bankers' conference in Berlin, was the clearest version yet of a carefully scripted message he has been delivering over the last month. His comments have contributed to the unusual combination of increases in both stock and bond prices, making an economic rebound more probable. 
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.56 points, or 0.5 percent, to 971.56 today and is 4.5 percent higher than it was one month ago. The price of 10-year Treasury notes also rose, causing the interest rate on them to decline, to 3.33 percent. When investors become hopeful about the economy, they typically sell bonds, which are a more conservative investment than stocks.
By emphasizing the positive signs he has seen, like a fall in both energy and finance costs, Mr. Greenspan has contributed to the recent rise in confidence among consumers, executives and stock investors. He said today that there had recently been "a dramatic reversal in all of the various different elements" that had been harming the economy early this year.
But by noting that the Fed remains concerned about deflation, a sustained decline in prices that can cripple an economy, Mr. Greenspan has signaled to bond investors that interest rates will probably remain low for months and could even fall further. Investors have responded by bringing down long-term interest rates, which determine the cost of mortgages and many other loans, even as they have bid up stocks.
"He's separated out the two groups on Wall Street and he has played them both off each other," said Drew T. Matus, an economist at Lehman Brothers.
Mr. Greenspan emphasized today that the evidence of a recovery remained too scant for him to be confident of what would happen next. "There is some indication of return" to faster growth, he told the bankers, "but it is at this stage not by any means clear."
He spent much of his opening remarks, which were part of a panel of central bankers, listing reasons to be optimistic, including a pickup in consumer confidence and the additional money that the recently signed tax cut will give many households. Most important, he said, stocks have risen and interest rates have fallen on junk bonds, which are issued by companies whose prospects investors consider questionable.
He added that the change in these credit markets suggested "a fairly marked turnaround" for the economy.
After falling into recession in March 2001, the economy began growing again late that year. So far, though, the growth has been too weak for companies to add workers, and the economy has lost more than two millions jobs since early 2001 while wages have stopped growing more quickly than inflation for many workers.
In recent weeks, Mr. Greenspan has said that he expects growth to accelerate once the uncertainty over the war in Iraq passes. His remarks today were the first time he has publicly said that he has begun to see evidence of actual improvement.
For it to continue, Mr. Greenspan said, both the weekly and monthly economic data released by the government and private groups "have got to start to move in a positive direction fairly quickly."
Automakers, whose sales Fed officials follow closely, reported today that cars and trucks sold at an annual rate of 16.1 million vehicles in May. That was better than the 15.7 million rate a year earlier but a marked slowdown from sales at the end of 2002. 
Mr. Greenspan also continued to explain the radical change in the Fed's stance toward inflation. After decades of fighting aggressively to keep prices from rising rapidly, the Fed has become worried that the long economic slump could cause prices to begin declining, raising the effective cost of debts as each dollar became more valuable and causing consumers to cut spending in anticipation of future bargains.
Today, Mr. Greenspan called the risk of deflation very small but said that its damage could be severe if it took hold. Because inflation appears so unlikely in coming months, the Fed remains willing to take out "insurance against economic weakness," he said.
Investors seemed to interpret his comments as openness to a new reduction in the Fed's rate on overnight loans between banks, which is now 1.25 percent. The rate on a futures contract based on the benchmark fell today to 1.05 percent. That level suggests either that investors believe strongly that the Fed will cut the rate by a quarter-point or that they think there is a one in two chance that the rate will fall by a half-point. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BONDS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); TREASURY SECURITIES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (74%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (74%); BOND MARKETS (74%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; INTEREST RATES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%) FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (91%) LEONHARDT, DAVID; GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



107 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1795 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Chief's Idea for Raising Alabama: Taxes 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HALBFINGER 

DATELINE: MONTGOMERY, Ala., June 3 

 BODY:
Alabama's new Republican governor, Bob Riley, styles himself after Ronald Reagan, complete with a pompadour and campaign photos that show him on horseback. Philosophically, too, he is an avowed Reaganite who says he never voted for a tax increase in six years in Congress and was once named its most conservative member.
 Yet this same Mr. Riley has stunned his state and his party, and risked his political future, by calling for Alabama's largest tax increase ever: $1.3 billion, or 22 percent of the taxes the state now collects. 
 What is more, this conservative Republican wants not merely to raise taxes but to redistribute money from the wealthy to Alabama's working poor. 
In one fell swoop, it seems, Mr. Riley is trying to overhaul what many here in Montgomery acknowledge is one of the nation's most dysfunctional state governments, and drag Alabama's finances, schools and prisons into the 21st century -- if not, some might say, the 20th.
To succeed, Mr. Riley has had to take on not just the mighty Alabama teachers union but his own political base -- big corporations, farmers, timberland owners and the rural, antigovernment "just-leave-me-alone" constituency that has set the tone for politics in this state for generations.
So far, Mr. Riley, who called a special legislative session to press his 23-bill package of tax increases and "accountability" measures, is getting just about everything he wants. But when the special session ends here on Saturday, the real battle begins. For Mr. Riley has chosen to put his entire proposal before the people in a single up-or-down referendum, and he will have just 90 days to sell it to a famously anti-tax populace. Polls, experts and history all suggest that voters are quite likely to slam the door in his face.
The governor is unmoved.
"I said in the campaign we'd never transform the culture in Alabama until we had an entire administration for whom re-election wasn't the pre-eminent thing," Mr. Riley, 58, said in an interview.
Not surprisingly, Mr. Riley's initiative has turned Alabama politics topsy-turvy -- he likens it to the "planet Bizarro" -- with Democrats grinning from the sidelines and conservative Republicans, who thought they knew him, ducking for cover.
"I'm caught between desperately trying to help the governor and maintaining some consistencies in Republican policy," said Marty Connors, the Alabama Republican chairman. "It's very difficult to have on one side of my desk talking points from the president on why we have to have tax cuts, and on the other side, talking points from the governor on why we have to have tax increases."
Mr. Riley's biggest obstacle may be the state's longtime opposition to taxes and distrust of government, which have their roots in Reconstruction. After Reconstruction, Alabama's constitution was rewritten "to create a government that couldn't do anything wrong to them anymore," said James W. Williams Jr., director of Samford University's Public Affairs Research Council. The result, he said, was a system that could not do much right, either.
"Everywhere else, if you want money for schools, you raise taxes," Mr. Williams said. "Here, people want to keep taxes low, because they figure they're getting nothing for their money anyway."
Over time, that logic has been taken to its extreme. Alabama has perhaps the nation's most regressive income tax: a family of four pays state taxes once its income reaches $4,600, the lowest threshold of any state; Mississippi's, by comparison, is $19,600
Alabama also has the nation's most hogtied state budget: seven out of eight dollars in Alabama revenues, by far the most in the country, are "earmarked" for specific purposes, including the entire income tax, which pays for teacher salaries. Among the effects of earmarking, which arose as a check on spendthrift lawmakers, is that when revenues fall in one category, the state has little flexibility to re-allocate its income to plug gaps, so midyear cuts, especially in schools, become draconian.
Two other governors in the last half-century have made unsuccessful stabs at an overhaul, but by and large, tackling the tax system was just not something that successful Alabama politicians considered, said Cleophus Thomas Jr., secretary of the state Democratic Party.
"Democrats in Alabama," Mr. Thomas said, "almost have had the choice between being in power and having the party's values translated into policy -- a progressive tax system, forswearing morally suspect modes of revenue-raising like lotteries for taxes, and a government that works."
Indeed, it was Don Siegelman, the Democrat whom Mr. Riley unseated in November, who twice tried to get a state lottery enacted. Mr. Siegelman also doubled the state's debt and gave teachers a big raise, Mr. Riley complains, contributing to a budget deficit that his aides put at about $675 million.
But while other states are contending with bigger deficits, Alabama in many respects is in worse shape, with far less maneuvering room. Other states enriched their Medicaid formulas in the 1990's, but Alabama never did. 
Alabama's prisons are already at more than 200 percent of their capacity, and Alabama spends less per inmate than any other state. 
"No one likes to raise taxes, least of all me," Mr. Riley said. "On the other hand, the inevitable is here."
That, and a chance to right wrongs. Mr. Riley, a proud product of the Bible Belt who speaks of his goals in moral and religious terms, seems to be emphasizing compassion over conservatism. 
"If the New Testament teaches me anything, it teaches me not only to love thy neighbor but also to help those who are the least among us," Mr. Riley said. "Having a regressive tax structure is one thing. But when it starts at $4,600 for a family of four, that's immoral."
Mr. Riley's plan would raise that income threshold for taxes to $17,000 immediately and to $20,000 in three years, while raising the tax rate to 6 percent from 5 percent. It would also eliminate Alabama's full deduction for federal taxes paid, a provision that now disproportionately benefits the rich. All told, his aides say, more than half of Alabama taxpayers would have lower income taxes.
Mr. Riley's most striking initiative, meanwhile, is a tax on intangible assets, otherwise known as a wealth tax, at a tenth of a percent of the value of stocks and bonds, up to a $5,000 annual cap.
Mr. Connors, the state Republican leader, acknowledged the moral dimension of Mr. Riley's plan, but also his own discomfort with it, when asked how far one might go to make a regressive tax system progressive before it ceased to be a "moral" act and became a "liberal" or "Democratic" one.
"I don't know, but we're getting close to it on this package," he said.
Mr. Riley, who says that Alabama voters have gone beyond skepticism toward politicians into "absolute cynicism," said he dared not call for taxes without offering something in return. So his 23 bills include a Republican wish list: teachers and state workers will have to pay much more for their health insurance; teachers who are fired will have to take their grievances to binding arbitration instead of the costly, slow-moving state courts; so-called pass-through pork, in which lawmakers bury pet projects in state agency budgets, will be banned; and most important, all the new revenue his taxes generate will not be earmarked but will be available for use however the governor and legislature see fit.
The governor, for his part, sees the added revenue as a means to an end: improving Alabama's education system, educating its work force and attracting high-wage businesses to the state, all in turn. It is a turnabout, he acknowledges, from the state's simple, longstanding approach to economic development: keep taxes low and land and labor cheap.
"Alabama needs to be a leader in so many areas, and it's never been," Mr. Riley said. "It's up to me to convince Alabamians that there is an option. If we ever demand the level of excellence out of education that we do out of football, we'll be fine."
Yet Mr. Riley's plan, and along with it his future, are very much in doubt.
Some here are questioning whether the pain is being spread as fairly as it ought to be. The administration has softened the blows that utility companies and owners of agricultural and timberlands will feel from the increases in property taxes.
And with one major concession, a one-year guarantee against teacher layoffs, Mr. Riley won the support of Paul Hubbert, the powerful head of the Alabama Education Association. 
"You can't get anything done without him, but do you want to deal with the devil?" Mr. Connors said. "Why are teachers a protected class? And why has no state employee been laid off? That's going to be part of the debate."
Meanwhile, Democrats, who control the legislature, are thanking Mr. Riley in advance for eliminating "tax-and-spend" from the electoral lexicon of the next campaign cycle or two, said Mr. Thomas, the party secretary. But they are unlikely to stick their necks out for Mr. Riley, either, he said.
Editorial boards and academics, at least, are praising Mr. Riley's courage, while also pointing out that only Nixon could have gone to China.
David Lanoue, a political scientist at the University of Alabama, noted that Mr. Riley has compared himself to Ronald Reagan, who raised taxes in 1967, his first year as governor of California.
Mr. Riley and Alabama actually have it much rougher, Mr. Lanoue said: California was richer, its citizens were already used to relatively high tax rates, and there had yet to emerge the big anti-tax rebellion of the late 1970's. "What Riley's attempting is far more courageous," he said.
But courage will get you only so far.
Over a business lunch at the Farmer's Market Cafe here, John Virden, 44, sounded a familiar note. 
"Sure, our taxes are low, yes, but the cost of living is low, too," Mr. Virden said. "I voted for Riley, but I'm surprised at this. Being a business owner, I've never had a cost-of-living raise, a merit raise, I've never been guaranteed three weeks of vacation or 12 or 15 holidays, yet they want that from the taxpayers."
"Let's wait and grow out of it," said Wayne Taylor, one of his vendors, of the state's budget woes. "That's what I'd expect a good Republican to say."
As he maps out how to persuade voters like Mr. Taylor, Mr. Riley says he is wrestling with the morality of what would be a "hard sell" -- warning the elderly that their prescription drug benefits would disappear, telling citizens that a third of the state troopers and thousands of teachers would be let go, and that inmates would be released from the prisons if his plan is defeated.
Of course, if it is, Mr. Riley may yet have the chance to prove his argument, and to tell the voters "I told you so."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Bob Riley of Alabama talked on Friday about his tax reform bills. (Jamie Martin for The New York Times) Chart: "In Alabama, Taking On Taxes"Gov. Bob Riley is proposing a $1.3 billion tax increase in a state hampered by budgetary problems. Alabama collects the least per person in taxes . . . Per capita state and local taxes, including property, sales and income taxes, for 2000 S. Dakota: $2,299Arkansas: 2,230Mississippi: 2,214Tennessee: 2,185Alabama: 2,117U.S. AVERAGE: 3,100 . . . even while taxing some of its poorest citizens. Income level at which a four-person family begins to owe state income tax, for 2002 Alabama: $4,600Kentucky: 5,500Indiana: 9,500Montana: 9,900W. Virginia: 10,000S. AVERAGE: 19,512 It is also constrained by law in how it spends its money. States with the highest percentage of money earmarked by law for specific programs, for 1997 Alabama: 87%Nevada: 65Tennessee: 60Michigan: 55Utah: 54U.S. AVERAGE: 22 Data is most recent available (Sources: Public Affairs Research Council of Alabama; Center on Budget and Policy Priorities; National Conference of State Legislatures) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); POLITICS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LEGISLATION (77%); TEACHER UNIONS (52%) TAXATION; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ELECTIONS; REFERENDUMS; FINANCES; GOVERNORS (US); POLITICS ANDGOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: CENTER ON BUDGET & POLICY PRIORITIES (59%); NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (59%)

PERSON: BOB RILEY (93%); RONALD REAGAN (92%) RILEY, BOB (GOV); HALBFINGER, DAVID M 

GEOGRAPHIC: MONTGOMERY, AL, USA (79%) ALABAMA, USA (99%) UNITED STATES (99%) ALABAMA

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



108 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 4, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 577 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Martha Stewart to Face Indictment, Company Says
Martha Stewart faces imminent indictment on criminal charges, the result of an investigation into a personal stock trade that has weighed down her media and merchandising company for more than a year.
 An indictment would be a dramatic turn for Ms. Stewart, the 61-year-old founder who created a business teaching others about domestic arts and crafts. Page A1. 

Regulators Take On Discount Shops
Health regulators have begun to crack down on stores offering to connect consumers with Canadian pharmacies that sell drugs at steep discounts from the prices charged by American pharmacies. A1.

Clothing Concerns Sue Each Other
Jones Apparel sued Polo Ralph Lauren for at least $550 million in damages because the designer revoked a license to make shirts, pants and blouses for the Lauren brand. Polo Ralph Lauren also filed a suit to void the Lauren license, contending the agreement should be ended now instead of 2006 because Jones did not meet its sales requirements. C2.

House Will Not Consider Tax Credit
The House majority leader, Tom DeLay, said the House would not consider a Democratic measure to provide an increased tax credit to 6.5 million low-income families who did not receive it in the new tax law. A1.

Judge Seeks Details on Wall St. Deal
A federal judge surprised regulators by requesting more information on several aspects of the $1.4 billion settlement between regulators and the nation's biggest investment firms over tainted research on Wall Street. C7.

A Former Enron Trader Arrested
Federal authorities arrested a former senior trader with Enron, John M. Forney, charging him in a criminal complaint with manipulating the California power market during the state's energy crisis two years ago. C6.

Adviser Backs Dissent Board Group
Institutional Shareholder Services has recommended that El Paso shareholders elect the board being proposed by dissidents, not the company's slate. C3.

Turnarounds Draw Money to Japan
A company run by Wilbur Ross, left, the American corporate turnaround artist, is selling a regional bank and a credit card company in Japan for $410 million, twice what it paid in February 2001. By buying low and installing new management and new practices, an investor can make Japanese enterprises profitable, Mr. Ross said. World Business, Section W.

WellPoint to Buy Health Insurer
WellPoint Health Networks, the big California managed care company, agreed to buy Cobalt, a health insurer based in Milwaukee, for about $20.50 a share, or $906 million, in cash and stock. C4.

Upbeat Comments Send Stocks Up
An upbeat economic assessment by Federal Reserve Chairman Alan Greenspan sent stocks higher. The Dow Jones industrial average, rose 25.14 points, to 8,922.95; the Nasdaq composite index gained 12.81 points, to 1,603.56; and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index advanced 4.56 points, to 971.56. C7.

Use of Broadband May Be Risky
Keeping a broadband connection on constantly and its fast speed are exposing customers to far greater risk than most of them realize, according to a study by the National Cyber Security Alliance to be released today. C3.

Toyota Project Is Energy Efficient
A new 624,000-square-foot campus for Toyota Motor inTorrance, Calif., was designed to demonstrate that energy-efficient buildings made with a significant percentage of recyclable materials do not necessarily have to cost more than ordinary office developments. Commercial Real Estate. C6.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 8,922.95 up 25.14Nasdaq composite -- 1,603.56 up 12.8110-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.33% down 0.08The euro -- $1.1750 down 0.0013The dollar -- 119.07 yen up 0.53 Graph tracks share prices of Polo Ralph Lauren for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); FASHION DESIGNERS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); INDICTMENTS (90%); RETAIL MERCHANDISE MANAGEMENT (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TAX LAW (87%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ARRESTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (76%); HEALTH INSURANCE (76%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); DAMAGES (74%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (73%); JUDGES (73%); FAMILY (71%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); LICENSES & PERMITS (69%); POLITICAL PARTIES (67%); CREDIT CARDS (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); BROADBAND (60%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (50%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (54%); INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (53%); WELLPOINT INC (51%)

TICKER: WLP (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (53%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (51%)

PERSON: MARTHA STEWART (90%); RALPH LAUREN (90%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (78%) CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (90%)

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2003 



109 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 909 words

HEADLINE: Many Say Europe Needs More Than Just a Rate Cut 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 4 

 BODY:
With Europe's biggest countries stagnating and its currency soaring, the European Central Bank has been thrust into a new, not entirely comfortable role: economic savior for the Continent. 
 Senior bank officials, including the president, Wim Duisenberg, have signaled in recent days that they will cut interest rates at their meeting on Thursday, perhaps as much as half a percentage point. 
 Mr. Duisenberg said inflation no longer posed much of a risk in Europe, given the rise of the euro against the dollar. In the coded language used by central bankers, that means, "It's time to cut." 
The question is whether Europeans -- uneasy about the harmful effects of a strong euro, exhausted by their chronic economic woes and despairing that their governments will ever fix things -- are putting too much faith in the restorative powers of a single rate reduction.
While virtually all economists here favor a monetary easing, many say the effect will be short-lived, because it will be no surprise and because the Federal Reserve may soon cut rates further in the United States. 
That would preserve the disparity in borrowing costs between Europe and the United States, one reason the euro has appreciated so much against the dollar in recent months.
Moreover, Europe has made little progress with other economic remedies, like shaking loose its labor markets, that could restore growth in a more lasting way. And because of the strictures built into the agreement that created the euro currency, the 12 countries that use it are limited in the amount of deficit spending they can use to stimulate lagging demand. 
"Everybody would welcome more substantial remedies," said Norbert Walter, the chief economist at Deutsche Bank. "But these take time to work. If you have been given an iron-fisted law on spending and you have a rising euro, then you have no other option but to cut rates."
The economic cul-de-sac in which Europe finds itself made the tone grim today at a conference of bankers in Berlin. Speaker after speaker laid out dispiriting forecasts of sluggish long-term growth. Anything more than that, they said, would depend on the ability of European leaders to make painful economic reforms.
Stephen S. Roach, the chief economist at Morgan Stanley and the lone American speaker at the meeting, went further. "Europe is the new weak link in the global growth chain," Mr. Roach said, "and Germany is its biggest, weakest link." 
The big danger for Germany, he said, is deflation, a self-reinforcing spiral of falling prices. He said the European Central Bank was ill equipped to defuse that threat because, in its determination to formulate a one-size-fits-all monetary policy, it focused too much on the higher inflation rates in smaller, faster-growing euro countries. 
As a result, its benchmark rate of 2.5 percent is too high for Germany, the union's biggest economy, which is on the brink of another recession. 
"What would be worse?" Mr. Roach asked. "Higher inflation in Ireland, Spain and Greece, or deflation in Germany?"
The prospect of deflation has loomed large here recently, after the publication of a report by the International Monetary Fund that said Germany faced a considerable risk of a deflationary spiral.
The German finance minister, Hans Eichel, said in a speech here that he did not see a big risk of deflation. He said German consumers did not yet think that prices would continue to drop if they put off spending, a behavioral pattern that is considered central to deflation.
"We have a problem with G.D.P. growth, no doubt about it," Mr. Eichel said.
Nevertheless, he repeated that Germany would obey a European Union directive to cut its budget deficit to less than 3 percent of gross domestic product by 2004. This year and in 2002, Germany breached that ceiling, required by the Stability and Growth Pact, which underpins the euro. 
German newspapers have suggested that the government may violate it again in 2004, which could make it liable for heavy fines. Though Mr. Eichel dismissed the report, Chancellor Gerhard Schroder said the government would not strangle a recovery with overly harsh spending cuts.
While Germany waffles, France has taken a more defiant approach. It says it will not raise taxes this year to cut its deficit, which is also above the 3 percent cap. 
On Tuesday, finance ministers from the 12 euro countries told France to do more to reduce its budget shortfall. But Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin says new taxes would hobble France's fragile recovery.
Mr. Walter suggested that Europe's troubled economies should negotiate a deal with the European Commission to put off complying with the pact until their economies recover.
"You don't undo past mistakes by making fresh ones," he said in an interview during a break in the conference.
Mr. Walter also suggested that the European Central Bank cut rates 75 basis points, a bold stroke that he said would close the interest rate gap with the United States, even if the Federal Reserve cuts its rates another half-point, as he and others expect.
The most eagerly awaited speaker today was Jean-Claude Trichet, thegovernor of the French central bank and a board member of the European bank. His topic was how to avert a financial crisis. To the audience's frustration, he said nothing about Thursday's meeting and left without taking questions. 
"He's probably gone to persuade his fellow board members to do the right thing," Mr. Roach said afterward. 

GRAPHIC: Photo: The rise of the euro against the dollar means inflation is not much of a risk, says Wim Duisenberg, president of the European Central Bank. (Associated Press)(pg. W7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CENTRAL BANKS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EURO (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); INFLATION (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (77%); TRENDS (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; INTEREST RATES; CREDIT; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%) EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

TICKER: DEUT (JSE) (58%); DBK (FRA) (58%); DBK (BIT) (58%); DBETN (JSE) (58%); DBA (ASX) (58%); DB (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (51%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (92%) EUROPE (99%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



110 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 481 words

HEADLINE: Cable and Wireless Posts Loss And Plans toPull Out of U.S. 

BYLINE:  By HEATHER TIMMONS 

DATELINE: LONDON, June 4 

 BODY:
Cable and Wireless, the struggling British telecommunications company, said today that it would cut 1,500 jobs, pull out of the United States and retool its corporate structure in a bid to salvage itself. 
 The company said it lost $:6.5 billion ($10.6 billion) in the year ended March 31, up from a $:5 billion loss a year ago. Dividends will be suspended for the year. The company's reporting lines will be reconfigured, with top executives in each country responsible for their own balance sheets. The results included a nearly $:5 billion charge to write down assets and write off good will. 
 Today's announcement was the introduction of a vastly different business strategy by the new chief executive, Francesco Caio.
Two months ago, Cable and Wireless appointed Mr. Caio, an Italian telecommunications executive, to replace Graham Wallace, who retired in January. 
Mr. Wallace was the architect of the company's expansion into international markets and the Internet in the late 1990s, ventures that have since proved unprofitable. Cable and Wireless has announced more than 15,000 layoffs since March 2000. 
"We must make the most of our core skills and focus on our key customers to rebuild," Mr. Caio said, adding that Cable and Wireless will concentrate on the British market, where it is the second telecom provider behind the BT Group. In Britain, revenues declined 16 percent from a year ago, to $:1.7 billion, in part bacause of the closing of some business lines. The company won new corporate customers, though, and revenue from businesses and organizations was up 14 percent. 
"He's really changing the strategy from global to national," so the company can benefit from economies of scale, said Mike Williams, a WestLB telecommunications analyst. But Mr. Williams and some other analysts and investors say that success is hardly assured. 
Mr. Caio's new plan, on its own, is not enough to win back former shareholders. "Two years ago, their balance sheet was regarded as impregnable; now I'd regard them as a speculative holding," said Andrew Bell, research director at Carr Sheppards Crosthwaite, which manages $8.6 billion in funds and sold most of its Cable and Wireless stake before today's announcement. 
A retreat from the United States had been expected since Mr. Caio took over. The company employs 2,774 people in America, through its purchase of MCI's Internet backbone, Exodus Communications, and Digital Island. Revenue from the United States was $:512 million for the year, a 4 percent drop from a year ago, and overall losses were $:255 million.
But shutting its American operations could prove costly. Cable and Wireless could incur restructuring charges of as much as $:500 million, analysts estimate. A sale would be preferable, but an obvious buyer has not emerged. 
The company's share price closed up 7 percent, at 103.5 pence, on the London Stock Exchange. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (92%); LAYOFFS (91%); WIRELESS INDUSTRY (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (76%); DIVIDENDS (76%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (75%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); STOCK EXCHANGES (60%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; COMPANY REPORTS; LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: CABLE & WIRELESS USA INC (92%); BT GROUP PLC (74%); WESTLB AG (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CABLE & WIRELESS PLC 

TICKER: BT (NYSE) (74%); BT (LSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (92%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (74%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (53%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (53%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (53%) SIC4812 RADIO COMMUNICATIONS; 

PERSON: MICHAEL J WILLIAMS (53%) TIMMONS, HEATHER; CAIO, FRANCESCO 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



111 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 2; House & Home/Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: TURF; 
Empty Nesters Helping New Nesters

BYLINE:  By MOTOKO RICH 

 BODY:
JOSHUA BEATON, a 27-year-old graduate student, was about to sign a lease on a $1,300 one-bedroom apartment in Brooklyn last summer when his father made him an offer he couldn't refuse.
 Mr. Beaton's father, Dr. Howard Beaton, had decided to buy a $315,000 apartment in a new condominium around the corner from his office at New York University Downtown Hospital in Manhattan. Dr. Beaton offered his son a chance to live in it, rent-free, for two years. 
 Dr. Beaton said he wasn't motivated by largess but by good business sense. In fact, he is about to buy a co-op studio apartment for his 24-year-old daughter Audrey on the Upper West Side. 
Dr. Beaton, the chief of surgery at the hospital, said he figured the mortgage payments would be close to what his children would have paid in rent. "I also thought it was a very good investment," he said.
On Valentine's Day, his son moved into the downtown condo. With hardwood floors, 12-foot ceilings and black marble kitchen countertops, it makes him feel "incredibly lucky," he said, sitting beneath a poster for "The Matrix" on a lumpy hand-me-down brown couch. "The alternative was that my dad would give me a certain amount of money, and I would give it to someone else," he said. "This way, the capital is kept inside the family."
Generous parents have helped with down payments and have even bought homes outright for their children for years. But in recent months, as mortgage rates fell and real estate held its own against a roiling stock market, parents have woken up to new investment potential. "It was like all of a sudden, everybody knew: buy apartments for your children," said Elaine Clayman, the Brown Harris Stevens broker who helped Dr. Beaton find a co-op for his daughter, who is starting graduate school in architecture at Columbia in the fall. 
Many parents say they aren't spoiling their offspring; they are making sound financial decisions. "There is no question: this is not a gift to them of an apartment," said Dr. Beaton, who already owns a three-bedroom co-op on the Upper West Side, a house in Connecticut and an apartment in Miami occupied by his in-laws. "I will need my equity back at some point."
JoAnne Kennedy, a president of Coldwell Banker Hunt Kennedy, a real estate brokerage company in New York, said her firm has helped at least 15 sets of parents buy apartments for their children this year, double last year's number. "Families have liquidity, and they just don'tknow what to do with it," she said.
Dan Levitan, a partner at Home Mortgage Acceptance, a broker in New York, estimated that loans to parents buying apartments for their children had risen about 30 percent since last year. Although many co-op buildings refuse to admit buyers whose parents are paying, CitiMortgage, a unit of Citigroup, last year created a type of loan directly aimed at that arrangement, with favorable rates for parents of children who don't have enough income or assets to qualify for a co-op mortgage on their own. 
The trend is not limited to New York. The parent-as-backer became a running joke in one Chicago household this spring when Andrew Levy, 31, and Gayle Littleton, 30, were shopping for an investment property and kept referring to "the investors." "You mean Mom and Dad?" their real estate agent asked. 
The young couple bought a $700,000 brick building in the gentrified Lincoln Square neighborhood and moved into one of its three units in April, renting out the other two. Mr. Levy's parents, Joel and Janet Levy, provided 65 percent of the down payment.
The younger Mr. Levy, a business and legal consultant, and Ms. Littleton, an assistant United States attorney, are using the income from the rental units to cover their monthly mortgage payments. If they sell the building, they will split the proceeds with his parents. 
Joel Levy, a 58-year-old technology executive, said he and his wife wanted somewhere besides Wall Street to invest their money. "It sounds almost greedy," he said, "but we were looking for an investment and they were looking for an investment, and it was a good opportunity."
Brokers from Boston to San Mateo, Calif., report an increase in similar transactions. One of the country's largest home lenders, Washington Mutual, said that it didn't have specific numbers but that it has seen a definite up-tick in loans taken out by parents or jointly with their children. "I'd say we're seeing parents helping out across the board," said Mike Axelrood, a first vice president of Washington Mutual and the regional sales manager of its Chicago office. 
Investing in any real estate these days, of course, is by no means a sure bet. On Monday, a government report showed that the growth in home prices during the first three months of the year had slowed to its smallest rise in five years. "We're obviously closer to a peak than we were," said Karl Case, a professor of economics at Wellesley College, who recently helped his 27-year-old daughter, an adjunct instructor at Brooklyn College, buy a two-bedroom co-op apartment in Park Slope, Brooklyn. 
"I don't think it's a terrific investment necessarily," he added, "but it's not a bad place to park your money."
In New York, parents face a particularly volatile market. Studios and one-bedroom apartments took nearly 10 years to recover from the last recession. Then, starting in 1998, sales prices of one-bedroom and studio condos and co-ops started to rise, climbing 103 percent by March of this year, according to Miller Samuel, a real estate appraisal firm.
Avram Goldman, president of Coldwell Banker Residential Brokerage in the San Francisco Bay Area, said the older generation is taking advantage of low interest rates and the appreciation of their own homes. 
Six months ago, Garold Murphy, a 50-year-old maintenance manager for the Hertz Corporation, refinanced the five-bedroom house he and his wife, Maureen, bought in 1989 about 20 minutes south of San Francisco. They are using some of the proceeds for a down payment on a two-bedroom condo for their 22-year-old daughter, Tara, and her fiance, Luther Boatwright. 
"I wouldn't call it a wedding present," Mr. Murphy said. "It's more of a direct investment." 
Like many real estate arrangements, this one comes with caveats, starting with the fact that the owner often gets to call the shots. In March, Sean Hill, 23, moved into a $515,000 one-bedroom, two-bathroom condo in Midtown Manhattan bought by his parents, Dr. Michael Hill and Dr. Suvimol Hill of Potomac, Md. The immaculate apartment was decorated by his mother, a radiologist, who said that she was eager to unload some of the family's surplus furniture and thought that she and her husband, as owners, ought to decorate in their own taste. "We're not really buying it for Sean," she added. "We are buying it, and he is staying in it."
The apartment, with upholstered dining room chairs and dark wood bedroom furniture, shows little sign of the avid intramural athlete and former MTV video jockey who lives there. Mr. Hill, who is studying for the law school admissions test while working as a paralegal, said he might have chosen a shag carpet instead of the oatmeal-colored area rug his mother installed in the living room. "I also would have chosen a flashier blue or red couch," Mr. Hill said, gesturing at a beige sofa. "But my dad said there's no way you are going to get a red couch."
Mr. Hill hastened to add that he loves the apartment and recognizes his good fortune in paying just $700 a month in maintenance fees and electricity bills for a home that is much fancier than the places his friends pay $1,200 to share.
Dara Pettinelli, 22 years old and an aspiring rock music journalist, similarly noted that if her father, Don Pettinelli of Margate, N.J., buys her an apartment this summer, as planned, she will be far better off than friends who are bunking four or five to an apartment. "I put it into his head that I'll be 'out' with my friends if I live in some penthouse suite in a doorman building while they're living with three other people in Harlem," Ms. Pettinelli said. 
For his part, Mr. Pettinelli, 64, says buying a home for his daughter will make it easier to sleep at night. "I'm concerned about her security and the fact that her profession doesn't demand a large salary at the beginning," he said.
He acknowledges that his daughter would like to live in the West Village, "deep down in the environment of the struggling writers and artists," adding, "I would rather she be on the Upper East Side of Manhattan."

GRAPHIC: Photos: SHARED INTEREST -- Joshua Beaton and his father, Dr. Howard Beaton, in a condo with a new kitchen, inset, that is one part investment.; GETTING STARTED -- Andrew Levy and Gayle Littleton had help from his parents with the down payment on a three-unit place in Chicago. (Photographs by Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times); (John Brooks for The New York Times)(pg. F10); IT'S A TREND -- Sean Hill, a 23-year-old paralegal, in a one-bedroom Manhattan condo purchased by his parents, who also did the decorating. (Rene Clement for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); REAL ESTATE (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (88%); CHILDREN (88%); EMPTY NESTERS (86%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); PARENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); FAMILY (73%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (69%); MORTGAGE RATES (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); STOCK EXCHANGES (68%) HOUSING 

COMPANY: BROWN HARRIS STEVENS LLC (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (53%)

PERSON: RICH, MOTOKO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



112 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: 3 States Sue E.P.A. to Regulate Emissions of Carbon Dioxide 

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
Carbon dioxide emissions from cars and power plants should be regulated as an air pollutant because they contribute to global warming, three Northeast states said yesterday in a federal lawsuit against the Environmental Protection Agency.
 State officials in Connecticut, Maine and Massachusetts said the suit, filed in Federal District Court in Hartford, is the first time that any state has sued the government to compel action on climate change. 
 If the suit succeeds, the E.P.A. will be required to classify carbon dioxide as a "criteria pollutant," under the Federal Clean Air Act, and that would trigger, the state's lawyers say, a process of setting standards for allowable levels in the atmosphere, as the federal government now does for ozone, lead and sulfur dioxide and other gasses.
"Global warming is no longer some abstract threat -- it's real and it's urgent," said Richard Blumenthal, attorney general of Connecticut. "Our lawsuit is a last resort." 
An E.P.A. spokesman, David Deegan, said the agency was still studying the suit and would have no specific comment. But he said that President Bush and Christie Whitman, the E.P.A. administrator, had made their positions clear.
"The president and Administrator Whitman have said that carbon dioxide shouldn't be regulated as a pollutant; the science on it is more complex, and the answers are elusive right now," he said. "They support a flexible approach that will adjust for new information and technology."
Ms. Whitman resigned last month and is leaving her post at the end of this month. The White House has not yet nominated a successor.
The heart of the states' argument, legal experts said, comes down, to a certain extent, to semantics: what exactly constitutes a pollutant? When the Clean Air Act was passed in the 1970's, air pollution meant things would make people demonstrably sick. But as evidence of indirect consequences has grown -- like the chemical combinations that form smog, for instance, or acid rain, which mainly affects aquatic life -- the boundary of what is considered harmful has expanded.
The suit contends that while carbon dioxide does not pose a direct threat to human health, it has passed over the threshold of harm because of its role inglobal warming. The scientific evidence about the buildup of so-called greenhouse gases like carbon dioxide -- and the long-term threats posed by climate upheaval on everything from emerging diseases to economics -- are so firmly established, the states say, that the government has a responsibility to act.
"E.P.A. itself predicts that the problems associated with atmospheric warming will intensify in the years to come," said Steven Rowe, Maine's attorney general. "The agency has a legal duty to act now."
A spokesman for the Edison Electric Institute, a trade group that represents shareholder-owned electricity companies, said the suit, if it succeeds, would hurt the economy without achieving its desired results. Electric power plants and automobiles account for a majority of the carbon dioxide emissions in the nation.
The spokesman, Dan Riedinger, said there is currently no technological means of eliminating carbon dioxide from a power plant's smokestacks. Imposing atmospheric standards, he said, would force plants to switch from burning coal, which produces lots of carbon dioxide, to natural gas, which produces less. But that kind of shift, he said, could bring havoc to the nation's natural gas supply and delivery system.
"To be effective, any policy response to global warming must allow time for new technology," he said.
Many states are starting to address climate change concerns. This year, Gov. George E. Pataki of New York said he hoped to create a regional consortium of states, from Maine to Maryland, to work on the issue. New Hampshire has passed legislation regulating power plant emissions. California passed a law last year requiring reductions in carbon dioxide for automobiles.
"There's a lot of activity, and it's all building," said Ashok Gupta, the director of air and energy programs at the Natural Resources Defense Council, a New York-based conservation group. "At some point, we will be regulating carbon dioxide at power plants, if not in the whole economy. It's a question of when." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIR QUALITY REGULATION (92%); LITIGATION (92%); EMISSIONS (91%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS (90%); AIR POLLUTANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (90%); GLOBAL WARMING (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (90%); AIR POLLUTION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); AIR QUALITY (89%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); SCIENCE NEWS (78%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); POWER PLANTS (78%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); SMOG (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (77%); LAWYERS (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); ACID RAIN (73%); US PRESIDENTS (71%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (68%) AIR POLLUTION; WEATHER; GLOBAL WARMING; SUITS AND LITIGATION; STATES (US); CARBON DIOXIDE 

COMPANY: EDISON ELECTRIC INSTITUTE (50%)

ORGANIZATION: ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY 

PERSON: RICHARD BLUMENTHAL (57%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%) JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (92%) CONNECTICUT, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) MASSACHUSETTS; CONNECTICUT; MAINE

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



113 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 314 words

HEADLINE: Service Industry Growth Is Brisk; Worker Productivity Accelerates 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
A gauge of the services industries, the largest part of the economy, rose in May by the most in a year, adding to evidence that growth may be poised to accelerate, a report released yesterday indicated. 
 The index for retailing, financial services and other nonmanufacturing companies from the Institute for Supply Management increased more than expected, to 54.5 from 50.7 in April, the second consecutive expansion. The jump was the biggest since May 2002. Readings above 50 suggest expansion. 
 A companion report from the institute this week showed the biggest monthly gain in manufacturing so far in 2003.
Still another report from the Labor Department said yesterday that the pace of growth in worker productivity in the first quarter was almost three times that of the previous three months, helping to underpin profits. Productivity, a measure of how much an employee produces for every hour of work, rose at a 1.9 percent annual pace, the Labor Department said. That compared with last month's estimate of 1.6 percent and with a 0.7 percent pace of increase in the fourth quarter of 2002. 
"Businesses have clearly worked much harder to get more efficient," said Stephen Stanley, senior market economist at RBS Greenwich Capital Markets in Greenwich, Conn. 
On Tuesday, the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, suggested that economic momentum might increase in the second half of the year, citing gains in stocks and credit markets.
And the Bank of America Corporation, the biggest United States lender to individuals and companies, said that demand for commercial loans was accelerating. Economic recovery "has got to come from the medium- and small-sized businesses who start to invest, start to build inventory, start to buy some technology and hire some of their people back," said James H. Hance Jr., the bank's chief financial officer. "And all of that's beginning." 

GRAPHIC: Graph: "U.S. Productivity"Index of output per hour of all workers in nonfarm businesses. 1992 = 100, seasonally adjusted. 1st Quarter Revised Change At Annual RateTo -- +1.9%From -- +1.6 Graph tracks index since 1999. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCTIVITY (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); SERVICE SECTOR OUTPUT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (75%); EXECUTIVES (72%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; PRODUCTIVITY; LABOR 

COMPANY: BANK OF AMERICA CORP (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (72%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT; LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (84%); BAC (LSE) (84%); 8648 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



114 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 594 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS; 
U.S. Investor Drops Bid For TV Unit Of Kirch

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: BERLIN, June 4 

 BODY:
Three months after striking a landmark deal that would have put Germany's largest television broadcaster into foreign hands, a Hollywood investor, Haim Saban, abandoned his bid today after failing to come to terms with creditors of the broadcaster's bankrupt parent, KirchMedia.
 In a joint statement issued by Mr. Saban and Kirch's administrators, the two sides said, "Details of the purchase could not be clarified between the seller, purchaser and the banks within the agreed deadline." 
 They said they would remain in touch and had parted on friendly terms -- a grace note suggesting that the negotiations, which have been through uncounted ups and down, might be rekindled.
For now, though, Mr. Saban's ambitions to take over the broadcasting company, ProSiebenSat.1, seem moribund. KirchMedia said the creditors, which include major German banks, would manage it directly.
Analysts speculated that Mr. Saban, who made a fortune producing children's cartoons like "Mighty Morphin Power Rangers," had found it difficult to line up partners and financing for the acquisition, estimated to be valued at 2 billion euros, or about $2.3 billion.
One prospective partner, the French broadcaster TF1, struggled to win approval for an investment from its board. Mr. Saban also held talks with several leveraged-buyout firms in the United States.
Executives close to Mr. Saban, though, said that the problems had more to do with the changing economic environment, chiefly the strong rise of the euro against the dollar since the deal was announced.
"The euro is 11 percent higher than when we signed the deal," one executive said. "Haim just decided that at these prices, he wasn't going to do it."
Under the terms of the deal, Mr. Saban had until the end of May to hammer out definitive terms. He was also negotiating for control of KirchMedia's film library, one of the largest in Europe.
Mr. Saban flew to KirchMedia's offices in Munich to try to salvage the acquisition. "It was a little bit of a game of chicken at the end," the executive said.
Another complication was posed by the minority shareholders of ProSiebenSat.1. Mr. Saban was seeking exemption from a German regulation that requires the buyer of a controlling stake to offer the same terms to other shareholders. If he had been turned down, it would have added 500 million euros to the price.
Mr. Saban contended that ProSiebenSat.1 was a turnaround project. The company, battered by the advertising recession, reported a loss of 33 million euros in the first quarter. A successful acquisition would have been the first time that a German television broadcaster passed into foreign control.
It is not clear whether the collapse of the deal opens the door for a resumption of talks with Heinrich Bauer Verlag, a German publisher that had emerged as the main rival to Mr. Saban for the assets.
The auction for ProSiebenSat.1 followed the bankruptcy last year of Leo Kirch, a legendary German media mogul who started his empire by buying the German rights to the Fellini film "La Strada." He amassed one of the most valuable film and television libraries in Europe. 
Mr. Kirch's overly ambitious expansion into pay television left him deep in debt to German banks, including Commerzbank and the HVB Group. The auction of his assets, conducted amid one of the worst advertising downturns in postwar German history, has been tortuous.
Mr. Saban, a deal maker who sold his children's entertainment company to Walt Disney and now runs a media investment firm, emerged as an unlikely inheritor of Mr. Kirch's empire. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); EURO (89%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); RECESSION (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); SHAREHOLDERS (74%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (73%); APPROVALS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (69%); COMPANY LOSSES (69%); PUBLISHING (60%); LIBRARIES (50%) TELEVISION; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; BANKRUPTCIES 

COMPANY: PROSIEBENSAT.1 MEDIA AG (85%); HEINRICH BAUER VERLAG KG (60%); TELEVISION FRANCAISE 1 - TF1 SA (55%)

ORGANIZATION: KIRCHMEDIA 

TICKER: PSM (FRA) (85%); TFI (PAR) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (85%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (85%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (60%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (60%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (60%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK; SABAN, HAIM 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%) GERMANY (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); EUROPE (79%) GERMANY

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



115 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1768 words

HEADLINE: Out of the Boat, Into the Condo; 
On Changing L.I. Sound, Waterfront Homes Crowd Out Marinas

BYLINE:  By KIRK JOHNSON 

 BODY:
On either side of Evers Marina, in the Bronx on Long Island Sound's western edge, new town houses line up toward the water like penguins marching to the surf. A mile-long stretch of waterfront that only a few years ago had four marinas full of bobbing boats and clanking halyards now has just this one last yard, and one last owner -- Charles Evers, a gruff 60-year-old Bronx native, who, at least for now, is staying put.
 Mr. Evers is unapologetic that one day he, too, will throw in his hand, sell out to a developer, and leave the daily toil of the yard behind. 
 "When I'm done, that's it," he said. "I'll make twice as much money with condos, anyway." 
Long Island Sound, which begins its great arc toward New England from these urban shores -- or ends its arc south, depending on one's point of view -- is cleaner now, scientists say, than it has been in generations. The fishing can be spectacular, even from the concrete fringe of the Bronx. Wade in waist deep, and you can actually see your feet. But that positive change in the water -- largely the result of a sprawling, multifaceted process of environmental management over the last two decades -- is now beginning to fundamentally alter how the land works as well.
The formula is as unsentimental as a variable rate mortgage: the location got better. That makes the land more valuable, and the more valuable use -- waterfront homes in the Spencer Estates section near Pelham Bay Park sell for upwards of $700,000 -- is winning out over the gritty old boatyards that defined how generations of residents connected to the water.
"We found a niche," said Peter Serpico, a co-owner of Cava Construction, which completed 24 two-family homes next to Evers Marina in April, its first big waterfront development -- named, aptly, for the marina it replaced: Sunrise.
"The improvement of the Sound has a lot to do with it," Mr. Serpico said.
Five hundred or so marinas dot the 548-mile coast of the Sound, most of them small, family-owned businesses like Evers Marina, which was founded as a seaplane base in the 1930's by Mr. Evers's father, Carl. They are far more than just places to park or launch boats, cultural historians and planners say. On an estuary with few sandy beaches, because of geology, and limited access to the water, because of politics and history, the yards have been conduit and connector, a shaper of the Long Island Sound experience.
The small-scale nature of the yards made the Sound what it was, a home to eccentric, individual places that remain for the most part as local as the neighborhoods and towns they serve. 
"There's a culture of being independent going back hundreds of years," said Wilbur Woods, the director ofthe waterfront division at the New York City Department of Planning. "And now as they come into modern times, they're getting picked off."
Many of these places, like Evers Marina, are not fancy.
Don't imagine yachts and investment bankers in Topsiders and Vuarnet sunglasses sipping cocktails on the shaded promenade. That Long Island Sound exists, but not here. Think instead of rust and paint and machine oil, and chains and winches and ropes and piles of broken propellers, the collected evidence of age and the sea. Think of retired firefighters and schoolteachers, painting their own small boats, and old salts like Ed McKee, a 75-year-old former carpenter better known as Scooby Dooby for the shout he said he always makes when landing a big fish. Scooby spends most afternoons these days dozing on his boat, which has no sail to take him anywhere, anyway. 
The big fiberglass dome that Charles Evers spends most of his time in at the yard is fairly unusual too. Only a few were ever built, by an inventor in New Jersey who imagined making his fortune selling them to ski resorts in South America. Mr. Evers bought his for a few hundred dollars 30 years ago at a bankruptcy sale when the South American market somehow didn't boom.
"This place is Charlie-land -- it's unique in all the world," said Robert Meredith, an artist who has lived in a converted airplane hangar at the yard for the last year, at Mr. Evers's invitation. Mr. Meredith repairs boats by day -- he is one of the best fiberglass-men in the business, according to Mr. Evers -- and paints by night: canvases filled with exotic, detailed images of birds and foliage that owe nothing, he said, to the real world of the Sound outside his window.
Certainly, there is still a boating business on the Sound. Mr. Evers, in particular, has benefited from the demise of his neighbors. His 150 slips are filled. But marine industry experts say the future is likely to include amenities that Evers Marina lacks, like, say, food. Mr. Evers has no employees, no store and no regular repair shop. He said a man comes to the yard in the summer to sell sandwiches and hot dogs, but he tends to drift in and out at his own hours and only then in the afternoons.
"He's a waste," Mr. Evers said.
The industry is also consolidating, with bigger and better-financed operators buying out the mom-and-pop yards and sprucing them up. The cost and complexity of complying with environmental regulations, especially harbor dredging, has soared, owners say. Many marina owners are also participating in the collective makeover. In Connecticut, yard owners helped the state write a new set of management rules, called Clean Marinas, which take effect this spring, aimed at standardizing good environmental practices. Participants in the program get to fly a Clean Marina flag.
At Evers Marina, an untamed if not quite anarchic spirit was established from the beginning by Carl Evers, a swashbuckling sailor and pioneer aviator who, according to his son, smuggled rum from Cuba during Prohibition, briefly owned a diamond mine in South America, and taught Katharine Hepburn how to fly -- supposedly so she could finagle a meeting with the charming and elusive aviator Howard Hughes, who was one of Mr. Evers's occasional flying partners. The elder Mr. Evers died in 1994 in his early 90's, and had gone to Europe just the year before with his 24-year-old girlfriend, his son said.
Urban planners say that one of the problems in saving the yards like this is that their prickly, independent nature is not conducive to the kind of group action thatgets political results. Over all, the Sound loses one or two marinas every year, according to marine trade groups, with most of those losses in recent years concentrated in and around New York City. Marina jobs, never a big economic force, since employing one's son or brother is not even counted, have followed that pattern of slow hemorrhage. The Bronx had all of 56 paid marina employees in late 2000, according to the New York State Department of Labor. Last year it had 36.
But Mr. Evers said that help staying in business was the last thing he wanted, anyway. His greatest fear, he said, is that the city will follow the lead of towns like Mamaroneck in Westchester County and all along the Connecticut shore, where state coastal management regulations make it harder to simply close up and sell out without addressing issues of public access to the water. In the Bronx, commercial zoning makes a conversion to residential development as simple as filing for a building permit.
And all of that leaves people like Jerry Weitzenkorn with a dwindling set of options. On a recent evening at Evers Marina, Mr. Weitzenkorn, 67, was sprawled under his 27-year-old sailboat named "Was Noch," (German for What Else) painting the bottom sky blue. Paint spattered his clothes and his white beard. He grumbled to himself that he should have sanded before painting this year, but he kept on painting anyway.
"This is my third boatyard in four years, and I'm not alone -- virtually it's happening to everybody," he said. "Guys in this boatyard are already shopping for other places whenever this place is going to close."
Mr. Weitzenkorn, a retired Bronx native who worked as a security supervisor at the New York City Board of Education, says that if and when Evers Marina closes, he will look elsewhere in the Bronx first -- perhaps City Island. But many of the yards there are closing as well, he said. North in Westchester County, his slip rental rates would be far higher. Going south to Queens would mean fighting the traffic over the Throgs Neck Bridge on weekends. With fewer marinas, he also worries that he could not sell his boat anyway, since the next owner would have the same problem of finding a place to keep it. 
At Evers, that nagging question of time haunts just about every conversation: what's next? Or, as Mr. Weitzenkorn might say, what else?
Mr. Meredith, who had been living on a boat until Mr. Evers gave him a place to live, says he believes and hopes he can produce great art. "God willing," he said, "if I can hang in here a couple more years." 
But a deep connection with nature, the cumulative institutional memory of the thousands of journeys on the water that have been launched from this one little place over the decades, persists. 
Mr. Evers, who has been flying since age 9, and he still keeps his four-seater sea plane in the yard, is a student of the sky. He can gauge the upper air visibility by eyeing the radio tower across the water near City Island. And storms, he said, almost always give you some warning if you're careful. On a recent afternoon, the sun was shining and a breeze was blowing from the north. The weather forecast had indicated an approaching system, but there seemed little evidence of it yet.
Mr. Evers stood for a few minutes, gazing in the direction of the wind, as the yard bustled around him, seemingly oblivious.
"The front's coming in," he said. Then he turned and walked back up the pier.

Human Nature
Over many years of settlement, Long Island Sound has been a breadbasket and a dumping ground, a private playground for the wealthy and a symbol of environmental despair.
But when people reached for a new definition -- a repaired, restored, managed Sound -- nature did not respond according to the rulebook.
For every push to achieve a certain end, the whorls of the ecosystem have pushed right back, often in unexpected ways.
This is the second of a summer-long series of articles on the evolving nature of Long Island Sound. The third article will follow scientists gathered in New London, Conn., this weekend for the first Long Island Sound BioBlitz. Over 24 hours, they will gauge the shore's biodiversity and hope for the brass ring: finding a new species.
Additional materials, including a preview of the remainder of the series, can be found on the Web at nytimes.com/lisound.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Evers Marina has endured on the western edge of Long Island Sound since the 1930's, but is among the last boatyards in the Bronx. Town houses now frame the landscape. (Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B1); Mr. McKee, better known as Scooby Dooby, spends most days dozing on his boat.; Ed McKee, 75, who keeps his boat at Evers Marina, does not fish much these days on Long Island Sound. But those who do say the fishing can be spectacular in the clear water. (Photographs by Angel Franco/The New York Times)(pg. B9) Map of Long Island Sound highlighting Evers Marina. (pg. B9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); MARINAS (90%); COASTAL AREAS (89%); BOATING & RAFTING (78%); TRENDS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); BEACHES (78%); BOAT BUILDING (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (76%); HISTORY (72%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (72%); FAMILY COMPANIES (67%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (67%); FAMILY (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (65%); WATER POLLUTION (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (52%) ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; BOATS AND BOATING; HOUSING; SURVEYS AND SERIES; WATER POLLUTION 

PERSON: JOHNSON, KIRK 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST USA (78%) UNITED STATES (78%) LONG ISLAND SOUND

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



116 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: 94% of School Budgets Pass, Most of Them More Expensive 

BYLINE:  By GREG WINTER 

 BODY:
Undeterred by the prospect of higher taxes, New York State voters overwhelmingly approved increases in school spending, according to election results released yesterday. 
 Ninety-four percent of the nearly 700 school districts that put their budgets before the voters on Tuesday won approval for them. The passage rate is one of the highest on record, stunning many school officials who had expected far greater reluctance from a public already facing higher state and local taxes. 
 "If I had a choice, I don't think I'd have the voting date two days after a state sales tax increase takes effect," said Robert Lowry, associate director of the New York State Council of School Superintendents. "But that makes it all the more remarkable that this has happened." 
The sweeping approvals mean that, with few exceptions, school budgets will go up by an average of 4.1 percent in the coming academic year, all at a time when the state's contribution to education has shrunk, according to an analysis by the State Council of School Superintendents. 
Much of the growth in school spending comes in categories that the schools lament as being beyond their control: more money for pensions to make up for the sluggish stock market, double-digit increases in health insurance premiums, and higher gas and energy prices. 
To pay for them, school districts will typically raise local property taxes by 7.4 percent, the council's analysis shows, and this week's election effectively granted them the authority to do so. 
State officials admit to scratching their heads over why voters seemed so willing to take on more of the burden during tough economic times, when the Legislature and a majority of counties have already imposed tax increases of their own. 
School budgets almost always fare well at the polls in New York, but at a considerably lower approval rate than this year. The average over the last 30 years is 82 percent and the rate has very rarely been above 90 percent.
Some assert that Gov. George E. Pataki's proposal to cut education spending by more than $1.2 billion this year probably prompted supporters, and the public at large, to rally to its defense. 
Even after the Legislature restored about $1 billion of that money during a protracted battle with the governor, schools are still likely to receive about $185 million less from the state than they did this year, despite rising expenses.
To drive that message home, school boards across the state spent the last few weeks blitzing their constituents with the message that the Legislature's actions, welcome though they were, did not put an end to the financial dilemma.
"We didn't consciously set out to create this impression, but there was some sympathy generated for school districts throughout this six-month saga," said David Ernst, director of research for the New York State School Boards Association. 
Except for a few cities that leave the parrying over school budgets to mayors and city councils -- most noticeably New York City, Yonkers, Rochester, Syracuse and Buffalo -- school districts across the state are required to win voter approval for any substantial increases in their budgets. The votes do not apply to these large cities, often labeled the "Big Five," in which school spending is subsumed by the larger, municipal budget process. 
Elsewhere in the state, however, the approvals covered a broad swath of terrain. All the districts around the capital, for instance, won endorsements for their budgets. The same was true for Rockland County, while in Dutchess County only one district rejected its budget. All but a few school districts in Westchester and Long Island also received approvals, putting an abrupt end to the worries of state officials who expected a fair amount of confusion and resentment among voters. 
"People are saying here, 'We've got some momentum going in our district. We don't want that momentum interrupted, even when it shows up in my property taxes,' " Mr. Ernst said.
The districts rejecting budgets were scattered across the state, with the largest concentrations in Orange, Ulster, Chautauqua and Cattaraugus Counties, as well as several more in eastern Suffolk and Nassau. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 9, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on Thursday about New York State voters' overwhelming approval of local school district budgets referred imprecisely to the districts around Albany. Although budgets were approved in all districts that the State Education Department lists in its Capital Region, one was rejected in Troy, which abuts Albany but is considered part of a separate region.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH; 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); APPROVALS (90%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); GOVERNORS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (78%); PROPERTY TAX (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); SALES TAX (73%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (72%); HEALTH INSURANCE (65%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; REFERENDUMS 

PERSON: WINTER, GREG 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



117 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: Windmills Sow Dissent For Environmentalists 

BYLINE:  By KATHARINE Q. SEELYE 

DATELINE: THOMAS, W.Va. 

 BODY:
Vincent Collins, a lawyer from nearby Morgantown, has been vacationing in this scenic area for 35 years. A few years ago, he bought a 1.2-acre lot near here and planned to build a house on it. But once he saw the windmills, and learned of plans for more, he scrapped that dream.
 Soaring above the treetops are 44 sleek white steel cylinders, 228 feet high. Churning on each tower are three glinting fiberglass blades, 115 feet long. Like quills on a porcupine, they spike the emerald spine of Backbone Mountain for six miles along the Allegheny Front. 
 They have also generated huge turbulence within the environmental movement. Proponents of wind farms view those who oppose them as heretics, obstructing the promise of clean renewable energy, while opponents decry them as producing insufficient power to warrant their blight on the landscape. 
For now, the wind farm here is the largest east of the Mississippi, but the wind-energy industry, long a staple of the California landscape, is blowing eastward. Unobstructed winds, favorable economics and the absence of local zoning laws are attracting developers, and soon more than 400 turbines could be sprouting across 40 square miles of West Virginia's most scenic mountaintops.
"I can't believe how large and hideous they are," Mr. Collins said. "When you hear the word 'windmill,' you think Holland and Don Quixote. That's wrong. They look like alien monsters coming out of the ground."
The growing industry has caused a kind of identity crisis among people who think of themselves as pro-environment, forcing them to choose between the promise of clean, endlessly renewable energy and the perils of imposing giant man-made structures on nature.
To some environmentalists, the opposition to wind power from within their ranks not only stifles the growth of a new source of energy but also calls into question the integrity of the environmental movement itself.
Charles Komanoff, a longtime economic consultant to environmental groups, said the opposition by "well-heeled environmentalists," stoked the preconception that they were more concerned about their own backyards than about the common good.
"They want to have it all and they won't brook any trade-off, especially a trade-off that sacrifices their own comfort," said Mr. Komanoff, who is based in New York.
At the same time, the wind farm developers appear to have the environmental high ground.
"We believe in clean energy," said Steve Stingel, a spokesman for Florida Power and Light, which bought the rights to the wind farm here and then built it. The company is the largest generator of wind power in the United States, with 30 wind farms in 10 states.
Wind now accounts for less than 1 percent of all electricity produced in the United States. But the American Wind Energy Association, the industry's trade group, predicts it will grow to 6 percent by 2020. 
The case for wind has been fortified in recent years by advances in technology that make it more efficient and a federal tax credit that makes its financing more feasible.
But the reality for people like Mr. Collins is something else. Windmill farms must be large to be financially viable. Critics worry that beyond the blemish on the natural landscape, these industrial-sized towers can chop up migratory birds. One farm in California was dubbed the "condor Cuisinart," and the ornithologist monitoring the wind farm here just reported that at least two dozen song birds winging their way north had been killed.
Another complaint is that wind farms can do little to reduce overall dependence on fossil fuels, because of the unreliability of constant wind and the inability to store its power.
"They put out such a minuscule amount of electricity," Mr. Collins said. "It's nuts." 
Similar complaints, coming from prominent environmentalists like Robert F. Kennedy Jr., have stalled installation of the nation's first off-shore wind farm, proposed for the waters of Nantucket Sound off Cape Cod. And they have forced the Long Island Power Authority to scrap its plan for wind turbines off the eastern tip of Long Island. But the utility has now proposed putting up to 50 turbines, each 488 feet high, off Long Island's south shore between Fire Island and Jones Beach, two immensely popular summer resort areas.
Mr. Kennedy, for one, said he found "zero" irony in the fact that he had devoted himself to environmental advocacy and yet opposed the wind project on Cape Cod, his Kennedy grandparents' summer home.
"There are appropriate places for everything," he said in a telephone interview. "You would not want a wind farm in Yosemite, and you wouldn't want one in Central Park."
Mr. Kennedy added: "I love wind energy, but let's develop some rules about how you divide up the commons. You're essentially giving the commons over to a profit-making enterprise."
It is not only homeowners with nice views who object to wind farms, but business owners as well. Indeed, it was Wayne Kurker, owner of the Hyannis Marina, who first notified Mr. Kennedy about the proposed project in Nantucket Sound.
"I didn't like the idea that what we consider our Grand Canyon was all of a sudden going to be industrialized," Mr. Kurker said of the wind farm, which would consist of 130 turbines over 24 square miles.
Mr. Kurker founded the Alliance to Protect Nantucket Sound and has been joined by scores of local politicians, chambers of commerce worried about the effect on tourism, and celebrities like Walter Cronkite in opposition to the project.
The main reason wind is taking off now is the huge financial incentive provided by government subsidies. While critics argue that these subsidies are only making developers rich, supporters say they are peanuts compared with subsidies for fossil fuels and they provide much-needed revenue to ailing rural economies while also delivering clean energy.
The main subsidy is the federal tax credit, which is set to expire at the end of the year but is likely to be renewed by Congress. The credit allows windmill companies to deduct 1.8 cents from their tax liability for every kilowatt hour they produce for 10 years. The savings are huge.
For example, Jerome Niessen, president of NedPower, which has received permission from the West Virginia Public Service Commission for a 200-turbine wind farm near here in Grant County, said he expected to generate 800 million kilowatt hours per year, for a tax savings of $16 million a year for 10 years, or $160 million -- on a wind farm that will cost $300 million to build.
NedPower is to pay $500,000 in local taxes, making it the fifth-largest taxpayer in the county. (That is far less, however, than the $3 million the company would have paid just two years ago, before wind energy lobbyists persuaded the government to tax towers and turbines at a lower rate.) The company has also developed a public-private partnership with two local schools, which will earn royalties from the wind farm of about $75,000 a year.
The company will pay local landowners $2,000 to $4,000 an acre to lease the necessary 8,000 acres for the towers. And putting up the towers, which will rise 330 feet high and extend across 10 to 12 miles of mountain ridges, will provide 200 construction jobs for a year and 15 permanent technician jobs.
"Fifteen jobs might not sound like much," Mr. Niessen said. "But if one coal mine after another has closed and if another chicken-processing plant has closed, 15 jobs is a lot."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Windmill farms like this one in Tucker County, W.Va, are sprouting up east of the Mississippi after having become a mainstay in California. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times) Chart: "BY THE NUMBERS: Harnessing The Wind"Wind energy production, while still less than 1 percent of total energy production in the United States, has grown sharply in recent years. Graph tracks the wind energy production from 1981-2000. (Source: American Wind Energy Association)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIND ENERGY (92%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY CONSTRUCTION (90%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (90%); WIND POWER PLANTS (90%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (89%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (89%); ZONING (78%); ENVIRONMENTAL & WILDLIFE ORGANIZATIONS (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (74%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (72%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (72%); TAX LAW (67%) ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; WINDMILLS; ZONING; TAX CREDITS; FINANCES 

COMPANY: FLORIDA POWER & LIGHT CO (51%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN WIND ENERGY ASSOCIATION (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (51%)

PERSON: SEELYE, KATHARINE Q 

GEOGRAPHIC: MORGANTOWN, WV, USA (73%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) CALIFORNIA; WEST VIRGINIA

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



118 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Economic Report Sends Dow Above 9,000

BYLINE:  By ALEX BERENSON 

 BODY:
The three-month rally in stocks gained new strength yesterday, as a positive economic report sent the Dow Jones industrial average above 9,000 for the first time since August. 
 The gloom that gripped Wall Street this winter, when investors fled stocks amid fears of terrorist attacks and a long war in Iraq, seems to have dissipated. Since March, the Dow average has gained more than 20 percent and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index has risen almost 25 percent. The Nasdaq composite index has soared even more, increasing 29 percent. 
 Yesterday, all three gauges gained more than 1 percent, after the Institute for Supply Management, a group of purchasing managers, said that banks, retailers andother service companies had grown more strongly in May than economists had predicted.
Some skeptical investors say that this spring's rally is based more on hope, and the low interest rates provided by the Federal Reserve and other central banks around the world, than on any solid evidence of an economic upturn. 
In addition, many of the biggest gainers have been highly speculative stocks, like money-losing biotechnology companies that are years from turning profitable. The interest in speculative names is a sign that the rally is unsustainable, the bears warn.
"I don't like the action that's happened," said Charles L. Hill, research director of Thomson First Call, which compiles analysts' profit estimates. "It's too much too fast in the tech area, when there's nothing to support it."
But Mr. Hill's view is the minority. A potent mix of financial and political factors will probably quicken economic growth and drive corporate earnings strongly higher over the next several months, the bulls say.
Oil prices have fallen about 25 percent since early March, giving consumers and businesses more disposable income. In the last year, the dollar has weakened by more than 30 percent against the euro, allowing United States manufacturers to compete more easily with their European counterparts. United States and British troops won the war in Iraq without major casualties and there have been no terrorist attacks in the United States since the war began.
At the same time, the dividend tax cut that was signed into law last week has increased the attractiveness of dividend-paying stocks relative to bonds. And the federal budget deficit could be close to $400 billion this year.
In the long run, big government deficits raise the cost of capital for private businesses, but in the short term, with private demand weak, rising deficits are an important short-term economic boost.
"There's a lot of stimulus that has been put through," said Bob Maneri, who follows banks and financial services companies for Victory Capital Management, which oversees $60 billion. 
Mr. Maneri said that credit problems at most banks appeared to peak this winter and that demand for business loans seemed to have increased at banks that serve smaller companies.
"You're hearing pockets of middle-market small business that are starting to turn up," he said. Still, loan demand at big companies remains soft, he warned.
The Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, has said that he is worried about the risk of deflation, or a general decrease in prices, and that to keep the economy growing, he would keep interest rates low and credit easily available. Despite the enormous deficits, the 10-year Treasury note now yields a mere 3.29 percent, making stocks -- even those that do not pay dividends -- an increasingly attractive alternative for investors.
Yesterday, after the Institute for Supply Management report, the Dow Jones industrial average rose 116.03 points, or 1.3 percent, to 9,038.98. The S.& P. 500 index gained 14.68 points, or 1.5 percent, to 986.24.
The S.& P. 500 is now within striking distance of 1,000; it last attained that level in June of last year. The Nasdaq gained 31.09 points, or 1.9 percent, to 1,634.65.
Retailers and banks led the gains. Wal-Mart, the world's biggest company, rose $1.01, to $53.86. Citigroup gained 77 cents, to $43.02, and J. P. Morgan Chase rose 87 cents, to $34.69. Technology companies also showed strength, with Dell Computer rising 70 cents, to $31.70, and Oracle gaining 56 cents, to $13.58.
"The Dow above 9,000 definitely puts a smile on my face," said Lee A. Scundi, an associate at Stevenson Capital Management, which oversees $200 million. "A couple of months ago, with the Iraq conflict," he said, "there were too many variables on the table. I think investors are starting to look six months down the road and seeing a clearer picture with less variables."
But the skeptics, who include some of Wall Street's most respected investors, remain unconvinced. The rally has been fueled mainly by low interest rates, not economic growth, said William H. Gross, who oversees $300 billion in bond investments for Pacific Investment Management.
"There's been a lot of liquidity provided by our central bank, the Japanese central bank, the European central bank," he said. "The world is awash with funds, and the alternative to not taking the risk is having returns of less than 1 percent."
With rates so low, the recent rally is understandable, Mr. Gross said. But to justify the gains, the economy will have to perform almost perfectly over the next year, with solid growth and almost no inflation, he said. If growth is too slow, the economy may fall into deflation, which leads to even slower growth and will be very hard to reverse once it begins. But if growth is stronger than expected and inflation rises, the Federal Reserve may have to raise interest rates quickly, badly hurting consumers, who as a group are heavily indebted.
"I'm still of the mind that we have a bear market in front of us once this funny money explodes," Mr. Gross said.

	 	 		--------------------	 	

Treasury Prices Rise
(By The Associated Press) -- Bond prices rose yesterday, sending yields to new lows even as stocks soared on news of positive economic reports.
The 10-year Treasury note rose 10/32, to a price of 102 25/32. The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, fell to 3.29 percent from 3.33 percent on Tuesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond gained 8/32, to 116 10/32. The bond's yield dipped to 4.36 percent from 4.37 percent.
Results of yesterday's Treasury auction of eight-day cash management bills:

(000 omitted in dollar figures)
Price: 99.974
Investment rate: 1.190
High rate: 1.170
Low rate: 1.13%
Median rate: 1.15%
Total applied for: $52,225,000
Accepted: $18,000,000
Noncompetitive: 0
The eight-day cash management bills mature June 13, 2003.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Thursday about the recent rally in stocks referred imprecisely to the period for the run-up in the three main stock gauges. They have each gained more than 20 percent since the recent bottom of the market on March 11, not "since March."
A chart misstated the period for returns of four major stock gauges and for some sectors of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. They were for Feb. 28 through Wednesday, not since the end of March.
An article in Business Day on Thursday about the recent rally in stocks referred imprecisely to the period for the run-up in the three main stock gauges. They have each gained more than 20 percent since the recent bottom of the market on March 11, not "since March."
A chart misstated the period for returns of four major stock gauges and for some sectors of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index. They were for Feb. 28 through Wednesday, not since the end of March.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C13) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides alook at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters)(pg. C13) Chart: "Stocks Spring Back"After a three-month rally, many stocks are near the level they were at last summer. Utilities, consumer products and financial services companies have done particularly well, as have small-capitalization stocks. Graph tracks S.& P. 500 INDEX Daily since 2002. CHANGE IN MAJOR INDEXES Since March Russell 2000 -- +25.2%Nasdaq composite -- +22.2S.& P. 500 -- +17.3Dow Jones industrials -- +14.6 CHANGE IN COMPONENTS Since March Utilities -- +27.6%Consumer/discretionary -- +23.3Financials -- +20.4Information technology -- +19.6Telecommunications services -- +19.3Industrials -- +17.6Materials -- +15.3Energy -- +11.1Health care -- +10.3Consumer staples -- +9.1 (The New York Times; photograph by Getty Images)(Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (98%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (89%); IRAQ WAR (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); DIVIDENDS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (74%); CENTRAL BANKS (74%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (73%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (72%); TERRORISM (72%); EURO (69%); RETAILERS (69%); INTEREST RATES (68%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (68%); LEGISLATION (68%); NATIONAL DEBT (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (64%); BOND MARKETS (64%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (61%); TAX LAW (60%); BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (53%); DISPOSABLE INCOME (50%); ARMED FORCES (50%) STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX; NASDAQ COMPOSITE INDEX 

COMPANY: BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (70%); VICTORY CAPITAL MANAGEMENT INC (50%)

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523991 TRUST, FIDUCIARY & CUSTODY ACTIVITIES (50%); SIC6091 NONDEPOSIT TRUST FACILITIES (50%)

PERSON: BERENSON, ALEX 

GEOGRAPHIC: IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



119 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: ONLINE SHOPPER; 
Cocktail Season on the Virtual Terrace

BYLINE:  By Michelle Slatalla; E-mail: Slatalla@nytimes.com

 BODY:
WHEN I moved last year to Northern California, where the weather is so nice that everyone lives outdoors, it seemed cruel that my house had a backyard barely bigger than a yoga mat.
 But after I started to understand local culture, it made perfect sense. Here there's so much communal open space that you get exhausted from constant forays to hike, bike, swim, ski, kayak or play tennis. The last thing anybody needs is a big yard to mow. 
 Instead, the houses in my neighborhood specialize in outdoor rooms. My house has so many doors opening onto little porches and patios and balconies that the place resembles an Advent calendar.
 Last week, as we headed into summer, the biggest challenge I faced was to furnish the big, sunny balcony on the front of the house. (Yes, I hate me too sometimes.) After consultation with my husband, who agreed that the best use of the space would be for drinking gin and tonics while thumbing through glossy magazines, I took a sensible approach: two chaise longues.
 The obvious solution to this problem was to buy online. It was time to buck the conventional wisdom of all those naysayers who for years predicted that most shoppers would never be comfortable buying furniture online without actually seeing it and touching it first.
 I'm certainly not the first brave shopper to say that this is malarkey. One of the fastest-growing segments of online sales is the home, office and garden category, which includes furniture, and it is expected to reach $10.6 billion this year, up about 40 percent from $7.5 billion in 2002, according to a recent www.shop.org study conducted by Forrester Research. 
 Common sense is all you need to explain the growth. When it comes to large, bulky items like furniture, of course shoppers would prefer a better selection, easy price comparisons and guaranteed speedy delivery to their doorsteps. 
 Outdoor furniture, in particular, is an obvious place to start. For one thing, the risk is relatively low. Because of its lower price and seasonal nature, a chaise isn't as big a commitment as, say, a living room sofa that I would have to look at every day for the next 10 years. 
 The seasonal aspect limits selection in bricks-and-mortar stores. Retailers don't want to devote a lot of precious display space to large items that will only sell well for a few months each year. It makes more sense to store those items in cheaper warehouse space and display pictures online. Target, for instance, last week offered the Kensington aluminum bistro table ($99.99) and a set of two matching folding chairs ($99.99) at its Web site (www.target.com) but not in its stores.
 Even traditional mail-order merchants are more likely to show larger selections of furniture at their Web sites than in their paper catalogs. "The catalog's expensive to print, so we use that as an introduction to customers, to tell them to shop online," said Mike Bibbey, director of e-commerce for Direct Marketing Services, which operates the home furnishings site www.homevisions.com. "We sell a lot more outdoor furniture online than through the catalog."
 Nowadays most sites let you examine furniture from various angles and in room settings. You can get the exact dimensions, see which chairs coordinate with a particular table, then confirm whether the items are in stock and ready to ship. (Shipping charges can be substantial, particularly for bulky items; check before you buy.) By the end of 2002, 61 percent of merchant sites offered a zoom feature, up from 47 percent the prior year, according to a survey of 100 sites by the the E-Tailing Group, an e-commerce consultant company.
 "Anything that helps people visualize how the furniture actually will look at home is the sort of feature that sites are adding," said Lauren Freedman, the E-tailing Group president. "People want to see how a chair operates, how an umbrella works, which cushion fabrics are available."
 At two sites, for example, I found similar polyvinyl chaise longues. At HomeVisions.com, the chaise ("sturdy resin construction") was $69.99, plus $39.99 for a cushion. At domestications.com, a similar "resin" chaise was $59.99, plus $24.99 for a matching cushion. 
 By zooming in at both sites, I was able to compare the chairs side by side onscreen to determine that they were nearly identical.
 Some sites, like www.llbean.com, have taken this concept of enhanced features to a much higher level. The product page for the three-season wicker loveseat glider ($879) told me about materials, the protective finish and maintenance requirements ("to clean, just hose and wipe off"). But that was just the beginning.
 When I clicked on "InDepth," a window appeared in which I could mix and match four furniture colors with six different cushion fabrics. Plus, I could zoom in on the wicker for a closer view of those "fibrous strands" that were "wrapped around aluminum for added strength and durability."
 Never mind that I wasn't in the market for a loveseat glider (wouldn't a gin and tonic be in danger of sloshing?). After about 10 minutes of playing around, I caught myself agonizing over which cushions to pair with the red loveseat, frantically clicking back and forth from the denim stripe to the green.
 Another benefit of the seasonal nature of outdoor furniture is that it goes on sale quickly. Retailers don't want to be stuck with it all winter. For those among us who admire Martha Stewart's design sense -- and really, who doesn't? -- there were tempting markdowns last week. At her high-end www.marthastewart.com site, selected pieces in last year's slate gray color were on sale (woven garden table, marked down from $910 to $745). And at www.kmart.com, which sells her cheaper Everyday line, the Victoria chaise longue was marked down from $149.99 to $135.99.
 By then I was gravitating toward wooden steamer chairs (attractive lines, folds for storage). A search at bizrate.com turned up many candidates, including a teak chair at kruppsdecor.com ($684), a cheaper teak chair at stacksandstacks.com ($249)and a cheapest teak chair at www.overstock.com ($169.99). Sticking to my "low risk" theory, I chose the cheapest option (Overstock.com had a reassuring close-up view of shiny brass hardware fittings and charged only $2.95 for shipping).
 The summer is shaping up nicely. I still need a little table to hold drinks. The gin, I have.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Robert Kopecky) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET RETAILING (91%); RETAILERS (89%); HIKING (73%); INTERNET & WWW (71%); MAIL ORDER RETAILING (66%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (60%) FURNITURE; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET 

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: SLATALLA, MICHELLE

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



120 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Circuits; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1070 words

HEADLINE: WHAT'S NEXT; 
Storage Methods Come and Go, but Tape Holds Its Own

BYLINE:  By IAN AUSTEN 

 BODY:
WHEN it comes to storing data, magnetic tape would seem to represent the past, not the future. The basic technology is half a century old, and those rooms full of reel-to-reel tape machines that were once a symbol of computing power are all but gone. 
 But corporations around the world still spend billions of dollars annually on tape cartridges that whirl away, backing up data. While the declining cost of hard drives, optical technologies like DVD's, and research into new storage methods like holography are all potential threats to tape, few storage experts are predicting its demise. "I've been asked if tape will disappear for a long time," said Gordon F. Hughes, the associate director of the Center for Magnetic Recording Research at the University of California at San Diego. "But I fundamentally don't think it's any different than the idea that radio will be pushed out by television." 
 Some researchers, in fact, are doing their best to make sure that tape will never go the way of the dinosaurs by looking at ways to store even more data on it. While at some laboratories this involves the development of new coatings or new drive technologies, for scientists at Ohio State University the solution literally involves smoothing out a tape's rough edges. They are looking at the manufacturing process, working to eliminate irregular edges so they can squeeze more data tracks onto each length of tape.
 Increasing capacity can help reinforce what has always been one of tape's strong points: it is an economical form of data storage in comparison with other methods like hard-disk drives and optical technologies like DVD's. 
 But Dr. Hughes, whose work focuses on hard-drive technologies, said that today, "there's serious cost pressure on tape." 
 While making cost comparisons can be an arcane exercise, Dr. Hughes said that ordinary personal computer hard drives can be less expensive than tape for some short-term storage systems.
 Tape also suffers from a practical shortcoming: unlike the data on a hard drive or optical disc, the information on it is arranged in linear form. A tape has to be wound backward and forward to retrieve or record data, making it slower in operation. 
 But Saurin Shah, the director of advanced technology and applications at Imation, which makes tapes and other storage media, said that tape has benefited from increased concern about protecting data from terrorist attack or natural disasters. It's easier to take a tape cartridge with backed-up data to a secure warehouse than it is to take a hard drive.
 "The ability to send it off-site for storage, that's a key feature for tape," Mr. Shah said. 
 Imation, formerly a part of 3M (which made the first magnetic data tapes), still churns out a small amount of tape in the original reel-to-reel format. But most data tape today comes in plastic cartridges that are roughly the size of a jewel case designed to hold two music CD's. At many corporate data centers, the feeding of blank tapes into drives and their subsequent retrieval and storage is handled by robots. 
 The most advanced tape cartridges hold 200 gigabytes of data. One reason so much electronic material can fit into a relatively small space is that the tape is extremely thin. "Think of it as coated Saran Wrap," Mr. Shah said. 
 Another factor that helps create more capacity is the large number of tracks of data that are squeezed onto the half-inch wide tape. A 200-gigabyte cartridge may use as many as 576 tracks. (To speed the recording of all those tracks, most tape drives have several small recording heads that operate simultaneously.) 
 A paper in the April issue of Tribology Letters (tribology is the study of friction, lubrication and wear) by Bharat Bhushan, a professor at Ohio State, and a graduate student, Anton Goldade, suggests that changing the way tapes are made may be one way to fit even more tracks onto tapes. 
 Dr. Bhushan, who was previously a storage researcher at I.B.M., and Mr. Goldade developed techniques and devices for measuring the straightness of tape edges and the wear caused by running them through drives. With those tools, the researchers found that the edges were not true to begin with and get worse over time. "The edge of the tape has variation of fairly high frequency," said Dr. Bhushan. 
 Tape drives avoid the problems caused by irregular edges by leaving the area near the tape's edges blank. But to go much beyond the current 200-gigabyte capacity, developers will not have the luxury of leaving some of the tape's real estate untouched. "As you start adding more tracks to the tape, the tracks will get closer to the edge of the tape," Dr. Bhushan said. 
 Jagged edges are universal among brands of tape and are largely the result of the way they are manufactured. The magnetic coatings are applied onto sheets of plastic that are, in Imation's case, 25 inches or 30 inches wide. Final tape sizes are created by slitting the bulk rolls with rotating razor-sharp blades.
 Imation tried replacing the blades with a laser. "But it provides a coarser cut than what we can now achieve," Mr. Shah said. 
 When he was at I.B.M., Dr. Bhushan said, researchers tried to chop up the bulk rolls by cooling them to extremely low temperatures before snapping off smaller pieces. "But it's terribly expensive," he said. 
 Instead, the solution may lie in refining current technologies. Some researchers at Dr. Bhushan's labare studying the slitting process in an attempt to discover possible improvements. Others are looking into new plastics that might cut more cleanly. 
 Sharper blades, of course, won't be all it takes for tapes to significantly boost their capacity. Imation is studying whether the high-vacuum evaporation system that is used to coat hard drive discs could be adapted for tapes. That would allow the development of new tape coatings that could hold more data.
 O-Mass, a Norwegian company controlled by Tandberg Data and partly owned by Imation, is developing a new kind of tape drive. Among other things, it should allow an exceptionally high number of tracks by using laser light to read magnetic tapes. 
 Dr. Bhushan, whose research is partly financed by Imation, has little time for suggestions that tape's time has passed. In fact, he predicts that tape drives will still be spinning when other current technologies are gathering dust. 
 "Our estimate is that tape will outlive hard drives," he said.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Mary Ann Smith) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DATA STORAGE DEVICES (89%); HARD DRIVES (89%); MAGNETIC & OPTICAL MEDIA MFG (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (78%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (78%); DATA SECURITY (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (75%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (72%); TERRORISM (60%); NATURAL DISASTERS (50%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (50%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: 3M CO (60%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%); OHIO STATE UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: MMM (SWX) (60%); MMM (NYSE) (60%); MMM (FRA) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (60%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (60%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (60%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (60%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (60%)

PERSON: AUSTEN, IAN

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); OHIO, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



121 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 727 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: OVERSEERS; 
U.S. Group to Monitor 2 Sides on Mideast Peace Moves

BYLINE:  By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: AQABA, Jordan, June 4 

 BODY:
The Bush administration said today that it would soon send a team of monitors to the Middle East to help the Israelis and Palestinians meet their obligations under Mr. Bush's peace plan and to publicize instances in which they fall short. 
 Mr. Bush said he had chosen John S. Wolf, assistant secretary of state for nonproliferation, to head the monitoring team, which will consist solely of Americans in at least its early phases. 
 "This mission will be charged with helping the parties to move toward peace, monitoring their progress and stating clearly who was fulfilling their responsibilities," Mr. Bush said, after a day of meetings with the prime ministers of Israel and the Palestinian Authority in this Red Sea port town. "And we expect both parties to keep their promises."
Administration officials offered few details about the team or its mission -- or even when it would arrive in the region -- saying it was still being assembled in the United States. But they said it would be relatively small -- about 10 people or so -- and consist mainly of intelligence officials and diplomats. Senior officials have said the team is likely to be based in Jerusalem, but they said that could change.
Secretary of State Colin L. Powell said Mr. Wolf was notified of his new assignment two weeks ago and would arrive in the region "very soon."
He said the American ambassador to Israel, Daniel C. Kurtzer, and the acting consul general, Jeffrey Feltman, would play major roles in helping oversee the monitors. "We're going to have a very strong team here," Mr. Powell told reporters as he prepared to leave Aqaba with Mr. Bush for Doha, Qatar.
The Palestinians have long argued for international observers, saying that only outside monitors can hold Israel accountable to the world for its promises to withdraw from certain occupied territories.
"We welcome and stress the need for the assistance of the international community and, in particular, the Arab states, to help us," said Mahmoud Abbas, the Palestinian prime minister. "We also welcome and stress the need for a U.S.-led monitoring mechanism."
Israeli officials, on the other hand, have resisted the idea of monitors, saying they would infringe on Israel's sovereignty and its right to defend its citizens. To win Israeli support, the Bush administration promised that all the monitors would be Americans, at least initially. But senior American officials have not foreclosed the possibility of adding to the group monitors from Western Europe or Russia, whose governments helped develop the peace plan, known as the road map. 
"It is an understanding between the United States and Israel that the only party that has proven an honest broker in the peace process is the United States," said Raanan Gissin, a foreign affairs adviser to Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel.
In Mr. Wolf, Mr. Bush selected a 33-year veteran of the Foreign Service who has worked in Australia, Vietnam, Greece and Pakistan. A graduate of Dartmouth College, he was ambassador to Malaysia from 1992 to 1995 and ambassador for Asia-Pacific economic cooperation from 1997 until 1999.
Some Middle East diplomats have raised questions about Mr. Wolf's lack of experience in the region. But administration officials and some outside experts said he had been effective in overseeing compliance with international nonproliferation agreements -- experience that will serve him well in pressing the Israelis and Palestinians to live up to their road map obligations, they said. 
Some experts have also raised questions about whether a dozen or so monitors will be enough to oversee what is expected to be a highly contentious and drawn-out process. Senior administration officials have already lowered expectations for the team, saying Mr. Wolf will not play the prominent role of Middle East envoy, as former Senator George J. Mitchell did for President Clinton.
Middle East analysts said it was wise of the Bush administration to avoid appointing a high-profile envoy. "Better not to have big names with great expectations," said Judith Kipper, director for the Middle East Forum at the Council on Foreign Relations. "You need a professional team working on this seven days a week, on the ground really attending to getting the thing implemented, without big names at press conferences and great fanfare. This is really nitty-gritty stuff."

GRAPHIC: Photo: John S. Wolf will head the American monitors of the peace effort. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (85%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (76%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%) PALESTINIANS 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (58%) DAO, JAMES; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); WOLF, JOHN (ASST SEC); POWELL, COLIN L (SEC); KURTZER, DANIEL C (AMB); FELMAN, JEFFREY (CONSUL GEN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) RED SEA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (71%) ISRAEL (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); MIDDLE EAST (94%); QATAR (79%); EUROPE (79%); JORDAN (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



122 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section D; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1098 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
3 Networks Left Vying for Rights

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR

 BODY:
The International Olympic Committee does not know yet where the 2010 or the 2012 Games will be held, but by the end of this weekend, it will almost certainly know how much an American company will pay for their media rights.
 The auction, the first by the I.O.C. since 1994, could bring as much as $2 billion. The outcome could preserve NBC's status as the Olympic network, which it secured with pre-emptive bids in 1995 for the Olympics from 2000 to 2008 for $3.5 billion. 
 If ABC wins, it would represent a return to the arena the network dominated from the 1960's to the 1980's. A Fox victory would symbolize newfound respect; twice, the I.O.C. shooed Fox from bidding for being too inexperienced, although the Olympic committee was also wary of the network's founder, Rupert Murdoch. 
 The competition features powerful media conglomerates -- General Electric, which owns NBC; the Walt Disney Company, the parent of ABC and ESPN; and the News Corporation, the owner of Fox -- all vying for the American rights to traditional media like broadcast and cable television and radio, and newer technologies, like pay-per-view, video-on-demand, Internet and satellite rights, which are hard to place a value on so far in advance.
 The Olympics are prized because no other programming in sports and entertainment virtually assures prime-time victories for 17 consecutive nights. Each corporation, in its bidding, will have to balance several factors: fiscal prudence against a desire to win, and prestige against the anxiety that war or terrorism could interrupt future Olympics, reducing viewership and diminishing advertiser demand.
 "We're very enthusiastic about this," Dick Glover, the managing director of Olympics for ABC Sports and ESPN, said. "The marriage of brands and assets is very good. The Olympics represent the legacy of ABC Sports, plus, with the ESPN brand, it's a real good fit for us."
 During the sealed bidding at the I.O.C.'s headquarters in Lausanne, Switzerland, will one of the networks, gauging its needs against the others, try to separate itself from the pack by submitting a blowout offer, ending the bidding quickly? 
 "Any bid 5 percent better than any other should be a dead winner," said Barry Frank, who is vice chairman of TWI, the television arm of IMG, the sports marketing firm. Frank is also a consultant to the United States Olympic Committee.
 Neal Pilson, a consultant to the I.O.C. on the bidding for the 2010 and 2012 Games, made a $375 million bid on behalf of CBS to win the rights to the 1998 Winter Games in Nagano, Japan. "The purpose of a pre-emptive bid is to shock and awe," he said, adding that if he had offered less, another network's appetite might have been whetted.
 The potential price tag will be staggering, the most paid for any one or two Olympics, unless a sudden spasm of deflation occurs in Lausanne. CBS, which is owned by Viacom, declared that the anticipated price was too steep and dropped out of the competition on Monday. A fifth company, AOL Time Warner, dropped out last month.
 The three surviving bidders will each make a two-hour presentation to an I.O.C. contingent led by its president, Dr. Jacques Rogge. Today, the ABC/ESPN contingent will face the Olympic group in a conference room named for Baron Pierre de Coubertin, the father of the modern Olympics. Fox and NBC will follow tomorrow.
 Later tomorrow, at 2:30 p.m. Swiss time, all three networks will submit their bids in sealed envelopes -- and await the call for one, two or all three to bid higher. Going higher, of course, might erase estimated profits.
 This week's process appears to be the most organized in the strange history of Olympic bidding. Once, organizing committees in the host countries handled all broadcast negotiations, then began sharing it with the I.O.C. The Olympic committee is now in charge, using a process it deems fair to all sides, a reversal of recent history.
 In 1995, by dealing with only NBC, the Olympic committee enraged CBS, which had wanted to bid and had spent $913 million on the 1992, 1994 and 1998 Winter Olympics. Fox was also angry, believing that it had made its own preemptive $701 million bid to the I.O.C., which was ignored.
 NBC had pledged to bid jointly with ABC for the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney, Australia, said Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Sports, but ultimately, Bob Wright, the president of NBC, did not like the $700 million it would have required for an event outside the United States.
 But then the idea of coupling Sydney with the 2002 Salt Lake Winter Games took hold, with a $1.2 billion price tag. "Bob asked me, 'What's the risk?' then told me I could do it," Ebersol recalled. When the I.O.C. agreed, Ebersol was left to apologize to Dennis Swanson, then the president of ABC Sports, who had been stung two years earlier by his bosses at Capital Cities, who had not allowed him to outbid NBC's $456 million offer for the 1996 Atlanta Summer Games.
 The history of Olympic bidding has been filled with bizarre moments. ABC Sports used an English-speaking German cabdriver to interpret during negotiations to purchase the rights to the 1964 Innsbruck Winter Games. In 1984, ABC believed it would get the TV rights for the 1988 Calgary Winter Games for $275 million, then felt betrayed when it was forced to pay $309 million to outbid NBC. The bidding over the rights for the Calgary Games marked a turning point in the extraordinary spiral of Olympic TV rights fees. The cost to ABC for the 1984 Winter Games in Sarajevo had been $91.5 million. Before the Calgary bidding began, Frank, who was then working for the Calgary organizing committee, suggested that everyone invest a dollar in a pool. Madame Monique Berlioux, the I.O.C.'s executive director, bet the final figure would be $132 million. Frank's wager was $236 million, on the high range. ABC ultimately paid $309 million.
 The I.O.C. will choose the 2010 host city next month in Prague. The leading candidates are Vancouver, British Columbia; Salzburg, Austria; and Pyeongchang, South Korea.
 Still, there could be drama this weekend. The I.O.C. might not sell the rights to the highest bidder, but it might award them to the one with the best plans to promote and cover the two Olympics.
 "Money is the most important element, but it's not the only element," Michael Payne, the I.O.C.'s marketing director, said.
 The Olympic committee might also delay a decision if the offers are disappointingly low and efforts to raise the bids are unavailing. 
 "We can say, 'We'll see you in a year,"' Payne said. "We don't have a gun at our head." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); WINTER OLYMPICS (89%); SPORTS (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); PAY PER VIEW (78%); SPORTS MARKETING (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (77%); PARENT COMPANIES (77%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (76%); CABLE TELEVISION (72%); BROADBAND (71%); SPORTS BUSINESS (69%); VIDEO ON DEMAND (66%); TERRORISM (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NEWS CORP (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (57%); ABC SPORTS INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (91%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (57%); GEC (LSE) (57%); GE (SWX) (57%); GE (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (57%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (57%)

PERSON: KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VAUD, SWITZERLAND (79%) UNITED STATES (91%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (68%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



123 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 195 words

HEADLINE: Planned Job Cuts Declined in May, Survey Says 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Employers in the United States announced plans in May to cut 68,623 jobs, the smallest number of intended layoffs in 30 months and a sign that the worst round of job losses may be over, a private survey has found. 
 Planned job cuts were down 53.1 percent from the 146,399 announced in April and down 19.2 percent from the 84,978 announced in May 2002, according to Challenger, Gray & Christmas Inc., a placement firm based in Chicago. 
It was the fewest since November 2000, four months before the economy fell into recession. 
 Challenger, Gray released its report on Tuesday.
"The 'missing in action' kick-start that will propel the economy out of the doldrums may be close at hand," said John Challenger, the firm's chief executive. 
In the previous four months, companies announced plans to lay off 502,194 workers. 
The slowdown was led by fewer cuts at government and nonprofit agencies. 
Some of the industries that have led the pack in layoffs over the last few years are showing improvement, according to Challenger. Telecommunications and computer companies announced 54,278 job cuts from January through May, down 67.2 percent from the same period last year. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAYOFFS (91%); POLLS & SURVEYS (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (74%); EXECUTIVES (53%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (52%) LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS INC (83%)

ORGANIZATION: CHALLENGER GRAY & CHRISTMAS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541612 HUMAN RESOURCES CONSULTING SERVICES (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



124 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 953 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS: ADVERTISING; 
Virgin Mobile begins a campaign to make itself the premier wireless company for young people.

BYLINE:  By Nat Ives 

 BODY:
VIRGIN MOBILE USA hopes to jump-start its cellphone business among teenage and young adult customers with a campaign beginning tonight during the MTV Movie Awards.
 The spots, which carry the theme "Live without a plan," will seek to demonstrate that the company truly understands young people, down to the kind of billing plans that they prefer. 
 Brand and telecommunications analysts say they think the effort will be a winner because the youth market feels underserved by the big companies like Verizon Wireless and AT&T Wireless. But they cautioned that Virgin would have to speak consistently and carefully to maintain the loyalty of young people, who are considered fickle. And after committing itself so thoroughly to youth, any expansion into the general market would be difficult. 
"The challenge is in the size of the market," said David Martin, president for the United States at Interbrand in New York, part of the Omnicom Group. "They made a strategic bet and if they niche it too strongly, then they've constrained their growth opportunities."
But such problems seem far off for now for Virgin Mobile USA, a joint venture of the Virgin Group, the British venture capital company founded by Richard Branson, and the Sprint PCS division of Sprint. Despite signing up more than 500,000 subscribers since it began operations in August, the company remains among the smallest in its field.
In-Stat/MDR, a research company that compiled data from the companies, said Verizon Wireless led the field, with 33.3 million users. The next-closest competitors are Cingular Wireless, with 22 million users; AT&T Wireless, with 21.1 million; and Sprint PCS, with 15 million.
In its advertising budget, too, Virgin is playing with giants. Although Virgin would not say what it would spend on the campaign beginning today, the money is coming from about $50 million allocated for marketing this year.
By comparison, Verizon Wireless spent $661 million last year advertising in major media, according to TNS Media Intelligence/CMR, part of Taylor Nelson Sofres.
But Virgin does not need to meet the lofty goals of a Verizon or AT&T, analysts said, and rapid growth may be enough to keep its corporate parents satisfied for now.
The campaign represents the first big push from Virgin since it named a new chief marketing officer in January and a new ad agency three months later. Its inaugural campaign last year was criticized for lacking focus and simplicity.
In the new spots, which are straightforward but are shot with a vivid visual style, young people take orders by remote control and nearly drown in confusing bills until Virgin sets them free with a prepaid billing plan, the only plan it offers.
"Virgin Group operates at its best when it comes into a category that's very loud, very confusing and very consumer unfriendly and offers simplicity," said Howard Handler, the chief marketing officer at Virgin. "We wanted to build this company around a very specific audience that wasn't being addressed properly."
The commercials are scheduled to be broadcast at least through the summer on cable channels like the Cartoon Network, Comedy Central, MTV, Much Music and VH1. The campaign will also have ads on the radio, in theaters before movies and online, as well as some form of television programming for the back-to-school season.
The campaign is intended to find young people when they are watching shows alone or with their friends, in unsupervised moments, said Anne Bologna, who is president at the New York office of Fallon Worldwide, which created the campaign. Fallon is part of the Publicis Groupe.
The credibility of the advertising is greater then than during shows that teenagers might watch with their parents, like "American Idol," she said.
Aiming at young people specifically offers one potentially lucrative way into such a bitterly competitive sector, said Gary Stibel, chief executive at the New England Consulting Group in Westport, Conn. "Everybody else is targeting the mass market," Mr. Stibel said.
In every aspect, Virgin is trying to stand out from the phones-of-your-parents, which have traditionally had names like the 6310i, A2218z or SCH-A530.
Virgin is emphasizing handsets with names like the Party Animal and the Super Model (both made by Kyocera). They sell at Virgin Megastores, of course, as well as chains including Best Buy, Circuit City and Target.
The service includes optional features like a Deep Sea Thought of the Day from SpongeBob SquarePants, the star of an animated series on the Nickelodeon cable channel, and the Rescue Ring, which permits users to arrange to receive a call at a time when an escape might be handy -- say, two hours into a blind date.
But cute gimmicks and tie-ins to MTV content, also a major part of Virgin's plans, will pale in importance compared with transparency and consistency, said Austin McGhie, a managing partner for strategy at the San Francisco office of the Sterling Group, a brand consulting company.
To hold the trust of the young, Virgin must ensure that its claims are accurate and that the attitude in the new campaign is consistently delivered from the company to its young customers.
"These guys sniff out inconsistencies very quickly," Mr. McGhie said. 
Keeping customers, moreover, may be complicated by the pay-as-you-go billing system being offered, another analyst cautioned.
With perhaps 30 million people in the target group, Virgin will probably succeed if it can connect and hold onto just two million or three million of them, said Ken Hyers, a senior analyst at In-Stat/MDR.
But without contracts, any or all of them are free to jump to another provider for a better offer, or on a whim.
"Youth is a highly volatile market," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Virgin Mobile's new theme is intended to evoke the spirit of youth, in addition to promoting its billing system as being simpler than others. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WIRELESS INDUSTRY (92%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (90%); TEENS MARKET (90%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (86%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); YOUTH MARKET (78%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (78%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MARKET SIZE (73%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); BUDGETS (72%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (71%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); ADVERTISING ACCOUNTS IN REVIEW (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING EXPENDITURE (68%); JOINT VENTURES (66%); VENTURE CAPITAL (66%) TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ADVERTISING; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; CELLULAR TELEPHONES 

COMPANY: AT&T MOBILITY LLC (96%); AT&T INC (95%); VERIZON WIRELESS INC (95%); VIRGIN MOBILE USA INC (90%); OMNICOM GROUP INC (84%); VIRGIN GROUP LTD (72%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (58%); TAYLOR NELSON SOFRES PLC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: VIRGIN MOBILE USA 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); OMC (NYSE) (84%); VZC (LSE) (58%); VZ (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (96%); SIC4812 RADIOTELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS (96%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (84%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (84%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (54%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (54%)

PERSON: RICHARD BRANSON (59%); MURRAY D MARTIN (52%) IVES, NAT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

TITLE: ADVERTISING (TIMES COLUMN) 

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



125 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1389 words

HEADLINE: Mexico Making Headway on Smuggling 

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH MALKIN 

DATELINE: MANZANILLO, Mexico 

 BODY:
Atop a concrete tower overlooking the customs service inspection area here at Mexico's main Pacific port, a half-dozen young women in crisp uniforms sequestered behind drawn blinds peer at a bank of television monitors showing every move below.
 They are looking for any irregularity, like an inspector who waves a truck through without checking documents. 
 The women -- only women are hired to do this job because they are thought to be more honest than men -- along with the new tower and its digital closed-circuit technology from Israel are part of the customs service's continuing struggle against corruption.
Only by reining in corruption at customs can Mexico's government hope to make any headway against illegal imports. This contraband, mostly Chinese consumer goods that have flooded the country for more than a decade, has all but destroyed some of Mexico's domestic industries. 
Since President Vicente Fox took office in December 2000, no federal agency has undergone as thorough a housecleaning as the customs service. Some 80 percent of the professional customs service employees have been replaced, including almost all of the 48 port directors, sometimes several times. Screening of top officials and inspectors now includes lie-detector tests.
The agency's annual budget has grown tenfold, to almost $150 million. That has permitted Jose Guzman Montalvo, general administrator of Mexico's customs service since January 2001, to double or triple salaries and buy up-to-date gamma-ray scanners to view the contents of containers.
The agency has pursued corrupt customs brokers, canceling the licenses of more than 90 so far, out of 800 total. It has audited private port operators and forced them to fire their corrupt employees.
One sign of success is that seizures of contraband increased fivefold from 2000 to 2002.
Despite all the cleanup efforts and progress on many fronts, however, contraband -- any import that enters illegally -- continues to cross the borders. While it is now more difficult to bribe an inspector to look the other way, smugglers are resorting to more elaborate schemes using falsified documents and phantom companies.
"We're like sweepers in Central Park in the fall," Mr. Guzman said in a recent interview. "We sweep all day but by the end of the day, the leaves have piled up again where we swept."
There are no reliable estimates for much the contraband costs the Mexican economy. Under free trade agreements with the United States, Canada, Europe and many Latin American countries, much of Mexico's $169 billion in imports in 2002 entered duty-free. That reduced the average tariff rate to just 1.3 percent.
It is not the lost revenue from the unpaid customs duty that concerns officials most but the tax loss that occurs when the contraband ends up in Mexico's vast informal economy. For Finance Minister Francisco Gil Diaz, Mr. Guzman's boss, the attack on contraband, then, is part of a larger mission to increase tax collection.
Mexico's textile, shoe and garment producers have been hit hardest by the customs infractions. They say they cannot compete with cheap Chinese imports. In an effort to protect local industry a decade ago, the Mexican government placed punitive tariffs as high as 1,105 percent on Chinese fabric, clothing and shoes. But Mexico's street markets are filled with plastic sandals and blouses from China.
The National Garment Industry Chamber, for example, estimates that 58 percent of clothing bought in Mexico enters the country illegally, with more than half of that coming in with falsified documents.
Business groups generally praise Mr. Guzman's efforts, and say he is honest and means well. Still, they would like to see tougher measures.
"There is a real intent to end corruption, but customs needs more resources," said Raul Garcia Tapia, director of the garment industry chamber. "The only solution that we see today is to put the smugglers in jail."
Others have called for army support.
Manzanillo shows how much Mr. Guzman has been able to do, as well as how much still needs to be done. The port handled $7.5 billion in imports in 2002, three-quarters of them from Asia, and is the main entry point for imports from the Far East.
Mr. Guzman, who has spent most of his career at the customs agency, said he found almost complete anarchy in Manzanillo when he took over the top post two and a half years ago. Abandoned containers were stolen off the docks. Truck drivers could load containers and drive right out of the port, bribing the customs police to let them through without checking documents.
"It was a free port," Mr. Guzman joked. "A container holding clothing could leave the port with a customs release document that said 'rubber.' "
While working to put his own house in order -- firing three successive port directors for corruption or ineptitude and repeatedly replacing inspectors -- he also forced the private port operators to tidy up theirs.
The largest private port operator in Manzanillo, Operadora Portuaria de Manzanillo, fired about 60 of its 150 employees after an audit by the customs service, said the company's general manager, Harvey Bauer.
"We had have some corruption here on various levels," Mr. Bauer said. "We did a major housecleaning. We did polygraphs on everybody."
The company, which began in 1995 as a joint venture of SSA Marine, a cargo terminal operator based in Seattle, and Grupo TMM, a Mexican transportation company, is being fully acquired by SSA Marine, a unit of Carrix. TMM is selling all its port assets -- including terminals in the main cargo ports of Veracruz and Progreso -- to SSA Marine to pay off debts.
Many measures taken in Manzanillo and other ports involved basic common sense.
Mr. Guzman reduced the number of documents needed to release cargo. He gave port operators access to the customs service's cargo data, so they could cross-check information presented by customs brokers before permitting cargo out of the port.
To stop the theft of abandoned containers in Manzanillo, Mr. Bauer simply had them chained down and guarded.
The customs cleanup also meant a confrontation with the federal attorney general's office, whose agents roamed the docks of all Mexico's ports, ostensibly looking for drugs. But customs workers videotaped them stuffing merchandise into their jacket pockets, Mr. Gil Diaz, the finance minister, said. President Fox ordered the agents off the country's docks.
During a recent tour of Manzanillo, Mr. Gil Diaz displayed a mastery of customs arcana, a sign of how important he considers the cleanup. He asked for a wall to be built to channel trucks directly from the container yard to the customs area and pressed port operators to complete their switch to electronic documents quickly.
The many big and little steps are beginning to show some results in Manzanillo and elsewhere.
For example, Mr. Garcia of the garment industry chamber estimated that two years ago, 60 percent of contraband clothing passed through customs with a quick bribe. Now only 30 percent gets through that way, he estimated, forcing smugglers to come up with new ruses. Such ruses include altering documents related to the cargo's country of origin or presenting undervalued invoices.
Smugglers also use Mexico's maquiladora rules, which permit duty-free import of components that are to be assembled in Mexico for export. Somewhere along the way, these goods, particularly industrial-size rolls of fabric, find their way into the domestic market.
A check conducted in 2001 by Mr. Guzman and the Economy Ministry found that half the registered maquiladoras were fronts for illegal imports.
Checking phantom companies in the Far East is much more complicated. The customs service does not have the resources to send investigators to discover, for example, whether a Hong Kong factory listed on an invoice is really a front for Chinese production, permitting the importer to pay just the 35 percent duty on clothing from Hong Kong instead of the 533 percent charged on Chinese clothing.
So the agency signed a two-year contract in April with the Swiss certification company Societe Generale de Surveillance, whose offices around the world will be able to check the origin of suspicious merchandise.
For a relatively small cost, Mr. Guzman said, "They can check whether a company exists, whether it billed properly."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Manzanillo handled $7.5 billion in imports last year, mostly from Asia, like this load of paraffin from China. (Photographs by Sarah Martone for The New York Times) Map of Mexico: Manzanillo is the main entry point to Mexico for imports from the Far East. A tower at the port is used to spot irregularities in the customs inspection area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXCISE & CUSTOMS (93%); SMUGGLING (90%); WOMEN (90%); CORRUPTION (89%); BRIBERY (89%); IMPORT TRADE (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); PORT AUTHORITIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (74%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (74%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (70%); BUDGETS (70%); COMPUTER SCANNERS (64%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; SMUGGLING; BRIBERY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; SCANNING DEVICES 

PERSON: VICENTE FOX QUESADA (88%) MALKIN, ELISABETH; GUZMAN, JOSE; FOX QUESADA, VICENTE (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO (96%); CHINA (92%); EUROPE (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%) MEXICO; CHINA

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



126 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 985 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene; 
How to deal with deflation? That depends on what is causing prices to fall.

BYLINE:  By Hal R. Varian; Hal R. Varian is an economics professor and the dean of the School of Information Management and Systems at the University of California at Berkeley. E-mail: hal@sims.berkeley.edu.

 BODY:
PEOPLE like low prices. So why is Alan Greenspan worried about deflation? Cheap is good . . . isn't it?
 Yes, cheap is good. Deflation itself isn't necessarily bad; what matters is what causes the deflation. 
 Deflation is a symptom, not a disease. Just as a rosy complexion can be a sign of health or of a fever, deflation can be a sign of underlying economic strength or weakness. 
Falling prices can arise from too much supply or too little demand. Having too much supply can often be a good thing, while having too little demand is almost always bad.
To understand the difference, it is helpful to look at two major periods of deflation: the post-Civil War deflation, which lasted 30 years or so, and the first three years of the Depression.
The post-Civil War deflation was essentially caused by increased productivity growth. The gold standard exacerbated the downward pressure on prices: With a fixed supply of money and an ever-increasing supply of goods, prices naturally fell.
Not everybody benefited from lower prices, of course. Just as inflation favors borrowers over lenders, deflation favors lenders over borrowers. Farmers had taken out mortgages when agricultural prices were high, but had to pay the money back when crop prices were low.
Back then most mortgages were what we today call balloon mortgages, with relatively short repayment periods. Remember that evil silent-movie banker twirling his mustache while he foreclosed on a family farm? He was a product of deflation.
This was the time of William Jennings Bryan and his "Cross of Gold" speech. Adopting silver as legal tender, he asserted, would push prices up, and allow farmers to pay back debts to those nasty bankers with cheap dollars. Bryan was right -- adopting a more flexible monetary policy would have solved the debtor problem, though it may also have had other, pernicious effects. Indexing the loans to the price level would have been another way to address this issue.
Over all, the deflation of the late 1800's was a good thing -- the bad aspects of it resulted from inflexible financial contracts and monetary policy.
Compare this supply-side deflation with the demand-side deflation of the 1930's. During the Depression prices fell because there was too little demand, thanks to financial panic and widespread unemployment. As before, monetary policy was also a big part of the problem: Bank failures led to a collapse in the money supply, while the Federal Reserve stood by and did nothing.
But just as in the 1890's, the deflation of the 1930's wasn't the root cause of economic disruption -- it was a symptom of the deeper problem of the shortfall in aggregate demand.
How do these two periods of deflation compare with today's "deflationary threat"? Neither offers an exact analogy. Today we have some of the excess supply pressures of the 1890's along with the weak demand pressures of the 1930's, albeit in a far milder form.
The big difference today is that the Fed is pursuing active monetary growth and has made it clear that it will be aggressive in dealing with any further economic deterioration.
The excess supply we see today comes from two related forces: the investment binge of the late 1990's and the strong productivity growth in recent years.
Because of these two factors, businesses have had little inclination to make new investments, leading to slack demand and downward pressure on prices. The Fed has responded appropriately by loosening monetary policy to stimulate aggregate demand.
Consumers have responded to low interest rates by refinancing their mortgages and continuing to buy, keeping aggregate demand stronger than it would have been under a tighter monetary policy. Prices aren't increasing, but they aren't falling, either.
The worry is that the loose monetary policy won't be effective indefinitely. If economic activity stays slow, and unemployment rises, consumers will become more cautious, making them more reluctant to spend. As John Maynard Keynes put it, "You can't push on a string," meaning you can give people more dollars, but you can't make them spend them.
To pursue the medical analogy introduced earlier: the symptom is deflation (or, at least, soft prices), the diagnosis is weak aggregate investment demand, and the recommended treatment is money supply growth. But the critical question is, as always, will the patient recover?
I'm cautiously optimistic.
There are signs that business spending is coming back to life, and the recent drop in the dollar will make America's exports much cheaper abroad, thereby increasing employment and investment in export-sensitive industries.
But relying on a weak dollar to solve our economic problems is tricky. First, it takes a long time to show results, and second, our trading partners don't like it. Trade relations between the United States and Europe are at the worst point in years, and we could easily see some sort of retaliation.
If monetary policy and exchange-rate jawboning don't do the trick, the next medication to try is fiscal policy. Given the weak investment demand and the increasing unemployment, the most effective policies would be temporary investment credits coupled with tax cuts for low-income workers and direct aid to state governments.
The first policy directly stimulates aggregate demand, which is the real source of the problem; the second helps counterbalance the potential drop in spending because of unemployment; and the third helps mitigate likely tax increases at the state level.
Unfortunately, that's not what Congress did. Instead we have a cut in taxes for high-income households, some rather modest investment incentives and aid to the states, and the truly bizarre temporary cut in the dividend tax rate.
This is like going to the doctor to complain about a headache and being told to soak your feet in hot water. Soaking your feet might not hurt you -- but it sure won't do anything for your headache.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Vendors in New York selling apples during the Depression. Unlike the Federal Reserve of the 1930s, todays Fed is more active in its monetary policy. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); DEFLATION (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); AGRICULTURAL PRICES (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PRICE CHANGES (89%); MONETARY POLICY (88%); GREAT DEPRESSION (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RECESSION (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); FAMILY FARMS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); MONEY SUPPLY (76%); PRODUCTIVITY (73%); FORECLOSURE (71%); BANK FAILURES (71%); AGRICULTURE (66%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (73%) VARIAN, HAL R 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



127 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1138 words

HEADLINE: Senators Move To Restore F.C.C. Limits Onthe Media 

BYLINE:  By STEPHEN LABATON 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 4 

 BODY:
A bipartisan majority of an important Senate committee indicated today that it would vote to overturn some of the media ownership rules adopted two days ago, reversing one of the most significant deregulatory steps undertaken during the Bush administration.
 The battle over the new rules, which were narrowly adopted by the Federal Communications Commission along partisan lines, spilled into Congress where the Republican commissioners who voted for them faced hostile questions from both Democrats and Republicans on the Senate Commerce Committee. 
 Its chairman, Senator John McCain of Arizona, said the committee would begin a markup of new legislation this month even though he did not directly take issue with the changes adopted by the commission. Mr. McCain said he would introduce legislation giving the F.C.C. the authority to impose tighter regulations if the agency found such regulations were in the public interest. 
The efforts to overturn the decision face an uphill battle, particularly in the House of Representatives, where there is more support for the commission than there appears to be in the Senate. But the political furor, as evidenced by hundreds of thousands of negative comments sent from across the country, on top of criticism from a spectrum of organizations ranging from the National Organization for Women to the National Rifle Association, have given critics momentum on Capitol Hill, which could ultimately lead to a reversal of some elements of the new rules.
"While Monday's decision promising further media deregulation may well be celebrated in a few New York and Hollywood boardrooms, it will be remembered as a dark day in thousands of American communities who look to the F.C.C. to ensure that the use of the public airwaves serves the interests of all Americans, not the economic self-interest of a chosen few," said Senator Ernest F. Hollings of South Carolina, the ranking Democrat on the committee.
Even without the strong support of Mr. McCain, lawmakers today were discussing the possibility of using a rare parliamentary maneuver that would permit them to overturn the commission's decision by simple majority in both houses of Congress and without requiring the approval of President Bush, whose aides have praised the commission's decision.
The architect of the deregulation, the F.C.C. chairman, Michael K. Powell, responded to questions by saying he was only doing what Congress and the courts had directed the agency to do. A 1996 law requires the agency to review the broadcast rules every two years. More recently, a series of court opinions have criticized the agency for failing to adequately justify the restrictions.
"The D.C. Circuit held, 'the Congress set in motion a process to deregulate the structure of the broadcast and cable television industries,' " Mr. Powell testified. "The F.C.C. is an administrative agency and it is constitutionally bound to comply -- willingly or not -- with Congress's direction, as expressed by the text of the statute. The commission does not have the luxury of always doing what is popular."
But with so many comments criticizing the changes flooding the offices of lawmakers and the F.C.C., Mr. Powell's position had little political traction.
Only 5 members of the 23-member Senate committee offered any support for the commission; most of the rest, Democrats and Republicans alike, expressed deep dissatisfaction with at least some aspect of the new rules. While a majority of the Democrats on the committee criticized most of the package adopted by the commission, elements of it were also challenged by such Republicans as Ted Stevens, Conrad Burns, Kay Bailey Hutchison, Olympia J. Snowe and Trent Lott. 
Senator Snowe, of Maine, said she shared "profound disappointment in the way the F.C.C. has reached its decision and in the way that it paves the way for consolidation of power in the hands of a few."
"It is a victory for free enterprise," she said, "but it is not a victory for free speech."
Senator Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, called the commission's decision "wrongheaded and destructive" and said it would lead to "an orgy of mergers and acquisitions." He added, "The majority of the commission did not have the strength to stand up against corporate interests."
Senator Burns, of Montana, himself a former television broadcaster, said the old rules had worked well.
"We've all said we've seen a growth in the number of voices and a growth in outlets," he said. "We have seen that under existing rules. So my first reaction is, why change?"
Only a small minority of the lawmakers came to the defense of the commission.
"I think the dangers of what your rulings may lead to have been somewhat overstated," said Senator Peter G. Fitzgerald, Republican of Illinois.
Senator John E. Sununu, Republican of New Hampshire, said the changing nature of the broadcast and newspaper industries required modifications of the old rules.
"Times have changed," he said. "It doesn't mean we don't need any regulations. But if times have changed, we ought to make sure that the regulations are keeping pace with those changes."
The strongest criticism came over the decision to give the television networks the authority to buy more affiliate stations. But there was also criticism from many Democrats and some Republicans over the repeal of the rule that had restricted a company from owning both newspapers and broadcast stations in the same city.
While there is more support for the commission's deregulatory moves in the House, supporters of the old rules have several procedural options that may make it easier than usual to overturn the new rules.
One avenue is the adoption of a "resolution of disapproval," an arcane parliamentary move that would automatically repeal the F.C.C.'s decision without requiring the signature of the president. 
Congress's ability to overturn agency decisions without the approval of the president was adopted in the Congressional Review Act of 1996. It was used two years ago when Republican lawmakers, acting after intense lobbying from many major corporations, and over the objections of labor groups, overturned the workplace ergonomic rules written by the Clinton administration.
Some lawmakers were also discussing the possibility of attaching any revisions to the new media ownership rules to appropriations measures that would more easily pass through Congress.
Such a parliamentary maneuver has more currency than usual because Mr. Stevens, one of the most vocal critics of the commission's decision, heads the Senate Appropriations Committee. He has sponsored legislation to roll back the national network ownership cap to its old limit. The old rule, prohibiting a network from acquiring stations that reach more than 35 percent of the nation's viewers, was increased to 45 percent on Monday.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 26, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on June 5 about an effort in Congress to overturn the Federal Communications Commission's new regulations on media ownership referred incorrectly to the president's role in adopting a "resolution of disapproval," a parliamentary move that would repeal the F.C.C.'s decision. His signature would indeed be required. (The resolution could also could go into effect if Congress overrode a presidential veto.)

GRAPHIC: Photo: The chairman of the F.C.C., Michael K. Powell, defended the easing of caps on media ownership before a Senate committee yesterday, while a fellow commissioner, Jonathan S. Adelstein, spoke against the change. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)(pg. C8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEREGULATION (93%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (84%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); RANKINGS (71%); APPROVALS (71%); WOMEN (67%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (62%); CABLE TELEVISION (60%) TELEVISION; RADIO; NEWSPAPERS; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY; ANTITRUST ACTIONS AND LAWS 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%); NATIONAL ORGANIZATION FOR WOMEN (55%); NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (55%) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%) LABATON, STEPHEN; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



128 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Foreign Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1072 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP: THE OUTLOOK; 
Middle East Mediator: Big New Test for Bush

BYLINE:  By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: AQABA, Jordan, June 4 

 BODY:
Two events forced George Bush's decision to sit under a tree this afternoon, finally acting as the essential mediator between the fierce hawk who leads Israel and the new, untested and struggling prime minister of the Palestinian Authority.
 The first was the president's quick victory in Iraq, which established new respect -- along with new resentments -- for him in a region that recognizes power and must now deal with him as the leader of an occupying force in the very heart of the Middle East. The second was the emergence of Mahmoud Abbas as an alternative to Yasir Arafat as Palestinian leader, which met Mr. Bush's stated condition for American intervention, or, perhaps, called his bluff. 
 The question now, which followed Mr. Bush at every stop on the sidelines of the president's three-day race through the Mideast, is whether he is truly capable of the kind of personal follow-through that he has vowed in every public appearance this week. Around the world, he bears a reputation as a man far more eager to destroy threats to America -- from Al Qaeda to Saddam Hussein's regime -- than to construct new nations from the ruins of conflict. He now has three major construction projects on his plate: rebuilding Iraq and Afghanistan, and acting as midwife to the new state of Palestine he envisions in his peace plan, known as the road map.
Mr. Bush has repeatedly made clear his view that ridding the Mideast of "the dictator in Iraq" opened the way for the rest of his agenda. Iraq, he said, would become a model of democracy in a Muslim nation. And he told reporters today in a rare gathering in the conference room of Air Force One, "we can be stewards of accountability" in the Middle East. "We can say to somebody, 'You said you'd do this, you haven't done it, you say you want to do this, and what do you need to get it done?' " 
Managing all that -- to say nothing of a weak economy at home, a looming re-election campaign and the specter of new confrontations with Iran and North Korea -- would be a huge agenda for any president. It is especially big for a man who came to power sounding dismissive of nation-building and of President Bill Clinton's day-to-day, paragraph-by-paragraph style of Mideast diplomacy.
Now, Mr. Bush has committed a chunk of his reputation to achieving the goals he and regional leaders set for themselves today. He faces the risk of the same kind of frustrations and violent setbacks here that bedeviled Mr. Clinton and many presidents before.
Mr. Bush promises a far different style. He said today that he was delegating Secretary of State Colin L. Powell and his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, to act as his personal representatives, who will cajole, entice and, when necessary, issue the kinds of vague threats that can motivate both sides.
But in the end, the power to make nations break their own internal deadlocks may prove impossible to delegate. Past peace efforts have shown that the real bargaining does not start until the president enters the room.
Mr. Bush is a man who likes big visions, and one reason he is now deeply engaged is that he has what one aide calls "a map in his mind" of a new Middle East. It is one with an American-friendly government of Iraq at its center, surrounded by states where young Arabs debate lawmaking, not bombmaking.
But those who know the president well say he is usually disinclined to sweat over the details. As governor of Texas and as president, he has prided himself on delegating, not micromanaging.
That has been his style in Afghanistan, and many American allies complain that Mr. Bush lost interest in the country once a new crisis in Iraq came along. Money and attention have not been as forthcoming for Afghanistan as Mr. Bush promised 18 months ago, and in Iraq an early plan for creating an Iraqi transitional authority has been shelved because of unanticipated obstacles.
In the Arab-Israeli conflict, he may need to act more like he did as owner of the Texas Rangers baseball team, where his partners remember him as a man who immersed himself in the pros and cons of trading players. On this trip alone, Mr. Bush had to twist the arm of Ariel Sharon, the Israeli prime minister, to get him to commit in public to "immediately begin to remove unauthorized outposts" in the West Bank.
But he could not get a public commitment from Mr. Sharon to freeze the growth of other settlements, as required by the peace plan. The prime minister, of course, helped create many of those settlements as Likud minister in the aftermath of the Six Day War in 1967, when Mr. Bush was a junior at Yale.
In Sharm el Sheik, Egypt, on Tuesday, Mr. Bush had to push hard to win a strong Arab commitment to cut off financing to terrorist groups, and even then could not get them to speed up the recognition of Israel or acknowledge its right to exist as "a vibrant Jewish state," the words Mr. Bush used today. In coming weeks, he must press Mr. Sharon to make good on his commitment to begin dismantling unauthorized outposts.
Those steps are likely to present the first real test of both men's sincerity, determination and political strength. And it will be the first test of Mr. Bush's commitment, repeated on Air Force One today, to "ride herd" on the players here, including the Palestinians, who must begin to disarm militant groups.
There are risks in all of this for Mr. Bush, but they are hard to quantify. Shadowing him on the trip here -- visible on the margins of events, usually staying out of sight -- was Mr. Bush's political impresario, Karl Rove. Political aides say that the consensus within the Bush camp is that the American public likes to see presidents as peacemakers. "He needs to show he is trying," one political adviser to the White House said recently.
Conveniently, the creation of a comprehensive peace and a Palestinian state is not scheduled to happen until 2005 -- the year after the next presidential election.
Of greater risk to Mr. Bush is the possibility of being seen as doing too little to fight terrorism, or failing to lift Iraq out of chaos. That is why Mr. Bush flew off tonight to Doha, Qatar, the home of the United States Central Command, which ran the Iraq war and created the opening through which the president ran today. But it is unlikely he will show up a few hundred miles north in Iraq, aides say. That would risk highlighting the darker side of his image in this region: the empire builder.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Secretary of State Colin L. Powell, left, escorted Queen Rania of Jordan during Mideast talks in Aqaba. Behind Mr. Powell is Condoleezza Rice. (Rina Castelnuovo for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News Analysis 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (72%); AL-QAEDA (71%); TERRORISM (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (60%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; TERRORISM 

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (55%) PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (79%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (72%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (57%) SANGER, DAVID E; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN); ARAFAT, YASIR 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); IRAQ (94%); ISRAEL (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); JORDAN (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFGHANISTAN (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP; IRAQ

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



129 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 5, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2749 words

HEADLINE: THE PRESIDENT'S TRIP; 
In the President's Words: 'A Mutual Desire to Work Toward the Vision'

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from a press pool interview with President Bush yesterday aboard Air Force One, as provided by the White House. A complete transcript is online at nytimes.com/international.

PRESIDENT BUSH -- One of the things that we have made clear to all parties is that there are terrorists who have to blow up the process -- you all know that, it's been an historic fact -- and that these countries in the neighborhood have the capacity to work to cut off money to the terrorist groups, and access and arms deals. And they committed themselves to do that, which was a positive sign. It was also important for Prime Minister Abbas to hear that. This is a man who is a newly elected prime minister, new to office. He gets sworn in, and the road map gets released.
 All of a sudden now, he finds himself in a serious effort, the creation of a Palestinian state, which puts enormous responsibilities on him. And one of the things we're saying is you're now responsible. But it helped a lot to have the Arab leaders support him, and not only support him, but to support him through pledges of activity and action. 
 The crown prince of Saudi Arabia was particularly strong yesterday in private about the need to chase down terrorists. They've had some recent experience with terrorism. And I was really pleased with the strong commitment and the strong desire to not only deal with terrorists inside his country but to work to prevent arms being smuggled out of Iraq and into the territories. We also spent a lot of time talking about Syria, and the mutual concern about Syria and the desire to convince Syria to shut down terrorist offices in Damascus. So there was a very helpful discussion. I think it was very helpful for Prime Minister Abbas to hear that.
Then we come to today. The way the day worked, is that I met with the king of Jordan. He is a wonderful man. He is obviously desirous of Palestinian statehood, which would be very helpful to him. We talked about bilateral relations, matters of economic development. And it was a good conversation. And then I sat down with Prime Minister Sharon. I assured him that security was at the top of our agenda, like security is at the top of his agenda. One, we're in a war against terror, or a war against terror on the home front, we're chasing down these people around. 
But we also recognize that there are some who would like to blow up the process, and that we want to work to create the conditions for a Palestinian state to emerge, which means jointly working with all parties to work on the security issue.
I also told him, though, he's got responsibilities. The fact that he showed up meant that he believes Prime Minister Abbas can deliver. And therefore, we've got to work together to help the prime minister achieve his stated objectives, which, one, he had a very clear statement on terror.
The other thing that was very interesting was his statement on incitement. And it was a fact statement, for those who follow the process. He needs time to get his security forces set up. I also reminded him that I wasn't caught by surprise by his statement on the outpost, the issue of the outpost. He said he would dismantle them, we expect him now to dismantle them.
People say, well, what's the first step? Well, you just heard the first step today in the speeches. You also heard me say that we would help the Palestinian Authority develop a security force. Minister Dahlan will be in charge of that security force. We intend to work with them. We assured the Israelis we intend to work with them. We want this man to be successful.
The prime minister absolutely rejected terror. In order for him to be effective in rejecting terror, he's got to have an effective security force. And so that's what we discussed.
And then we met, all of us together, our delegations. . . . And then I suggested that the three of us just go outside and visit, rather than having the formal settings of the old roundtable discussion. And so we went out and sat on the lawn there for about 30 minutes and discussed a lot of matters. What I wanted to do is to observe the interplay between the two: did they have the capacity to relax in each other's presence, for starters. And I felt they did. In other words, the body language was positive. There wasn't a lot of hostility or suspicion. It seemed like to me, from the conversation, that there was a mutual desire to work toward the vision. And obviously I'm not going to betray confidences, but it was a very interesting and positive conversation is the best way to say it. I didn't need, for example, to be Mr. Chatty. You know, kind of, "Hey, fellows." Laughter. There was a natural tendency to want to talk about common matters and common desires.
And then after that we gave our speeches, and here we sit. I will tell you that I'm pleased with the last two days. We have made a good beginning. And I emphasize beginning, because there's a lot of work to do. Let me just review some of the work that must take place. Obviously, there needs -- there needs to be a focused, complete, 100 percent effort to fight off the terrorists. I believe the Palestinian -- I know the Palestinian leadership wants that, has got that desire. And so, he must help them put the institutions in place to do that. . . . There's just a lot of things to be done -- better education systems. Israel has got to recognize that Prime Minister Abbas is desirous for peace, and without compromising security, must make decisions necessary to help the Palestinian people. And they're doing that. More money is now in circulation. They collect revenues, Israel does, and now they've got great trust in the finance minister of the Palestinian Authority -- a guy who went to the University of Texas, by the way, for a while. He came to Washington as an intermediary on behalf of Prime Minister Abbas and Condi Condoleezza Rice, national security adviser and I met with him in the Oval Office. . . . I'm absolutely convinced he's an honest and upright man who believes in the future of the Palestinian people, believes that a democratic Palestinian state is possible. It's important for Prime Minister Sharon to recognize that. I think he does -- I'm confident he recognizes that. . . . 

Q. Mr. President, previous efforts at making peace in the Middle East did not succeed. You believe you now have a chance. Could you try to put this in history? What do you think has changed since you took office, and how did we get to this point?

A. I think a couple of things have changed. One, I think I think Prime Minister Abbas is willing to make the necessary decisions and take the necessary steps to fight terror and to develop institutions necessary for a state to emerge, a genuine effort, I believe he is. And that's a change. Secondly, there is a universal recognition that the war on terror is just that, a war on terror, and not empty words. . . . With the Arab nations, it seemed like to me the new reality was reflected in their statements, which will make it easier for a Palestinian state to emerge. There's a vested interest to fight terror. It's people's self-interest now. . . .

Q. Could you -- could you dwell for a moment on your personal style of diplomacy and how you see it working?

A. I try to tell the truth, put it right out there on the table for everybody to understand what's expected. I do, I like people. You know, I remember, I think it was -- Ron Fournier asked me the question, do you trust Vladimir Putin? It was one of the really interesting questions, to fire up the president standing next to Vladimir Putin.
Well, the answer is yes, I didn't hesitate, because during my meeting with him, I had developed an interesting rapport. My instincts were such that, this is a guy I can trust. . . . And therefore much of the conversations, particularly as I get to know somebody, is to figure out whether or not you can -- whether or not, when they say something, they mean it. You can tell that, pretty much, during a conversation, which means trying to get people off their script, and as you discuss things, make it as informal as possible, because I think people in an informal setting tend to show their heart and/or their conscience in a lot better way.
I'm not a very formal guy to begin with. Condi and the secretary of state, Colin, can give you a better sense of what my style is like. I'm also not very analytical. You know I don't spend a lot of time thinking about myself, about why I do things. The meetings are informal, they're kind of relaxed. I think one of my styles is trying to relax people.

CONDOLEEZZA RICE -- Direct, I would say.

MR. BUSH -- Yes, I am a direct person. I mean, there's no -- we don't have a lot of time, and therefore, I like to get to the point. I like to ask people, I can challenge people. I believe I can do so in a way that's not offensive to them. . . .

Q. Is that what happened when you were in the anteroom with the Arab leaders, you just decided that it was a more relaxed setting and that you prefer to keep talking ----

A. Exactly, yes.

Q. Could you tell us a little bit about that meeting and what went on in that meeting?

A. Sure, I'd love to. . . . It was just a roundtable discussion about -- let me make sure I get it right here. I told them, I said, look -- all four of those leaders, except for Prime Minister Abbas, were -- Prime Minister Abbas was there. The other four leaders are leaders who I obviously talked to during the Iraq war. Before the Iraq war and after the Iraq war, I assured them that I was going to be involved in moving the Middle East peace process forward, particularly after the emergence of the prime minister, Abbas. This was my chance to go around the table and look him in the eye, and say, I'm here to make it happen, but I need your help. The first thing is to let them know about the intent of this administration. . . .
And then we listened to them, and Crown Prince Abdullah. And they had a lot of interesting thoughts about different issues. Oh, and by the way, it wasn't just -- the discussion wasn't just on the Middle East peace process. The other thing I told them, I asked them, was to help Prime Minister Abbas. I directly said, we need your help on this fellow. If he is to succeed, if peace is to succeed, he needs your help. . . . 
And part of it had to do because a lot of it needed to be translated. Therefore, a normal conversation -- all of it had to be translated. The crown prince does not speak English very well, so therefore every word that was spoken had to volleyed. And so that's -- we had a good conversation. Again, not structured. . . .
And I met bilaterally with them as well. I met with -- Colin and Condi and I went over to President Mubarak's house that night. We had a bilateral with him in the morning and afterwards we ate. I had a bilateral with the crown prince at the hotel. . . . 

Q. Mr. President, a big part of why you were here, and you made clear, is because Mahmoud Abbas is the person who is Palestinian prime minister, and Yasir Arafat is not the person who you chose to negotiate. But Palestinian leaders made clear that they still think Yasir Arafat is somebody who needs to be dealt with. I'm wondering what kinds of conversations you had with the Arab leaders and maybe with Mahmoud Abbas about Arafat's role.

A. Well, it's clear that I'm going to deal with Prime Minister Abbas, so there wasn't much conversation. . . .

SECRETARY OF STATE COLIN L. POWELL -- It didn't come up in any of the conversations with the president that I'm aware of. And they know our views on this.

Q. Do you have any concern that he might be a hindrance to the process at all?

MR. BUSH Not if he has the Palestinian people's interests at heart. We'll see. I certainly hope not. . . .

MR. POWELL -- In conversations with the Arab leaders, particularly the foreign ministers, we made it clear to them that one of the things we expected them to help with was to make sure that Mr. Arafat does not become an obstacle to the execution of the road map.

Q. Did they seem to say that they were willing to do that?

MR. POWELL -- They understood. They will help.

MR. BUSH -- I think they understand. . . . It did not come up during my conversations with the Arab leaders. What came up was, how do we help Prime Minister Abbas. Now, Colin may have had different -- with the foreign ministers, since they have some frank discussions. A lot of times you'll find out that the underbrush has been cleared by the -- and by the time the president arrives, everybody kind of understands. And one of his jobs is to clear out underbrush. That's an old ranch term. Laughter. In other words -- I don't know what he told the foreign ministers, but I just heard what he told the foreign ministers. . . .

Q. What do you consider sort of the importance of the role of the president in this kind of process? For example, this is the first time you've had this kind of summit, where some of your predecessors had multiple summits by this time.

A. Well, you know, first of all, we've had a lot of meetings, but not summits. I've had a lot of discussions with every one of the parties that have been around the table, with the exception of Prime Minister Abbas, and he's just showed up. He just emerged as a leader. I called him immediately upon -- I think immediately, or soon after he became prime minister. . . . There's no need to spend capital and energy and time if there is not a commitment to peace. And the conditions are such now that there is a commitment to peace by a lot of people that are ready to see if we can't make it happen. That's what's changed. . . .
And so what the role of the United States is is to lay out the vision, encourage people to accept the vision, and then help implement the vision. In this case, we call it a road map to achieve the vision. And that's exactly what we're going to do. We can be stewards of accountability. And we can say to somebody, you said you'd do this, you haven't done it; you say you want to do this, and what do you need to get it done?
So today we asked Dahlan, what is it you need, how can we help you? This is a securitymatter. What exactly can we do to help?

Q. Mr. President, in the events of the last two days, have they exceeded what you expected coming over here? . . .

MR. BUSH -- I'm the master of low expectations. I think we did what we wanted to -- we accomplished what I hoped we would accomplish -- but I don't think we necessarily exceeded expectations. I think met expectations is a better way to put it.
I was hoping to have honest dialogues. The statements that came out, I think when you analyze the statements, you'll find them to be historic, I guess is the right word to use. Amazing things were said. The prime minister of the Palestinian Authority talked about the suffering of Jewish people. It's a strong statement. The prime minister of Israel talked about a Palestinian state which was free. The statements were strong. It's hard to answer, exceeded expectations. I had a little bit of an understanding of what might take place, because we worked hard. These trips, obviously, don't just happen. The statement just doesn't show up out of the blue. . . .

Q. Were there any times going into this that you were hearing things, that you were thinking to yourself, "uh-oh" ----

MR. BUSH -- Look, I wasn't going if we weren't going to make progress. I mean, there's no need to go and stand up there by myself, and say, let's work for peace, and look around, and nobody would be there with you. . . . So you had these leaders stand up and say, I commit -- not just commit to -- I mean, the prime minister of Israel saying, I commit to knock down or get rid of illegal outposts. That is a strong commitment. So the process was really to work hard to get people to make commitments toward peace. . . .

Q. What's your role? What do you do? You talked about giving the secretary and Dr. Rice specific obligations. What's your obligation?

A. I show up when they need me to call people to account, to praise, or to say: wait a minute, you told me in Jordan that you would do this, you haven't done it. Why? How come? What is it? It's to keep the thing moving, keep the processes moving. They've got the man on the ground that is going to -- I used the expression "ride herd." I don't know if anybody understood the meaning. It's a little informal in diplomatic terms. I said, we're going to put a guy on the ground to ride herd on the process. See them all scratching their heads.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Bush meeting with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel, left, and the Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas, yesterday at palace in Aqaba, Jordan. (Avi Chayon/Israel Government Press Office) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Text 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); WAR ON TERROR (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TRANSCRIPTS (78%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (76%); SMUGGLING (75%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (72%) PALESTINIANS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

ORGANIZATION: PALESTINIAN AUTHORITY 

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (93%); MAHMOUD ABBAS (89%) BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES); SHARON, ARIEL (PRIME MIN); ABBAS, MAHMOUD (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%) PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (96%); SYRIA (93%); ISRAEL (93%); JORDAN (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%) ISRAEL; WEST BANK; GAZA STRIP

LOAD-DATE: June 5, 2003 



130 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 158 words

HEADLINE: Metro Briefing New York: State Bond Rating Cut 

BYLINE:  By James C. McKinley Jr. (NYT) (Compiled by Anthony Ramirez) 

 BODY:
 Fitch Ratings, which assesses the creditworthiness of securities, yesterday downgraded New York's general obligation bonds to AA- from AA, putting New York among the seven lowest-rated states in the country. Analysts at the rating agency said the $92.8 billion budget passed by the State Legislature last month relied too much on borrowing to pay current bills. The budget also pushed the state's already high level of debt even higher, they said. Claire Cohen, the agency's top analyst of state bonds, said that there was little hope the state would reduce spending, since the Legislature had rejected most of the $2 billion in spending cuts that Gov. George E. Pataki had proposed and had raised taxes to restore them. She added that the $4.2 billion in new borrowing would simply forestall cuts, which made future shortfalls inevitable. "It's kind of a bridge to nowhere," she said. "That's where our concern was."
 James C. McKinley Jr. (NYT)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BONDS (93%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (88%); TAX INCREASES (87%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%) FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS 

COMPANY: FITCH RATINGS LTD (59%)

ORGANIZATION: FITCH RATINGS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (59%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (59%); NAICS522390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO CREDIT INTERMEDIATION (59%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (59%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (59%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (59%)

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JAMES C JR; PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); COHEN, CLAIRE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) NEW YORK STATE; NEW YORK STATE

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



131 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 850 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
The Compelling Logic of the Used-Car Faithful

BYLINE:  By GEORGE P. BLUMBERG 

 BODY:
EVERYONE knows the person who will buy only a new car, whether for the assurance that it wasn't abused or scratched by another human being or for that new-car smell. But a growing group of buyers insists that brand-new cars are a foolish waste of money. They have caught on to something: overall, used cars are better than they used to be.
 These customers buy well-maintained cars one to four years old, which come with thousands of miles on the odometer, thousands of dollars in savings and perhaps a few scratches. The cars can be found in top condition and with comprehensive warranties that may protect against costly repairs for up to a total of 100,000 miles. 
 "We just couldn't see paying over $50,000 for a new car," said Maria Mitchell, 48, of Glastonbury, Conn., a professor of mathematics education. That was the price of well-equipped new Mercedes ML500 sport utility vehicle. So she and husband, Peter, a Coast Guard captain, bought a top-of-the-line 2001 ML430 S.U.V., with 29,000 miles on it, for $34,800. "We feel smart," she said.
Lately the market has been particularly favorable to the used-car buyer. "There's a glut," said Art Spinella, an automotive analyst in Santa Barbara, Calif., for CNW Market Research. "Because of incentives on new cars, like zero-percent financing, people are trading in. And over 3 million cars come off lease in 2003 to become used cars."
The glut may not last, but the general trend toward quality probably will. Today's used cars, built after 1990 or so, were better made to begin with than cars built in the 70's and 80's. Complaints about "planned obsolescence" have disappeared as quality has risen. And the lease cars that make up a large part of today's used-car market are usually only two or three years old, with 20,000 to 40,000 miles, and have been maintained on schedule as a condition of the leases. All of this makes for better used cars, and competition has also created much better warranties.
The best bets for buyers, according to Rob Gentile, manager of the Consumer Reports New and Used Car Pricing Service, are used cars backed by car manufacturers through factory certification. These cars have limited age and mileage and have to pass a careful inspection. Virtually all carmakers sell them, usually increasing prices about $300 for economy models to $2,500 for luxury cars. Even with the premium price, Mr. Gentile said, "the consumer saves on the depreciation -- and gets a good car and warranty." 
The Mitchells' S.U.V. was factory certified by Mercedes and came with the original warranty, good until 2005 or until the odometer hits 50,000. The Mitchells paid an additional $1,500 for an extended warranty running to 2008, with a 100,000-mile cap.
Only 1.5 million factory certified cars are predicted to be available in 2003, however, of the 44 million used cars that are expected to be sold nationally. Buyers of the other 42.5 million can get good deals, but they should be prepared to put more work into the process.
Franchised dealers will sell about 14.5 million certified cars that are not factory certified. "Especially make sure that you understand the difference between a dealer-certified used car, which may have an aftermarket warranty the dealer buys, and a factory-certified car, where the factory stands behind it," Mr. Gentile said. "And remember, a good used car warranty doesn't make a good used car."
Another 14.5 million used vehicles will be sold by independent used-car dealers. Most will be the familiar neighborhood lots, but some are big-box-style chains that sell used cars in large quantities and many brands, often with no-haggle pricing, and set standards for the cars they handle. For example, CarMax, a chain with 38 used-car outlets mostly in the Sun Belt, excludes cars driven more than 60,000 miles and those with frame or flood damage. It sells extended warranties backed by the insurance broker Aon Corporation.
The rest of the used cars changing hands will go from one individual to another through newspaper advertisements, the Internet, or the fellow at work who knows somebody with a great old Toyota. In these deals, just one thing is guaranteed: the buyer had better beware.

A PRIMER
There's More to It Than Kicking the Tires

IT is rational to worry about being burned when buying a used car. In general, the weaker the warranty, the more homework that should be done. Here are some tips:
* Check independent sources like Consumer Reports for surveys of different models' repair records.
* Ask the seller to let you take the car to your own mechanic for a careful check.
* Get the car's vehicle identification number and go to the CarFax Web site, www.carfax.com, for a report on the history of the car's title. If it has a "salvage title," run away from the deal.
* Be careful to look at exclusions -- not just the list of what is included -- on an extended warranty.
And be sure to search the Web to compare different companies' certification and extended warranty programs. Check on deductibles and learn whether any extras -- like roadside assistance, towing and loaner cars -- are included.

GRAPHIC: Photo: COST CONSCIOUS -- For Maria and Peter Mitchell of Glastonbury, Conn., a 2001 Mercedes S.U.V. was a better value than a new one. (George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRODUCT WARRANTIES (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); AUTOMAKERS (78%); LUXURY GOODS (78%); AUTOMOBILE LEASING (78%); TRENDS (77%); MARKET RESEARCH (77%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (77%); PRODUCT PRICING (73%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); PRICE INCREASES (68%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (65%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (53%) AUTOMOBILES; USED CARS; RENTING AND LEASING 

PERSON: BLUMBERG, GEORGE P 

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA BARBARA, CA, USA (70%) CONNECTICUT, USA (87%); CALIFORNIA, USA (75%) UNITED STATES (87%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



132 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1888 words

HEADLINE: JOURNEYS; 
On New Golf Courses, Nature Wins a Round

BYLINE:  By KATHLEEN McCLEARY 

 BODY:
ON a grassy bluff 100 feet above the Pacific Ocean, you can see for at least 14 miles in each direction, from the windswept dunes and rolling hills along the shore, straight out across the sea toward Japan. The wind can blow so hard here that the rain comes in great horizontal gusts across the dunes. But there's a wild beauty to all the drama, with thick clouds scudding above the waves and the beach grasses and blooming thickets of gorse swirling in the wind. Dozens of different shades of green and gold blanket the hills, from the bright yellow Scotch broom to the deep green pines to the golden brown grass along the fairways.
 Fairways? Yes; this particular three-mile stretch of wilderness along the Oregon coast is also a world-class golf course, Pacific Dunes. While Mark Twain famously called golf "a good walk spoiled," a new breed of golf course is turning that maxim on its head. Even bad golf is enhanced at Pacific Dunes, a walking-only course that seems to sprout from the sand, gorse, beach grass and shore pines that characterize this stretch of coast in remote southern Oregon. 
 "My definition of a great golf course is one that a nongolfer will have as much fun walking as a golfer," said Mike Keiser, 58, the self-described "thoroughly mediocre golfer" who owns Pacific Dunes and its sister course, Bandon Dunes. In a departure from the carefully manicured courses that blanket most resort communities, the best new courses are etched into canyons (Rustic Canyon in Moorpark, Calif.), rolled into sand dunes (Pacific Dunes and Bandon Dunes) or slipped into woods and wetlands (Hunting Hawk Golf Club in Glen Allen, Va.).
"There's a definite movement back toward courses that appear to fit seamlessly into the landscape," said Bill Love, the golf course architect who designed Hunting Hawk. That can include using native grasses that may sometimes be dormant and brown, outlawing the use of carts and avoiding asphalt in favor of weathered wood for paths.
Jay Morrish, president of the American Society of Golf Course Architects, agreed. "We're certainly leaving more untouched areas," he said. 
It is not appearance alone that is driving the trend. It is also environmental concerns about course development and maintenance, along with a desire to get back to a more traditional style of golf -- "good, solid, honest shot-making," said Mr. Love, who has worked on more than 100 courses over the last 20 years. Many of the new courses represent a return to "links" golf as it originated in Scotland, golf played on an open, windswept and sandy course, with an emphasis on a strong ground game.
For many years, the highest-ranked courses in the United States have also been the oldest. Just eight of the top 50 courses on Golf Digest's 2003 list of "America's 100 Greatest Golf Courses" were built after 1936. Until the 1960's, "golf course architecture was embedded in nature," said Brad Klein, architecture editor for Golfweek magazine. Most courses were created using existing grades and hand tools. Architects had to work with the land's natural features out of necessity. But as technology and budgets increased, course architecture turned to moving major mounds of earth and building moats, lakes and hills. 
"That produced a lot of courses on land you couldn't otherwise have used," Mr. Klein said, "but it also created a very unnatural, very contrived look." 
The boom in residential golf communities in the 1990's also played a part, Mr. Love said. "It's unlikely you're going to have a golf course that looks like it sits on the Oregon sea coast running through a residential development," he said. But those boom days are over. The number of rounds of golf played annually has fallen every year since 1999, dropping 3 percent in 2002. While 398 new courses opened in 2000 -- a 15-year peak -- just 220 sprouted in 2002, according to the National Golf Foundation. Developers "saturated the market" with too many new courses in the 1990's, Mr. Morrish said. "We were opening a golf course a day," he said. "That's not going to happen again, even if the economy comes around. It's going to be survival of the fittest."
Or, as the current trend seems to indicate, survival of the most wild, scenic and natural. The top four courses on Golfweek magazine's annual list of best modern courses (opened after 1960) are all natural-style, and all were built within the last eight years. Those courses include Pacific Dunes (2001) and Bandon Dunes (1999) as well as Whistling Straits (1998), near Kohler, Wis., another walking-only course, which runs along two blustery miles of Lake Michigan shoreline and will be the site of the PGA Championship in 2004.
Tom Doak, the architect behind Pacific Dunes, said that a decade ago golf course architects would "brag about how much money they spent and how much dirt they moved around." It is not unusual to move a million or more cubic yards of soil in building a modern golf course. At the private Sandhills Golf Club in Mullen, Neb., the paradigm for naturalistic courses, the designers Bill Coore and Ben Crenshaw moved just 5,000 cubic yards of dirt. At Pacific Dunes, Jim Urbina, who oversaw construction, estimated that 45,000 cubic yards were moved, and most of that was putting back sand and soil the wind had blown onto the dunes, he said. (But sometimes architects have to move dirt to create the look of a naturalistic course. At Whistling Straits, Pete Dye started with 560 acres of completely flat land and trucked in 800,000 cubic yards of sand to create huge dunes with tall wild grasses for a rugged links-style course that is nearly treeless and decidedly not parklike.)
Leaving much of a course in its natural state sets the stage for how it will be maintained, Mr. Doak said. "There are two approaches to golf course management, just like medicine," he said. "You can take the holistic approach and create the course in such a way that it needs minimal intervention to maintain, or you can take the surgical and medicinal approach." Mr. Doak said he spent "an inordinate amount of time telling workers where not to go" in building Pacific Dunes. He worked with a soil specialist, Dave Wilbur, an agronomist who instructed Mr. Doak's staff on the best way to preserve topsoil loaded with organic material so grass would put down deep roots, creating healthier plants that require less water and chemical intervention.
Ken Nice, the course superintendent, said he used fertilizer "very, very sparingly," and only organic products. He said he sprayed a herbicide just twice a year; most courses use herbicides four times a year.
Preserving as much natural character as possible on a course is in the best interest of course developers, said Bill Love. "The result is that you're able to lower operating costs because you're not maintaining as much ground, or maintaining it as frequently," he said. The notion that golf courses should stay lush and green year-round is wrong, he said. "If you have an area of the golf course that tends to brown out a little in summer, that can be very pretty and doesn't have to detract from the look."
Not all architects agree with the leave-it-alone approach. "Some people want to do as little as possible to a piece of property and make it look natural," said Mr. Morrish, who has been involved with the design on more than 100 courses in the United States and Europe. "Someone once asked me if I was a minimalist. I said, 'No, I'm a necessarist.' If it means tearing off the top of a hill by six or seven feet so it will receive the ball, that's what I'm going to do. I don't think God ever played golf." But the bottom line for golfers is always how well a course plays.
On a typically sunny cloudy windy rainy day in late March at Pacific Dunes, Tom Doak stood over his ball on the fairway at the 12th hole at least 40 yards from the green. With his George Low putter, he rolled the ball across the unusually short grass of the fairway, up a slight mound to the left of the green and to within a foot of the cup. "Most golfers would take a 7-iron and try to fly the ball" to the green, Mr. Doak said. "You have to play golf differently on this kind of course" where strong winds, many dunes, firmly packed sand and smooth colonial bentgrass on the fairways encourage playing the ball on the ground.
Differently, at Pacific Dunes and other naturalistic courses, means playing a game in response to the elements. "I've played Pacific Dunes when it was sunny when I got on the first tee and hailing by the fourth tee," said Scott Burridge, a 10-handicap golfer and CBS sports anchor for KOIN-TV in Portland, Ore. "When you first see some of the nice wide fairways, you think, 'Oh, I can hit that.' Well, if the wind is blowing at 40 m.p.h. it's not so easy."
The new courses are not for everybody. "A lot of people don't get it," Mr. Klein of Golfweek said. "A lot of people think that a golf course ought to be lush and green."

IF YOU GO
Golfing In the Wild (Almost)

IF you're looking for new naturalistic courses, look west. "Converted farm and ranch lands lend themselves more readily to more naturalistic forms of construction," said Brad Klein, architecture editor for Golfweek magazine. This explains the courses sprouting in Nebraska, New Mexico, North Dakota and other states west of the Mississippi.
Mike Keiser, the owner of Bandon Dunes Golf Resort, said he searched the East Coast for years for property on which to build the wild, links-style course he envisioned. "I naively thought I could find 500 acres on the ocean with gently rolling dune land," he said, "but everything on the East Coast had been discovered 100 years ago." Mr. Keiser, who lives in Chicago, ended up building two courses in a remote corner of southwest Oregon.
Here is a quick look at some courses.
 KATHLEEN McCLEARY

PACIFIC DUNES -- Bandon, Ore., (888) 345-6008. A 6,600-yard par-71 course, Pacific Dunes has wind, views, thickets of gorse and some of the best playing in the country. Its sister course, Bandon Dunes, which opened in 1999, is a 6,700-yard par-72 links-style course that is also one of the nation's best. Both courses are open all year and are a five-hour drive from Portland or a one-hour flight (into North Bend Municipal Airport, where cars can be rented, 40 minutes away). Shuttle vans also operate between North Bend and the Bandon Dunes Golf Resort.

RUSTIC CANYON -- Moorpark, Calif., (805) 530-0221. Golf Digest magazine's pick for "the best new affordable" public course of 2002, Rustic Canyon is treeless with firm, sandy soil in a broad, wild canyon north of Los Angeles. The par-72 course is 6,900 yards.

WILD HORSE -- Gothenburg, Neb., (308) 537-7700. Foot-high prairie grass and wildflowers choke the rough on 300 acres of rolling hills near the Sand Hills. This 6,800-yard par-72 course has no trees or water hazards -- just hills and giant "blow-outs," where the soil has eroded down to the sand.

CATEECHEE -- Hartwell, Ga., (706) 856-4653. Rocks, two creeks, forest and several deer herds dot this lush course. It uses water recycled from the city of Hartwell, making it one of the most environmentally sensitive courses in the country. "There are some great, great nature walks between the holes," said Ron Whitten, architecture editor for Golf Digest. The par-72 course was recently lengthened to 6,900 yards.

GRAPHIC: Photos: OREGON -- Bandon Dunes, like its sibling course, Pacific Dunes, offers links-style play. Winds off the Pacific Ocean can be a big factor. (John Giustina for The New York Times); CALIFORNIA -- Rustic Canyon.; NEBRASKA -- Wild Horse.; GEORGIA -- Cateechee. (pg. F2); A GOOD WALK -- The Pacific Dunes, a golf course in Bandon, Ore., almost disappears into its oceanfront landscape. It is one of several courses in the nation that have recently been built with environmental concerns in mind. (Wood Sabold)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLF (92%); GOLF & COUNTRY CLUBS (90%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (67%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (63%); WETLANDS (63%) GOLF 

PERSON: MCCLEARY, KATHLEEN 

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (94%); PACIFIC OCEAN (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); SCOTLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



133 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2194 words

HEADLINE: CRITIC'S NOTEBOOK; 
Dance's Musical Heartbeat

BYLINE:  By JENNIFER DUNNING 

 BODY:
George Balanchine wanted to create ballets, he once said, in which you could see the music and hear the dance. And he came close. "Music was more important to him than dance," said Hugo Fiorato, the veteran principal conductor of the New York City Ballet. "Who would think of making a really great ballet to Strauss waltzes? Or Sousa marches, for God's sake? But he did. The man had such an imagination. He was a pretty accomplished pianist and loved music above all." 
 City Ballet will perform "Vienna Waltzes," that sumptuous melding of waltz music and motion, tomorrow and Sunday at the New York State Theater. But even a random look at other dance being presented throughout the city this weekend suggests the important yet varied roles that music plays in the work of choreographers and performers, though often, strangely, audiences tend to disregard it. 
 Kenneth MacMillan's passionate storytelling to Prokofiev in "Romeo and Juliet" is on view in performances by American Ballet Theater at the Metropolitan Opera House. John Jasperse uses the sea-surging hum and cry of a commissioned electronic-music score by Chris Peck to take off on wild emotional and physical flights of fancy at Dance Theater Workshop. 
Doug Varone responds to the compositional methods of Steve Reich in new works at Symphony Space. Mr. Reich's ensemble will perform live in the program, part of the theater's Face the Music and Dance series.
Mr. Reich is one of the established composers most frequently chosen by modern-dance and ballet choreographers today, along with Philip Glass and John Adams. Mr. Reich has repaid the compliment with a healthy respect for dance as an art form.
Music atrophies, he has said, in a paraphrase of Ezra Pound, if it gets too far from dance. That comment is a measure of how the relationship of music and dance has changed since the days when music for dance was considered inferior.

A Driving Force
Serge Diaghilev elevated the relationship with his commissions of ballet music by Stravinsky, driving his Ballets Russes dancers mad with the uncountable rhythms of "The Rite of Spring." Stravinsky was the composer with whom Balanchine was to form one of the great artistic partnerships of the 20th century. Then Merce Cunningham made music and dance independent co-equals, ushering in a time, from the late 1960's on, when dance could be accompanied by anything from traditional music as a guide to action and atmosphere, preferably with a regular beat, to telephone time signals, John Cage clearing his throat in the orchestra pit or even silence. 
"If you look at the history of music in the 20th century, so many great composers were also dance composers," said Mr. Peck, Mr. Jasperse's collaborator. "The list of composers working with the Merce Cunningham company over the last 50 years is a list of every important American experimental composer. The legacy of the Cunningham company is very important." 
Some musicians prefer playing with symphonies rather than ballet orchestras. But not Mr. Fiorato, a violinist turned conductor, who joined City Ballet in 1948 but has been on leave this season after heart surgery. "Conducting for ballet is one of the most exciting, wonderful things in the world," he said. "Because there's a certain discipline. You have to make the music exciting, but it must be within a scope that the dancers can do. 
"Look at the stage. What is possible? Gravity is the important part. It takes so long to get up and down. Certain steps have to be done at a certain tempo, but you make it sound as if the composer intended that."
The conductor must always watch the dancers, Mr. Fiorato said, but never follow them. Contrary to popular belief, he added, music does not have to be played slow for dancers. "There are no rigid rules, except to know what is possible. It is always a wonderful push me-pull me thing." 
Not every choreographer has been so musically engaged as Balanchine. And some dancers are more musical than others. That quality of inhabiting or becoming one with the music usually makes a performance stand out clearest. 
"The performances you recognize as being most wonderful have a lot to do with the relationship with the music," said Georgina Parkinson, a coach at Ballet Theater. A former principal at the Royal Ballet, where she played Juliet and Lady Capulet, Ms. Parkinson may be seen as a particularly lusty Lady Capulet at the Wednesday matinee next week. 
"You get your inspiration -- you get everything -- from the music, if you are in a position to listen to it," Ms. Parkinson said. But given the economics of dance today, performers are lucky if they rehearse -- or learn a role -- to the sound of the studio piano, even in the largest and most successful ballet companies.

On the Beat
Some dancers appear, however, to be innately musical. "They are so rare you can count them on the fingers of one hand," Ms. Parkinson said. "They instinctively feel and react to the music. They can't dance off it. This can eventually be acquired. When you know where you are in the music, there is some leeway to play with it. You don't always have to look up on the count of seven and smile on eight." 
Young Craig Salstein, who will dance his first Mercutio tomorrow night, listens to the music when he's working on a new role. "I go to Tower and get a good recording of it," Mr. Salstein said. "I did that with Mercutio. Obviously it's not the exact tempo that we're looking for, but it's still pretty clear. 
"Regardless of how you're performing that day, if you're on the music, everyone's aware of it. If you're not, it does look like something's wrong. I think acting is first, musicality is second and technique is third. If you can grasp an audience, then show them this is all music and then have the technique on top of it, that will bring the house down." 
The Prokofiev score, commissioned for a 1940 Soviet ballet production of the Shakespeare play, does offer a few cues for action and characterization. Take Mercutio's prolonged, hyper-theatrical death scene. Irregular beats suggest pain to Mr. Salstein. Musical themes from before recall Mercutio's happier times. 
Charles Barker, who will share the Ballet Theater conducting duties with David LaMarche this weekend, is as familiar with the Prokofiev score by now as it is possible to be, having conducted not just the MacMillan but two other productions set to the score. Yet the music, which Mr. Barker describes as one of the greatest pieces of 20th-century music, still surprises him. "Every time I do it I see something new," Mr. Barker said. 
He is intrigued by jazz elements that are "right out of Harlem," he said. He cited a passage in the last act. "The second violins don't play as if Josephine Baker is onstage. I think they should. Prokofiev spent quite a bit of time in New York City." 
Mr. Fiorato remembers his musicians being less than thrilled at first when Balanchine began to choreograph "Brahms-Schoenberg Quartet," a difficult classic set to Schoenberg's orchestration of a theme by Brahms. "But we got to like it better and better," he recalled.

Social Cues
James Fayette and his wife, Jenifer Ringer, both principal dancers with City Ballet, have an in-house source for musical advice and information in Ms. Ringer's sister Rebecca, who is a a musician and doctoral candidate in music. One of the company's most sensitive partners, he said that the Brahms score made partnering easier. 
"It's such a flowing piece," said Mr. Fayette, who will perform with Ms. Ringer in the ballet's lush ballroom scene tomorrow afternoon. "Brahms has this ability to kind of change up and put so much into a piece of music. 
"The second movement feels a lot of times like this hurricane of emotion and character and crescendos and decrescendos. It's hard to get all that in and create an arc in your character and in your relationship with your partner. But on the other hand, Brahms allows you to play with it."
The music for "Vienna Waltzes" gives almost sociological cues. "The waltz almost feels restrictive," Mr. Fayette said. "It seems like it has a lot of rules. I read once that the waltz was kind of outlawed because it was too intimate. I don't know if Balanchine picked up on that or if it's the nature of waltzing. But you feel this definite almost sexual tension, this surge and then repression." 
There are clues of a different, more qualitative kind for Alexandra Ansanelli in the Bizet score for Balanchine's "Steadfast Tin Soldier," which this just-promoted principal dancer will perform for the first time tomorrow night, with Damian Woetzel. In its delicate way, the pas de deux is one of Balanchine's strangest pieces, telling the story of a paper doll and a toy soldier who fall in love but are separated by sudden death. "The music is so sweet, so childlike, so gentle," Ms. Ansanelli said. "You feel like some unhuman creature."
It is the fusion of movement and music that makes her love to dance, she said. "I always envy a musician, because when they're playing, they're basically the medium. They can express what they see in those notes, in their body and through the instrument." 
That sense of oneness may not be so easy to achieve in Mr. Reich's music, except as trance. But it is not entirely absent. Mr. Varone describes "Violin Phase," which he chose for a new duet for the Symphony Space program, as the epitome of minimalism. "It shows the phasing of phrases that accumulate," Mr. Varone said. "There is an abstraction to it, but also a strong emotional element."
He talks of the thrilling drive of the composer's "Triple Quartet," the score for a new group work. "I know so many choreographers who are drawn to his music because of that driving force," Mr. Varone said. "I think what people respond to is the sense that there is a continuum of sound that you can then find your way into. For the most part, it doesn't define a course of action for your choreography.

They Love to Swoon
Music and dance came together, after several weeks of improvising, in "just two dancers," the collaboration between Mr. Jasperse and Mr. Peck. The dance itself, a duet for Mr. Jasperse and Juliette Mapp, takes place for the most part not on the stage but on platforms behind and to the sides of the audience.
Mr. Jasperse wanted to explore and play with the architecture of the workshop's black box theater. Mr. Peck, who has composed electronic music for other modern-dance choreographers who include David Dorfman and Jeanine Durning, brought to the creative sessions a passion for ambient sounds that in some ways mirrored Mr. Jasperse's visual concept and his interest in reversing accepted ideas of hierarchy or importance. 
Mr. Peck's score, which he performs onstage with Jaime Fennelly and Regina Sadowski, is a seamless whole. But the sounds -- and silences -- are as subtly dispersed as the choreography. The relationship of sound and silence and space, both filled and empty, eventually suggest an unexpectedly evocative environment. But that was not the intention. Sound, as much as space, is simply the medium through which Mr. Jasperse and Ms. Mapp move. 
The weekend's most delicious surrender to music may occur during the City Ballet performance tomorrow. "The girls in 'Brahms-Schoenberg' love to swoon," Mr. Fayette said wryly. "They get so overwhelmed by the music -- even my own wife -- that they start stretching a little bit farther back. As soon as that music starts taking them over, they arch really far back and all of a sudden the pas de deux becomes 20 percent more difficult. It's just the power of the music."

The Two Arts That Are One

Performances this weekend by the dance troupes mentioned in Jennifer Dunning's article:

AMERICAN BALLET THEATER. Craig Salstein will dance his first Mercutio tomorrow afternoon in "Romeo and Juliet," with Ashley Tuttle as Juliet and Angel Corella as Romeo. The ballet will also be performed tonight (Julie Kent, Vladimir Malakhov and Herman Cornejo) and tomorrow night (Paloma Herrera, Marcelo Gomes and Carlos Lopez). Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m. Metropolitan Opera House, Lincoln Center (212) 362-6000. Tickets: $20 to $155.

FACE THE MUSIC AND DANCE: DOUG VARONE AND DANCERS. Mr. Varone will present premieres set to Steve Reich's "Violin Phase" and "Triple Quartet," performed live by members of the Steve Reich Ensemble. Tonight and tomorrow night at 8. Symphony Space, 2537 Broadway, at 95th Street, Upper West Side (212) 864-5400. Tickets: $21; $18 for students and 65+.

JOHN JASPERSE. Mr. Jasperse's "just two dancers," a collaboration with the composer Chris Peck, will be performed tonight through Sunday at 7. Dance Theater Workshop, 219 West 19th Street, Chelsea (212) 924-0077. Tickets: $32; $20 for 65+ and students with identification; $18 for members.

NEW YORK CITY BALLET. Alexandra Ansanelli will dance "The Steadfast Tin Soldier" for the first time tomorrow night. James Fayette will dance Balanchine's "Brahms-Schoenberg Quartet" tomorrow afternoon and "Vienna Waltzes" tomorrow night and Sunday afternoon. Tonight at 8; tomorrow at 2 and 8 p.m.; Sunday at 3 p.m. New York State Theater, Lincoln Center (212) 870-5570. Tickets: $30 to $78.

GRAPHIC: Photos: American Ballet Theater performs Kenneth MacMillan's "Romeo and Juliet," to music by Prokofiev. (Nan Melville for The New York Times)(pg. E1); Hugo Fiorato, principal conductor of the New York City Ballet, which he joined in 1948. (Paul Kolnik/New York City Ballet)(pg. E8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BALLET (92%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); DANCE COMPANIES (90%); MUSIC (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DANCE (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (89%); CHOREOGRAPHY (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); DANCERS (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); OPERA (76%); THEATER & DRAMA (75%); THEATER (69%) DANCING; MUSIC 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BALLET THEATER (91%); DANCE THEATER WORKSHOP (55%) NEW YORK CITY BALLET; AMERICAN BALLET THEATER 

PERSON: KISSELGOFF, ANNA; BALANCHINE, GEORGE (1904-83); MACMILLAN, KENNETH 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



134 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 1; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 918 words

HEADLINE: TV WEEKEND; 
A Horrific Crime and a Town's Painful Soul-Searching

BYLINE:  By Scott Veale 

 BODY:
The crime was unspeakable: on June 7, 1998, a black hitchhiker was picked up by three white men in an East Texas town and taken into the woods, where he was beaten and chained by his ankles to the rear bumper of their pickup truck. He was dragged nearly three miles along rural roads, his body gradually tearing to pieces before his head and right shoulder were severed from his torso by a roadside culvert. A pathologist later testified that the victim, 49-year-old James Byrd Jr., was probably conscious until the end.
 Five years later, "Jasper, Texas," an earnest, workmanlike Showtime dramatization, dredges up the shock, horror and outrage over one of the nation's most notorious hate crimes. Wisely, the movie plays down the most lurid aspects of the case, which resulted in the conviction of all three men, two of whom had links to the Ku Klux Klan and racist prison gangs. Don't expect a psychological portrait of white supremacists or insights into how the Klan's tentacles can reach into a community. Instead, the film focuses on the aftershocks of the murder in Jasper, a racially mixed town of 8,000 whose tolerant, God-fearing residents become increasingly polarized by the ghastliness of the crime and the ensuing media circus. 
 Which isn't to say there are not gruesome moments: the flashbacks to the beating and dragging and the stark glimpses of the forensic photographs are nearly unwatchable and all the more revolting for their brevity.
For the most part, though, this is a humanizing drama with an ensemble cast headed by Jon Voight as Billy Rowles, the town's sheriff, and Louis Gossett Jr. as the newly elected black mayor, R. C. Horn. After Sheriff Rowles visits the crime scene and realizes he's out of his depth, he consults the local district attorney (Ron White) and calls in the F.B.I. He also hunkers down with his friend Mayor Horn and a community leader (Joe Morton) to find ways to unite residents against the intense media agitation and remind them that Jasper is a peaceful town where the races manage to get along.
Early hopes that federal officials will take over the case quickly fade, prompting the town's civic and religious leaders to hold prayer vigils, rallies, encounter groups -- anything to tamp down the public's growing fear and anger.
The screenplay glides quickly past the gathering of evidence; the killers left a number of clues that made the case easy to crack. In a compact, chilling interrogation scene, the sheriff and the district attorney force the pickup truck's owner, a soggy marshmallow of a man named Shawn Allen Berry (Toby Proctor), to confess to his role in the crime, getting crucial testimony that leads to the death-penalty convictions of the other two killers.
Meanwhile, an armed phalanx of Black Panthers turns up to protest the murder, and by the time the Klan mounts its own rally outside the courthouse, tempers start to crack. Before long, a task force appointed by the mayor presents the sheriff with a long list of grievances. As Mayor Horn grimly says: "We've been pretending all these years. It's all make-believe."
What gives these scenes of social unraveling their punch is the sense that the townspeople are deeply animated by their religion, and that despite all the talk of the need for faith and healing they are being unfairly squeezed between demagogues on both sides while the politicians and the news media fan the flames.
The film, whose gospel-flavored music is by turns mournful and portentous, has some mawkish moments and hokey dialogue. But it gamely tackles knotty issues of race and identity, suggesting that everyone, no matter how devout and well-meaning, carries some kind of racial baggage that surfaces under the right set of pressures.
Sheriff Rowles, for one, comes off as a decent guy who surprises himself by acknowledging that he's against racially mixed marriages ("It's real hard on mixed-race kids") and suggests that maybe the reason that police stop more blacks in Jasper is that they commit more crimes than whites. For his part, Mayor Horn, stirring up a long-repressed memory of a relative's savage beating by white police officers, grows angrier and more strident as the trial progresses.
In fact, the increasingly brittle relationship between the mayor and sheriff is the best thing about "Jasper, Texas." Mr. Voight, who has chomped his share of scenery over the years, turns in a nicely shaded performance, making Mr. Gossett the far more animated actor. It's a treat to watch these two warhorses play off each other, lending nuance to a friendship tested by dimly understood prejudices.
Fittingly, the film closes on an uncertain note after the conviction and sentencing of the first defendant. In a gesture of tentative harmony, the residents of Jasper rip down a fence dividing the black and white cemeteries, even as the economically depressed town votes along racial lines to stop paying salaries to the mayor and the City Council.
We're left with the sense that even if nothing will ever be the same in Jasper, "leastways," as Mr. Gossett's character says, "we ain't pretending no more."

JASPER, TEXAS
Showtime, Sunday night at 8, Eastern and Pacific times; 7, Central time.

Directed by Jeff Byrd; written by Jonathan Estrin; W. Michael Greene and Mr. Estrin, executive producers.

WITH: Jon Voight (Billy Rowles), Louis Gossett Jr. (R. C. Horn), Ron White (Guy James Gray), Joe Morton (Walter Diggles), Emily Yancy (Stella Byrd), Toby Proctor (Shawn Allen Berry) and Bokeem Woodbine (Khalid X).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Louis Gossett Jr., left, plays the mayor and Jon Voight the sheriff in "Jasper, Texas," a Showtime movie about the 1998 racially charged killing of a black man who was dragged behind a pickup truck by three white men. (Russ Martin/Showtime) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MOVIE REVIEWS (90%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (90%); MEN (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MURDER (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (73%); FORENSICS (73%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); PATHOLOGY (71%); RELIGION (71%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (69%); PRISONS (53%) TELEVISION; REVIEWS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; BLACKS; HATE CRIMES 

ORGANIZATION: SHOWTIME 

PERSON: VEALE, SCOTT; GOSSETT, LOUIS JR; VOIGHT, JON; BYRD, JAMES JR 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) JASPER (TEX)

TITLE: JASPER, TEXAS (TV PROGRAM) 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



135 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section E; Part 1; Column 3; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 975 words

HEADLINE: ON STAGE AND OFF 

BYLINE:  By Jesse McKinley 

 BODY:
Off Broadway, Risky Business
 As Broadway completes its first season with a box-office gross of more than $700 million, the situation Off Broadway is significantly gloomier. 
 Dogged by rising costs, a still-sluggish economy and a weak tourist market, several major commercial productions have faltered, including "Barbra's Wedding," the Streisand-inspired comedy by Daniel Stern, which announced this week that it would close on June 15, far short of recouping. A similar fate met "Adult Entertainment," which closed at the Variety Arts in April before recouping its investment. 
Even shows that had strong reviews are not breaking even, like "The Last Sunday in June," a comedy by Jonathan Tolins, at the Century Center for the Performing Arts, and the musical "Zanna, Don't!" at the John Houseman Theater. Stephen Adly Guirgis's much-ballyhooed drama "Our Lady of 121st Street" at the 399-seat Union Square Theater, one of Off Broadway's biggest, is doing better and breaking even every week, but it still isn't selling out.
"It's a mixed bag," said the understated Ben Sprecher, an Off Broadway theater owner and manager. "Off Broadway is a wonderful place to see a play, a wonderful place to act in a play, but it's not always a wonderful place to produce a play."
Among the many challenges facing commercial productions are ever-increasing costs, which make it hard to mount an Off Broadway production for much less than $500,000. Once open, productions are also facing increased running costs, often nearly $100,000 a week.
"The break-even is dangerously high in most places," Mr. Sprecher said. Off Broadway's expenses are so high, in fact, that some producers are opting to take their chances on Broadway rather than Off.
Consider "Avenue Q," the puppets-gone-bad musical, which got boffo reviews during a run at the 125-seat Vineyard Theater and will jump to the Golden Theater on Broadway next month, rather than another Off Broadway house.
Jeffrey Seller, one of the show's producers, said that a number of factors contributed to going to Broadway but that finances were a major part of the decision. "Believe me, when you have a break-even of $90,000 Off Broadway versus say, $250,000 on Broadway, it often makes more sense to go to Broadway," Mr. Seller said. He explained that Broadway houses are bigger and Broadway ticket prices higher, thus allowing for more income to cover costs.
Tourists are also easier to reach on Broadway than Off. "In the case of musicals, I think you're always better on Broadway," he said.
There have been a few commercial hits Off Broadway, including "Talking Heads," at the Minetta Lane Theater, and "The Exonerated," at 45 Bleecker Theater. "Tea at Five," which was going strong at the 499-seat Promenade, is closing next month, but only because the Promenade is booked with another show, a new musical called "The Thing About Men," which is a commercial production.
Indeed, for all the challenges of Off Broadway, producers keep showing a willingness to gamble, especially with plays. This week, for example, producers announced that beginning in September, the Variety Arts would be home to "Omnium Gatherum," with a veteran Broadway production team that includes the set designer David Rockwell ("Hairspray") and the lighting designers Jules Fisher and Peggy Eisenhower. Its price tag? A mere $800,000.

Salvaging 'Little Shop'
Jerry Zaks is wasting no time in trying to save "Little Shop of Horrors." The musical revival canceled its planned August Broadway opening this week when producers decided they did not like the direction the show was headed in an out-of-town tryout in Coral Gables, Fla. The director, Connie Grappo, was dismissed and Mr. Zaks, a four-time Tony winner, was asked to take over.
He said yes, and by midweek he had already had casting notices circulated to agents' offices around town, for casting of all roles. No word yet on whether the show's design team would be kept around, but the producers -- led by the Routh, Frankel, Viertel, Baruch Group -- has apparently not given up on Broadway.
The production is holding the Virginia Theater and has registered a new, Oct. 9 opening night with the League of American Theaters and Producers, which oversees all Broadway openings.
John Barlow, a spokesman for the show, wouldn't talk dates but confirmed that Mr. Zaks "is holding auditions for 'Little Shop' this month for a possible production opening this fall."

Braving the Stage
Who knew that Heather Graham -- she of the Austin Powers movies, "Boogie Nights" and thousands of adolescent fantasies -- wanted to be in the theater?
The answer, apparently, is someone connected with Playwrights Horizons, which approached Ms. Graham last month with a script for "Recent Tragic Events," Craig Wright's play about a blind date on Sept. 12, 2001. The role is Waverly, a spirited advertising executive.
Ms. Graham read the script and decided on the spot: "It was one of those strange things, and you're, like, 'What?!? This is a perfect fit. It was so close to my real personality."
Ms. Graham had attended a Playwrights show last season and said she had been looking for something good to do, regardless of the medium. She did a few little stage things in Los Angeles, she said, but she hasn't acted onstage in New York.
That's about to change. She'll begin rehearsals in early August; previews start Sept. 5. Is she nervous?
Not really. "It might sound stupid," she said, "but I think this is so well written, I don't think I can mess it up."

Along the Way
* Andre De Shields will appear in Derek Walcott's drama "Dream on Monkey Mountain" at the Classical Theater of Harlem beginning Oct. 2.
* The Rattlestick Theater Company at 224 Waverly Place in Greenwich Village will present "St. Crispin's Day," a new comedy by Matt Pepper that takes "Henry V" from the soldiers' point of view, beginning June 14.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Heather Graham is to make her first appearance on a New York stage. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); THEATER (89%); TICKET SALES (89%); MUSICAL THEATER (78%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (75%); TOURISM (72%); WRITERS (59%) THEATER; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES 

ORGANIZATION: ;PLAYWRIGHTS HORIZONS; CLASSICAL THEATER OF HARLEM; RATTLESTICK THEATER COMPANY 

PERSON: MCKINLEY, JESSE; ZAKS, JERRY; GRAPPO, CONNIE; GRAHAM, HEATHER; WRIGHT, CRAIG; DE SHIELDS, ANDRE; PEPPER, MATT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

TITLE: BARBRA'S WEDDING; LAST SUNDAY IN JUNE, THE (PLAY); AVENUE Q (PLAY); LITTLE SHOP OF HORRORS (PLAY); RECENT TRAGIC EVENTS (PLAY); WALCOTT, DEREK; DREAM ON MONKEY MOUNTAIN (PLAY); ST CRISPIN'S DAY (PLAY) 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



136 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 966 words

HEADLINE: Europe's Bank Cuts Interest Rate by Half-Point 

BYLINE:  By MARK LANDLER 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, June 5 

 BODY:
Heeding the pleas of desperate European exporters and nervous public officials, the European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate half a percentage point today.
 The decision, which was widely expected, was aimed at tempering the recent rise of the euro against the dollar and easing the pressure on European exporters, who fear that their goods are being priced out of the American market. 
 It is also a tonic for Europe's biggest countries, where economic growth has all but vanished. Three of the 12 countries that use the euro -- Germany, the Netherlands and Italy -- are on the brink of recession. 
"This gives people in Europe the confidence that someone cares," said Martin W. Hufner, the chief economist at the HVB Group in Munich. "It will counteract somewhat the effect of the rising euro."
The Bank of England left its key rate unchanged today at 3.75 percent, reflecting Britain's somewhat brighter prospects. Sweden's central bank matched the European Central Bank's half-point cut. Neither Britain nor Sweden uses the euro.
Analysts noted that a single rate reduction would not be a cure-all for Europe's economic problems, which are deeply rooted and which will require politically painful fiscal policies and overdue economic reforms.
The euro surged in value today after the move was announced, instead of falling, as currency traders turned their attention to the United States, where the Federal Reserve is expected to reduce rates later this month.
A cut of similar size by the Federal Reserve would preserve the former disparity in the cost of borrowing between Europe, where the benchmark rate is now 2 percent, and the United States, where it is 1.25 percent. That gap is one reason many investors have switched their holdings from dollars to euros.
Still, the European Central Bank's action today was decisive, even historic -- bringing interest rates down to a level not seen here since at least World War II. The bank's president, Wim Duisenberg, left the door open for further cuts.
"If the United States has room for maneuver, with lower rates than we have, then you can imagine we have not exhausted our room for maneuver," Mr. Duisenberg said at a briefing in Frankfurt.
Critics found fault with the bank for refusing to budge before now and said that it remained too focused on inflation when the biggest danger facing Europe, particularly Germany, is deflation, a cycle of falling prices.
"I do think they waited too long, but that's been the problem with their strategy all along," said Allan Saunderson, the chairman of EuroZone Advisors, a consulting firm in Frankfurt that follows the bank.
Some of the frustration with the bank stems from its increasingly pivotal role in Europe's economic fortunes. Political leaders in Germany, France and other countries have struggled to push through even incremental reforms. They are also hamstrung by strictures written into the pact that set up the monetary union; those rules block member nations from using deficit spending to revive consumer demand.
"You can't push on a string," Mr. Hufner said. "The rate cut helps, but it is not a recipe for economic development."
Mr. Saunderson said the size of today's cut -- and the apparent alacrity with which the 18 members of the bank's governing council agreed to it -- suggested that the bank might adopt a more aggressive stance in the face of Europe's deepening troubles. "We're seeing quite a substantive move," he said.
Mr. Duisenberg said the decision was driven by new statistics showing that inflation in Europe receded to 1.9 percent in May. That is below the 2 percent level that the bank has set as its chief objective. With a rising exchange rate, which makes imports cheaper, and stable oil prices, Mr. Duisenberg said, the inflation rate could fall even further next year.
Compounding this is Europe's faltering economic performance. Mr. Duisenberg said Europe did not regain its economic footing after the war in Iraq ended. Growth is so sluggish, he said, that the bank will have to scale back its projections for the rest of this year and for 2004.
Statistics released by the European Union indicate that growth in the euro zone came to a halt in the first quarter. The problems are most acute in Germany, Italy and the Netherlands, where the economies are contracting.
A recession in Germany is likely to last for the first half of this year, according to a new report by the IfW Kiel Institute, an influential German economic research group. It projects no growth for the whole year.
Germany's woes have been aggravated by the euro, which has risen 14 percent against the dollar this year, and 26 percent in the last 12 months. That has dented the profits of major exporters like Volkswagen.
Mr. Duisenberg acknowledged the damaging effect of the exchange rate, saying, "the significant and rapid appreciation of the euro over recent months will dampen external price competitiveness."
But he did not seem all that chagrined, noting that at current levels, the euro is trading close to its long-term average rate. A "strong and stable" euro is a policy goal of the central bank, he added.
Mr. Duisenberg also joined a chorus of public officials in disputing that Europe faces the prospect of deflation. "There are currently no forecasts indicating any deflationary risks," he said.
A recent report by the International Monetary Fund stirred alarm here because it asserted that Germany was facing a considerable risk of deflation. Mr. Duisenberg questioned why the fund compared inflation rates of individual European countries, when they share a common currency.
"I never have seen the I.M.F. publishing a paper on inflation differentials in California, New Hampshire, Texas and Ohio," he said tartly, in a rare departure from his usual tone of studied moderation.

GRAPHIC: Photo: After the European Central Bank cut its interest rate yesterday, its president, Wim Duisenberg, said further cuts could be made if needed. (Associated Press) Chart: "Narrowing the Gap"The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate to 2 percent yesterday, bringing it closer to rates in the United States. Graph tracks the U.S. federal funds target rate and European Central Bank rate since 2000. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); EURO (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); CURRENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); MONETARY UNIONS (78%); TRENDS (78%); DEFLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); RECESSION (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); WORLD WAR II (50%) CREDIT; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; CURRENCY; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); BANK OF NEW YORK MELLON CORP (85%); UNICREDIT BANK AG (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%) EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK 

TICKER: BK (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (85%); NAICS522120 SAVINGS INSTITUTIONS (58%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

PERSON: LANDLER, MARK 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (93%) EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); CENTRAL EUROPE (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); FRANCE (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



137 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 844 words

HEADLINE: Using Technology to Develop Arab-JewishTies 

BYLINE:  By ETGAR LEFKOVITS 

DATELINE: NAZARETH, Israel 

 BODY:
Can Israel's drive to develop its technology sector as the nation's economic crown jewel help overcome generations of animosity between Arabs and Jews?
 That's the hope, distant and romantic as it may be, of Israel's first state-supported Jewish-Arab high-technology incubator, which was privately founded in 2002, not long after Israeli-Palestinian tensions erupted again into open violence. 
 "Arab-Jewish economic cooperation is the first step to peace," said Nasri Said, an Israeli Arab, who now serves as a vice president of New Generation Technology, as the incubator is called, after spending four years studying the local high-technology market for Israel's Ministry of Industry and Trade.
The venture was started by five Israeli Arab businessmen with their Jewish partner, Davidi Gilo, an Israeli entrepreneur who now lives in California. 
The idea behind the operation was to focus primarily on fledgling Arab entrepreneurs in Israel, giving them the opportunity to research and develop their ideas by recommending them to the trade ministry and providing needed financial backing to start a business.
Despite all the obstacles, the incubator is moving forward, with its first venture a striking example of how some of the most promising new ideas spring from the traditional roots of the region.
Sobhi Sauob, an Israeli Arab from the formerly nomadic Bedouin minority, hopes to develop a better treatment for diabetes, starting from extracts derived from plants known in local folklore as herbal remedies for diabetes and other diseases.
"Because of our history of living close to the land, and our using plants and herbs from nature both as food and medicine," Dr. Sauob, who has a Ph.D. in biomedical engineering, said, "we know what kind of plant is good and what kind is bad."
For Dr. Sauob, who comes from a small village on Mount Tavor, the N.G.T., in nearby Nazareth, was in the right place at the right time. His venture was the first promoted by the incubator to win approval from the chief scientist in Israel's trade ministry.
The project will receive $500,000 from the government, to be paid over six years, as well as a $100,000 grant and full financial support from N.G.T. for the first two years of operation.
Already, test-tube and animal testing of Dr. Sauob's herbal extracts are under way. If successful, they are expected to be followed by clinical tests on humans later this year.
N.G.T. "is not like all the other incubators in Israel," Dr. Sauob said.
Indeed, N.G.T. stands out in many ways from the 23 other technology incubators in Israel. 
Of the five Israeli Arabs who provided the initial financial backing, two are Nazareth building contractors, Caid Abu-Ayash and Muhammad Abed. 
One, Omar Masarwa, works in agriculture; another, Tamim Yasin, is a gas retailer, and the fifth, Ahmed Dabah, is a major meat supplier in a partnership with a son of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon as the biggest sheep supplier in Israel.
Together with their Jewish partner, Mr. Gilo, they shared a common goal: to give a much-needed economic boost to Israeli Arab entrepreneurs. As a group, they invested $1 million to $2 million in the incubator.
"Officially the Arab citizens have equal rights as citizens in Israel, but in a practical sense this is not true," said Sharon Devir, N.G.T.'s Jewish chief executive. 
Mr. Devir said he was attracted to the privately owned, but government-subsidized incubator as an opportunity for practical Jewish-Arab cooperation and "not just the political talk" about coexistence.
Like the company's original investors, N.G.T. is jointly run by Jews and Arabs with a Jewish president and an Arab vice president. The clientele is a mix of Arabs and Jews, and this the company says, gives it an edge among the 1.2 million Arabs who live in Israel.
Mr. Devir says that for Arab business owners being able to work with Jewish and Arab managers is a big plus. "You have a situation where you have an entrepreneur looking for funds, and in presenting their ideas to a company that they have worked on for years, it is almost like they have to undress themselves and come out in the naked," he said. "Trust is a big issue."
Of the 100 entrepreneurs who approached N.G.T. with various projects since it was started last year, about 40 percent were Arabs, 60 percent Jews, Mr. Devir said. Most were rejected, but 10 were accepted and forwarded to the Ministry of Industry and Trade for its approval. 
The ministry's chief scientist has given approval to two of the three projects it has reviewed in full.
As it happened, the two that were accepted by the ministry -- including Sauob's herbal approach to cure diabetes -- were from Arab entrepreneurs, while the one that was rejected was from a Jewish businessman.
The Israeli Arab vice president of the company, Nasri Said, said that he was initially surprised by the decision to establish such a venture during the current economic and political turmoil in the Middle East. But he insisted on being optimistic.
This is "a first step," he said, "towards true equality for the Arab sector."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Dr. Sobhi Saoub, an Israeli Arab scientist, right, at work on a medicine for diabetes in his laboratory in Nazareth. Dr. Saoub is working under a grant from a state-sponsored "incubator" agency intended to foster cooperation between Jews and Arabs through economic development in technology fields. (Alex Rozkovsky for The New York Times) Map of Israel highlighting Nazareth.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); HERBAL MEDICINE (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ENGINEERING (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (72%); ALTERNATIVE MEDICINE (72%); ANIMAL EXPERIMENTS (69%); APPROVALS (69%); BIOMEDICINE (69%); DIABETES (69%); FOLKLORE (65%); NUTRITIONAL PHARMACEUTICALS (64%); CONSTRUCTION (63%) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; PALESTINIANS; ARABS 

PERSON: LEFKOVITS, ETGAR; SAOUB, SOBHI (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (99%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); UNITED STATES (79%) ISRAEL

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



138 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: STOCKS & BONDS; 
Shares Hold Steady as Investors Limit Their Profit-Taking

BYLINE:  By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Investors set aside disappointing employment data and lackluster retail sales reports yesterday, limiting their profit-taking in a market that eked out incremental gains and kept stocks at their highest levels in months.
 The gains, albeit small, sustained a rally that drove the Dow Jones industrial average Wednesday to its first close above 9,000 in nearly 10 months. The Dow finished virtually even yesterday, but the number of advancing issues significantly outnumbered decliners. Advancing issues led decliners on the New York Stock Exchange by a three-to-two ratio. 
 The Dow closed up 2.32 points, at 9,041.30. On Wednesday, the Dow rose more than 100 points, closing above 9,000 for the first time since Aug. 22.
The broader market also finished higher. The Nasdaq composite index gained 11.36 points, or 0.7 percent, to 1,646.01. The Nasdaq is trading at levels not seen since May 2002.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 3.90 points, or 0.4 percent, to 990.14. It was last that high in July.
At the end of yesterday's trading, the Dow had risen 20.2 percent, the Nasdaq had gained 29.5 percent and the S.& P. had climbed 23.1 percent since March 11.
Analysts said that despite the limited nature of the gains, the fact that there was not a broader sell-off indicates a growing sentiment by investors that the market is rebounding.
"We've been in a long and deep bear market and investors feel like the worst is over, and what appeals to them more than anything is some of the stocks that have gotten hit the worst," said Richard E. Cripps, the chief market strategist for Legg Mason of Baltimore.
Investors have been encouraged by better-than-expected first-quarter earnings, signs of economic improvements and upbeat assessments of the economy by the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan.
"People are anticipating that the economy is going to continue to grow -- slowly, but nonetheless we are coming up from a very depressed level," said Richard A. Dickson, senior market strategist at Lowry's Research Reports in Palm Beach, Fla.
Even so, investors remained cautious, awaiting the government's release this morning of May jobless figures.
"You have to see strong numbers for us to be convinced that the economy is in a true comeback and not just going up on air," said Stephen Carl, head of United States equity trading for the Williams Capital Group.
Yesterday, disappointing employment data and lackluster retail sales for May prompted some investors to sell stock and lock in profits. The Labor Department reported that the number of American workers filing new claims for jobless benefits climbed to a five-week high last week, indicating that companies are still contending with an economy that is struggling for footing.
New applications for unemployment insurance rose by a seasonally adjusted 16,000, to 442,000 for the workweek ending May 31, putting claims at their highest level since the week ending April 26. 
Major retailers reported that sales at stores open at least a year rose modestly in May. But rainy weather in certain regions and a weak job market limited spending for yet another month.
Among yesterday's decliners, Abercrombie & Fitch stumbled 52 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $28.77 after reporting that its May sales at stores open at least a year fell 7 percent, double the 3.5 percent decline analysts were expecting.
But the AnnTaylor Stores Corporation rose $1.24, or 5 percent, to $28.48 after raising its quarterly forecast and reporting a gain in May of 9.4 percent at stores open more than a year, well ahead of the 0.1 percent decline analysts were expecting.
In the bond market, the price of Treasuries fell. The 10-year Treasury note declined 12/32 , to a price of 102 13/32 . The note's yield, which moves in the opposite direction from the price, rose to 3.34 percent from 3.29 percent on Wednesday.
The price of the 30-year Treasury bond dropped 24/32 , to 115 18/32 . The bond's yield rose to 4.40 percent from 4.36 percent.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year. (Sources: Associated Press; Bloomberg Financial Markets) Tables: "Hot & Cold" provides a look at stocks with large percentage gains and losses; "The Favorites" lists stocks held by largest number of accounts at Merrill Lynch. (Compiled from staff reports, The Associated Press, Bloomberg News, Bridge News, Dow Jones, Reuters) Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields"Graph tracks the average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities, plotted weekly, from Feb. to May 2003. 30-year: 4.76%15-year: 4.16% (Source: F.H.L.M.C.) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (96%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (94%); BONDS (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (79%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (79%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); PUBLIC DEBT (66%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (64%) STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS; DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE; STANDARD & POOR'S 500-STOCK INDEX 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); LEGG MASON INC (53%); WILLIAMS CAPITAL GROUP LP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FINANCIAL INDUSTRY REGULATORY AUTHORITY (FINRA) (59%) NATIONAL ASSN OF SECURITIES DEALERS AUTOMATED QUOTATIONS 

TICKER: LM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (53%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (53%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (53%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



139 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR FALLS. The dollar fell as a surge in jobless claims heightened speculation that the Federal Reserve would lower interest rates. In New York, the dollar settled at $1.1843, up from $1.1689 on Wednesday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks euro to the dollar, since Dec. 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (87%); INTEREST RATES (84%) CURRENCY 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (74%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



140 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 376 words

HEADLINE: Requests for Jobless Benefits Increase 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5 

 BODY:
The number of American workers filing new claims for jobless benefits climbed to a five-week high last week as companies coped with an economy that is struggling to regain its footing.
 The Labor Department reported today that new applications for unemployment insurance rose by a seasonally adjusted 16,000 to 442,000 for the workweek ending May 31. The increase pushed claims to their highest level since the end of April. 
 "The labor market obviously is still contracting, but like the rest of the economy, it likely will recover step by halting step," said Oscar Gonzalez, an economist at John Hancock Financial Services.
Separately, the nation's largest retailers reported modest sales gains for May. 
In another report, factory orders fell 2.9 percent in April, the largest decline in 17 months, the Commerce Department said today. The decrease was more than the 1.8 percent drop economists were forecasting. 
Manufacturing, which has slashed jobs and cut production, has been a major trouble spot for the economy. However, a more forward-looking report released Monday suggested that manufacturing might be poised for a turnaround. In that report the Institute for Supply Management said factory activity declined at a much slower rate in May, offering a heartening sign to economists. 
Last week's rise in jobless claims surprised economists, who were predicting they would fall to 421,000. However, some of last week's increase probably reflected seasonal adjustment difficulties related to the Memorial Day holiday, a Labor Department analyst said. 
Even so, for 16 consecutive weeks new claims have been running above the 400,000 mark, a level associated with a largely stagnant job market, economists say. 
The more stable four-week moving average of claims, which better adjusts for week-to-week fluctuations, rose last week by 3,000, to 430,500, the highest level in two weeks. 
The nation's jobless rate jumped to 6 percent in April as businesses cut 48,000 jobs. The economy has lost a half million jobs in the last three months, a decline usually associated with recessions.
Economists predict the unemployment rate rose to 6.1 percent for May and that another 30,000 jobs were eliminated. The employment report for May will be released on Friday.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Jobless Claims"Graph tracks the weekly number of people who have filed for unemployment benefits for the first time from Dec 2002-May 2003. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets) Graph: "Factory Orders"Graph tracks the manufacturer's total new orders, in billions of dollars, seasonally adjusted from Nov. 2001-April 2003. Monthly ChangeApril: -2.9%March: +2.1Feb.: -1.0 (Source: Commerce Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (92%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); LAYOFFS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WORK WEEK (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); FACTORY ORDERS (69%); RETAILERS (69%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: JOHN HANCOCK FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (84%); INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (68%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (84%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



141 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; National Desk; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 609 words

HEADLINE: Compensatory Time Bill Retracted in House 

BYLINE:  By SHERYL GAY STOLBERG 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5 

 BODY:
In a rare victory for unions and Democrats in the Republican-controlled House of Representatives, the House leadership withdrew a bill scheduled today for a floor vote that would have allowed businesses to offer compensatory time instead of overtime to an estimated 80 million workers.
 The bill's sponsors said they were postponing consideration of the measure, the Family Time Flexibility Act, until they could muster the votes required for passage. But a senior Republican aide said the backers were so short of votes that the measure was not likely to return, adding, "It will probably just fade away." 
 Proponents called the bill a way to give parents, particularly women, more time with their children by allowing those who work more than 40 hours a week to forego overtime in favor of days off. Opponents said it would benefit big business under the guise of helping workers.
Companies are now barred from offering compensatory time under a 1938 law, theFair Labor Standards Act, which covers 80 million of the 150 million workers. Professionals, administrators and executives are not covered.
Labor groups lobbied heavily against the measure, saying it would take billions of dollars in overtime pay out of employees' pockets and enable companies, in effect, to dictate how the workers are paid and when they may take time off. 
"After pushing this bill for months, the Republican leadership finally realized that not all of their members would blindly go along with unraveling the basic right to overtime pay," said John J. Sweeney, president of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. 
Mr. Sweeney called the measure "a brazen attempt to give employers more control over the pay and schedules of their employees."
The bill would allow workers to bank up to 160 hours of time a year. They would be paid for whatever banked time was not used by Dec. 31. The bill specifies that workers can choose when to take their time, unless managers say it unduly disrupts operations.
Business leaders, including the United States Chamber of Commerce, pressed hard for the bill, which they said had numerous protections to insure that compensatory time would be voluntary. The business leaders noted that the bill had a five-year sunset provision, meaning that Congress would have to vote on re-enacting it after that time.
"Union leadership may have scored a short-term political victory, but it comes at the expense of those rank-and-file employees who want the voluntary choices provided by this bill," said Randel Johnson, vice president for labor, immigration and employee benefits at the chamber.
The withdrawal of the measure was a startling turn in the House, where Republicans typically exert tight control. Representative Nancy Pelosi of California, the Democratic leader, pronounced herself "very pleased that the unity in the Democratic Party" had resulted in the withdrawal. 
She said the bill would have set back labor law 100 years. 
"These are fights that were made at the turn of the century," she told reporters. "And by the 1930's, the 40-hour workweek was implemented, and if you if you worked people longer, you paid them overtime. Now they are saying, 'Work for free, and then they will give you time off some other time in the future.' "
The National Organization for Women, which opposed the bill, said employees counted on overtime income to meet basic needs and described the bill as a sham that represented "a serious step backward in protecting the rights and economic security of hard-working families."
The chief sponsor of the legislation, Representative Judy Biggert, Republican of Illinois, said it would favor working families, particularly working mothers. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COMPENSATORY TIME OFF (92%); LEGISLATION (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); LOBBYING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); OVERTIME (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT (74%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (72%); IMMIGRATION (50%) LABOR; LAW AND LEGISLATION; OVERTIME; LOBBYING AND LOBBYISTS; ORGANIZED LABOR 

PERSON: NANCY PELOSI (58%) STOLBERG, SHERYL GAY 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



142 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Senate Adds Rule to Energy Bill to Double Ethanol in Gasoline 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 5 

 BODY:
Drivers in every state but Hawaii and Alaska could be pumping gasoline containing ethanol by 2012 if a plan approved today by the Senate becomes law.
 The proposal, incorporated in a broad energy bill, would change how refiners blend gasoline and how they meet clean-air requirements. It would require doubling the use of ethanol, to at least five billion gallons a year, in what would be a boon to corn farmers. 
 Methanol is made mainly in the Midwest from corn, although it can be produced with other grains and biomass. Under the bill, refiners in every state except Alaska and Hawaii would have to use it.
The measure, approved 67 to 29, would also ban the use of another gasoline additive, methyl tertiary butyl ether, or M.T.B.E., a derivative of natural gas that can contaminate supplies of drinking water. M.T.B.E. has been added to gasoline in many states since the 1970's to increase the octane rating and make the fuel burn more cleanly. 
Refiners would have more freedom to blend fuel because the measure would also end a requirement that gasoline contain at least 2 percent oxygen in areas with air pollution problems. Although the rule has been credited with achieving significant reductions in tailpipe pollution, refiners say they can produce cleaner gasoline without it.
Opponents said expanding the use of ethanol could lead to gasoline shortages and price surges in regions without ethanol plants. The ethanol industry says it does not anticipate problems meeting increased demand under the plan, which would be phased in over eight years.
A proposal by Senator Dianne Feinstein, Democrat of California, a leading opponent of the ethanol rule, would have given states the final say in requiring ethanol. The plan failed by two to one. A proposal by Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, to exempt the Far West and Northeast was defeated, 59 to 26.
The proposed requirements, reflecting a compromise developed by interests that represent farmers, oil companies and environmentalists, were inserted in the broad bill.
The House called for a similar expansion of ethanol production in a bill that it passed in April. But the House rejected a ban on M.T.B.E., saying market forces and action by states would phase out the product. At least 17 states have acted to ban or sharply reduce the additive. The White House has strongly supported ethanol.
Backers of ethanol said the bill would help energy independence by displacing up to 250,000 barrels of oil a day by 2012.
"It increases fuel supply, stimulates economic growth and spurs development of domestic ethanol fuels," Senator Christopher S. Bond, Republican of Missouri, said. "There are tremendous economic benefits."
As the Senate began debating the fuel rules this week, the ethanol industry issued a report commissioned by the National Association of Corn Growers that estimated that doubling the use of ethanol would add $1.3 billion a year to farmers' incomes and create 214,000 jobs while lowering the cost of gasoline.
Opponents argued that refineries in California and the Northeast, far from ethanol plants, might have trouble obtaining it. Exempting the Northeast and Far West would resolve the problem, some Democrats from those regions said.
The ethanol proposal was introduced by Senators Bill Frist, the Tennessee Republican who is majority leader, and Tom Daschle of South Dakota, the Democratic leader. 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 7, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about Senate approval of a plan that would change the way refiners blend gasoline misidentified an additive made from corn, and the headline misstated an objective of the plan. The additive is ethanol, not methanol. The plan would double its use, to at least five billion gallons a year; it would not double the amount of ethanol in gasoline.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ETHANOL (96%); FUEL ADDITIVES (94%); ALCOHOLS (93%); BIOFUELS (91%); LEGISLATION (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); WATER POLLUTION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENERGY REGULATION (90%); APPROVALS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); GASOLINE (90%); ETHYL ALCOHOL MFG (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CORN FARMING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); BIOMASS (78%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (77%); AIR QUALITY (77%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (77%); AIR POLLUTION (77%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (72%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (72%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (69%); WATER QUALITY (67%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (67%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ETHANOL; AIR POLLUTION; WATER POLLUTION; OXYGEN; MTBE (GASOLINE ADDITIVE) 

PERSON: KIT BOND (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%); DIANNE FEINSTEIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HAWAII, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES; ALASKA; HAWAII 

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



143 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 749 words

HEADLINE: Chicago Journal; 
Debating a Distant Homeland's Future

BYLINE:  By MONICA DAVEY 

DATELINE: CHICAGO, June 5 

 BODY:
Though much of the city has not heard of it, there is an election beginning here Friday.
 It is open to only 9,000 people, all of them Polish citizens who live in Chicago and hold Polish passports. It is about issues mostly of concern on another continent. Still, the debate is passionate inside the cluttered storefronts that line Milwaukee Avenue, the diagonal street that slices through one of the nation's largest Polish-American neighborhoods. 
 For weeks, the Polish-language newspapers and AM-radio talk shows have been filled with debate over the question that will be asked here, in Polish, on a simple paper ballot: should Poland join the European Union?
That might seem an odd question to whip up people who in many cases left Poland years ago. But it has proved consuming. Today, as he stood inside his delicatessen, where all shapes and shades of garlicky sausages hang from the wall, Kazimierz Cygan was still weighing which way to vote. Millions of Polish citizens, in their home country and in the places they live now, are expected to cast ballots before the end of this weekend.
Mr. Cygan, 45, is one of thousands of people who signed up to vote in Chicago, and he said he had heard pitches from all sides in recent days: from friends, from his wife, and from the Polish television news station that plays all day in his store. Even his priest has weighed in, Mr. Cygan said, advising parishioners to vote their conscience.
That advice did little to solve Mr. Cygan's confusion.
He has lived in Chicago a long time, almost two decades now. But he said his ties to Poland, where he grew up on a farm, remained firm. He feels a sense of duty, then, to help shape his country's future. But what should that future look like?
"Everybody is talking, 'but I don't know what to do," he said. "People say the E.U. will be better, ultimately, for people in Poland. If everybody benefits from this, then yes, I am for it. But will it only help the top? I worry about how it may affect the little guys in Poland, the farmers, right away. And I worry that we're going to lose independence."
Polls suggest that the referendum will pass, so long as nearly 15 million Poles cast ballots, to meet the requirement that 50 percent of eligible voters vote.
But it is hotly debated here, where those who favor membership in the E.U. see it as the best way to improve Poland's economy swiftly, while those who oppose it say they fear that Poland's traditional values, on issues like religion and abortion and divorce, could be eroded.
"The Polish community of Chicago is deeply divided over this," said Mariusz Brymora, Poland's deputy consul general in Chicago. "It is an extremely hot issue for them. They want to have a say about what is going on."
For more than a century, Polish immigrants have come to this city, giving it a reputation as the biggest Polish city outside of Poland. That reputation, in turn, has drawn still more Polish immigrants. The latest census figures show that more than 700,000 people in Illinois identified themselves as having Polish roots.
At the crowded intersection where Central Park Avenue meets Milwaukee Avenue -- a spot T. Ron Jasinski-Herbert of the Polish National Alliance calls "the most Polish corner in Chicago" -- nearly all the signs are in Polish, from the beauty salon to the bar. Shop owners speak Polish, and they post Polish-language flyers for everything from apartments-for-rent to missing cats.
Behind the counter in the Pasieka Bakery, Mary Bobek, 43, said she had decided not to vote. She came to Chicago 14 years ago and the question has little bearing on her life now. "I live here," she said.
Many other people will also not be voting, because they are second- and third-generation Americans. But there are those who are not, and Polish government officials have worked for weeks to make sure they can cast their ballots.
After a publicity drive that ended with faxed and e-mailed registrations still arriving at the midnight deadline on Tuesday, 9,000 Polish citizens signed up for the voting that will take place at six churches and centers around Chicago on Friday and Saturday. 
The thousands of votes cast here will be dwarfed, of course, by the millions in Poland. But people in Poland will still be watching, as much for symbolic reasons as any other.
"America has a special place in the hearts of Polish people," Mr. Brymora said. "Almost everyone in Poland has a relative in America. So the interest in what Americans choose is quite natural."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Mary Bobek, a bakery owner, said she would not vote in the referendum. Despite close ties to the old country, she said, her home is in the United States now. Mariusz Brymora, Poland's deputy consul general in Chicago, held a copy of the ballot, which will be voted on this weekend. (Photographs by Peter Thompson for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REFERENDUMS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); BALLOTS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (76%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (75%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (72%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (72%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); RETAILERS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (69%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (65%); RELIGION (64%) REFERENDUMS; POLISH-AMERICANS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (83%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: DAVEY, MONICA 

GEOGRAPHIC: POLAND (98%); EUROPE (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%); CENTRAL EUROPE (73%) EUROPE; POLAND; CHICAGO (ILL)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



144 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 471 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
European Central Bank Cuts Rates by Half a Point
The European Central Bank cut its benchmark interest rate half a percentage point. The decision, which was widely expected, was aimed at tempering the recent rise of the euro against the dollar and easing the pressure on European exporters, who fear that their goods are being priced out of the American market.
 Interest rates in Europe are at a level not seen there since at least World War II. But the president of the European Central Bank, Wim Duisenberg, above, left the door open for further cuts. World Business, Section W. 

Senate Approves Child Tax Credit
The Senate voted to give an increased child tax credit to millions of low-income families who did not receive it in the new tax law. A1.

Bipartisan Deal on Drug Coverage
Several senators announced that they had reached a bipartisan agreement on legislation to provide prescription drug coverage to the elderly, through the traditional government-run Medicare program and through newer private health plans. A30.

Payment Expected Soon in Lawsuit
The nation's retailers may receive money from the settlement of a debit-card lawsuit involving Visa U.S.A. and MasterCard International sooner than expected. C3.

AOL Cancels Auction of Book Unit
AOL Time Warner canceled the auction of its book publishing division because it could not attract a high enough price. C5.

Intel Revises Revenue Forecast
Intel expects sales of $6.6 billion to $6.8 billion for the second quarter, compared with earlier estimates of $6.4 billion to $7 billion. C6.

ImClone to Reapply for Approval
Shares of ImClone Systems rose 12 percent after the company said that it would reapply this year for approval of Erbitux, the cancer drug rejected in December 2001 by the Food and Drug Administration. The application could mean that the drug could reach the market by early next year, months before some analysts had expected. C2.

Stocks Continue to Head Higher
Stocks continued to climb, with the Dow Jones industrial average rising 2.32 points, to 9,041.30; the Nasdaq composite index gaining 11.36 points, to 1,646.01; and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbing 3.90 points, to 990.14. C6.

A New Weather Supercomputer
The nation's most powerful supercomputer for weather forecasting is scheduled to go online today. C4.

Europe Wants More From Microsoft
European competition regulators are seeking more evidence in their investigation of Microsoft, a move expected to delay further the five-year-old antitrust inquiry. C4.

Claims for Jobless Benefits Rise
The Labor Department reported that the number of American workers filing new claims for jobless benefits climbed to a five-week high last week. C4.

Retailers Say Sales Jumped in May
Sales at retail chains rose 1.5 percent in May from May 2002, according to the Goldman, Sachs index. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,041.30 up 2.32Nasdaq composite -- 1,646.01 up 11.3610-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.34% up 0.05The euro -- $1.1843 up 0.0154The dollar -- 117.72 yen down 1.01 Graph tracks the share price of ImClone since last Thursday. Graph: "TODAY"UnemploymentMay figures due at 8:30 a.m. Eastern time.Graph tracks unemployment rate from Nov. 2002-April 2003.Expected: 6.1% Consumer BorrowingApril figures due at 3 p.m. Eastern time.Graph tracks consumer borrowing from Oct. 2002-March 2003.Expected: +$2.0 billion

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (90%); AUCTIONS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EURO (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (89%); RETAILERS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RETAIL SALES (87%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (87%); INVESTIGATIONS (83%); LITIGATION (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); TAX LAW (75%); FAMILY (75%); POOR POPULATION (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (73%); DRUG & MEDICAL DEVICES APPROVAL (73%); MEDICARE (73%); EXPORT TRADE (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (69%); WEATHER (69%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (68%); CANCER DRUGS (68%); CANCER (68%); SENIOR CITIZENS (68%); BOOK PUBLISHING (65%); PUBLISHING (65%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (60%); SUPERCOMPUTERS (60%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (60%); WORLD WAR II (56%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (93%); VISA INC (84%); AOL INC (82%); MASTERCARD INC (68%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (54%); MICROSOFT CORP (51%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (94%)

TICKER: V (NYSE) (84%); AOL (NYSE) (82%); MA (NYSE) (68%); GS (NYSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522320 FINANCIAL TRANSACTIONS PROCESSING, RESERVE & CLEARINGHOUSE ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (82%); SIC7375 INFORMATION RETRIEVAL SERVICES (82%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (68%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (51%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



145 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: Residential Real Estate; 
Rezoning Spurs Park Slope Condos

BYLINE:  By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
Along the side streets between Fourth and Fifth Avenues in Park Slope, Brooklyn, new condominiums are rising. The buildings are not only expanding the stock of housing in the neighborhood but also pushing its residential boundaries westward, a process expected to extend to largely commercial stretches of Fourth Avenue under a recent rezoning. 
 Four projects between the avenues will add 150 condos by the end of the year, said Peter Noonan, a vice president at the Brooklyn office of the Corcoran Group real estate company. 
 Construction is under way on a 46-apartment second phase of the existing 36-apartment Park Slope Estates, with plans for more units at the corner of Fourth Avenue and Second Street. At 675 Sackett Street, a 38-unit apartment building is nearing completion. Construction continues on a 16-apartment project on Garfield Place, and on another with 50 units on Carroll Street. 
The activity, Mr. Noonan said, is moving toward Fourth Avenue because that is where there are old commercial buildings and sites to redevelop. Libby Ryan, a broker at of the Brooklyn office of William B. May, said the new developments were "close to pricey brownstones that routinely sell for $2 million, and in the last 18 months boutiques and cafes have replaced run-down shops along Fifth Avenue."
Another factor, industry professionals say, is a rezoning of 110 blocks of Park Slope, including a stretch of Fourth Avenue, that took place in April. It had been in the works for a decade. 
That rezoning puts height and other restrictions in place on blocks where the three- and four-story brownstones for which Park Slope is known predominate. Along much of Fourth Avenue, however, an area dotted with three-story walk-ups, auto repair shops and gas stations, the new zoning allows buildings of up to 12 stories.
The Brooklyn office of the city's Planning Department has projected that 1,100 residences could be built along Fourth Avenue under the new zoning, 440 of them in the next decade. 
The City Council and the Bloomberg administration have set aside $6 million to stimulate construction of below-market-rate housing along Fourth Avenue. The action was in response to community concerns that the rezoning did not require developers to build any such units.
Carol Abrams, a spokeswoman for the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, said the $6 million was expected to be allocated through several existing housing programs and to take different forms, including tax-exempt bond financing and low-interest loans. In return, developers would reserve at least 20 percent of the units for residents whose incomes do not exceed a specific earnings ceiling. Estimates are that the public money would generate at least 130 below-market-rate units, Ms. Abrams she said. 
Brad Lander, executive director of the Fifth Avenue Committee, a community group, said he was skeptical that developers would take advantage of the incentives since "they would make much more building all market-rate apartments." 
When Boymelgreen Developers completed the first 36-unit phase of Park Slope Estates on Second Street in 2001, it was testing the market for condos. "We go to the edge of a neighborhood, build something special and extend the neighborhood," said Benjamin Klein, the company's director of operations. 
The first two- and three-bedroom units, in six connected four-story buildings, sold for an average of $400 to $450 a square foot, or $510,000 to $850,000. Now the company is nearing completion on a second 46-unit phase called Cityview Gardens. 
The latest two- and three-bedroom units will have 1,200 to 1,350 square feet; duplexes will have up to 2,400 square feet. The apartments will be in 10 five-story buildings: six on Second Street and four on Third Street. The structures will overlook a central courtyard. Sales are expected to start in three or four months at $450 to $500 a square foot. 
Mr. Klein said that because of the recent rezoning, his company planned to move forward within the next three to six months to develop the adjacent Fourth Avenue property with a 12-story building with about 75 units. 
Construction continues at the four-story condo building on Sackett Street, called Park Slope Terrace. 
Sales began last month for the 38 two- and three-bedroom apartments, which have 1,020 to 2,745 square feet. So far, 28 have been sold for $370 to $402 a square foot on average, or $405,000 to $955,000, said Mr. Noonan of Corcoran, the project's sales agent. Initial occupancy is expected in December.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 14, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 6 about new condominiums in Park Slope referred incompletely to the marketing arrangement for a building under construction in the Park Slope Terrace development. It is being marketed by the Corcoran Group and the Aguayo & Huebener Realty Group, not by Corcoran alone. Peter Noonan of Corcoran is a sales agent for it, but not the only one.
An article on June 6 about new condominiums in Park Slope, Brooklyn, included erroneous sales prices from a developer for the first 36unit phase of Park Slope Estates. Two- and three-bedroom apartments there sold in 2001 for $350,000 to $695,000, not $510,000 to $850,000. A letter from residents on June 20, questioning the figures, went astray at The Times.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Park Slope Estates, above, was completed in 2001. Its developer is nearing completion on a second 46-unit phase called Cityview Gardens. (Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); ZONING (90%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (85%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (67%); COMPANY EARNINGS (67%); BONDS (67%); AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR & MAINTENANCE SHOPS (65%); CITY LIFE (62%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) HOUSING; ZONING; CONDOMINIUMS 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY; PARK SLOPE (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



146 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: Duped And Betrayed 

BYLINE:  By PAUL KRUGMAN; E-mail: krugman@nytimes.com

 BODY:
According to The New Republic, Senator Zell Miller -- one of a dwindling band of Democrats who still think they can make deals with the Bush administration and its allies -- got shafted in the recent tax bill. He supported the bill in part because it contained his personal contribution: a measure requiring chief executives to take personal responsibility for corporate tax declarations. But when the bill emerged from conference, his measure had been stripped out.
 Will "moderates" -- the people formerly known as "conservatives" -- ever learn? Today's "conservatives" -- the people formerly known as the "radical right" -- don't think of a deal as a deal; they think of it as an opportunity to pull yet another bait and switch. 
 Let's look at the betrayals involved in this latest tax cut.
Most media attention has focused on the child tax credit that wasn't. As in 2001, the administration softened the profile of a tax cut mainly aimed at the wealthy by including a credit for families with children. But at the last minute, a change in wording deprived 12 million children of some or all of that tax credit. "There are a lot of things that are more important than that," declared Tom DeLay, the House majority leader. (Maybe he was thinking of the "Hummer deduction," which stayed in the bill: business owners may now deduct up to $100,000 for the cost of a vehicle, as long as it weighs at least 6,000 pounds.)
Less attention has been paid to fine print that reveals the supposed rationale for the dividend tax cut as a smoke screen. The problem, we were told, is that profits are taxed twice: once when they are earned, a second time when they are paid out as dividends. But as any tax expert will tell you, the corporate tax law is full of loopholes; many profitable corporations pay little or no taxes.
The original Bush plan ensured that dividends from such companies would not get a tax break. But those safeguards vanished from the final bill: dividends will get special treatment regardless of how much tax is paid by the company that issues them. 
This little change has two big consequences. First, as Glenn Hubbard, the former chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisers and the author of the original plan, delicately puts it, "It's hard to get a lot of progressivity at the top."
Translation: wealthy individuals who get most of their income from dividends and capital gains will often end up paying lower tax rates than ordinary Americans who work for a living.
Second, the tax cut -- originally billed as a way to reduce abuses -- may well usher in a golden age of tax evasion. We can be sure that lawyers and accountants are already figuring out how to disguise income that should be taxed at a 35 percent rate as dividends that are taxed at only 15 percent. Since there's no need to show that tax was ever paid on profits, tax shelters should be easy to construct. 
Of course, the big betrayal was George W. Bush's decision to push this tax cut in the first place. There is no longer any doubt that the man who ran as a moderate in the 2000 election is actually a radical who wants to undo much of the Great Society and the New Deal.
Look at it this way: as the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities points out, this latest tax cut reduces federal revenue as a share of G.D.P. to its lowest level since 1959. That is, federal taxes are now back to what they were in an era when Medicare and Medicaid didn't exist, and Social Security was still a minor expense. How can we maintain these programs, which have become essential to scores of millions of Americans, at today's tax rates? We can't.
Grover Norquist, the right-wing ideologue who has become one of the most powerful men in Washington, once declared: "I don't want to abolish government. I simply want to reduce it to the size where I can drag it into the bathroom and drown it in the bathtub." Mr. Bush has made a pretty good start on that plan.
Which brings us back to Senator Miller, and all those politicians and pundits who still imagine that there is room for compromise, that they can find some bipartisan middle ground. Mr. Norquist was recently quoted in The Denver Post with the answer to that: "Bipartisanship is another name for date rape." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); TAX RELIEF (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); TAX FRAUD (77%); INCOME TAX (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (77%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (77%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (77%); TAX CONSULTING (77%); LEGISLATION (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); EXECUTIVES (76%); CORPORATE TAX (76%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); FAMILY (72%); ECONOMIC POLICY (61%); BONDS (60%) TAXATION; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; TAX EVASION; TAX CREDITS; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; STOCKS AND BONDS 

PERSON: PAUL KRUGMAN (50%) KRUGMAN, PAUL; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



147 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 402 words

HEADLINE: Harvard Chief, at Commencement, Vows Change 

BYLINE:  By DAVID M. HERSZENHORN 

DATELINE: CAMBRIDGE, Mass., June 5 

 BODY:
Speaking on Harvard's 352nd commencement day, Lawrence H. Summers, the university's president, pledged today to reshape the undergraduate experience, including the core curriculum. 
 Beneath an ashen sky, Mr. Summers spoke proudly of Harvard's many strengths but also said that undergraduate students craved more contact with senior faculty members and that improvement was needed in the mentoring system. 
 Of the first overhaul of the curriculum in 30 years, he said, "No organization, and certainly not one as creative as Harvard College, should ever go more than a generation without reassessment and renewal."
The college has disclosed few details of the curricular overhaul, which will be a subject of prolonged study.
Ernesto Zedillo, former president of Mexico, who received an honorary doctor of laws degree, used his speech to praise the United States for leading the creation of international institutions in the first half of the 20th century. But he also cautioned Washington against acting unilaterally and abusing its position as the world's sole superpower.
"All the nations on earth, even the most powerful one, need the multilateral system," he said.
In accordance with Harvard tradition, the speeches by Mr. Summers and Mr. Zedillo were given at the Harvard Alumni Association's annual meeting, which followed a ceremony this morning to award graduate and postgraduate degrees.
The ceremony opened with a call to order by the sheriff of Middlesex County, and the first speech was a salutatory address given in Latin by Charles B. Watson Jr. 
"Now after reading through innumerable books, after writing endless papers, finally, we have arrived at this day on which, finally relieved from all your cares, you get to hear me speaking in Latin," Mr. Watson told his classmates, according to a translation provided in the program. 
In addition to Mr. Zedillo, there were 10 other honorary-degree recipients: Gary S. Becker, winner of the 1992 Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Science; Elliot Forbes, emeritus professor of music at Harvard; Norman C. Francis, president of Xavier University in New Orleans; Ellsworth Kelly, painter and sculptor; Mary-Claire King, geneticist; Donald E. Knuth, computer programming pioneer; Linda Nochlin, art historian; Philip Roth, the novelist; Robert G. Stone Jr., longtime Harvard trustee and fund-raiser; and P. Roy Vagelos, former chief executive of Merck & Company.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Doctoral candidates at Harvard University's commencement yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CURRICULA (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); ALUMNI ASSOCIATIONS (78%); CORE CURRICULUM (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HISTORY (77%); ART HISTORY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (73%); NOBEL PRIZES (70%); AWARDS & PRIZES (70%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (69%); ALUMNI (66%); VISUAL ARTISTS (66%); SHERIFFS (64%); WRITERS (64%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (61%); PAINTING (61%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: MERCK & CO INC (62%)

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (94%) HARVARD UNIVERSITY 

TICKER: MRK (PAR) (62%); MRK (NYSE) (62%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (62%)

PERSON: LAWRENCE SUMMERS (91%) HERSZENHORN, DAVID M; SUMMERS, LAWRENCE H; ZEDILLO PONCE DE LEON, ERNESTO 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



148 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 447 words

HEADLINE: Scientists Say Flooding Mine Will Derail Lab 

BYLINE:  By KENNETH CHANG 

 BODY:
Scientists behind a proposal to turn a former gold mine in South Dakota into a vast underground laboratory said yesterday that they would abandon their proposal if the mine was allowed to flood.
 That would effectively derail the project, which South Dakota leaders have hoped would spur an economic and scientific renaissance for the state. The 300 miles of tunnels at the Homestake Mine in Lead would be ideal for experiments studying geology, deep-earth microbes and subatomic particles known as neutrinos. 
 The owner of Homestake, the Barrick Gold Corporation of Toronto, says that next week it will turn off the pumps that remove 500 gallons a minute of water from the 8,000-foot-deep mine.
In a statement released yesterday, scientists led by Dr. Wick C. Haxton, a professor of physics at the University of Washington, said that allowing the mine to flood would delay the project by several years, potentially damage the structural integrity of the tunnels and contaminate any possible microbe studies.
"Worse," the scientists wrote, "we do not feel we can make a reasoned argument for tens of millions of additional funding for dewatering, when the condition of the mine after dewatering and even access to the site are currently matters of speculation."
Just last Friday, the National Science Foundation released a report from mining geologists and engineers that concluded Homestake was the best site for an underground laboratory compared to competing proposals for Soudan Mine in northeastern Minnesota and a tunnel into Mount San Jacinto near Palm Springs, Calif. The panel also urged Barrick to keep the pumps running at the mine.
The scientists said that if they withdrew their proposal, they would then put their efforts to building an underground laboratory elsewhere. "Our commitment to the science demands that we do so," they said.
Barrick has said it is willing to donate the mine to the state, but is not willing to remain liable for accidents or environmental problems that occur at a future laboratory. The company has also argued it is more economical to allow the mine to flood now and empty it later, especially since the National Science Foundation has not yet committed to building an underground laboratory.
The earliest that any money could be available for the construction of a laboratory is late 2005, as part of the federal budget for the 2006 fiscal year.
Vincent Borg, a spokesman for Barrick, called the scientists' threats an "11th hour red herring." The scientists did not raise concerns until a few weeks ago, Mr. Borg said, and the science foundation panel declined Barrick's offer to provide information about the mine's antiquated infrastructure. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOLD MINING (90%); SCIENCE NEWS (90%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (90%); SCIENCE FUNDING (90%); GEOLOGY & GEOPHYSICS (79%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); UNDERGROUND MINING (78%); BUDGETS (77%); PARTICLE PHYSICS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); MINES & MINING (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (54%); MOUNTAINS (50%) SCIENCE AND TECHNOLOGY; HOMESTAKE MINE (SOUTH DAKOTA); MINES AND MINING; LABORATORIES AND SCIENTIFIC EQUIPMENT; RESEARCH 

COMPANY: BARRICK GOLD CORP (84%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION (82%); UNIVERSITY OF WASHINGTON (56%) NATIONAL SCIENCE FOUNDATION; BARRICK GOLD CORP 

TICKER: ABX (TSX) (84%); ABX (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS212221 GOLD ORE MINING (84%); SIC1041 GOLD ORES (84%) SIC1041 GOLD ORES; 

PERSON: CHANG, KENNETH; HAXTON, WICK (DR) 

GEOGRAPHIC: PALM SPRINGS, CA, USA (53%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) SOUTH DAKOTA

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



149 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 5; Escapes; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1563 words

HEADLINE: DRIVING; 
A Car Show Just for 'Orphans'

BYLINE:  By GEORGE P. BLUMBERG 

DATELINE: YPSILANTI, Mich. 

 BODY:
RAILROAD tracks split the Depot Town section of Ypsilanti, but trains highball through and don't stop anymore. Out on the edge of town, General Motors' giant Willow Run plant stands shuttered. This is postindustrial America. What better place for a group of ghost cars to sputter back to life?
 Early last Sunday morning, in Riverside Park here, the ghosts were chuffing and purring to their assigned spots. An antique car show is nothing unusual, but this one had a particular eccentricity. It was devoted to orphans -- famous models that fizzled and died out. The people exclaiming over each other's machines are devoted to cars that, gradually or quickly, were rejected so emphatically by the public that their makers had to give up on them. 
 "I collect cars nobody wants," said Larry Claypool, a mechanic from Frankfort, Ill., who makes his living repairing a famous orphan: the Corvair, the 1960's Chevrolet model that helped make Ralph Nader's reputation when he reviled it in his book "Unsafe at Any Speed." At this event Mr. Claypool was showing a 1966 Skoda, a sedan from Czechoslovakia that didn't make it in the United States. It lined up with odd-looking Edsels and Corvairs, ancient but stately Packards and Duesenbergs, heavily chromed DeSotos and an attention-getting 1948 Davis with just three wheels. Over yonder was a Hupmobile, a car last made in 1941, and down the way was a Franklin, a brand that went out of production during the Great Depression. 
Mr. Claypool's Skoda had been found by a friend in Berlin. It's about the size of a Dodge Neon but looks like something from the early industrial age. The Skoda is still made, but it was never imported in large numbers to the United States, so it's a real rarity and is permitted under the show's rules for foreign cars. Mr. Claypool paid $1,500 plus shipping for his Skoda. "My orphans are never worth lots of money, so I can collect more of them," he said.
Randy Mason, a former curator at the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village, who had a Studebaker and a Hudson at the show, explained the psychology of the orphan collector. "People who own unusual cars like Studebakers and Nashes identify with the underdog," he said. "We're kind of making the statement that we salute the cars and companies that didn't make it, but tried hard."
Linda and Dale Milliman, who were showing a 1959 Edsel, an example of the Ford Motor Company's most famous failure, had dressed for the occasion in period garb, he in leather jacket and ducktail haircut, she in rolled-up jeans and flame-red sneakers. Their everyday car is aPontiac Aztek, reviled by many as the ugliest car currently sold. "We drive the two most hated cars on the road," Mr. Milliman said.
Their Edsel was a four-door Ranger sedan, with the strange vertical grille. "We think the styling is neat," Mrs. Milliman said. "The more exaggerated the better."
"Our attitude," her husband added, "is, 'O.K., we'll drive this flop.' "
Ypsilanti's Orphan Car Show (this was the seventh) is not a high-toned concours d'elegance, like the one at Pebble Beach, where perfect examples of rare million-dollar cars are featured, and men wear blue blazers and women large picture hats. And it's not a frenzied auction like Barrett-Jackson, where profit rules.
This event, said Jeff Godshall, the senior design manager at DaimlerChrysler and a fan of orphan cars, is "like the 'Our Gang' comedies where the kids go to the barn and say, 'Let's put on a show.' " The admission fee for spectators was only $3; to register a car, it was $12.
There was a parade, with gaggles of orphans rolling past a set of bleachers at 15-minute intervals while Mr. Godshall and other automotive historians told each group's story, brand by brand.
Not every ghost car, the proud owners will be quick to tell you, was a bad machine. Some were elegant and beautiful, innovative in mechanics and design, but failed to modernize or yielded to more nimble competition.
The general rule at the Ypsilanti show is that an entry must represent a nameplate that no longer exists. Most were made by companies now dead, but there are exceptions, like Ford's Edsels and DeSotos, which were made by the Chrysler Corporation. Defunct models of existing brands, like the Chevrolet Corvair, can get in only if they were made in Ypsilanti. Foreign models, even those still made, are allowed if they are no longer sold in the United States.
Jim and Sue Watch of Royal Oak, Mich., swear devotion to the 1975 Fiat Spider they brought to the show. The Watches were philosophical about the gibes they have endured -- Fiat, which stopped importing cars to the United States in 1983, suffered from a reputation for mechanical unreliability summarized in the joke that the name stands for "Fix It Again, Tony." Their Spider, Mr. Watch said, "has only 20,000 miles on it, and so far no trouble."
The Watches prefer the Ypsilanti show to all-Italian car shows. "We feel more at home at this orphan car show than we do at the Italian Happening show each year -- there, we're just a throwaway car on the bottom of the pecking order," Mrs. Watch said. "We're more loved here."
Many of orphan cars had unusual design and engineering features. "These cars were influenced to a large degree by the personalities of the men who ran the companies, willing to go out on a limb," said Mr. Godshall, the Chrysler design chief. "Powel Crosley, for example, was a 6-foot-4-inch man who was a champion of his tiny cars. And George Mason, a portly man, introduced the Rambler range of smaller cars at Nash."
It was an orphan car that inspired Mr. Godshall to become a designer. He received a book in 1954 about the Cord 810 and 812 and was immediately intrigued. The brainchild of Errett Loban Cord and designed by Gordon Buehrig, the Cord had front-wheel drive combined with striking, low-slung looks. "It was hollow, rolling sculpture," Mr. Godshall said, "the most beautiful car ever made."
A Cord 812 was on display, a sleek 1937 supercharged maroon phaeton owned by Charlie and Edie Saganek of New Boston, Mich. It was one of about 200 of this model that were built, and one of about 2,500 Cords produced altogether. Gleaming exhaust pipes emerged from the hood and traveled through the fenders; disappearing headlights could be cranked open from the dashboard. Mr. Godshall was right; it was beautiful.
Watching a girl about 10 years old who was agape, nose to nose with a tiny 1952 Crosley, Bill Chapin, 54, whose forebears ran Hudson and American Motors, asked, "Do you think anybody under 35 knows who Bob Hope is?" With news outlets pondering the question on Mr. Hope's 100th birthday, it seemed like a good time to ask the same thing about Crosleys and Studebakers. "Who is going to know those names anymore if we don't run this show as a living history?" Mr. Chapin asked. 
For lovers of these automotive underdogs, the defense endures well past the end.

COLLECTORS' ITEMS
Some Automotive Names That Are No More

ABOUT 2,500 nameplates have come and gone in the American auto industry alone, according to Randy Mason, a former curator at the Henry Ford Museum and Greenfield Village in Dearborn, Mich., leaving their owners with orphaned vehicles. Here are a few of them and the years in which they were made:

HUPMOBILE -- Innovative medium-priced sedans and roadsters. Good quality but sales faltered. 1909 to 1941.

CROSLEY -- Powel Crosley, a manufacturer of radios and appliances, was ahead of his time with this very small economy car, produced in Cincinnati. 1939 to 1952.

PACKARD -- Large, imposing cars, once the epitome of luxury; fell on hard times after putting out lower-priced look-alikes. 1903 to 1958.

PIERCE-ARROW -- Some call it America's finest car, with outstanding mechanics. Made in Buffalo; a victim of the Depression. 1901 to 1938.

STUDEBAKER -- Low-priced but with styling that set it apart. Made in South Bend, Ind. 1902 to 1966.

FRANKLIN -- High-quality car made in Syracuse by H. H. Franklin, a pioneer in modern metal die casting. Its air-cooled engine made it a favorite of doctors, who needed reliability for house calls made in all weather, and aviators, including Amelia Earhart and Charles Lindbergh, who liked the similarity to aircraft engines. 1902 to 1934.

CORD -- Pioneered front-wheel-drive and aerodynamic design. Auburn, Ind. 1929 to 1937.

DUESENBERG -- Imposing, high-performance luxury cars, with straight-8 engines. Made in Indianapolis. 1920 to 1937.

KAISER -- First made in Ypsilanti, Mich., by Henry J. Kaiser, famous for efficient production of World War II troop ships, and Joseph Frazer, the head of the Graham-Paige car company. Later models had stylish, fashion-designer interiors and striking paint schemes. 1947 to 1955.

MAXWELL -- First made in Tarrytown, N.Y. Walter P. Chrysler bought it and changed it into a Chrysler. 1905 to 1925.

HUDSON -- A solid car in the Buick class. Overengineered and overbuilt. 1909 to 1957.

TERRAPLANE -- Replaced the Essex in 1932 as Hudson's lower-priced division; many speed and endurance records; discontinued in 1938.

NASH -- Known for its smaller Rambler, introduced in 1950. Merged with the faltering Hudson in 1954 to become American Motors. 1918 to 1957.

REO -- Started by Ransom E. Olds after a disagreement with his Oldsmobile investors; they had the rights to his name but not his initials. Lots of speed and endurance. 1905 to 1936.
 GEORGE P. BLUMBERG

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Escapes on Friday about discontinued car lines misidentified the last manufacturing site of Studebaker. The company was making cars only in Hamilton, Ontario, when it went out of business in 1966. Its plant in South Bend, Ind., closed in 1963.

GRAPHIC: Photos: ANOTHER 15 MINUTES OF FAME -- A row of Studebakers, above, and Charlie and Edie Saganek's 1937 supercharged Cord phaeton, below, at the Orphan Car Show in Ypsilanti. (Photographs by Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. F7); LONG LOST LOVE -- A 1948 Davis three-wheeler arriving at the Orphan Car Show. (Jeffrey Sauger for The New York Times)(pg. F1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAR ENTHUSIASTS (90%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK MFG (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (78%); TRADE SHOWS (76%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%) AUTOMOBILES; TRADE SHOWS AND FAIRS 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (85%); F (NYSE) (85%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%)

PERSON: RALPH NADER (79%) BLUMBERG, GEORGE P 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (75%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (75%) YPSILANTI (MICH)

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



150 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 929 words

HEADLINE: THE MIDEAST TURMOIL: REPORTER'S NOTEBOOK; 
In the Homebody Wake: Lots of 'Bush Slept Here' Places

BYLINE:  By ELISABETH BUMILLER 

DATELINE: DOHA, Qatar, June 5 

 BODY:
President Bush's aerobic seven-day, six-nation trip, which ended today with a visit to American troops here, took him from the concentration camp sites of Poland to the czars' palaces of St. Petersburg, a global economic conference in the French Alps and Middle East peacemaking on the edge of the Red Sea. For a president who does not love to travel, the trip was Clintonian -- two countries nearly every day and a new bed to sleep in most nights. 
 By the time Mr. Bush rallied the troops this morning at the UnitedStates Central Command forward headquarters in the 115-degree moonscape here, the victor in the war on Iraq was clearly on a high, pumped up by the palpable sense in both Europe and the Middle East that the American president had new powers to wield. 
 "We've seen a lot of fine sights, but there is no finer sight than to see the men and women who wear the uniform of the United States of America," Mr. Bush told hundreds of whooping soldiers. 
The trip put Mr. Bush in such a merry mood that for the first time in his presidency, he summoned reporters on Wednesday up to the front of Air Force One for a 45-minute post-mortem on his meeting in the Jordanian port city of Aqaba with Prime Minister Ariel Sharon of Israel and the new Palestinian prime minister, Mahmoud Abbas. 
At one point in the meeting, Mr. Bush told reporters, he suggested that the three leave the round table behind and talk on the lawn of the summer palace of King Abdullah of Jordan. They did, for half an hour.
"What I wanted to do is observe the interplay between the two -- did they have the capacity to relax in each other's presence, for starters," Mr. Bush said in the 747's conference room. "And I felt they did. In other words, it was -- the body language was positive. There wasn't a lot of hostility and suspicion."
Mr. Bush added: "And obviously I'm not going to betray any confidences, but it was a very interesting and positive conversation, is the best way to say it. I didn't need, for example, to be Mr. Chatty."

The Trick to Being Cool
Observers who saw Mr. Bush, Mr. Sharon, Mr. Abbas and King Abdullah II make formal statements Wednesday behind four outdoor lecterns set up in front of the Gulf of Aqaba could not help but notice that the four men, all clothed in suits and ties, did not seem to break into unattractive sweats under the sweltering midday sun.
The cool, composed images of the leaders were hardly an accident: White House operatives had gone so far as to run tubing from a quiet, out-of-sight air-conditioning unit under the platform where the leaders spoke. The tubes blasted cool air up through vents constructed at the foot of each lectern, a better-than-nothing solution that kept viewers' minds on the statements of peace rather than on heavily perspiring brows.
"It was still toasty," one White House official said. "But every little bit helps."

Fleischer's Star Turn
Karl Rove, the president's powerful political adviser, was ubiquitous on the trip, but it was Ari Fleischer, the White House press secretary, who drew the fans.
The balding Mr. Fleischer, whose televised noon briefings have turned him into an unlikely media star, was the White House adviser who was the most mobbed by the troops at the United States Central Command today. While Mr. Fleischer posed for pictures and shook hands, Mr. Rove stood by, largely neglected, until he hit upon a role for himself.
"Get your photograph with Ari Fleischer!" Mr. Rove began to shout to the soldiers. "Step right up!" Mr. Rove then cheerily grabbed the soldiers' cameras and took their pictures with Mr. Fleischer, a role he does not normally perform for Mr. Fleischer at the White House.
The day before on Air Force One, Mr. Rove had been talking so loudly that his voice floated in through the open door of the conference room where Mr. Bush was recounting his Middle East meeting to reporters. The president, who likes order, gestured to his national security adviser, Condoleezza Rice, to make Mr. Rove quiet down.
"Karl, I can hear every word you're saying," Mr. Bush said jokingly, but withauthority, as if reining in a rambunctious little brother.
Asked today what he did when he got the presidential message, Mr. Rove instantly replied, "I shut up."

Safe and Sorry, Too
Security is always intense on a presidential trip, but the French went to new lengths at the economic summit meeting of the world's leading industrialized democracies in Evian-les-Bains, the midpoint of Mr. Bush's travels.
To reach the meeting, White House reporters were herded onto a ferry across Lake Geneva, a peaceful ride made less peaceful on the way back by nervous French security police officers who ordered reporters to stay close to their luggage, or else. 
When one reporter left her bag unaccompanied, the police placed what appeared to be a small detonator next to it and threatened to blow it up. A short time later, when reporters had left their bags en masse for a briefing on an upper deck by Sean McCormack, the National Security Council spokesman, an angry French policeman in a black jumpsuit began shouting Mr. McCormack down, yelling that the correspondents were no longer standing near their luggage and "not taking security seriously." 
The man in the black jumpsuit then demanded an immediate end to the briefing, with more threats of the imminent destruction of cameras and computers. At that point, Mr. McCormack acquiesced, deciding that he could wait for another moment to convince everyone that despite their past differences, France and the United States could work together in perfect harmony.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Tigris River curves through Baghdad in a view from Air Force One as it carries President Bush back to the United States from Qatar and a Middle East peace mission. Fighter jets escorted the president's plane. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); MILITARY WEAPONS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (70%); TRENDS (69%); IRAQ WAR (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

ORGANIZATION: GROUP OF EIGHT (G8) (59%) GROUP OF EIGHT 

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (56%) BUMILLER, ELISABETH; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAINT PETERSBURG, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (71%) RED SEA (92%); INDIAN OCEAN (90%); ALPS (73%) UNITED STATES (96%); MIDDLE EAST (95%); QATAR (93%); JORDAN (93%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAQ (92%); POLAND (91%); FRANCE (91%); EUROPE (79%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (79%); EGYPT (79%) ISRAEL; EGYPT; JORDAN; POLAND; EVIAN-LES-BAINS (FRANCE); ST PETERSBURG (RUSSIA); RUSSIA; IRAQ; QATAR

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



151 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 6, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 491 words

HEADLINE: A Nobel Peace Laureate Under Attack 

 BODY:
A year ago there was hope that democracy might come to Myanmar. In May 2002, the military junta released Daw Aung San Suu Kyi, the world's most famous political prisoner, after 19 months of house arrest. The government promised to grant its citizens full freedoms and agreed to hold talks about opening up the political system. These gestures won Myanmar, formerly known as Burma, a reprieve from international pressure while the world waited to see whether the promises would be kept. They were not, and sanctions are once again needed to force the government to keep its word. 
 There have been no talks. More than 1,200 political prisoners remain in jail, many of them elderly and sick. The harassment of Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi and her party, the National League for Democracy, has gradually increased, culminating on Friday in a violent attack on her traveling convoy that killed 4 and injured 50, according to the government (the opposition says the figures are much higher). There are reports that Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi suffered face and shoulder injuries. The junta must allow the outside world to see her. She and 18 members of the National League, some badly hurt, havebeen re-arrested and are being held incommunicado -- "for their own protection," the government implausibly reports. The junta has closed National League headquarters all over the country. 
 Since February, the junta has blocked entry to the United Nations envoy for Myanmar, Razali Ismail. He has suddenly received permission for a visit and is due in Myanmar today. But if he cannot visit Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi, he should leave immediately.
The junta may have carried out its crackdown because it believes that the world's attention is focused elsewhere. But officials are also terrified by Mrs. Aung San Suu Kyi's support. As she travels in Myanmar, she draws crowds in the tens of thousands.
Her popular support makes her an intolerable threat at a time when living standards have eroded to their worst levels since the late 1980's, when a nationwide revolt resulted. Professionals can no longer afford rice. The widespread collapse of the banking system has shut down many businesses and infuriated depositors who have lost their savings.
The junta's spectacular corruption and mismanagement are mainly responsible for its economic troubles, but they do make the threat of more sanctions unusually potent. This week Senator Mitch McConnell, a conservative Republican, and Representative Tom Lantos, a liberal Democrat, introduced bills that would extend a visa ban for paramilitary officials, freeze the American-held assets of the nation and top officials, and bar imports from Myanmar. Many of these exports go to America and Europe. Europe, which already has a visa ban, should now block Myanmar's exports as well. The junta has had a year to demonstrate that its opening was genuine. Now all ambiguity is gone, and the world's response must be equally decisive. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOBEL PRIZES (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (89%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); IMPORT TRADE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PARAMILITARY & MILITIA (77%); HOUSE ARREST (77%); LIVING STANDARDS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CONSERVATISM (77%); ARRESTS (77%); LIBERALISM (77%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (76%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (73%); HUMAN RIGHTS (72%); CORRUPTION (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); FACIAL INJURIES (68%); MUSCULOSKELETAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (68%); BANK FAILURES (65%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (63%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (60%) EDITORIALS; FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (54%)

PERSON: AUNG SAN SUU KYI (90%); MITCH MCCONNELL (57%); TOM LANTOS (57%) AUNG SAN SUU KYI, DAW 

GEOGRAPHIC: MYANMAR (99%); EUROPE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) MYANMAR

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2003 



152 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 35 words

HEADLINE: THE MARKETS: CURRENCIES 

 BODY:
 DOLLAR GAINS. The dollar rose after a government report showed United States payrolls fell less than economists expected last month. In New York, the euro settled at $1.1704, down from $1.1843 on Thursday.

GRAPHIC: Graph tracks the euro to the dollar, since December 2001. (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets; Associated Press). It also shows yesterday's closes for the British pound (in U.S. dollars), the Canadian dollar (per U.S. dollar), the German mark (per U.S. dollar), the Japanese yen (per U.S. dollar), the Mexican peso (pers U.S. dollar), and the South Korean won (per U.S. dollar). 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US DOLLAR (90%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); GERMANY (76%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



153 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1348 words

HEADLINE: Airlines' Unwanted Fleet Grows in the Desert 

BYLINE:  By EDWARD WONG 

DATELINE: MOJAVE, Calif. 

 BODY:
No better barometer of the fortunes of the airline industry exists than 1,200 acres of parched brown earth here, baking at 102 degrees.
 Row upon row of jetliners sit idle in three lots, their engines sealed with silver or black Mylar, their rudders rising from the flat desert like shark fins protruding from an ocean's glassy surface. 
 Rattlesnakes slither in the shadows of nose cones and tortoises inch their way past landing gear. A yellow school bus carrying a dozen mechanics barrels between planes, kicking up dust.
About 230 jets have been consigned to this purgatory, a storage and maintenance yard operated by Avtel Services. That number is four times what it was before the terror attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. When the airline business is poor, the money here can be good, and the general manager, Justin Loucks, says his business will only get better. 
"I don't think we've seen the end of the bankruptcies in the U.S.," Mr. Loucks said as he stared out the window of his second-floor office at the field of planes. "Several companies are on the brink."
Avtel has 50 customers from around the world, and many have parked their multimillion dollar assets on Mr. Loucks's scorching front yard. There are silver Fokker 100's from the ailing American Airlines, cherry red Boeing 737-200's from US Airways' failed Metrojet venture and hulking blue 747's from KLM, the Dutch airline. About 70 percent of the planes are from lessors and the leasing arms of companies like Bank of America and General Electric, the rest from the airlines themselves.
The ebb and flow of planes here serves as a gauge of both industrywide health and the strength of individual airlines. There are other indicators of the state of airline economics as well. For instance, Avtel is getting a flood of resumes from mechanics as airlines wrest concessions from unions and lay off workers, officials here said.
Privately owned by the Telford Group, which is based in Bangor, Me., Avtel does not have to report financial numbers, though it did make a profit in the last five quarters, said Vern Alexander, the director of marketing.
Before the Sept. 11 attacks, about 80 percent of Avtel's revenue came from performing heavy maintenance checks on planes, and only 20 percent from storage and upkeep, Mr. Alexander said. Since then, those percentages have reversed.
The air park here, at 3,000 feet above sea level, is the largest of five lots -- all owned by different companies -- that are scattered across Southern California, Arizona and New Mexico, according to Back Aviation Solutions, an airline consulting firm. The second largest, 60 miles to the southeast in Victorville, Calif., had 168 planes as of May 22, up from 77 before the Sept. 11 attacks. The third largest, in Roswell, N.M., had 145 aircraft, up from 16 before the Sept. 11 attacks.
A total of 734 airplanes were in long-term storage as of May 22, according to Back Aviation.
Airlines have been parking jets to trim a surplus of seats in the air. Available seat miles among major airlines, a measure of capacity, were down 6.5 percent in April from April of last year, and down nearly twice that much in May, according to the Air Transport Association, the industry's main trade group.
"We started seeing parking of airplanes, so we aggressively went after those customers," said Trevor Van Horn, the chief executive of Evergreen Air Center, a privately owned company that is storing more than 100 planes in Marana, Ariz. Last year, he said, Evergreen had its second-largest profit in a decade.
Michael Allen, the chief operating officer of Back Aviation, says the parking of planes might slow in the summer -- the busiest travel season -- then pick up again.
Here in Mojave, the number of stored planes reached a peak of 310 last August, Mr. Loucks said. It has dropped by 26 percent since then, but not because the big airlines in the United States are returning their jets to service. Generally, the aircraft -- many of them 25 years old -- are being sold to airlines in developing countries.
It is a buyer's market for planes. A 737-200 that would have sold for $3.5 million to $5 million three years ago goes for less than $1.5 million now, Mr. Loucks said.
A drive around the lot gives a firm sense of the misfortunes of some of the industry's biggest players. 
To trim costs atthe largest airline in the world, American, part of the AMR Corporation, has been trying desperately to winnow the variety of planes in its fleet, which accounts for the 16 silver F-100's sitting in the lot called Area 3. American has contracted with Avtel to store 74 of the aging planes, which were acquired when American bought Trans World Airlines two years ago, Mr. Alexander said.
Gerard J. Arpey, American's new chief executive, has said that American still may have to file for bankruptcy protection, despite the $1.8 billion in annual labor savings it has obtained from workers. A filing by American could add as many as 60 planes to the lot here, Mr. Loucks said.
When National Airlines shut down last November after two years in bankruptcy court, Avtel received eight 757's within two days. Aircraft leasing companies hired flight crews to fly the planes from National's base in Las Vegas to various air parks. "It looked like Saigon on the last day of the war," Mr. Loucks said, adding that half the planes have been leased out again. 
Aircraft are here from many other companies that are struggling through bankruptcy or met ignominious ends: Air Canada, the single largest customer here, with 29 planes; Hawaiian Airlines, whose DC-9's have been bought by an engine broker in Florida; and Swissair, now defunct, its distinctive white cross on a red field still painted on the tailfins of MD-11 jets.
Though Avtel has a contract with Southwest Airlines, that company -- which has remained profitable through the industry's deep slump -- has stored jets here only once. That exception involved 19 brand-new 737-700's that Southwest took delivery of from Boeing right after the Sept. 11 attacks, Mr. Alexander said. Those planes have since been put into service. But as Southwest updates its aging fleet of 737-200's, it will start parking the old jets here, he added.
A plane put into storage generally goes through three stages: preparation, which includes covering the engines and taping all cracks (at a cost of about $12,000 for a narrow-body jet); monthly maintenance and engine checks ($1,000 or so a month); and restoration to service, essentially reversing everything done in the first stage (another $12,000).
Avtel employs about 350 people, mostly mechanics. The Federal Aviation Administration has two officials on the ground to ensure quality, and every major customer has a representative here.
Mr. Alexander says he has talked with several carriers, including United Airlines, about assigning mechanical work to Avtel. United recently won concessions from its machinists' union that allow the airline to farm out more of these duties. Other airlines are expected to try to negotiate similar terms with their unions, which could be a boon for companies like Avtel.
There have been recent though rare instances of airlines' returning to service the planes that they stored here. After US Airways filed for bankruptcy protection last August, it parked dozens of planes, Mr. Loucks said. The airline left bankruptcy court in March, and all but seven planes are flying again, he added.
In the first lot, a towering 767 from British Airways stands with its doors open. Mr. Alexander said that the long-haul plane -- its tail painted with colorful geometric designs conceived by the South African artist Emmly Masanabo -- would go back into service in mid-June, after having languished here for about 16 months. Workers will take two weeks to prepare it.
"There definitely is a good feeling in seeing an aircraft taxi or take off that you had in storage," he said. "An airplane is only alive when it's in flying condition."
But for now, most of the other planes will remain in limbo. The tortoises crawling across the dirt are putting in more miles these days.

CORRECTION-DATE: June 10, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about the increase of jetliners at a storage and maintenance yard in Mojave, Calif., referred incorrectly to the stored Fokker 100's that are operated by American Airlines. They were delivered in the early 1990's, not acquired with the purchase of Trans World Airlines in 2001.

GRAPHIC: Photos: A worker at a storage yard in Mojave, Calif., closing a cabin door after a routine ventilation. Airliners placed in storage receive monthly maintenance and engine checks. In addition, workers tape all cracks.; Arrivals outnumber departures at a storage yard in Mojave, Calif., where the number of planes reached a peak of 310 last August before the fleet was trimmed through sales to airlines in developing countries. (Photographs by Robert Galbraith for The New York Times)(pg. C3); (Robert Galbraith for The New York Times)(pg. C1) Chart: "Grounded"When the commercial airline industry slows, business picks up at airplane storage yards. Since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001, an increasing number of jets have been put in long-term storage yards, most of them in the Southwest. Jets in long-term storage yardsA jet's engines are covered and all cracks are sealed before it is placed on a storage lot, like those at Avtel Services in the Mojave Desert (left). Mojave, Calif.Currently: 230March 2002: 310*Before terrorist attacks: 60 Victorville, Calif.Currently: 168March 2002: 206Before terrorist attacks: 77 Goodyear, Ariz.Currently: 105March 2002: 131Before terrorist attacks: 66 Marana, Ariz.Currently: 105March 2002: 101Before terrorist attacks: 104 Roswell, N.M.Currently: 145March 2002: 76Before terrorist attacks: 16 *Aug., 2002 (Sources: Back Aviation Solutions; Air Photo USA via EarthViewer aerial photo ; Avtel Services)(pg. C1) Chart: "Out of Service"Because the number of airline passengers has fallen, the airline industryhas taken planes out of service and put them in storage. Capacity vs. filled seatsDomestic airlines Graph tracks capacity: miles flown by all seats and miles flown by paying passengers. Share of seats filled:2001: 73%2002: 70%2003: 73% 2002: 71%2003: 71%(through April) Jets in storage Graph tracks foreign aircraft operators against U.S. aircraft operators from 2001-2003. (Source: BACK Aviation Solutions)(pg. C3)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (93%); AVIATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (89%); TERRORISM (88%); COMPANY LISTS & RANKINGS (78%); DESERTS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); COMPANY PROFITS (65%); CONSULTING SERVICES (60%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES; STORAGE 

COMPANY: U S AIRWAYS GROUP INC (90%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%); BOEING CO (58%); AMERICAN AIRLINES INC (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (84%) AVTEL SERVICES 

TICKER: LCC (NYSE) (90%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (90%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (90%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%)

PERSON: WONG, EDWARD 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGOR, ME, USA (52%) MOJAVE DESERT (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); NEW MEXICO, USA (93%); ARIZONA, USA (93%); MAINE, USA (52%) UNITED STATES (95%) MOJAVE (CA)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



154 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 981 words

HEADLINE: As Iraqis' Disaffection Grows, U.S. Offers Them a Greater Political Role 

BYLINE:  By EDMUND L. ANDREWS and PATRICK E. TYLER 

DATELINE: BAGHDAD, Iraq, June 6 

 BODY:
The imam at one of Baghdad's largest mosques urged more than a thousand listeners today to wage a jihad, or religious war, against American occupying forces in Iraq.
 Speaking at Friday Prayers, Imam Mouaid al-Ubaidi denounced the Americans as invaders and aggressors and implicitly praised recent guerrilla attacks against United States soldiers as self-defense by people who are being "strangled." 
 The unusually bellicose sermon by the Sunni Muslim cleric came just hours before American officials, responding to growing Iraqi disenchantment, offered to give Iraqis more authority in an American-controlled interim administration that is expected to be formed next month. 
Heightened frustrations with the American occupation is believed to be inciting attacks like the one mounted in the central Iraqi town of Falluja on Thursday. One American soldier was killed and five others injured when a grenade or a mortar round hit their encampment, 30 miles west of Baghdad. It was the latest in a string of shootings and bombings that hasleft eight soldiers dead in less than two weeks. 
"There are only two powers now in the world," Mr. Ubaidi said in his Friday sermon. "One is America, which is tyrannical and oppressive. The other is a warrior who has not yet been awakened from his slumber, and that warrior is Islam.
"Our brave Muslim Iraqi people, who care about their honor and their country, refuse all manner of occupation," he continued. Declaring that a jihad was justified to protect oneself or one's religion, he went on to declare that "Islamic people don't have any of these rights" and that "it is these Islamic people's right to carry the banner of jihad to regain those lost rights."
In the immediate aftermath of the war, American officials spoke hopefully of creating a provisional Iraqi government put together by a national conference of Iraqi leaders. 
That notion died in the ensuing chaos. Earlier this week they presented a revised plan that would have created a purely advisory "Iraqi face" on the new government. Today's re-revised plan would go further, creating what the Americans called a genuine "Iraqi partner."
L. Paul Bremer III, the top American administrator in Iraq, presented the offer at a meeting tonight with an array of Iraqi political leaders. The most important change in the plan, according to one official, would be to give a proposed Iraqi political council more power in naming ministers to an interim administration under a new occupation authority. Elections at this point "might lead to more instability instead of less," one official said. In an "undeveloped political climate," he said, elections might provide an opening for "intervention by extremists."
But to broaden Iraqi political participation, the new plan would call for the Iraqi political council to make recommendations on a new currency, oil production, economic strategy and education reform.
The shift by American officials and the palpable increase in hostility toward the United States highlighted the fast-moving political changes under way in this country. 
Even though a semblance of normality is returning to many aspects of life, ordinary Iraqis as well as the elites are frustrated and angry about continued disruptions to basic services like electricity and police protection, and they want more control over their government than Americans want to give them just yet.
Many Iraqi leaders have refused to say whether they would take part in the proposed political council, saying they could jeopardize their own political credibility by joining an organization that might be seen as a tool of the Americans. Tonight, leaders from two Iraqi political parties cautiously praised the latest proposals but implied that Mr. Bremer might have to make even more concessions in coming weeks.
"We welcome what he did, because we are moving closer to a provisional government," said Ahmad Chalabi, head of the Iraqi National Congress, a pro-American group of returning Iraqi exiles that has been pressing Mr. Bremer to give Iraqis a greater role in the political process. 
Hoshyar Zebari, a spokesman for the Kurdish leader Massoud Barzani, said, "I think there has been a movement from the earlier position, and that's positive."
The message from Iraqi mosques in the Friday Prayer services today was one of considerable ambivalence toward Americans. Though many Shiite Muslims are anti-Western, the tone of their recent criticisms has been nuanced and moderate. 
At services in Sadr City, an impoverished and often militant Shiite enclave in Baghdad, Sheik Kazim Ibad al-Nassiri dropped his anti-American language in favor of moral prescriptions on issues ranging from food to avoidance of weapons.
The angry sermon by Imam Ubaidi, a Sunni, demonstrates why a growing number of Iraqi experts now say the greatest threat to Americans in Iraq will come not from the Shiites, despite their close ties to Iran, but from disaffected Sunnis who have lost the relatively privileged position they enjoyed under Saddam Hussein.
Mr. Ubaidi deplored the deaths of two Iraqis in a shootout last Sunday with American soldiers near the Abu Hanifa mosque, in which he spoke. He encouraged listeners to resist the occupying forces with whatever means they had. 
"May God help reverse the evil, so that the evil ones slaughter themselves with their own hand," he said.
His voice rising in power and anger, the cleric recited a poem from the Koran to defend those who attack American forces. "How can you blame a person who is being strangled if he hurts the person who is strangling him?" he said. "How can you blame the person who is being oppressed who hurts the person who is oppressing him?"
The mood among listeners was at least as militant as that of the imam. "They have destroyed our institutions, our people and our security," said Majid Hamid al-Bayati, a lawyer. "They have totally erased us."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Abu Hanifa mosque in Baghdad was filled at noon yesterday for Friday Prayers. The imam, Mouaid al-Ubaidi, preached an anti-American message, calling on Iraqis to wage war against occupation forces. (Richard Perry/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (78%); BOMBINGS (73%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (67%); POLITICS (60%) ISLAM; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT 

PERSON: RICK PERRY (50%) ANDREWS, EDMUND L; TYLER, PATRICK E; UBAIDI, MOUAID AL- (IMAN); BREMER, L PAUL III 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (94%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (97%) IRAQ#000T031225SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



155 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The NewYork Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words

HEADLINE: Gambling Revenue Fell 6.9% in April 

BYLINE:  By Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
Gambling revenue in Nevada fell 6.9 percent in April from a year earlier, the state's Gaming Control Board said yesterday.
 It was the first monthly decline since July. 
 Casino winnings dropped to $744.6 million from $799.6 million. Along the Las Vegas Strip, which is home to Nevada's largest casinos, gambling revenue was down 5.3 percent, to $361 million.
Park Place Entertainment and MGM Mirage have said they will earn less in the second quarter than they expected because the war with Iraq and the state of the economy reduced travel to Las Vegas.
Casino revenue fell 8.5 percent in downtown Las Vegas, away from the Strip. In Reno, winnings dropped 9.6 percent and in Laughlin revenue declined 3.4 percent. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (96%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (73%) GAMBLING; CASINOS 

COMPANY: MGM RESORTS INTERNATIONAL (72%)

ORGANIZATION: GAMING CONTROL BOARD (NEV) 

TICKER: MGM (NYSE) (72%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (72%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LAS VEGAS, NV, USA (94%); RENO, NV, USA (79%) NEVADA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (72%) NEVADA

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



156 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 569 words

HEADLINE: In Brooklyn, 9/11 Damage Continues 

BYLINE:  By ANDREA ELLIOTT 

 BODY:
The signs in Midwood, Brooklyn, surfaced slowly at first. Curry packets at the New Apna Bazaar started to accumulate. The line of cars at the Sunoco station began to thin.
 And then the crowd dwindled at Friday Prayer at the Makki Mosque on Coney Island Avenue. This, among worshipers once so numerous they prayed on the street for lack of room. 
 "Now the rooms are empty inside," said Danieyel Yaqocb, 32, a taxi driver who lives in Midwood. "It's hard to live here now. People don't have too many friends like before."
In this heavily Pakistani community, the word "before" begs no further explanation. It refers to a crucial turning point -- Sept. 11, 2001 -- in this neighborhood's modern history, a date that marked the start of an exodus of thousands of Pakistanis and the arrival of a new discomfort in day-to-day living for those who remained.
Arrests, closer scrutiny and an increased threat of deportation have plagued Arabs and Muslims nationwide. In New York, Egyptians, Moroccans, Jordanians and Lebanese have seen numbers of detentions. But no group appears harder hit than the Pakistanis.
Before Sept. 11, an estimated 120,000 Pakistanis lived in Brooklyn, concentrated in Midwood and Brighton Beach. Since then, between 40 and 50 percent have been detained or deported or have left on their own, said Bobby Khan, executive director of the Coney Island Avenue Project, which was formed after the attack to help Arabs and Muslims who were detained.
Some Pakistanis have migrated to Canada, while others have returned home, leaving divided families behind. About 1,000 have been detained, and 80 percent of them have been deported, Mr. Khan said. 
"Even with the papers, people are scared of what's going on and they feel it's safer to move somewhere else," said Mohammad Iqbal, 45, who owns the New Apna Bazaar on Coney Island Avenue.
For Mr. Yaqocb and his friend and fellow taxi driver, Mohammed Ihsan, the heightened scrutiny translates to many sad interruptions in routine. The two men used to meet with a group of friends to watch cricket on satellite television.
Now they fear a meeting would suggest subversive behavior, or pique the suspicions of, perhaps, a building superintendent.
"We can't get together," said Mr. Ihsan. "If you're sitting at someone's home, six or seven guys, they'll ask, 'Why are you sitting there?' "
The economic fallout of this exodus, matched with New York's struggling economy, is also widely apparent. Pakistani-owned stores have closed, or are on the brink of going out of business. Mr. Iqbal, whose grocery sells lentils, paprika and other products for Pakistanis as well as kosher and Russian products, said he had seen business drop by half in the last 18 months.
Mr. Yaqocb, the taxi driver, waved a hand south along the shopping strip of Coney Island Avenue. "This used to be all Pakistani stores. Now it's become Russian stores."
The Arab exodus has also surfaced in sudden requests for one-way tickets out of the country, said a travel agent in Downtown Brooklyn.
"When they come, they ask for a one-way ticket because they have to go. We don't ask them any questions," said the travel agent, a 31-year-old Sudanese who spoke on condition of anonymity.
For 18-year-old Sameena Kausar, among the harder things to witness is the drain of fellow students in her Koran class and services at the Makki Mosque.
"It was crowded before," she said. "It's not many people now."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mohammad Iqbal, 45, who owns the New Apna Bazaar on Coney Island Avenue, says many Pakistanis have moved because they don't feel safe. Officials say the Pakistani population in the area is down 40 to 50 percent. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); DEPORTATION (90%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); IMMIGRATION (72%); TERRORISM (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); REFUGEES (68%); TRENDS (67%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (62%); HISTORY (54%); SATELLITE TELEVISION (50%) TERRORISM; PAKISTANI-AMERICANS; ISLAM; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; DEPORTATION; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: ELLIOTT, ANDREA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); PAKISTAN (94%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



157 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 559 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST 

 BODY:
Jobless Rate Rises to 6.1%, Reaching a Nine-Year High
The unemployment rate rose to 6.1 percent in May, its highest level in nine years, the Labor Department reported, as the worst jobs slump since the early 1980's continued to spread.
 Still, the pace of layoffs has slowed over the last two months, suggesting that the economy might have stabilized and could begin adding jobs this summer, forecasters said. The economy has lost almost 2.5 million jobs since February 2001. Page A1. 

Nasdaq and S.&P. 500 Decline
After rising as much as 17.55 points to hit 1,007.69, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed down 2.38 points, or 0.2 percent, at 987.76. The S.& P. had not traded above 1,000 since June 28, 2002. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 21.49 points, or 0.2 percent, to 9,062.79, but the Nasdaq composite index fell 18.59 points, or 1.1 percent, to 1,627.42. C4.

NBC Wins Media Rights to Olympics
NBC Sports won a three-way auction for the media rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games with a total bid of $2.2 billion. NBC, a subsidiary of General Electric, defeated offers made by the News Corporation's Fox division, and Disney's ABC/ESPN. A1.

Hospital Executive Is Indicted
A federal grand jury has indicted Barry Weinbaum, the chief executive of Alvarado Hospital Medical Center in California, on charges of making illegal payments to doctors to induce them to refer patients to the hospital. C2.

Cancer Research Plan Moves Ahead
A proposal for pharmaceutical industry collaboration on cancer drug research took a small step forward when industry executives agreed to establish a larger task forceto study the idea. C3.

Striking It Poor in Third World
The World Bank has invested more than $180 million in the Chad-Cameroon pipeline, but a draft of a report commissioned by the bank itself has essentially concluded that its past efforts to promote such projects in poor countries have done more harm than good. B9.

Vilar Name Removed From Met Tier
The Metropolitan Opera said that it had taken down foot-high metal letters honoring Alberto W. Vilar, the arts benefactor, from the grand tier, a wall at the third-floor level of the opera house at Lincoln Center, because Mr. Vilar has not met his financing commitments. B9.

Canary Wharf Attracts Suitors
Several companies are considering bids for Canary Wharf Group, the holding company for the office and retail complex that over the last two decades transformed a derelict stretch of London's East End into a financial center. The board of Canary Wharf Group has formed a committee to evaluate the bids. C3.

Court Backs Cellphone Number Plan
Mobile phone customers may be able to switch carriers without losing their phone numbers as early as November after an appeals court rejected an industry challenge. C4.

U.S. and Chile Sign Free Trade Pact
Chile and the United States signed a free trade agreement, the first such pact between Washington and a South American country. C3.

May Sales Rose 6.3% at McDonald's
McDonald's said sales in the United States rose 6.3 percent in May, the most in one month in four years, driven by demand for Happy Meals and new items like salads. C4.

Retail Sales Decline in Hong Kong
Retail sales in Hong Kong fell 15.2 percent in April from April 2002, the biggest decline in four years, partly as a result of the SARS outbreak, the government said. C3.

GRAPHIC: Photo Chart: "YESTERDAY"Dow industrials -- 9,062.79 up 21.49Nasdaq composite -- 1,627.42 down 18.5910-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.35% up 0.01The euro -- $1.1704 down 0.0139The dollar -- 118.81 yen up 1.09 Graph tracks the Standard & Poor's 500 (weekly closes) since January 2002.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (99%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); OLYMPICS (87%); INDICTMENTS (86%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (79%); JOB CREATION (79%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (78%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (76%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (76%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (74%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (71%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (71%); ONCOLOGY (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); CANCER (69%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (69%); CANCER DRUGS (68%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (68%); GRAND JURY (64%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (64%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (61%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (60%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (60%); OPERA (60%); LAYOFFS (59%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (83%); NEWS CORP (82%); CANARY WHARF GROUP PLC (62%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (55%); WALT DISNEY CO (54%)

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (82%); NWS (ASX) (82%); GNE (PAR) (55%); GEC (LSE) (55%); GE (SWX) (55%); GE (NYSE) (55%); DIS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (83%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (83%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (82%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (62%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (55%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (54%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (65%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CAMEROON (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); CHAD (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



158 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1306 words

HEADLINE: As Cities' Budgets Shrink, Criminal Justice Feels Pinch 

BYLINE:  By FOX BUTTERFIELD 

DATELINE: PORTLAND, Ore., June 6 

 BODY:
The Portland police budget has been cut by more than 10 percent in the last three years, and the strain is showing.
 Station houses now close at night, and the 960-member force is down 64 officers. With no money for overtime, undercover drug officers sometimes simply stop what they are doing -- for instance, tailing suspects or executing search warrants -- when their shifts end. 
 Because the city also has little money for public defenders, Mark Kroeker, the Portland police chief, said officers were now giving a new version of the Miranda warning when they arrested a suspect in a nonviolent crime.
"They effectively have to say, 'If you can't afford a lawyer, you will be set free. Enjoy,' " Chief Kroeker said. 
Crime here is rising, and Chief Kroeker says he is not surprised. In the first four months of the year, shoplifting is up 10 percent from the same period in 2002, car break-ins have increased 12 percent, the number of stolen cars has risen 19 percent and home burglaries have jumped 21 percent, police figures show.
"The scary thing is that the worst results are still six months down the road, as the bad guys realize nothing is going to happen to them, and then you start to get an increase in gang shootings, armed robberies and homicides," Chief Kroeker said.
The cycle that is bedeviling Portland is emerging around the country, law enforcement officials say, as cities cut spending on all areas of criminal justice, including policing, prosecutions and prisons.
In Multnomah County, where Portland is located, the district attorney's office, the county courts and the public defender's office, which are financed in large part by the State Legislature, are so short of money that they have stopped prosecuting drug and property crimes, like burglary and auto theft, until at least July 1.
The police commissioner in Seattle, R. Gil Kerlikowske, said that because of budget cuts he had reduced his force by 24 officers and 50 civilians this year and put a freeze on the hiring and training of new officers. The city now has about 1,250 officers, a police spokeswoman said. Burglaries, car thefts and shoplifting are up 18 percent this year, Mr. Kerlikowske said, though violent crime has remained steady.
In Minneapolis, Robert K. Olson, the police chief, has cut 118 officers from his 900-member force this year because much of the money for the city's police comes from the state, which is running a budget deficit. Chief Olson said he had lost another 81 police officers because President Bush had essentially eliminated a Clinton administration program that provided money to add 100,000 police around the country.
In San Diego, long known for having a low ratio of police officers to population and a low crime rate, John Welter, the interim police chief, is no longer able to fill the positions of the six or seven officers who retire each month. Mr. Welter said he expected to be 100 officers short by next spring, "the worst situation I've faced in 34 years on the job." 
Beyond budget cuts, the war on terrorism is also depleting law enforcement resources. Chief Olson, in Minneapolis, said he had to assign 16 officers to guard the city's waterworks against a terrorism threat, with no federal money as compensation. But he said he considered himself almost lucky that 15 of his officers were called to active service in the reserves or National Guard during the Iraq war because he did not have to pay those called to military duty, saving money for other officers' jobs.
The Portland police have also been hurt by orders from Washington to go on terrorism alerts. The Columbia and Willamette Rivers run through Portland, and the police have spent more than $2 million guarding the many bridges during the alerts, with no sign of money that was promised by the federal government.
What is particularly painful, experts say, is that many of the strategies devised in the 1990's to reduce crime are now being abandoned or cut back because of the national economic slump and widespread budget cuts.
"It's like watching 'broken windows' in reverse," said James Alan Fox, a professor of criminal justice at Northeastern University in Boston, referring to the 'broken windows' theory that the police could prevent serious crimes like robbery and murder by first cracking down on smaller crimes that blighted neighborhoods, like graffiti and drug dealing. This theory played a major role in the crime-fighting tactics employed by William J. Bratton when he was police commissioner in New York.
The fiscal crisis in New York City, which is facing an estimated $3.8 billion deficit, has had a significant effect on the Police Department, whose $3.2 billion budget has been cut by $250 million in recent months. In the past three years, the department has shrunk by more than 4,000 officers to a force of about 36,500. At the same time, the city has reassigned about 1,000 officers to counterterrorism duties, at a cost of roughly $150 million a year.
Commissioner Raymond W. Kelly has said that the New York department is struggling under the financial constraints but has managed nonetheless to keep crime down, an 8 percent decline so far this year on top of a 6 percent decline last year.
Commissioner Kelly has credited a new program called Operation Impact that has narrowly focused his more-limited resources on dozens of areas around the city that have consistently been the scene of violent crimes and shootings.
Here in Oregon, Sheriff Bernie Giusto of Multnomah County said he had had to lay off jail guards as a result of the state budget deficit, reducing the number of beds available for inmates to 1,462 from 2,071. Sheriff Giusto said he was already figuring out which categories of criminals he would not accept when state officials declared that on March 1 they would no longer pay for public defenders except for the most violent offenders.
"I put on my sheriff's uniform and I went down to the Legislature in Salem and testified," he said. "I told them, This is how bad Oregon has become -- law enforcement has to come beg you for money for crooks, so we can appoint lawyers for them and prosecute them and hold them in jail."
Under the United States Constitution and Supreme Court rulings, anyone charged with a crime must have a lawyer, and no one can be held in jail without having a lawyer.
To save money, Jim Hennings, the executive director of the public defender's office in Portland, has given up a month's salary and made his lawyers give up two weeks' pay.
But the Multnomah County courts are now operating only four days a week, and the district attorney, Michael Schrunk, and the presiding judge, Dale Koch, have agreed to try only serious violent felony cases.
All felony property and drug crime trials have been delayed until at least July l, and Mr. Schrunk and Judge Koch say the backlog of cases could choke the courts. Instead of being prosecuted, misdemeanors are being settled as a violation, the equivalent of a parking ticket, to keep the backlog from growing.
Mr. Schrunk, who has been district attorney since 1981, has seen his own office shrink under budget pressure to 77 prosecutors from 99 in the past two and a half years. He has largely had to give up some of his favorite innovations: a drug court, a mental health court and a community court for resolving low-level disputes. And it pains him, he said, not to be able to prosecute misdemeanors.
Officer Rebecca Wooten of the Portland police says she has seen the effects of this first hand. Last week Officer Wooten arrested a young man in a garage burglary and took him to the police station. There he was given a ticket instead of an indictment. Within hours, the man was arrested again on suspicion of burglary. Officer Wooten, 48, has 25 years on the force, and when she reaches 50, she said, "I'm gone as soon as I can retire."

GRAPHIC: Photos: In Portland, Ore., Jim Hennings of the public defender's office and Officer Rebecca Wooten have seen cuts affect their jobs. (Photographs by Alan S. Weiner for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (91%); POLICE FORCES (90%); CRIMINAL LAW (90%); PUBLIC DEFENDERS (90%); BURGLARY (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); VEHICLE THEFT (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CRIME STATISTICS (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); SEARCH WARRANTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); VIOLENT CRIME (78%); ROBBERY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); SHOPLIFTING (76%); MOTOR VEHICLE CRIME (75%); PROPERTY CRIMES (75%); LAWYERS (75%); SEARCH & SEIZURE (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (71%); HOMICIDE (71%); MIRANDA RULE (71%); SHOOTINGS (65%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (64%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (56%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (50%) CRIME AND CRIMINALS; POLICE; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING 

PERSON: BUTTERFIELD, FOX 

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (97%); SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (92%); MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); SEATTLE, WA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (97%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); MINNESOTA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%) PORTLAND (ORE); NEW YORK CITY; MINNEAPOLIS (MINN); SAN DIEGO (CALIF)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



159 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: OLYMPICS; 
NBC's Olympic Run Is Extended to 2012 With $2 Billion Bid

BYLINE:  By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

DATELINE: LAUSANNE, Switzerland, June 6 

 BODY:
NBC Sports held on to its Olympic franchise today by winning a three-way auction for the United States media rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games with a record bid of $2 billion. It was augmented by a nearly $200 million deal for General Electric, NBC's parent, to become a worldwide Olympic sponsor. The bid was made even though the sites for those Games have not yet been determined.
 NBC outbid offers made by the News Corporation's Fox network and by ABC and ESPN, which are owned by the Walt Disney Company, at the International Olympic Committee headquarters here. 
 The price for TV rights exceeds by 33 percent the $1.5 billion that NBC will pay for the 2006 and 2008 Olympics. Including the G.E. Olympic sponsorship deal, the bid at its maximum means that the Olympic committee will receive 47 percent more for the Games in 2010 and 2012 than in 2006 and 2008.
The I.O.C. will choose the site for the 2010 Winter Games in Prague next month from among three cities: Vancouver, British Columbia; Salzburg, Austria; and Pyeongchang, South Korea. 
"We deliberately wanted to negotiate before Prague," Dr. Jacques Rogge, the I.O.C. president, said.
The host city for the 2012 Summer Games will be chosen in two years from a field of candidates that includes New York, London, Paris, Rome, Madrid, Havana, Istanbul and Leipzig, Germany. Although Vancouver is a favorite for 2010, there is no guarantee that either host city will be from North America, the preferred place for network ratings and for showing more live events. 
"We at G.E. and NBC prize this relationship above all others," Dick Ebersol, the chairman of NBC Sports, said at a news conference tonight. "The Olympics are good business for NBC." 
The network's Olympic broadcasts from Atlanta (1996), Sydney (2000) and Salt Lake City (2002) "were all profitable, and every indication is that Athens will be profitable," Mr. Ebersol said, referring to the site of next summer's Olympics.
The deal adds to a stunning Olympic run for NBC: when the 2012 Summer Games are broadcast, NBC will have carried seven consecutive Olympics and 10 of 13. The former Olympic TV leader, ABC Sports, never showed more than four in a row.
Even as NBC has shed its rights to the National Football League, Major League Baseball and the National Basketball Association, embraced low-cost sports like Arena Football, and pushed to eliminate money-losing sports properties, it has accelerated its Olympic commitment.
Asked whether the power of the network's incumbency led to the I.O.C.'s decision to choose NBC, Mr. Ebersol said: "We're a G.E. company. You don't get out of the building without a solid business plan, which says we'll more than break even."
Dr. Rogge said: "The best one won. Not by coincidence, it's the one we've been working with a long time."
In the deal, NBC will pay $820 million for the 2010 Winter Games and $1.18 billion for the 2012 Summer Olympics. G.E. sweetened its investment by becoming a worldwide Olympic sponsor, which will cost $160 million to $200 million.
Fox bid an estimated $1.3 billion, while the offer from ABC and ESPN was not immediately known. 
Alex Wallau, the president of ABC, said afterward, "I don't have a bad feeling that we miscalculated or misjudged anything."
David Hill, the chairman of the Fox Sports Television Group, said, "We would have loved to have done it, but Dick and his team have done a wonderful job, and they've looked after the I.O.C. for so long."
The three companies bid on a broad package: broadcast and cable, radio, Internet, broadband streaming video, satellite video-on-demand and pay-per-view rights.
But the bulk of the value remains with broadcast television, where the greatest viewership is and where the most advertising can be sold for NBC to attempt to recoup its rights fees. Cable offers some value, but the worth of the other factors is unknown seven to nine years away.
Mr. Hill, in a statement, offered a pessimistic view, saying that Fox's bid reflected the difficulty in predicting the economy in "seven months, let alone seven years." He said given that the 2010 and 2012 cities had not been chosen and the concern about the "long-term economic outlook, our bid reflected a conservative view."
The bidding began after the ABC/ESPN team's presentation on Thursday and two-hour pitches today by NBC and Fox.
During its presentation, NBC presented Dr. Rogge with the Best Live Event Sports Emmy Award it had recently won for its coverage of the Winter Games in Salt Lake City and an award it won for a three-minute promotional film.
Each company placed its sealed bid in a clear cylindrical box at 2:30 p.m. Forty minutes later, the I.O.C. officials began more than seven hours of deliberations in the Coubertin Room on the third floor of the organization's building. A United States Olympic Committee contingent was there; starting next year, the U.S.O.C. will receive 12.75 percent of the United States media rights fees paid by NBC.
The I.O.C. did not ask the bidders to raise their offers. NBC's figure, Mr. Ebersol said, "was the limit we would go, which we could cover with conservative estimates of advertising and affiliate contributions."
NBC's bid also included $12 million in rights fees to carry the United States Olympic trials; the creation of a $10 million digital TV library that will let NBC and the I.O.C. transfer thousands of hours into a digital archive; and a commitment it estimated at hundreds of millions of dollars to promote the Olympics.
The process reflected Dr. Rogge's insistence that the rights to 2010 and 2012 be bid competitively, which has not happened since NBC, ABC and CBS bid for the 1996 Atlanta Summer Games, which NBC won for $456 million. In 1995, NBC privately negotiated two deals with the I.O.C. to pay $3.5 billion for all Olympic rights from 2000 to 2008.
The three-way bidding may have pushed NBC to higher rights fees than if the deal had been negotiated one-on-one. NBC will pay the International Olympic Committee 34 percent more for the 2010 Winter Games than for the 2006 Games in Turin, Italy, and 32 percent more for the 2012 Summer Games than it will for the 2008 Games in Beijing. But the Beijing and Turin price tags reflected increases of 12 to 13 percent from the previous Summer and Winter Games.
"People say smaller is beautiful," Dr. Rogge said, "but not with TV rights." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OLYMPICS (99%); SUMMER OLYMPICS (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (90%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (90%); WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); SPORTS (90%); 2012 LONDON SUMMER OLYMPICS (90%); OLYMPIC COMMITTEES (90%); NETWORK TELEVISION (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (90%); 2010 VANCOUVER WINTER OLYMPICS (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); AUCTIONS (89%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (79%); SPONSORSHIP (78%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (74%); BASEBALL (73%); BASKETBALL (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); BUSINESS PLANS (70%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (65%) OLYMPIC GAMES; TELEVISION; OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); OLYMPIC GAMES (2010); OLYMPIC GAMES (2006); OLYMPIC GAMES (2012); SUMMER GAMES (OLYMPICS); WINTER GAMES (OLYMPICS)

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (98%); NEWS CORP (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (83%); AGE CO (60%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (58%); ABC SPORTS INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE (83%) NATIONAL BROADCASTING CO; GENERAL ELECTRIC CO; INTERNATIONAL OLYMPIC COMMITTEE 

TICKER: NWS (NASDAQ) (83%); NWS (ASX) (83%); DIS (NYSE) (83%); GNE (PAR) (58%); GEC (LSE) (58%); GE (SWX) (58%); GE (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (98%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (98%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (83%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (83%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (83%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (83%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (58%) SIC4833 TV BROADCASTING; 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD; ROGGE, JACQUES 

GEOGRAPHIC: VANCOUVER, BC, CANADA (92%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (78%); PARIS, FRANCE (78%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (72%) BRITISH COLUMBIA, CANADA (92%); VAUD, SWITZERLAND (79%); GEORGIA, USA (78%); NEW YORK, USA (72%); SALZBURG, AUSTRIA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); CANADA (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); GERMANY (79%); FRANCE (78%); AUSTRIA (57%); CENTRAL EUROPE (55%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



160 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Unemployment Rate Rises To a 9-Year High of 6.1% 

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
The unemployment rate rose to 6.1 percent in May, its highest level in nine years, the Labor Department reported today, as the worst jobs slump since the early 1980's continued to spread across the economy.
 Still, the pace of layoffs has slowed over the last two months, suggesting that the economy might have stabilized and could begin adding jobs this summer, forecasters said. 
 The economy has now lost almost 2.5 million jobs since February 2001, more than the government said previously, according to annual revisions released today by the Labor Department. It is the longest sustained period without job growth since the period before World War II. 
"Companies are still cutting costs," said Mark Vitner, a senior economist at the Wachovia Corporation in Charlotte, N.C.. "But it looks like the worst of the layoffs are behind us."
Stocks rose after the report's release this morning -- largely because investors had expected larger job losses, analysts said -- but they gave up their gains during the afternoon. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index closed at 987.76, down 2.38 points, or 0.2 percent.
The Federal Reserve still appears likely to cut its benchmark interest rate to encourage new spending when it meets on June 24 and 25, many economists said after the release of the jobs report, a prediction echoed in the price of financial market contracts based on the rate. 
The Fed has already cut the rate 12 times since the start of 2001, but the lingering effects from the bursting of the 1990's stock bubble and the uncertainty caused by the war in Iraq and terrorism have prolonged the downturn.
Consumers and businesses have increased their spending somewhat in the last month, offering hope that a recovery has begun. But facing higher health care costs for employees and having become more efficient with the help of new technologies, companies have increased production without adding workers.
In perhaps the most promising sign in the jobs report, companies added a small number of jobs in both April and May after having reduced employment by more than 200,000 during the previous two months, the Labor Department said. Government cuts have caused overall employment to decline since April -- including a decline of 17,000 last month -- but the private sector is typically a better predictor of the economy's future, analysts say.
Some of the biggest gains came at construction companies, which are benefiting from the housing boom that is being helped by low interest rates, and financial services companies. Businesses also increased the number of temporary workers on their payrolls, by 58,000, a common sign that they are preparing for better times.
But hints of a solid economic recovery have emerged at other points over the last two years, only to fade. 
"There are some signs of renewed stability," said Robert S. Gay, an economist at Commerzbank Securities and a former Fed staff member. "But we're talking about kernels of improvement."
Manufacturers cut jobs in May for the 34th consecutive month. Airlines and hotels continued to reduce their work forces and have eliminated 8 percent of their jobs over the last two years. Public schools, department stores, and publishing and telecommunications companies also made cuts in May, according to the Labor Department, which adjusts its statistics to account for normal seasonal variations like the end of the school year.
The average workweek for rank-and-file employees -- about 80 percent of the labor force -- remained 33.7 hours in May, matching the lowest level since the government began keeping records in 1964. The stagnation suggests that any improvement in the labor market this year might be modest because companies typically ask current employees to work more before they hire new ones. 
In addition to the increase in the jobless rate, from 6 percent in April, to the highest since July 1994, the number of people who were not looking for work -- and thus not eligible to be considered unemployed by the government -- rose. The length of the current hiring slump has caused an unusually large number of workers to grow frustrated with their job search and give up temporarily, economists say.
The revised data released today showed that the economy had lost about 400,000 more jobs between February 2001, when employment peaked, and last month than the Labor Department originally reported. It said a few months ago that the revision would almost certainly be negative, but that announcement did not receive widespread attention.
Over the last 27 months, 1.9 percent of the nation's jobs have disappeared. In the last 50 years, the only larger losses over a similar period, relative to the size of the work force, occurred in 1956-58 and 1980-83.
The current slump "dwarfs the jobless recovery following the '90-'91 recession," said Richard Yamarone, chief economist at Argus Research in Manhattan. 
But the revisions also showed that layoffs this year have been less severe than originally reported and that the economy was not sliding into a new recession, as some economists feared. Since December, 114,000 jobs have vanished, about one-third the size of the loss reported in earlier data.
Democrats here used the increase in the jobless rate to criticize President Bush's economic record again, saying that a series of tax cuts has erased the budget surplus without lifting growth.
"You have three million who have lost their jobs during Bush's tenure, and $3 trillion added to the nation's debt," said Representative Rahm Emanuel, Democrat of Illinois, formerly an aide to President Bill Clinton. "This is not the trade-off most people were expecting."
(The actual employment loss since Mr. Bush took office is 2.4 million jobs.)
Claire Buchan, a White House spokeswoman, said that the economy had begun to weaken in early 2000, almost a year before Mr. Bush's inauguration, and that it was later hurt by corporate scandals and the 2001 terrorists attacks. The tax cut passed last month "will put money back into the economy, and it will help create jobs," Ms. Buchan said.
Secretary of Labor Elaine L. Chao, in a statement, called the increase in the unemployment rate disappointing but said she was encouraged that the pace of job loss had slowed.
Almost all of the increase in unemployment over the last two months has come among workers without a high school diploma, whose jobless rate rose to 9.2 percent last month, from 8.5 percent in March. Throughout most of the last two and a half years, the downturn has affected workers with college degrees nearly as much as those without.
In two signs of economic strength, weekly wages for rank-and-file workers rose $1.69, to $516.96, and the number of people working part time because they were unable to find full-time work fell to 4.5 million, from 4.7 million in April. Earlier this year, wages were not keeping pace with inflation, and the number of part-time workers was rising.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "The Labor Picture in May"Graph tracks unemployment from June 2002. (civilian unemployment 6.1 percent) BY DEMOGRAPHIC WhiteApril: 5.2%May: 5.4% BlackApril: 10.9May: 10.8 Hispanic*April: 7.5May: 8.2 Men 20 and overApril: 5.6May: 5.9 Women 20 and overApril: 5.1May: 5.1 Teenagers (16-19)April: 18.0May: 18.5 OUT OF WORK (millions)TotalApril: 8.8May: 9.0 Lost jobApril: 4.8May: 5.1 Left jobApril: 0.8May: 0.8 Returning to labor marketApril: 2.6May: 2.5 New to labor marketApril: 0.6May: 0.6 Graph tracks employment since June 2002.(Household survey 137.5 million and nonfarm payroll survey 130.1 million) BY TYPE OF WORK (millions)NonfarmApril: 130.1May: 130.1 GoodsApril: 22.1May: 22.1 ServicesApril: 108.0May: 108.0 Agriculture+April: 2.1May: 2.2 SHARE OF POPULATIONWork forceApril: 62.4%May: 62.3% Labor force (workers and unemployed)April: 66.4May: 66.4 All figures are seasonally adjusted.*Hispanics can be of any race.+Revised because of change in classifications. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)(pg. C14)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (88%); BANKING & FINANCE (88%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); INTEREST RATES (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); IRAQ WAR (76%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%); WORLD WAR II (69%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (69%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (60%); CONSTRUCTION (60%); TERRORISM (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%) LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) 

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID

GEOGRAPHIC: CHARLOTTE, NC, USA (56%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



161 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 170 words

HEADLINE: Chile and U.S. Sign Accord on Free Trade 

BYLINE:  AP 

DATELINE: MIAMI, June 6 

 BODY:
Chile and the United States signed a free trade agreement today, the first such pact between Washington and a South American country. 
 The accord, which requires legislative approval in both countries, would eliminate or lower tariffs on as much as 85 percent of the trade between the countries. 
That now stands at around $6 billion a year. 
 The United States trade representative, Robert B. Zoellick, and the Chilean foreign minister, Soledad Alvear, formalized the deal at a ceremony against a background of lingering American resentment over Chile's refusal to back United States military action in Iraq. 
Mr. Zoellick said the deal "levels the playing fields" with Canada and the European Union, which already have trade agreements with Chile. 
Mr. Zoellick said the deal would help with efforts to create a 34-nation Free Trade Area of the Americas by January 2005, a goal of the Bush administration. 
Administration officials say the Free Trade Area of the Americas will be a catalyst for participating economies. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (92%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (92%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (88%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (73%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%) INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; TREATIES; CUSTOMS (TARIFF) 

ORGANIZATION: FREE TRADE AREA OF THE AMERICAS (83%); EUROPEAN UNION (56%)

PERSON: ROBERT ZOELLICK (90%) ZOELLICK, ROBERT B; ALVEAR, SOLEDAD (MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHILE (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (73%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (67%) CHILE

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



162 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 754 words

HEADLINE: Medicare Aide Voices Doubts On Adding Drug Benefits 

BYLINE:  By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, June 6 

 BODY:
The top Medicare official said today that the Bush administration had "significant disagreements" with a bipartisan Senate proposal to add prescription drug benefits to Medicare, and he reaffirmed President Bush's desire to encourage elderly people to join private health plans by offering them extra drug benefits.
 The official, Thomas A. Scully, welcomed progress in Congress toward passage of Medicare drug legislation. But Mr. Scully expressed major concerns about some features of the bill being drafted by the chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and the senior Democrat on the panel, Max Baucus of Montana. 
 First, Mr. Scully said, Medicare beneficiaries will not have a strong incentive to enroll in private plans if they can obtain coverage for outpatient drug costs through the traditional fee-for-service Medicare program, which now covers 88 percent of the 40 million beneficiaries. 
Second, Mr. Scully said, he has doubts about whether private insurers will want to offer the type of drug coverage envisioned in the Senate bill. 
The fee-for-service program already covers doctors' services and hospital care. Under the Grassley-Baucus proposal, beneficiaries could obtain drug coverage as a separate item from government-subsidized "prescription drug plans," which cover pharmaceutical costs and nothing else.
Stand-alone drug coverage "does not exist in nature" and would probably not work in practice, Mr. Scully has said.
Mr. Scully, the administrator of the federal Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services, testified today at a hearing of the Finance Committee, which plans to vote next week on the Medicare proposal.
The Senate majority leader, Bill Frist, Republican of Tennessee, said he was determined to push the legislation through the Senate this month. 
"It's ambitious," Dr. Frist said. "But it is a goal we will meet."
Mr. Grassley and Mr. Baucus would provide the same drug benefits to people in the traditional Medicare program and to those in private plans. But Mr. Scully said, "We have significant disagreements" with that approach. 
"We strongly prefer to have differential drug benefits," he told Senator Craig Thomas, a Wyoming Republican who shares that view.
The House has twice passed Medicare drug legislation, in 2000 and 2002, and is widely expected to do so again this month. House Republican leaders have said drug benefits should be equal, or nearly equal, in private plans and in traditional Medicare.
Administration officials say they believe that private plans provide better, more coordinated care and can manage costs better than traditional Medicare. But economists say the savings are highly uncertain, because private plans have higher administrative costs and tend to pay doctors and hospitals more than Medicare pays.
The Grassley-Baucus bill has strong bipartisan support. But as senators examined the details today, they raised many questions and some objections.
The bill would provide comprehensive drug coverage with minimal premiums and co-payments to 14 million beneficiaries with low incomes.
Senator Don Nickles, Republican of Oklahoma, said the assistance for low-income people was so extensive that it might encourage them to use more medications than they needed.
"These are enormous subsidies, new subsidies, brand-new subsidies," Mr. Nickles, chairman of the Budget Committee, said. "Utilization will skyrocket."
Congress has set aside $400 billion for drug benefits and other new initiatives in Medicare over the next 10 years. Several Democrats have said that sum is not adequate to provide the type of drug coverage that insurers typically provide to people younger than 65.
Under the Grassley-Baucus bill, drug coverage would be available to all Medicare beneficiaries, regardless of where they live. The government would provide such coverage through a contractor in areas where fewer than two private plans offered drug benefits.
Senator Blanche Lincoln, Democrat of Arkansas, expressed concern that private plans would come and go, with a variety of drug benefits.
"You will have seniors making decisions from year to year in total confusion," Ms. Lincoln said. 
Alissa Fox, policy director for the Blue Cross and Blue Shield Association, said its member companies were eager to serve Medicare beneficiaries through networks of doctors and hospitals known as preferred provider organizations. But Ms. Fox said they needed to see the details of the legislation to know whether they would contract with the government. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (93%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG POLICY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); DRUG POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); PRIVATIZATION (78%); INSURANCE COPAYMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); SENIOR CITIZENS (73%); HOSPITALS (72%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); INSURANCE (67%); MEDICAID (58%) MEDICINE AND HEALTH; LAW AND LEGISLATION; MEDICARE; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); PRIVATIZATION 

ORGANIZATION: CENTERS FOR MEDICARE & MEDICAID SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); CHUCK GRASSLEY (79%); MAX BAUCUS (79%) PEAR, ROBERT; SCULLY, THOMAS A; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES) 

GEOGRAPHIC: WYOMING, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



163 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 National Edition 

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 354 words

HEADLINE: Tony Blair Looking Wobbly on the Euro 

 BODY:
Americans think of Tony Blair, their steadfast wartime ally, as a prime minister guided by his convictions. Yet on the decision he describes as Britain's most momentous in a generation -- whether to adopt Europe's single currency -- Mr. Blair has acted like an equivocating suitor who consults an abacus before deciding on marriage. 
 Mr. Blair came into office in 1997 pledging to take Britain "into the heart of Europe." But he and Gordon Brown, his chancellor of the exchequer, keep dawdling over a referendum on whether Britain should trade the pound sterling for the euro. The government's latest assessment, in what has become a rather disingenuous exercise, is due Monday. It is clear that the assessment will recommend against the move. Mr. Blair has rightly believed all along that Britain should embrace the euro, but he has been too hesitant to sell the notion to a skeptical public, idly hoping that things would start looking up. 
 Instead, Germany's recent economic woes, which have little to do with the euro, and misplaced concerns about surrendering more sovereignty have solidified public wariness. 
Mr. Brown himself has grown skeptical. He and Mr. Blair are reported to be still haggling over whether the government's statement will be couched in a way that leaves the door open for a referendum before the next general election, widely expected to take place in the fall of 2005. 
Continued procrastination would be damaging to both the eurozone and Britain. Mr. Blair needs to start backing business leaders' arguments that adopting the currency would be a net economic positive. One reason the negative consequences of staying out have not been all that apparent is that Mr. Blair has done a good job of keeping markets convinced that it is only a matter of time. 
The prime minister needs to figure out how to engineer the transition, and then sell the project to the British public. Confronting public skepticism on the nation's relationship with the rest of Europe is a perilous challenge for any British leader. But it is not one that a prime minister guided by his convictions should shy away from. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EURO (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); CURRENCIES (77%); EURO ZONE (77%); REFERENDUMS (75%); BRITISH POUND (72%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%) CURRENCY; EDITORIALS 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (59%) EUROPEAN UNION 

PERSON: TONY BLAIR (94%); GORDON BROWN (73%) BLAIR, TONY (PRIME MIN) 

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%) EUROPE; GREAT BRITAIN

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



164 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1006 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY 

 BODY:
 INTERNATIONAL A2-8

Hamas Breaks Off Talks With Palestinian Authority
Leaders of the Islamic radical group Hamas broke off cease-fire talks with Prime Minister Mahmoud Abbas of the Palestinian Authority, saying he had failed the Palestinian people at peace talks with Israel by demanding an end to the armed uprising and expressing compassion for Jewish suffering. A1

Trailers' Significance Disputed
American and British intelligence analysts with direct access to the evidence are disputing claims that the mysterious trailers found in Iraq were for making deadly germs. A1

Iraqi Imam Urges Holy War
The imam at one of Baghdad's largest mosques urged more than a thousand listeners to wage a jihad against American occupying forces in Iraq. The sermon came just hours before American officials offered to give Iraqis more authority in an American-controlled interim administration. A8

Report on Iran's Nuclear Plans
A new report from the International Atomic Energy Agency reveals that Iran is planning or building previously unacknowledged nuclear facilities that could give it a variety of technological options for the production of nuclear weapons. A8

Philippines Mission Delayed
The commander of American forces in the Pacific said that a joint mission with Philippine troops to combat Muslim extremists is likely to be postponed for six months. A6

Japan Passes War Powers Bill
Japan's Parliament passed a series of war contingency bills that give the government significantly increased powers in military emergencies. The laws' passage was driven by heightened concern in Japan over the possibility of attack by North Korea. A6

Crackdown in Zimbabwe
Security forces arrested Zimbabwe's opposition leader, charged him with treason and clamped down on the capital to prevent mass protests demanding the resignation of President Robert Mugabe. A3

NATIONAL A10-13, 16

Budget Crisis Forces Portland Police Cutbacks
The Portland, Ore., police budget has been cut by more than 10 percent in the last three years, and the strain has forced station houses to close at night. The 960-member force is down 64 officers. A11

Touring a Slum Village
Habitat for Humanity has put together roughly 30 shacks as recreations of poor living conditions in Africa, Asia and Central America. A10

Drug Benefits for Medicare
The nation's top Medicare official said that the Bush administration had "significant disagreements" with a bipartisan Senate proposal to add prescription drug benefits to Medicare. A12

Immigrants Face Deportation
Government officials said that roughly 16 percent of the 13,000 Arab and Muslim men who came forward earlier this year to register with immigration authorities may now face deportation. A9

Desegregation Policy Upheld
A federal district judge in Boston upheld the constitutionality of a school desegregation policy that racially mixed Lynn, Mass., voluntarily adopted 15 years ago. A11

Plane Crash Kills 2, Injures 7
A single-engine plane plummeted into a two-story apartment building in Los Angeles killing a person in the plane and at least one person in the building, as well as injuring at least seven other people. A13

Beliefs A13

SCIENCE/HEALTH

Foam Test Proves Positive
A gas cannon fired a piece of foam against a replica of a space shuttle wing and put cracks in a leading edge panel, a result that could add weight to the theory that the shuttle Columbia was doomed by impact with a falling piece of insulating foam some 81 seconds after launching. A12

NEW YORK/REGION B1-6

Engineers Use Submarine To Test Upstate Aqueduct
City engineers sent a camera-studded robotic sub on a 15-hour trip through a 45-mile stretch of the Delaware Aqueduct, the 58-year-old upstate water tunnel vital to New York's water supply. B1

A Budget Without Concessions
Mayor Bloomberg and the City Council are moving toward a budget without any of the concessions from municipal labor the unions that the mayor had insisted upon because negotiations between City Hall and the unions have all but broken down. B1

SPORTS D1-7

NBC Wins Olympics Rights
NBC Sports held on to its Olympic franchise today by winning a three-way auction for the media rights to the 2010 and 2012 Olympic Games with a record bid of $2 billion. A1

Nets Tie Series, 1-1
The New Jersey Nets beat the San Antonio Spurs, 87-85, in Game 2 of the N.B.A. finals. D1

Sosa Suspended for 8 Games
Sammy Sosa received an eight-game suspension from Major League Baseball for using a corked bat in a game on Tuesday. He quickly appealed the decision. D1

Suit Over League Membership
Five members of the Big East Conference have filed a lawsuit seeking monetary damages and an injunction preventing two schools from joining the A.C.C. D6

ARTS & IDEAS B9-18

Opera Removes Donor's Name
The Metropolitan Opera removed foot-high metal letters honoring Alberto W. Vilar, a free-wheeling arts benefactor, from a wall on the third floor of the opera house at Lincoln Center. The opera said it was reacting to "funding commitments which have not been met." B9

BUSINESS DAY C1-16

Jobless Rate at 9-Year High
The unemployment rate rose to 6.1 percent in May, its highest level in nine years, as the worst jobs slump since the early 1980's continued, although the pace of layoffs has slowed over the last two months. A1

Oracle Bids for PeopleSoft
Oracle made a $5.1 billion hostile takeover offer for PeopleSoft. C1

New Help for Heart Patients
Officials agreed to expand the number of Medicare patients who qualify for defibrillators. C1

Magazine Covers Under Fire
Wal-Mart Stores will partly obscure the covers of four women's magazines sold at its checkout counters in response to concerns expressed by some customers about racy cover lines on some of the magazines. C1

Business Digest C1

OBITUARIES B8

EDITORIAL A14-15

Editorials: New tools for arms control; let cameras in the courtroom; charter revision, made too easy; Verlyn Klinkenborg on downloading music over the Internet without feeling like a criminal.

Bridge B17
TV Listings E18
Crossword B17
Weather D8

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WAR & CONFLICT (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); HAMAS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); RELIGION (90%); MEDICARE (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PHARMACY BENEFITS (84%); RACE & RACISM (83%); IMMIGRATION (79%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (78%); JEWS & JUDAISM (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); TREASON (76%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (74%); NUCLEAR ENERGY (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); SLUM DWELLINGS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (71%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); IMMIGRATION LAW (70%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (68%); BUDGETS (68%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (67%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (66%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (64%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); HEALTH INSURANCE (64%); DEPORTATION (63%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (62%); VOLUNTEER HOUSE BUILDING & REPAIR (61%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (60%); DENTAL VISION & PRESCRIPTION INSURANCE (60%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (93%); INTERNATIONAL ATOMIC ENERGY AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: MAHMOUD ABBAS (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PORTLAND, OR, USA (90%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) OREGON, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (95%); IRAQ (94%); JAPAN (93%); ZIMBABWE (93%); ISRAEL (92%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (92%); PHILIPPINES (92%); ASIA (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%); AFRICA (74%); CENTRAL AMERICA (57%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



165 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Oracle Takes $5 Billion Jab at PeopleSoft 

BYLINE:  By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN and LAURIE FLYNN 

 BODY:
Oracle, the huge business-software maker led by Lawrence J. Ellison, made a $5.1 billion hostile takeover offer yesterday for PeopleSoft in a conspicuous effort to extinguish one of its biggest rivals.
 Oracle's bid, which comes only four days after PeopleSoft announced plans to acquire J. D. Edwards & Company for $1.7 billion, set off a bare-knuckled takeover battle pitting Mr. Ellison against his former protege, Craig A. Conway, the chief executive of PeopleSoft. 
 Mr. Conway, who said he learned of the hostile offer yesterday morning while in Amsterdam visiting clients, derided the bid as "classic Larry bad behavior." He called Oracle's offer an "appalling tactic meant to disrupt and distort," adding that it came from "a company with a history of atrociously bad behavior." 
Oracle's offer is unusual for two reasons. First, hostile bids are rare in the software industry because the business is dependent on individual developers, who can easily leave for other companies. Second, Oracle appears more interested in PeopleSoft's customers than in its employees or its technology.
Mr. Ellison made a point of saying that there would be no "integration risk" because he does not intend to attempt any integration. Rather, he plans to simply move PeopleSoft's customers to Oracle's struggling eBusiness Suite software and take over its support contracts.
"Does that sound like an intention to buy a company or kill a company?" Mr. Conway asked, saying that Mr. Ellison's bid was simply a ploy to put the company out of business. 
PeopleSoft, based in Pleasanton, Calif., sells enterprise application software, which companies use to run their internal operations, from finance to human resources. It had revenue of $1.9 billion last year and has 8,000 employees. The company's proposed acquisition of J. D. Edwards, another maker of business software, would put even more pressure on Oracle, based in Redwood Shores, Calif.
Indeed, PeopleSoft has been steadily taking market share from Oracle over the last few years, but the continuing slump in technology sales to corporations has made competing with SAP, the market leader, difficult for both companies.
Analysts said that whatever the outcome of the fight, Oracle's bid had already inflicted pain on its rival. "Oracle wins either way," said Jim Shepherd, an analyst at AMR Research in Boston. "Either they get PeopleSoft, or they've managed to mess up the PeopleSoft-J. D. Edwards deal, and steal their press and enthusiasm."
The uncertainty surrounding PeopleSoft's future is likely to hurt the company's short-term sales as purchasing managers hold off on buying PeopleSoft software. "At this moment, PeopleSoft is frozen in time," said Ted Kempf, an analyst at Gartner Research. "If you were about to buy PeopleSoft, would you continue? I wouldn't."
Stockholders appeared to be skeptical that Oracle's offer for PeopleSoft would be its last. The bid, valued at $16 a share, is a 6 percent premium over PeopleSoft's closing price of $15.11 on Thursday, and shares of PeopleSoft jumped $2.71, or 18 percent, to $17.82 yesterday, indicating investors think that Mr. Ellison will eventually be forced to raise his bid or another suitor like Microsoft, I.B.M., Siebel Systems or Computer Associates could join the bidding.
"Clearly the value is underwater," said Paul Crisci, managing director at Broadview International, which advises companies on mergers. "If they're serious, they're going to have to up their bid by a significant premium."
When asked about the $16 offer during an interview in a suite at the Carlyle Hotel in New York yesterday, Mr. Ellison appeared to acknowledge the market's reaction, mockingly asking, "Do you think the offer is too high?"
Still, he said he thought his offer was "full and fair," calling PeopleSoft "a company in distress." He said he hoped PeopleSoft's shareholders would tender their shares to Oracle because his offer was "safer and saner" than the proposed combination of PeopleSoft and J. D. Edwards in part because his offer is for cash.
"They have almost no economies of scale; we would be accretive on Day 1," he said.
"They say they're going to save $80 million," he added, blithely waving his hands. "You could save $80 million by not offering free Coke to your employees for a month." 
Oracle, which is receiving bridge financing from its adviser on the deal, Credit Suisse First Boston, expects a deal to close in July.
Mr. Conway said he would be "forced" to consider the offer, but PeopleSoft's management could choose to activate an antitakeover defense known as a poison pill, intended to thwart undesired suitors, unless the company's shareholders vote to remove it.
Mr. Crisci said the Oracle-PeopleSoft combination would create a powerhouse that could better take on SAP. "It would mean the industry would have two Goliaths instead of just one," Mr. Crisci said. "Critical mass and scale is a good thing."
"It's an interesting chess match now," he added.
Despite Oracle's insistence that there will be no integration risk, Albert Pang, an analyst at the International Data Corporation, said Oracle could face huge challenges and costs converting PeopleSoft's customers to Oracle's software.
"It's going to be a fairly difficult process, with a lot of integration headaches," he said. "It could also perhaps put unforeseen financial burdens on customers."
Mr. Pang said that a product fully merging PeopleSoft's technology into Oracle's products could not be completed before 2008. "It's far from a done deal," Mr. Pang said. "There's going to be a lot of volatility before the dust settles."
Mr. Ellison pledged to provide technical support for PeopleSoft's existing customers -- even longer for certain products than PeopleSoft would on its own, he said -- and added that Oracle "would bend over backwards" to make the migration easy. 
Markus Berner, a spokesman for SAP, said, "It is not SAP's policy to comment on the business strategies of our competitors, but in general hostile takeovers have a tendency to disrupt customer relationships."
Fred A. Hood, chief information officer at Krispy Kreme Doughnuts, a J. D. Edwards customer that is evaluating products from SAP and Oracle, said the takeover bid could worry PeopleSoft's customers.
"If I were a PeopleSoft customer, I'd be a tad nervous," he said. "I'd want to have a say, and I think shareholders are going to want to know what customers think." Mr. Hood said he understood the benefits of the merger of PeopleSoft and J. D. Edwards because it would expand the product line. With the Oracle acquisition of PeopleSoft, however, he said, the result for customers would be less rather than more.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lawrence J. Ellison, left, chief executive of Oracle, is making a $5.1 billion hostile takeover offer for PeopleSoft, a company run by Craig A. Conway, below, a former Ellison protege. Mr. Conway called the bid "classic Larry bad behavior." (Nancy Siesel/The New York Times); (Associated Press) ChartOracle's offer for PeopleSoft values the company at less than its closing price yesterday. Graph tracks PeopleSoft's price from May 30th through June 6th against its closing price yesterday: $17.82 (Oracle offered to buy at $16 A share)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SOFTWARE MAKERS (91%); TAKEOVERS (91%); ELECTRONIC HUMAN RESOURCES (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); BUSINESS SOFTWARE (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (85%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (73%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); HUMAN RESOURCES (71%); PURCHASING & PROCUREMENT (69%) COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; COMPUTER SOFTWARE; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES 

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (94%)

ORGANIZATION: ORACLE CORP; PEOPLESOFT INC; EDWARD, J D, & CO 

TICKER: ORCL (NASDAQ) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (94%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (94%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (94%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (94%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (94%) SIC7372 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS; 

PERSON: LAWRENCE J ELLISON (93%) SORKIN, ANDREW ROSS; FLYNN, LAURIE

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (73%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



166 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 7, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 139 words

HEADLINE: COMPANY NEWS; 
F.T.C. RECOMMENDS REJECTING H&R BLOCK SETTLEMENT

BYLINE:  Bloomberg News 

 BODY:
 H & R Block's proposed settlement of lawsuits by Texas customers who say they were charged excessive interest on tax-refund loans is not in the public interest and should be rejected, the Federal Trade Commission said yesterday in court papers. Block has agreed to pay as much as $311 million in rebates and legal fees to resolve the class-action suit over the Rapid Refund program. 
A judge in Kingsville, Tex., will decide on June 24 whether to approve the accord, which about split $26 million among 700,000 Texans who would also receive coupons worth $74.90 in tax services for five years. "The coupon settlement of uncertain and likely low value is inadequate," F.T.C. officials said in a release. The agency filed a brief yesterday opposing the settlement, which is similar to one a federal judge in Illinois rejected in April. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); LITIGATION (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); RETAIL COUPONS (88%); CLASS ACTIONS (88%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (88%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (88%); JUDGES (88%); FALSE OR MISLEADING ADVERTISING (87%); CONSUMER LAW (87%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (85%); APPROVALS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (71%); SALES REBATES (57%) TAXATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; REFUNDS; INTEREST RATES; MISLEADING AND DECEPTIVE ADVERTISING; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; CONSUMER PROTECTION 

COMPANY: H & R BLOCK INC (90%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION (92%) H&R BLOCK INC; FEDERAL TRADE COMMISSION 

TICKER: HRB (NYSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541213 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES (90%); SIC7291 TAX RETURN PREPARATION SERVICES (90%) SIC7291 TAX PREPARATION SERVICES; 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) TEXAS

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2003 



167 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: PORTFOLIOS, ETC.; 
As Many Turn Away, Junk Bonds Still Have an Appeal

BYLINE:  By PATRICK McGEEHAN 

 BODY:
WITH the stock market on a tear, who needs junk bonds now?
 Rarely have so many powerful forces been aligned against the prospects of the high-yield corporate bonds known as junk bonds. Their yields have fallen to near record lows as investors have piled in and driven up their prices over the last several months. 
 Influential investors like Warren E. Buffett and William H. Gross of Pimco have declared the junk-bond rally over. By reducing taxes on dividends, President Bush's tax-cut package will make higher-yielding stocks more attractive to investors seeking income. 
Wall Street is still trying to cash in on the lingering appetite for junk by churning out new bonds faster than ever, and creating junk-bond mutual funds. The $18 billion raised from the sale of junk bonds in May was a record for any month, according to Thomson Financial.
But investors have started turning away, withdrawing some of the money they poured into junk-bond funds and moving it back into stocks. Junk-bond funds, which had been the most popular category this year, had more cash flow out than in during the laast two weeks of May, according to AMG Data Services.
If the stock market continues to rise as it has all spring, that outflow will probably continue. But some experienced junk-bond investors argue that even if the rush into junk was too exuberant, there is no cause to leave the market altogether. 
"For the last three years, the risk-averse investors made all the money," said Margaret D. Patel, who manages the $6.6 billion Pioneer High-Yield bond fund in Boston. "We're at one of those inflection points where the risk takers are starting to be rewarded."
For starters, she noted, the gap between the yields on junk bonds and Treasury notes, a difference known as the spread, is still above its historical mean of 5 to 5.5 percentage points. It has plunged from 10.6 percentage points last fall and is now around 6.
Ms. Patel, whose fund has already gained 18 percent this year, argues that the spread could drop below its historical average, which could translate into an additional gain of about 15 percent for junk-bond holders. But even that best-case possibility may not be enough to turn the heads of stockbuyers who have seen the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rise 18 percent since the start of March.
Still, Ms. Patel said she could make a case for buying the junk bonds of companies that should benefit from an economic rebound. After all, she said, growth in the overall economy is the single best tonic for junk bonds, just as it is for stocks. 
So, she has been buying bonds of companies like Texas Industries, a maker of construction materials like concrete, which recently sold bonds priced to yield 10.75 percent. About 10 percent of her fund's assets are in bonds of semiconductor makers like LSI Logic and Ram Research, which she thinks will survive the trampling of the technology sector.
High-yield investing has always been like navigating a minefield. The trick, Ms. Patel said, is to avoid the defaults that occur when companies can't make their interest payments. The default rate has been high but falling: about 1 of every 15 issuers of junk bonds defaulted in the last 12 months, she said. The historic average, she said, is about 1 of every 21 issuers.
MS. PATEL advises investors to consult a financial adviser to help decide how much of their money they should risk in the junk-bond market. (Even Mr. Buffett, who sank several billion dollars into junk bonds last year, has warned individual investors not to venture into junk on their own.) 
"People in the high-yield market have been spoiled by very high absolute yields and very wide spreads relative to risk-free rates," Ms. Patel said. "High yield is still a risky sector, but it doesn't look very risky after the kind of risk we've had in the stock market in the last three years. The reality is the yields are lower, but on the other hand the risks are much lower."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Worth the Risk?"The average yield on high-yield corporate bonds, known as junk bonds, has fallen sharply in recent months. Graph tracks Merrill Lynch High-Yield Bond Index since 1998. (Source: Merrill Lynch)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH YIELD BONDS (94%); MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); BONDS (92%); CORPORATE BONDS (90%); BOND FUNDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); STATISTICS (87%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (87%); BOND ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); CASH FLOW (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TAX RELIEF (71%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS MFG (60%); CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS & COMPONENTS (60%); INTEREST RATES (59%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) STOCKS AND BONDS; INTEREST RATES; MUTUAL FUNDS 

COMPANY: THOMSON FINANCIAL (69%); AMG DATA SERVICES (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: BILL GROSS (78%); WARREN BUFFETT (56%); GEORGE W BUSH (55%) MCGEEHAN, PATRICK

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



168 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1482 words

HEADLINE: Personal Business; 
For Bargain Hunters, Many Places to Go

BYLINE:  By JANE L. LEVERE 

 BODY:
THE travel industry estimates that Americans will take roughly 275 million leisure trips this summer, about 2.5 percent more than last year. But many people are still not sure where they will be going: a survey last month by the Travel Industry Association of America found that only 20 percent of would-be travelers had completed plans or booked vacations.
 There is still plenty of time to find bargains for the summer, or beyond, especially if you're thinking about traveling overseas or are willing to be a bit adventurous. 
 Destinations that have been affected by medical, political or economic problems, for example, may offer special deals. Travel companies specializing in Hong Kong, which has suffered a sharp drop in tourism because of SARS, are selling deeply discounted tour packages. (On May 23, the World Health Organization lifted its Hong Kong travel advisory; the United States Centers for Disease Control and Prevention removed its advisory last week.) 
France, whose government has been at odds with the United States over the war in Iraq, recently began a campaign to lure disaffected Americans; other European countries are also trying to attract American travelers put off by the strength of the euro or by lingering fears about terrorism.
Another strategy is to find a destination, like Australia, where the June-to-August period is the off season. And the cruise industry, still hurt by overcapacity, continues to offer many discounts. 
Following is a sampling of summer vacation deals that were available as of last week. Except where noted, all of the package prices are per person, with accommodations based on double occupancy.

ASIA AND AUSTRALIA -- The Hong Kong Tourism Board lists packages from many tour operators at www.discoverhongkong.com, its Web site. Asian Adventure has a five-night package for $599 through Aug. 31; it must be bought by July 15 and includes round-trip air fare on Cathay Pacific from Los Angeles, San Francisco or New York and accommodations at the Ramada Hotel Kowloon. Weekday travel is required.
Cathay Pacific has also cut the rate on its All Asia Pass -- which offers flights to Hong Kong and 17 other Asian cities over a three-week period -- to $699 from $1,199; the pass must be bought by July 31 and travel must take place from Sept. 1 to Nov. 30.
Orient Flexi-Pax Tours has a seven-night package to Bangkok and Chiang Mai in Thailand, priced at $2,069. It offers accommodations at some of Thailand's five-star hotels -- like the Oriental Bangkok and Regent Chiang Mai Resort -- plus international and domestic flights, massages and a cooking class. The deal is available for weekday travel from New York, San Francisco and Los Angeles through August.
For Australia, ATS Tours has a $1,299 package including round-trip air fare from Los Angeles, flights within Australia, accommodations for up to 12 nights and car rentals in Sydney, Melbourne and Brisbane. Purchase is required by Aug. 31. Far and Wide Travel is offering an Australia trip for $1,799 that includes round-trip air fare from Los Angeles and accommodations for 13 nights in Melbourne, Hamilton Island and Sydney; purchase is required by Aug. 30.

EUROPE -- Travel to the Continent will generally be more expensive this year because of the dollar's weakness against the euro. But plenty of discounts are still available.
The Web site of the French Government Tourist Office (www.franceguide.com) lists several promotions, like deals from Concorde Hotels in Paris offering two nights for the price of one on weekends. 
The Web site of the British Tourist Authority, www.visitbritain.com, offers deals including a six-night vacation package to Wales, including round-trip flights on British Midland Airways between Chicago or Washington and Manchester, England, accommodations in Wales and a week's car rental. The cost is $1,499. The site also offers rooms in London at Holiday Inn hotels, at $85 to $129 a night.
Elsewhere in Europe, Intrav is offering deeply discounted riverboat cruises. One package, including a cruise through Germany on the Switzerland II, departs from Frankfurt and costs $1,695 for some departures in August and September. This rate, $2,000 less than the brochure price, includes three nights in a hotel in Munich and all meals on the ship, but not air fare. 
Far and Wide has a four-night trip to Venice for $899, including air fare and accommodations; departures are from Newark and Boston. And Celtic Tours is offering a six-night Ireland package, departing from Boston, New York or Baltimore, for $939 in July and August and $790 in September. It includes accommodations, a rental car and air fare. 
E-vacations.com, an online tour operator, is offering two free 15-day Eurailpasses, worth more than $1,800, to anyone who buys a minimum of $2,495 in European travel by June 30. Other rail deals are offered on the Eurostar, which operates from London to Paris and Brussels, and the Thalys, from Paris to Brussels, Amsterdam and Cologne. Some fares are being cut by as much as half.

NORTH AMERICA -- For those who want to stay closer to home -- and more Americans do, according to the Travel Industry Association -- deals are available throughout the United States, Mexico and Canada.
Quikbook, a hotel consolidator, has rooms at the Roger Williams Hotel in Manhattan for $105 a night, at the Sagamore in Miami Beach for $99 and at the Iberville Suites in New Orleans for $91. Travelocity is offering rooms at the Hyatt Regency in San Francisco for $99.95, while Expedia has rooms at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas for $89 and at the Roosevelt in Manhattan for $109. 
For those interested in vacation packages, NYC & Company (nycvisit.com), the convention and visitors bureau, has a wide selection available through Sept. 5. They include one- to four-night stays and, depending on the price, at least one dinner, admission to an attraction and a ticket to a Broadway show. Prices range from $126 for a one-night stay at the Gershwin Hotel (by June 30) to $1,169 for four nights at the Ritz-Carlton on Central Park South (July 1 to Sept. 5). 
If Florida is your destination, there are some good deals for two people traveling together. All include accommodations and air fare. OneTravel.com has a four-night package, priced at $745 for two, to the Wyndham Bonaventure Resort in Fort Lauderdale, departing on Aug. 4 from Newark, and a seven-night package, at $1,430 for two, to Disney's All Star Music Resort in Orlando, departing on July 8 from New York. The price for the Orlando trip also includes admission to the Disney theme parks.
Hotwire has a five-night, $250 package from Indianapolis to the Renaissance World Gate Hotel, also in Orlando, departing on Aug. 18. If you are considering Hawaii, Hotwire has a five-night package for $589 from San Francisco to the Radisson Waikiki Prince Kuhio Hotel in Honolulu, departing on July 9. All rates include air fare and accommodations. 
Deals to Canada include two packages from United Vacations: $399 for three nights at the Holiday Inn Montreal-Midtown and $629 for three nights at the Sandman Hotel-Downtown Vancouver; both are available through Sept. 15 and include midweek round-trip air fare from New York.
For Mexico, US Airways Vacations has a five-night trip to the Imperial Las Perlas in Cancun that must be booked by June 20 and taken by Nov. 12. Priced from $445 to $496, depending on city of departure, it includes air fare, accommodations and a three-piece set of Samsonite luggage if other purchase requirements are met. Funjet Vacations is selling a seven-night package to the Holiday Inn in Puerto Vallarta, including air fare, accommodations and all meals, for $569.99 from Chicago and $699.99 from St. Louis; travel must begin by July 31.

CRUISES -- Many discounted cruises are available at Icruise.com, including a seven-night Bermuda itinerary from New York on the Carnival Pride, departing on Aug. 27, and costing $712 for an inside cabin, including port charges and taxes. There is also a seven-night cruise starting July 30 from Vancouver, British Columbia, to Seward, Alaska, on the Carnival Spirit at $594 for an inside cabin, including port charges and taxes but not air fare.
Cruise411.com has a seven-night Alaska cruise from Seward to Vancouver on July 6 on the Holland America Veendam at $499 for an inside cabin. The price includes port charges but not taxes or air fare.
Seabourn has reduced published prices on some seven-day Mediterranean cruises in July and August by 58 percent. They begin at $2,495 a person, not including air fare.
Virgin Vacations is offering a Queen Elizabeth 2 vacation package at $1,799 or $1,899 a person for certain departures from July 12 to Sept. 1. The package includes one-way air fare from New York, three nights' accommodations in London; transfer to Southampton; and a six-day trans-Atlantic cruise on the QE2, which will end such sailings this year.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Vacationers who are looking for the expected or the unexpected can still find special travel deals this summer for trips to places like Venice, above left, and Bangkok. (Agence France-Presse); (James Hill) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AGENTS (91%); LEISURE TRAVEL (90%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (90%); AIR FARES (89%); AIRLINES (89%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (89%); TOUR PACKAGES (89%); TOUR OPERATORS (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (89%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (78%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (78%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (78%); CRUISES (78%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (74%); SARS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (70%); IRAQ WAR (67%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (54%); TERRORISM (51%) TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) 

COMPANY: RAMADA HOTEL (52%)

ORGANIZATION: TRAVEL INDUSTRY ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (58%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (56%); CENTERS FOR DISEASE CONTROL & PREVENTION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (52%)

PERSON: LEVERE, JANE L

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); BANGKOK, THAILAND (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); HONG KONG (94%); THAILAND (93%); ASIA (93%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); FRANCE (72%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



169 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 416 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS: DIARY; 
Fighting a Price War By Cutting Prices? Never

BYLINE:  By Micheline Maynard 

 BODY:
Paul Ballew, the chief market analyst at General Motors, is rewriting the dictionary when it comes to the sales vocabulary of the auto industry.
 According to Mr. Ballew, the industry shouldn't be talking about incentives. He prefers the word "pricing." 
 In G.M.'s vernacular, "pricing" covers a gamut of ways to persuade consumers to buy cars, everything from 24-hour test drives to $4,000 rebates to low-interest loans to lease deals -- even sticker prices that are lower than the competition's.
To wit: Mr. Ballew said last week that because Toyota has not raised its car prices as much as G.M. has in the last five years, Toyota is fighting the incentive war -- oops, that's the pricing game -- with, er, prices.
Mr. Ballew told analysts and journalists that G.M., which has bombarded the market with rebates, zero-interest loans and other pricing tactics the last few years, raised its actual prices about 7 percent more than Toyota did in the last five years.
In that time, G.M. has lost market share, while Toyota has gained. Does that mean G.M. might cut prices to compete in the pricing game? Not so fast. Mr. Ballew said, "If you were to look at sticker prices, you'd say Toyota was aggressive; if you looked at incentives, you'd say G.M. is aggressive." Toyota did not comment.
On Tuesday, Mr. Ballew introduced yet another new term: interventions.
That doesn't mean family members confronting someone whose behavior is erratic. It means limited promotions used as needed to bolster sales -- say, using a contest to encourage dealers in Kalamazoo, Mich., to sell more Chevys.
Although all the Detroit companies have come up with various ways to explain why they are pouring on pricing tactics to fight foreign-based companies, nobody has attacked the situation with more passion than Mr. Ballew.
David Bradley, the auto industry analyst at J. P. Morgan, said he sympathized with Mr. Ballew's position.
Detroit auto companies have been unfairly criticized for their hefty incentives, when in fact, foreign-based companies are offering deals, too, Mr. Bradley said.
He added that Mr. Ballew's point on Toyota needed to be understood from the perspective of the Big Three American auto makers.
"Historically, there's always been a school of thought in Detroit that you never want to lower prices," Mr. Bradley said, "because if you lower prices, consumers are going to feel gypped and will go and buy a Ford or a Chrysler next time."
Not if Mr. Ballew can talk them out of it. Micheline Maynard

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Lisa Haney) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); PRICE CUTTING (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); SALES REBATES (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (70%); MARKET SHARE (70%); MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MFG (64%) AUTOMOBILES; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; REBATES; CREDIT; INTEREST RATES 

COMPANY: TOYOTA MOTOR CORP (92%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: GENERAL MOTORS CORP; TOYOTA MOTOR CO 

TICKER: TYT (LSE) (92%); TM (NYSE) (92%); 7203 (TSE) (92%); GM (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%) SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & CAR BODIES; 

PERSON: BALLEW, PAUL; MAYNARD, MICHELINE 

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (93%) MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) JAPAN

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



170 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 12; Column 1; Automobiles; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: Europeans Dream of the U.S. Again 

BYLINE:  By WILLIAM DIEM 

DATELINE: PARIS 

 BODY:
EUROPEAN automakers that abandoned the United States over the last two decades are standing on the outside looking in wistfully at the success of competitors, like BMW and Mercedes, that stayed put. And some of these exiles are either laying plans or considering strategies to return to American showrooms.
 Among those with thoughts of returning, even if far in the future, are Alfa Romeo and Fiat of Italy; Citroen, Renault and Peugeot of France; and MG Rover of Britain. The companies appear undeterred by the lack of a clamor among Americans seeking to buy more French and Italian cars. 
 Alfa Romeo seems the most eager to regain a foothold. Alfa, a Fiat Auto subsidiary known for its stylish, medium-priced sport sedans and sports cars, has indicated that it plans to re-enter the United States market in 2007. In a recent interview, Gualberto Ranieri, vice president for communications at Fiat Auto, said that Alfa would rely on General Motors, which owns 20 percent of Fiat, to help it re-establish an American distribution network. Mr. Ranieri said a previous proposal, to import only the Alfa Spider roadster in 2005, had been abandoned. 
An article last month in Automotive News, an industry publication, quoted Alfa's president, Daniele Bandiera, as saying that Alfa planned to offer six models in the United States and hoped to sell 50,000 cars a year. 
Sales of 50,000 cars would be remarkable for a company whose best year in the United States was 1986, when it sold 8,201 cars, according to Automotive News.
But G.M. has "no active plans" to help Alfa or Fiat return to the American market, Thomas J. Kowaleski, G.M.'s vice president for North America communications, said Friday. "There is no plan in place and nothing has been signed off," he said. "That is not to say that if Fiat said, 'We are ready to do something,' that we might not want to."
Even if Alfa returned, it would not necessarily open the door for other European automakers like Renault and PSA Peugeot-Citroen of France, which have also tried and failed in the United States. But it is hard to resist the temptation of the world's largest market.
"Today the European brands in the U.S. market are very well appreciated by the final customer," said Gregoire Van de Velde, a consultant for the Automotive Strategy Corporation, which has offices in Detroit and in France. He said he was aware of confidential studies by Renault and PSA, which are continuing, but he would not comment on them.
"I can tell you why I believe that there is a serious chance of success," Mr. Van de Velde said. "When you are an innovator, you have a good chance to succeed, and the French companies are renowned for innovation. There is no reason that it should not be the same in the U.S."
Nigel Griffith, a consultant with the Global Insight consulting firm in London, said he thought Alfa was planning to bring these cars to America in 2007 and 2008:
 * The Spider roadster, a descendant of the open-top Alfa that Dustin Hoffman drove in "The Graduate."
 * A coupe based on the roadster's architecture, which may look much like the Brera concept coupe that was shown last year at the Geneva auto show.
* The midsize 157 sport sedan, which will replace the 156, and perhaps a sport wagon version.
* A "crossover" sport wagon with S.U.V. features that would be based on the 157 and designed specifically with the United States in mind. It may resemble the Kamal concept car shown in Geneva this year.
 * A larger crossover vehicle that would replace the Alfa 166 sedan.
"They are planning a new range of Alfa Romeos that will go to the sweet spot of where the American market is moving," Mr. Griffith of Global Insight said of the crossover vehicles. His firm forecasts American sales of 28,000 Alfa Romeos in 2008, growing to 44,000 three years later.
"It's an enormously ambitious plan," Mr. Griffith said. "The question is whether they will be able to fund it."
While the Italians are investing, the French are watching and the one English brand that might someday return is dreaming. Under BMW, its former owner, the Rover Group considered sending a new version of the MG roadster to the United States. But today's top priority at the company, which is now independent and has been renamed the MG Rover Group, is to reverse a sharp sales decline in Europe.
"There is obviously a wonderful reception waiting for the MG brand," said Greg Allport, a spokesman for MG Rover. "There are no firm plans" to return to the United States, "but at some stage in the future the intention is that we will."
The French companies, Renault and PSA, maintain small United States offices, but neither has announced plans to return. Their main business is selling hatchbacks and small vans designed for Europe's crowded cities and high gasoline prices. But all three French brands have a few models that would not be too small for American highways.
Although it is off to a slow start in Europe, the Renault Vel Satis, like the Peugeot 607, competes against the less powerful versions of BMW's medium-size 5 Series. French minivans -- the Renault Espace, Peugeot 807 and Citroen C8 -- are comfortable enough to appeal to Americans, although they are 3 to 6 inches shorter than the standard-wheelbase Dodge Caravan. Renault, which effectively controls Nissan, is leaving the United States market to that Japanese affiliate, at least for now.
Plagued by quality problems, Renault failed in its previous attempts to establish itself in the United States. But in 2001 Renault returned to Mexico, so it has technically re-entered North America already.
 Louis Schweitzer, chairman of Renault, has said repeatedly that the company might consider returning to the United States, but not before 2010. He has pegged the required investment at $3 billion to $4 billion. Mr. Schweitzer said this year that if the company did decide to go back, it would rely on Nissan's distribution network.
While Renault has a ready-made platform, Peugeot and Citroen would have to start from scratch. "Peugeot has got no chance," said Jean-Michel Prillieux, an analyst with Mavel S.A., an automotive consulting company based in Lavallois-Perret, France. "It doesn't have any products adapted to the United States. The size, the features, the engines are wrong, and nobody knows the marques Peugeot or Citroen except a few crazy collectors."
In February, Jean-Martin Folz, chairman of PSA, said his company's priorities for the next three years were to become No. 2 in China, behind Volkswagen; to open two new plants in Central Europe; and to expand in South America. Asked about the United States, he said, "We will continue to reflect on the idea, but it is not in our three-year plan."
The outlook could change if French things become popular again in the United States, or if a new wave of diesel engines catches on. PSA and Renault offer a range of modern diesels with mileage that can be 25 percent better than gasoline engines'. DaimlerChrysler and Land Rover will soon join Volkswagen in testing the diesel market in the United States; Peugeot and Ford have jointly developed a diesel V-6 that will also be used in European Jaguars.
"If fuel economy becomes important to people, then I think diesels make a lot of sense," said Gary Reynolds, a car dealer in Lyme, Conn., who was president of the Peugeot Dealer Advisory Council in 1991-95. "With direct injection, you can't even tell they're a diesel. I think that's a niche market that Peugeot would do well in."
Officials in Peugeot's New Jersey office have invited Mr. Reynolds to try new models. (The office imports a few cars, for testing but not for sale.) "There's something about a Peugeot," he said. "You either love them or hate them. I confess to still liking them."

GRAPHIC: Photos: ALFA ROMEO -- The Kamal, a design study for a sport wagon with S.U.V. features.; RENAULT -- The Vel Satis sedan competes against some versions of the BMW 5 Series.; CITROEN -- The C8 minivan would fit right in on American roads.; ALFA ROMEO -- The successor to this Spider roadster may be sold in the United States. (pg. 1); PEUGEOT -- The 307CC, a coupe-convertible with a folding hardtop. (pg. 4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS CARS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); AUTOMAKERS (89%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); SEDANS (78%); INTERVIEWS (73%); IMPORT TRADE (72%) AUTOMOBILES; FOREIGN CARS 

COMPANY: FIAT SPA (92%); PSA PEUGEOT CITROEN SA (86%); REGIE NATIONALE DES USINES RENAULT SA (85%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (56%); VAN DE VELDE NV (51%)

ORGANIZATION: ALFA ROMEO INC; FIAT SPA; MG ROVER GROUP 

TICKER: FSOR (PAR) (92%); F (BIT) (92%); UG (PAR) (86%); RNO (PAR) (85%); RNO (BIT) (85%); GM (NYSE) (56%); VAN (BRU) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (92%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (92%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (86%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (85%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (85%); NAICS315240 WOMEN'S, GIRLS' & INFANTS' CUT & SEW APPAREL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2341 WOMEN'S, MISSES', CHILDREN'S, & INFANTS' UNDERWEAR & NIGHTWEAR (51%)

PERSON: DIEM, WILLIAM

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (57%) UNITED STATES (99%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPE (92%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



171 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 9; Column 3; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1530 words

HEADLINE: Enlisting the Stars to Tilt at the Right 

BYLINE:  By WARREN ST. JOHN 

 BODY:
THE one-room office of Beau Friedlander's Context Books in Lower Manhattan is a wreck. Piles of dusty, dog-eared manuscripts climb to the ceiling like stalagmites. Scraps of Scotch tape and paper curl off the wall like plane-tree bark. The paint on the wooden floor is badly chipped, and the tin ceilings are furry with grime. Sitting at his littered desk, Mr. Friedlander, 34, unshaven and in a loose-fitting black button-down, peers out of the clutter a bit like a groundhog poking its head out of a hole. 
 "Someone said today, 'You'll be out of business when Bush is out of office,' " Mr. Friedlander said. "I don't think I will. We'll just move on to globalization. If we do our jobs right,we're going to sway the election and remove him from power." 
 Mr. Friedlander's office might be a perfect symbol for the state of radical-left politics in the United States these days: disorganized, energetic, grappling to reconcile its past of pamphlets, books and big ideas with the immediacy of the digital present -- well-organized conservative Web sites, the Fox News Channel -- and the easily obtainable temptations of the bourgeoisie, like Mr. Friedlander's fancy chrome-colored Trek 4500 mountain bike, which he rides to work each day from Williamsburg, Brooklyn, and stores against a bookshelf blocking the exit. 
As the publisher of two recent best-selling quickie paperbacks that emerged from, and then codified, opposition to the war in Iraq -- "War on Iraq: What Team Bush Doesn't Want You to Know" by William Rivers Pitt, and "Target Iraq: What the News Media Didn't Tell You," by Norman Solomon and Reese Erlich -- Mr. Friedlander, who first made a splash in 1999 when he acquired a manuscript from Theodore J. Kaczynski, the Unabomber, has the chutzpah to believe that he may be the man to overturn the paradigm, both in publishing and in the White House. His idea: to package Noam Chomskyesque political tracts with well-known names on the cover that propel them through the media din. Sean Penn wrote the afterword to "Target Iraq." "War on Iraq" was based on a lengthy interview with Scott Ritter, a former United Nations arms inspector.
Mr. Friedlander says that altogether, he shipped more than 100,000 copies of those books, and he is soon to publish two more quickie tracts, one by Mr. Ritter on the failed effort, so far, to find chemical, biological or nuclear weapons in Iraq, and another by John Bonifaz, a young Boston lawyer associated with leftist causes and a recent winner of a MacArthur "genius" award for his advocacy of campaign reform. 
Pamphleteering is a long-running American pursuit -- from Thomas Paine to "9-11," Mr. Chomsky's tract on the terrorist attacks, which has sold about 750,000 copies worldwide. But at a time when young people are more likely to blog their arguments than to publish them in print, Mr. Friedlander stands out. Indeed, there was a time when downtown Manhattan used to be full of people like him -- young, left-leaning independent publishers whose political convictions provided their enterprises the lifeblood that cash could not. Some conservatives might say that the demise of this breed has amounted to a kind of neighborhood improvement, but perhaps even the most die-hard Bill O'Reilly enthusiast might muster a twinge of empathy for a scrappy political partisan trying to sell his ideas to the mainstream. 
"I'm a throwback," Mr. Friedlander said. "The day of totally undercapitalized idealists in publishing has come and gone. For a progressive publisher to stand a chance out there, it has to play the same game as Fox. It's got to be dressed up for company. To do that I have to use the same tools all the rest of the mainstream media is using -- the lure of celebrity or the lure of a topic that's in the news cycle."
Dan Simon, who heads Seven Stories Press, which published Mr. Chomsky's quick-book, said that Mr. Friedlander's coupling of political argument with celebrities and mainstream politicians is new.
"The notion of a short, quick, well-done book that has information that people can't get from TV and that has an activist slant is one of the things people really want from bookstores," he said. "Beau has done it in a way that's different."
Mr. Friedlander grew up in Redding, Conn., in what he called a "typical fractured middle-class family." His mother died of a brain hemorrhage when he was 17, he said. When he was 25, his stepfather, a heavy drinker and smoker, died as well. As Mr. Friedlander put it, "He died of her dying." 
Mr. Friedlander traces his political awakening to St. Luke's prep school in New Canaan, Conn. 
"They liked to create inhibited young boys and girls," he said, "and my inhibition never kicked in."
After college at Bennington, he earned a master's degree in English romantic literature at Oxford University and another master's in Scandinavian literature at Columbia, before trying a short-term gig at Knopf. He started Context with his life savings -- $10,000 -- and with a dream of discovering and publishing great fiction. He set up shop in the dingy windowless cell he still occupies on lower Broadway with a single assistant, but finding the next Faulkner or Fitzgerald wasn't so easy.
Mr. Friedlander bided his time by repackaging down-market foreign titles for sale in the United States. His offerings, he said, were as varied as classical CD's and cookbooks.
"I was asked if I could do a Chinese wildlife encyclopedia once, and I said, 'I don't know -- why not?' " Mr. Friedlander said.
In 1999, he heard that Mr. Kaczynski was trying to sell a 528-page manuscript called "Truth Versus Lies" and that no mainstream publisher would touch it. Mr. Friedlander, who likes to say that he approaches life "with a big bag of question marks," was intrigued. "I've always been drawn to darker manifestations in our culture, and Kaczynski is definitely one of them," he said. 
He wrote to Mr. Kaczynski, developed a correspondence and eventually won his confidence and the rights to the book. News that an unknown 29-year-old was publishing the Unabomber prompted Mr. Friedlander's first wave of publicity -- he was denounced as a "moral cretin" in The New York Post, for example. But things between author and editor quickly soured over legal issues, and the book was canceled. The relationship ended with a call from a maximum-security federal prison.
"His exact words were, 'You've got to be crazy if you think I'm going to let you publish this,' followed by a string of curse words and saliva sounds being shot out at high velocity," Mr. Friedlander recalled.
Mr. Friedlander then turned to the more placid task of publishing fiction. He couldn't afford to pay advances, so he offered his labor up front and royalties on the back end. 
That was enough for an underappreciated coterie of writers like David Means, Daniel Jensen and Daniel Quinn, author of the best-selling "Ishmael," who preferred an old-school editor to the risks of big-media publishing. Mr. Means's book, "Assorted Fire Events," was a finalist for the National Book Critics Circle award and won the Los Angeles Times book prize for fiction in 2000 over Michael Chabon. Mr. Jensen's memoir, "A Language Older Than Words," sold more than 20,000 copies, Mr. Friedlander said, and is in its eighth printing. Even so, cash is still a regular problem.
"There have been times when we've had budget crunches, and we are slow making payments," he said.
One such time was in the months after the attacks of Sept. 11, 2001. Mr. Friedlander's office is just blocks from ground zero; he had no phone service for three months. His fortunes were tied to two books due out that month, and with Mr. Friedlander uprooted and the nation's attention elsewhere, the books languished.
"It put us in a big hole," he said. "I almost lost it."
Then last summer, Mr. Friedlander said, as the Bush administration began to build its case for war against Iraq, his political instincts kicked in. He read an interview by William Rivers Pitt, a left-leaning journalist, with Mr. Ritter, the former arms inspector, on the liberal Web site TruthOut.com, and had an idea to turn around an extended version of the interview, supplemented with some additional reporting by Mr. Pitt.
Mr. Friedlander said his motivation was political, not economic, but when the book came out a month later, in September, it began to sell. He gave away 3,000 copies at antiwar rallies, offered deep discounts to advocacy groups and leaned on politically active celebrities like Mike Farrell, the "M*A*S*H" star, which spread the word and drove sales.
The book made several best-seller lists -- it reached No. 4 on The San Francisco Chronicle list in April -- and provided Mr. Friedlander with something he hadn't had much of in the past: revenue. The experience inspired him to publish "Target Iraq" in late January, with an endorsement by Mr. Penn. He gave Mr. Ritter three weeks to crank out his next quickie book. And Mr. Bonifaz, the lawyer, has about a month. 
Mr. Friedlander said more political tracts are on the way.
"This is just the opening war whoop," he said. "Political books have reinvigorated me financially. Partisanship is where it's at in this market."

GRAPHIC: Photos: TRACT MAN -- Beau Friedlander in his office. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. 1); NAME GAME -- Beau Friedlander puts well-known personalities on his books. (Justin Lane for The New York Times); COVER STORIES -- Two quickie books published recently by Mr. Friedlander. (pg. 12) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); LITERATURE (89%); CHEMICAL & BIOLOGICAL WEAPONS (86%); IRAQ WAR (86%); BESTSELLERS (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); POLITICS (73%); LIBERALISM (72%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (68%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (63%); TERRORISM (61%) BIOLOGICAL AND CHEMICAL WARFARE; ATOMIC WEAPONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; BOOKS AND LITERATURE; TERRORISM 

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (82%)

ORGANIZATION: CONTEXT BOOKS 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%)

PERSON: FRIEDLANDER, BEAU; PITT, WILLIAM RIVERS; SOLOMON, NORMAN; ERHLICH, REESE; ST JOHN, WARREN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) IRAQ (94%); UNITED STATES (92%) IRAQ

TITLE: WAR ON IRAQ: WHAT TEAM BUSH DIDN'T WANT YOU TO KNOW (BOOK); TARGET IRAQ: WHAT THE NEWS MEDIA DIDN'T TELL YOU (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



172 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1236 words

HEADLINE: Investing; 
Seeking Returns at Europe's Fringes

BYLINE:  By CONRAD DE AENLLE 

DATELINE: LONDON 

 BODY:
PRESIDENT BUSH discovered again last week what many American investors have known for years: that some countries in Europe offer a far better reception than others. Some stock markets, mainly in the faster-growing southern and eastern fringes of the Continent, have generated much greater returns recently than the core markets of Germany, France and the Benelux countries.
 Most European markets are ahead this year when returns are expressed in dollars, mostly because of the 12 percent gain in the value of the euro. Without the benefit of the exchange rate, several markets would have double-digit percentage declines. 
 The best performers have been in the east: the Czech marketrecorded a return in dollars of more than 34 percent this year through Thursday, according to Morgan Stanley Capital International. Spain has been the region's best developed market, rising 22 percent in dollars; the worst, the Netherlands, is up 2.8 percent. 
"Economies are doing a bit better, and stock markets have performed a lot better over the last two to three years" in Spain and Italy than in France and Germany, said Guillaume Rambourg, a manager of European equity portfolios at Gartmore Investment Management, a division of Nationwide Mutual Insurance of Columbus, Ohio.
The developing economies in Central Europe are attractive, some managers say. "The Czech Republic, Hungary and Poland are all growing 2 to 4 percent," said Chris Alderson, who manages the T. Rowe Price Eastern Europe and Mediterranean fund, which has gained 19.9 percent this year through Thursday. "I would expect that differential to continue."
The three Central European countries, and seven from the region's outskirts, are set to enter the European Union next year. That has already helped propel stocks higher in many of them, but Mr. Alderson said he thought that "equities still offer a lot of value." He likes companies that focus on their domestic markets.
MOST mutual funds that concentrate on Europe stick to the major western markets or, as the T. Rowe Price fund does, the region's emerging markets. Most funds that concentrate on Europe invest throughout the region's developed countries or, as the T. Rowe Price fund does, the emerging markets. Investors can focus on specific countries through closed-end funds listed in the United States.
Some portfolios replicate foreign indexes; others choose stocks based on economic and financial specifications to try to beat the indexes. Individual foreign stocks also trade on American markets.
Portfolio managers generally agree that discrepancies in economic output and investment returns will remain across Europe. These managers continue to favor the periphery over the core, although most do not put it quite that way. Since the introduction four years ago of the Economic and Monetary Union, the program linking currencies and monetary policies across 12 countries, it has been customary for fund managers and analysts to view Europe as a single entity when picking stocks.
Nevertheless, many of the stocks they pick happen to be in the outlying countries, a reflection of the economic momentum of these nations as they modernize and diversify their industrial bases and deregulate labor markets, giving them distinct competitive advantages over their neighbors.
"No question, we are finding more opportunities in places like Spain at the moment than Germany," said Bob Yerbury, chief investment officer of Invesco U.K., a division of Amvescap, a British-American company that owns the AIM and Invesco funds.
Constraints of the monetary union are also taking a toll on the core European countries. Interest rates are set for the region as a whole, and, in the view of critics, are set too high for the mature economies. Restrictions on fiscal policy limit the ability of governments to stimulate growth by borrowing and spending.
The system has had a harsher impact on Germany than its neighbors, especially as the prospect of deflation arises. The German mark is widely acknowledged to have been pegged at too high an exchange rate at the inception of the euro, implying that growth may have to be lower for years in Germany than in the rest of the European Union to undo the imbalance.
With an industrial base in recession and a deeply distressed banking sector, Germany is often likened to Japan, which has been economically moribund over the last decade. Alan Brown, chief investment officer at State Street Global Advisors, said: "There is a real risk that Germany will slip into both recession and deflation. While I am not suggesting that we face in Germany the likelihood of a depression of the magnitude experienced in the 1930's, I am saying that the policy mix today looks remarkably similar to that of the late 1920's."
Mr. Brown said that France "could also fall into this trap," although he said there were mitigating factors. The French economy is more diversified, he said, and the franc was pegged to the euro at a more favorable rate. "Plus, there has been somewhat more life in consumption so domestic demand has been a little better," he said.
Because expectations are so low among investors, some contrarians expect mature European markets to rebound in a global recovery. "The core, cyclical markets in Europe, like Germany, the Netherlands and France" should surge, said Barton Biggs, a strategist at Morgan Stanley, in a note to clients. "There are too many stale bears on Europe, and prices have fallen too far."
The core European markets are the ones to own for anyone betting on an economic upturn, Mr. Rambourg said, but it is not a bet he is willing to make. "We're stock pickers, and we're struggling to find good companies with earnings coming through," he said. "Holland was our biggest overweight in the good old days; now we're neutral to underweight. We're overweight in France, Spain and Italy."
HE prefers some French companies partly because they do much of their business somewhere else. Among his favorites is the oil company TotalFinaElf, which he likes for the quality of its management and its high profit for each euro of capital it invests. He also favors the cosmetics maker L'Oreal and the pharmaceutical companies Sanofi-Synthelabo and Aventis. All four trade on the New York Stock Exchange.
"That doesn't mean I have a bullish view on the French market per se," Mr. Rambourg said. "France Telecom and Vivendi were big disasters." Each, in dollar terms, is down by about 75 percent from its peak.
A smaller problem, he said, has been Sodexho Alliance, a French food-service company that has a large contract with the United States Army. Sodexho's stock has fallen, reflecting fears that the Army will cancel or reduce the value of the contract in a postwar, anti-French backlash. A cancellation would be a "massive loss to the company," Mr. Rambourg said.
Any fallout from the American rift with France, a vocal opponent of the war in Iraq, should be limited to specific stocks like Sodexho, he said.
Mr. Yerbury at Invesco agreed.
"My view is that these things pass," he said. "There are stories at the moment of people pouring claret in the gutter; that's a terrible waste of good wine. We saw that sort of thing happening before with various trade arguments. Quite often we find the French and the United States involved, usually on opposite sides. I hope reason prevails and everyone starts to realize that free trade is good for the global economy."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The fund manager Chris Alderson likes Central Europe's developing economies. Chart: "Unequal Performance"In Europe, the highly capitalized, well-established stock markets of countries like France, Germany and the Netherlands have not performed as well as those of some southern and eastern countries. Graphs track change in Morgan Stanley Capital International country indexes this year in local currency and in dollars for: FRANCEGERMANYTHE NETHERLANDSCZECH REPUBLICHUNGARYSPAIN (Source: Bloomberg Financial Markets)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (89%); EMERGING MARKETS (89%); MUTUAL FUNDS (89%); EURO (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); STOCK INDEXES (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); CURRENCIES (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BONDS (73%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); MONETARY POLICY (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (68%); ECONOMIC POLICY (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) STOCKS AND BONDS; FOREIGN INVESTMENTS 

COMPANY: NATIONWIDE MUTUAL INSURANCE CO (68%); HENDERSON GROUP PLC (55%)

TICKER: HGG (LSE) (55%); HGG (ASX) (55%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (68%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%)

PERSON: DE AENLLE, CONRAD 

GEOGRAPHIC: COLUMBUS, OH, USA (79%) OHIO, USA (79%) EUROPE (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); FRANCE (94%); SPAIN (92%); GERMANY (92%); BENELUX (92%); CZECH REPUBLIC (92%); BELGIUM (92%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); POLAND (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); HUNGARY (79%); NETHERLANDS (73%); EASTERN EUROPE (58%) EUROPE; GERMANY; FRANCE

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



173 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 3; Column 5; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 759 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMIC VIEW; 
How to Give Job Seekers A Tastier Carrot

BYLINE:  By DAVID LEONHARDT 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
TWO companies are in a race to build the first version of an innovative product, and executives at each devise strategies to finish first.
 At one, the chief executive announces that employees will receive $100 bonuses for every day they work on the project during the next month. At the other, the chief executive says members of the project team will each receive a $3,000 check. If they finish before the month ends, they can go on vacation. 
 Which company will win the race?
Most economists would not hesitate before picking the second one, and they would call the victory yet another example of the power of incentives. If you want to persuade people to do something quickly, don't give them money for every day they have not finished the job.
This is the philosophy behind a Bush administration proposal to create a new program for unemployed workers. Unlike the regular unemployment insurance system, which pays workers each week that they look but fail to find a job for up to six months, the Bush proposal would give them the equivalent of a single payment. People who find a job in four weeks end up with as large a benefit as those who searched for 12 weeks, giving them another reason to find new work as quickly as possible. 
"This is a way to help people get paychecks rather than unemployment checks," said Mason Bishop, the deputy assistant secretary for employment and training at the Labor Department. The aim of the program, he added, is to keep people from being "detached from the labor force maybe longer than they need to be."
Sensitive about the criticism they have received for being less generous than other Republican administrations to jobless workers, officials have emphasized that the program would not replace unemployment insurance. Workers who qualify for weekly jobless benefits, which are worth an average of $260 across the country, would continue to receive them. The program, called personal re-employment accounts, would cost $3.6 billion and exist alongside unemployment coverage.
It would begin with state agencies identifying which people, of those who had lost jobs, were most likely to be out of work for long periods. A person with very specific skills whose company had closed, leaving no similar employers in the area, would be one candidate. Someone with no college education who lost a good-paying factory job would be another.
These workers would then receive up to $3,000 that they could use to enroll in classes, place their children in day care while going on job interviews or do other things considered part of their search. But if they found jobs before draining the accounts, they could keep the money that was left -- receiving 60 percent of it when they were hired and the rest after six months on the job.
The proposal has bounced around Congress this year, at one point becoming part of a House bill, but it seems to have little chance of becoming law anytime soon. Many Republicans in Congress view it as a new welfare program, and Democrats worry that it would be part of a slow erosion of unemployment insurance. 
IN fact, only 44 percent of people who are out of work and looking for a job receive benefits now, down from 50 percent in 1975 and higher levels earlier in the 20th century. Many part-time and self-employed workers do not qualify for the payments.
"The unemployment insurance system was set for an economy with heavy manufacturing employment," said Janet Norwood, whom the first President Bush appointed to a commission to study the system. "The economy has changed."
The recent extensions of jobless benefits -- to 39 weeks from the typical 26 weeks -- have also been shorter than those enacted during the economic downturns of the early 1980's and 90's. More than three million people have exhausted their extended benefits since March 2002 without finding new work. 
Those trends have caused many people to tune out the Bush administration when it talks about joblessness, but the re-employment accounts deserve a hearing. Academic research has shown that large, long-lasting weekly jobless benefits can prolong unemployment. Just look at Europe, where benefits are much more generous and jobless spells are much longer.
A great majority of people who have lost their jobs simply want to find new ones. Because of changes in the economy over the last few decades, some will struggle to do so for months, regardless of what kind of benefits they can receive. But human nature suggests that giving people an incentive to find work more quickly will cause some of them to do just that.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Looking Longer"Unemployed for 27 weeks or longer, seasonally adjusted. Graph tracks monthly unemployment figures from 2000 through May 2003. (Source: Bureau of Labor Statistics)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT (93%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYMENT INTERVIEWS (72%); CHILDREN (60%); CHILD CARE (50%) LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT 

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

PERSON: LEONHARDT, DAVID; BUSH, GEORGE W (PRES)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



174 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1905 words

HEADLINE: Men Ask: Who Needs To Buy Clothes? 

BYLINE:  By TRACIE ROZHON 

 BODY:
MITCHELLS is known around the country as one of the last great men's retailers -- an icon of the traditional carriage trade, a bastion of ribbon belts and club ties, dark green linen jackets and light yellow socks, interspersed with Armani.
 Now this venerable men's store in Westport, Conn., is shrinking its men's clothing space and expanding its women's department. Hermes purses at $4,750 are shoving aside Tommy Bahama sport shirts. 
 Mitchells is hardly the only merchant making a change: last month, Target said it would reduce the floor space for its men's collections -- to make room for more food.
Across the board, from $5.99 Hawaiian shirts to $2,500 Italian wool suits, the men's clothing market has been dwindling for years. But now, analysts say they think the business may have hit bottom -- and is ready for a turnaround. The optimism, though tempered, results not from any hot fashion trend, but from changes by the stores. 
Drastic times call for drastic actions. Gadzooks, a national chain of casual clothes, jettisoned its men's line altogether and is liquidating its men's apparel. From now on, the company will carry only women's clothes. At Target, the company president, Gregg W. Steinhafel, predicted last month that "softer-than-average growth" in men's wear would continue nationally. The company will even downsize, slightly, the boys' section of the children's department. 
Analysts point to many men's-wear shops that have either gone out of business or added women's clothes and accessories. 
The changes were necessary because of a revolution in shopping habits, said Marshal Cohen, senior retail analyst for the NPD Group, a market research firm in Port Washington, N.Y.. Now, more men pick out their own clothing. Just three years ago, NPD's polls showed that women shopped for 76 percent of men. Now, women buy for less than half of them.
"Women work," Mr. Cohen explained.
And men have a different shopping style.
"Men don't need to see 40 different pairs of black pants, the way women like to see," Mr. Cohen said. "They want to see three pairs of black pairs, have some clerk tell him what to wear with them, and move on. The stores simply don't need the floor space anymore."
"After a decade of decline, the stores are finally figuring it out," Mr. Cohen said. "They know men want good service, in a less painful environment."
In the dismal atmosphere that shrouds the clothing business these days, men's wear is usually regarded as the worst performer. C. Britt Beemer, chairman of America's Research Group, which polls shoppers, said the desire to shop for men's clothes had continued to drop: it reported a decline of 8 to 11 percent in shopping for men's wear in the first six months this year, compared with the corresponding period last year. And in all of 2002, customers shopped for men's clothes 4 to 9 percent less than they did in 2001. The numbers vary by region: the falloff is higher in the Northeast, where suits have traditionally sold best, and lower in the South, Mr. Beemer said.
ACCORDING to statistics released last week by the National Retail Federation, the men's clothing business has been slumping for years, ever since men's-wear merchants ran out of new trends for the casual clothes that replaced the suit as the male default outfit.
After the suit died, American men loaded up on chinos and polo shirts -- and made Gap's stock soar. But three years ago, with no clear fashion trend and a souring economy, men and their children, girlfriends and wives passed up buying more khaki and knit shirts -- and Gap's sales fell, along with those of many of its imitators. But now, Gap, which has been steadily raising its percentage of women's and girls' clothing, appears to be recovering.
Analysts are looking toward Father's Day, next Sunday, as a test for the men's market. 
Jennifer Black, a retail analyst at Wells Fargo Securities, says that while dress shirts have long been typical Father's Day gifts, she wonders what will happen this year. "What about those digital cameras and DVD's?" she asked. "There are so many boys' toys out there. Are people going to buy shirts and ties this year?"
Today's Man filed for bankruptcy protection in March. Another chain, Casual Male Big & Tall, just reported that first-quarter sales at stores open at least a year, known as same-store sales, were down 5 percent from the period a year ago. And Men's Wearhouse, until recently a hard-driving exception, reported a scant 1 percent first-quarter gain in same-store sales in the United States. In Canada, it had a decline of 8.7 percent.
"Men are bored; that's the bottom line," said Roger S. Markfield, a co-chief executive of American Eagle Outfitters, where the men's business has dragged down his company's sales, as reflected in declines in same-store sales. The company has been looking for three months for a vice president to reinvent the men's line.
The agony of shopping isn't the only problem for men's-wear retailers. Men are also saying they don't need any more clothes, said Mr. Beemer, whose grouphas interviewed 4,000 shoppers since the beginning of the year. "Men are getting more into home decor and definitely getting into buying outdoor furniture and grills," he said.
The statistics from the National Retail Federation also show a dip in sales at stores that sell strictly men's clothes, to $9.9 billion last year from $10.8 billion, unadjusted for inflation, in 2000. 
"People want to know if men are ever going to shop again," Ms. Black, the analyst, said. "You'd think pants would be wearing out. A few pockets of the industry are doing O.K., but it's pretty dismal out there."
The women's clothing market has been helped by drastic sales and coupons, Ms. Black said. "But how many guys are into coupons?"
Apparently, not that many. At Abercrombie & Fitch, a drop in the men's business more than offset healthy sales of women's clothing, resulting in a 6 percent decline in same-store sales for the first quarter.
At Tommy Hilfiger, men's-wear sales last year dropped 11.7 percent. At Nautica, executives warned of the continued difficulty facing the men's collection for 2004. And at Federated Department Stores, which owns Macy's and Bloomingdale's, the chief executive, Terry J. Lundgren, said in an interview that selling men's clothes was "challenging" these days. 
Men's wear is a brutal business, said Marc Cooper, who covers the clothing industry at Peter J. Solomon, the investment banker.
"The man in the household is the last clothing buyer on the totem," Mr. Cooper said. "The men's business started dying three or four years ago. I don't see it coming back."
But others see a change for the better. Michael Gould, the chief executive of Bloomingdale's, said that its men's-wear sales were up in the last two months. Mr. Cohen of NPD said that for the year ended in March, men's-wear sales over all, including department stores and other outlets, were $51.5 billion, up 1.1 percent from the previous year. Although an improvement, the most current total is still down 10 percent from $57.4 billion in 1999. (Mr. Cohen cautioned that there has been a change in the way NPD collects data -- from diaries sent through the regular mail to e-mail responses.)
Pacific Sunwear is one of the big winners in young fashion, and its "Surfer Joe" look has recently been copied by bigger names, like Tommy Hilfiger. But part of its success, said its chief executive, Greg H. Weaver, has resulted from its quiet change in emphasis from men to women. This year, the company is aiming for 50 percent women's wear, Mr. Weaver said on Friday. 
At the high end, Barneys New York has also shifted to where the money is. Its offerings, once all men's wear, are now 65 percent women's wear. "We already have a very well-established men's market," a spokeswoman for Barneys said. "We just have more opportunity to grow the women's."
The remaining male shoppers continue to move downstream, to places like Kohl's, said Mr. Cooper of Peter J. Solomon. But he said he thought that economic uncertainty was still a factor.
Stephen Gutman, the president of Beau Brummel, once one of the hippest men's shops in Manhattan, agreed. Last week, his shop, on Broadway between Prince and Spring Streets, was full of shirts at 40 percent off, and its windows were plastered with store-closing signs.
"The men's clothing business has been hit hard," Mr. Guttman said. "There hasn't been a real trend, something men just have to have. They're also confused: 'Should we buy suits, or should we buy more khakis?' " He shook his head. "Most of us have enough khakis," he said.
Clearly, for most retailers, the problem is getting men back into the shops -- especially into the department stores. 
"I never shop in department stores anymore," said Robert M. Kneeland, 58, who lives in Sandisfield, Mass., and is a fly-fishing guide in the Berkshires. "Why would I?" When he shops, he goes to the upscale sporting goods store Orvis -- but he hasn't bought anything new there in years. "I just took them my old Barbour coat," he said. "They're mending it and rewaxing it for me."
Lawrence Sicular, a real estate appraiser in Manhattan, said he prides himself on being reasonably well dressed. Still, "clothes don't matter to me as much as they used to," he said.
"The clothes are less exciting now -- too trendy, not classy enough," he added. "Brooks Brothers used to have wonderful classic clothing, but the last time I was there, it was all too hip."
Mr. Sicular, 49, still shops, but he doesn't buy much. "Occasionally, I get a really good deal at a discounter," he said. "I'm wearing a Loro Piana suit I got in a discounter on 86th Street for $325. I'm not willing to spend retail."
Others, like Joseph Galvin, a high-school mathematics teacher from North Scituate, R.I., say they don't shop at all. Some are confused: Should they be wearing suits, sports jackets or polo shirts to work? In any case, they say they probably don't need to buy anything: their closets still contain their old suits, which haven't gone out of style, and lots of chinos they bought when everyone was wearing them to work.
STILL others say that in an uncertain economy, it's women and children first. "And there's no service -- I like somebody to explain to me what tie goes with what shirt, and what pants," said Gregg Clark, a retail consultant in Manhattan. "The department stores have lost their conception of service."
Jos. A. Banks, which traditionally has sold moderately priced clothing, has been known as an exception in the dispiriting men's clothing business. Part of the reason is its introduction of a heavy-duty service program, including writing thank-you notes to every client, said the chief executive, Robert N. Wildrick. The chain has also introduced a coordinated dressing plan that includes higher-priced merchandise. The sales staff takes pains to construct entire outfits: shirt, tie, pants and jacket from a range of "good, better and best" lines.
Some people, however, say that any rebound in the men's market will have nothing to do with merchandising strategies. 
Mr. Cohen said because the American male is growing fatter every year, the men's clothing market may end up like the children's market. "Children outgrow their clothes every six months," he said. "But I read that men are outgrowing their clothes every three years. And guess what -- men's clothing sales have been dropping for three years, at least."

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article last Sunday about the outlook for the men's clothing industry misstated the name of a retailer that has used strategies like an enhanced customer service program to attract shoppers. It is Jos. A. Bank, not Banks.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Stephen Gutman, president of the Beau Brummel men's store in Manhattan, which is closing its doors. (Andrea Mohin/The New York Times)(pg. 1); Mitchells in Westport, Conn., is expanding its women's section, above. A Today's Man store in Manhattan is closing, reflecting industry changes. (Douglas Healey for The New York Times); (Lucian Read for The New York Times)(pg. 10) Chart: "We Won't Go"A survey of 6,000 consumers shows the declining popularity of shopping formen's clothing. Graph tracks percentage of shoppers who said men's apparel was a primary reason for shopping from 1992 through May 2003. (Source: America's Research Group)(pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEN'S CLOTHING (91%); MEN (90%); MEN'S CLOTHING STORES (90%); FASHION & APPAREL (90%); RETAILERS (90%); WOMEN (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (88%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); LIQUIDATIONS (77%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (77%); FASHION DESIGNERS (77%); WOMEN'S CLOTHING (77%); TRENDS (76%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (75%); POLLS & SURVEYS (74%); MARKET RESEARCH (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (67%) RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; MEN; WOMEN; APPAREL; SALES 

PERSON: GREGG STEINHAFEL (55%) ROZHON, TRACIE

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



175 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1279 words

HEADLINE: BENEFITS 

 BODY:
 Supporting the Y.M.C.A.
TUESDAY -- A black-tie dinner at Pier 60, Chelsea Piers, will raise money for the New York City Y.M.C.A.'s youth programs. Drinks at 6 and performances by children who participate in the Y.M.C.A. programs at 7 will be followed by dinner at 8 and dancing to the music of the Peter Duchin and his orchestra. Tickets, $750, from (212) 904-1335.

A Salute to Marrow Donors
THURSDAY -- Bone marrow donors and transplant recipients will meet for the first time at a dinner at the Hilton New York to raise money for the Gift of Life Bone Marrow Foundation, which recruits Jewish donors. Drinks at 6 will be followed by dinner at 7. Tickets, $500, from (800) 962-7769.

Rocking for Hunger Relief
THURSDAY -- Warren Hayes of the Allman Brothers Band will perform at a dinner at Pier 60, Chelsea Piers, to raise money for the hunger relief efforts of Rock and Wrap It Up. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30 and the performance. Tickets, $500, from (877) 691-3663.

A Designers' Preview
THURSDAY -- A cocktail party and preview of designer clothing and accessories on sale, at Milk Studios, 450 West 15th Street (Ninth Avenue), will raise money for the Prasad Project. The organization offers medical, dental, nutrition and community education programs in impoverished areas of the United States, Mexico and India. Drinks, hors d'oeuvres and the shopping begin at 7. Tickets, $75, from (845) 434-0376. The sale continues through Sunday, with proceeds to benefit the organization.

In Support of Cancer Care
THURSDAY -- A black-tie dinner at the Hilton New York will raise money for Cancer Care, an organization that provides counseling, education, financial assistance and practical help to people with cancer. Cocktails at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30 and dancing. Tickets, $600, from (212)712-8323.

Restocking the Library Shelves
JUNE 16 -- A corporate dinner at the New York Public Library will honor Harold W. McGraw III, the chairman and chief executive of the McGraw-Hill Companies, will raise money for library's new books fund. Cocktails at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30, with a reading by Tony Randall. Tickets, $1,500, from (212) 997-0100.

Aiding Mental Health Groups
JUNE 17 -- The Coalition of Voluntary Mental Health Agencies, which is the umbrella group for more than 100 community-based mental health organizations in the New York area, will benefit from a cocktail party and buffet dinner at the headquarters of Pfizer, 235 East 42nd Street. The evening begins at 5 with cocktails and buffet, with awards at 6:30. Tickets, $150, from (212) 742-1600, ext. 105.

For the Seamen's Institute
JUNE 17 -- A dinner at Pier 60, Chelsea Piers, will raise money for the Seamen's Church Institute, an affiliate of the Episcopal Church that provides services and support to mariners including counseling, legal advocacy and professional training. The evening begins at 6 with cocktails, with dinner at 7:30. Tickets, $375, from (212) 349-9090, ext. 241.

A Fund for the Jobless
JUNE 18 -- A dinner at the New York Sheraton will support a program of the Workers Defense League that provides free representation for those who have been denied unemployment insurance benefits. Drinks at 6 will be followed by dinner at 6:45, with a performance by Joe Glazer, a folk singer. Tickets, $175, from (212)627-1931.

Dining at the Zoo
JUNE 19 -- A dinner in the Central Park Zoo, sponsored by the Wildlife Conservation Society's junior council, will raise money for the organization, its educational and scientific programs and the zoos and aquarium. The evening begins at 7:30 with cocktails, the buffet dinner and dancing. Tickets, $150, from (718)220-5090.

Services for the Blind
JUNE 19 -- Jermane Mayberry will be among those honored at a black-tie dinner at the New York Marriott Marquis to raise money for the programs of the American Foundation for the Blind. Drinks at 6:30 will be followed by dinner at 7:30 and the awards. Tickets, $600, from (212) 997-0100, ext. 225.

In Honor of Taxi Drivers
JUNE 19 -- Taxi drivers who have reported fires, hit-and-run accidents, robberies and medical emergencies in New York will be celebrated at a cocktail party at the Puck Building to raise money for Cab Watch, a crime prevention and public safety organization that provides its 6,000 taxi-driving members with free cell telephones that only connect to 911. Drinks, hors d'oeuvres, push-cart food and entertainment by break dancers, caricaturists and other street performers all begin at 6:30. Tickets, $125, from (212) 989-0909, ext. 313.

For All to Hear
JUNE 19 -- Dave Isay, the executive producer of "Sound Portraits," will be the host of a cocktail party and an exhibition of photographs by Milton Rogovin at the New-York Historical Society. The event will raise money to produce the public-radio audio documentaries. The evening begins at 6 with cocktails, hors d'oeuvres and the exhibit. Tickets, $30, from (212)941-8517. The exhibit will be on display through Oct. 12.

Seeking a Cure
JUNE 22 -- A dinner-dance at Laura Belle, 120 West 43rd Street, will benefit the Sarcoma Foundation of America, which supports research to cure sarcoma. Cocktails at 6 will be followed by dinner at 7. Cabaret performances and dancing to the music of Paul Bernhardt Orchestra will follow. Tickets, $500, from (914) 827-3926.

Clack, Clack
JUNE 24 -- Flamenco dance performances and Spanish music will be featured at a benefit at Show, a nightclub at 135 West 41st Street. The event will assist High 5 Tickets to the Arts and the organization's program providing teenagers with $5 tickets to arts events. The party begins at 6:30 with cocktails, tapas, the dancing, rumba lessons and the music. Tickets, $100, from (212) 750-0555, ext. 207.

The Battle Against AIDS
JUNE 25 -- An evening of casino-style gaming at the Regent Wall Street will raise money for the Design Industries Foundation Fighting AIDS, which supports organizations that provide social services, policy and education programs. Cocktails, hors d'oeuvres and games begin at 7, with dancing to follow. Tickets, $300, from (212) 727-3100.

Art on the Block
JUNE 25 -- Drawings, paintings, photographs and sculptures will be auctioned at Sotheby's to raise money for the New York Academy of Art and its public lectures, visiting artists and scholarships. The evening begins with dinner at 6, followed by a cocktail party at 7 and the auction at 8:45. Tickets, $350, or $175 for the auction alone, from (212) 966-0300, ext. 333.

George Plimpton as Himself
JULY 19 -- A party at the home of Luly and Tony Duke on Springy Banks Road in Easthampton, N.Y., will raise money for the free Easthampton summer camp operated by Boys and Girls Harbor, which offers recreational and educational programs for kids in East Harlem and the Bronx. George Plimpton will be the master of ceremonies for the evening, which begins at 7 with a picnic buffet, with fireworks at 9:15. Tickets, $250, or $50 for those 20 and under, from (212) 245-6570, ext. 12. If it rains, the event will be held July 20.

Aiding Holocaust Survivors
AUG. 10 -- A dinner at a private home in Easthampton, N.Y., will raise money for the Survivors of the Shoah Visual History Foundation, which works to obtain testimony from Holocaust survivors and teach schoolchildren about tolerance. Steven Spielberg and Kate Capshaw will be the hosts of the evening, which will begin at 6:30 with cocktails, with dinner and entertainment to follow. Tickets, $1,000, from (212) 245-6570, ext. 26.

E-mail society@nytimes.com
Information: (212) 556-1141

About the Benefits
With this issue, the Benefits column temporarily ceases publication. It will resume at the end of the summer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FUNDRAISING (90%); FOOD CHARITIES (90%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (90%); LIBRARIES (85%); MENTAL HEALTH (85%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (78%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (77%); MUSIC (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (75%); FASHION ACCESSORIES (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); CANCER (68%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (64%); EXECUTIVES (60%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: MCGRAW-HILL COS INC (63%); PFIZER INC (51%)

TICKER: MHP (NYSE) (63%); PFZ (LSE) (51%); PFEB (BRU) (51%); PFE (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (63%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (63%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (63%); NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (51%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (51%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (51%)

PERSON: HAROLD W MCGRAW III (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); MEXICO (79%); INDIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



176 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends: Culture Clash; 
How the Arts Transformed an Urban Landscape

BYLINE:  By HILARY M. BALLON; Hilary M. Ballon, the chairman the department of art history and archaeology at Columbia University, is the author of "New York's Pennsylvania Stations."

 BODY:
THE announcement last week that the New York Philharmonic would leave its home in Lincoln Center to return to the superior acoustics of Carnegie Hall reignited longstanding criticism of the center's design. "Lincoln Center is planned on the idiotic assumption that the natural neighbor of a hall is another hall," Jane Jacobs commented in 1958, when designs were in development.
 The argument usually goes that because Lincoln Center concentrates performing arts institutions on a 13-acre superblock, their stimulative effects are restricted and don't extend beyond a self-contained area. The city fabric would have been better served if these cultural institutions were dispersed, spreading improvements through many different neighborhoods. 
 In general, streets with many uses are preferable to single-use sites. But Lincoln Center ranks as one of the major success stories of large-scale urban renewal.
Because of its impact on New York, and its role as a model for cities across the country, it is easy today to underestimate the boldness of the vision that created Lincoln Center. It was presented by Robert Moses in 1955, in his role as chairman of the Committee on Slum Clearance. At that time, New York's performing arts institutions lacked state-of-the-art facilities. Growth was stymied by, among other things, high real estate values. Because the arts were considered outside the proper sphere of government activity, the needs and importance of the performing arts were simply not understood as an urban issue. Their potential as agents of urban change was not recognized.
That changed when Moses had the radical idea of using a cultural center to energize urban redevelopment. By clustering several related institutions, Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts was intended to establish New York's pre-eminence as a cultural center while improving a large part of the city. John D. Rockefeller 3rd, founding president of the center, described it as "a new kind of city therapy." He explained, "We believe that this is the time for a more active form of help -- a time for art." This approach to urban renewal was tested at Lincoln Center -- and it worked.
The concentration of the arts at Lincoln Center had a catalytic effect that changed the character of the neighborhood. Large audiences in the performances translated into increased pedestrian traffic, bringing customers to neighboring shops and restaurants. And because there were far fewer parking spaces than seats, many audience members who drove had to park elsewhere and walk to the theaters.
Lincoln Center had a mission defined grandly as the "trilogy of education, creative scholarship and performance." It included a high school, a conservatory, a university, student housing, rehearsal studios, a library, a museum, a park and a band shell in addition to the various performance spaces. This mix drew a residential population, which supported more retail activities.
Even at times of strong anti-urban sentiment, Lincoln Center gave tourists and suburbanites a reason to visit New York. While important planners of the 1960's like Victor Gruen cited the suburban shopping mall as the paradigm of complex community planning, Lincoln Center introduced an alternative model of integrated urban planning. It combined transportation, pedestrian circulation, public space and mixed uses in a large-scale renewal plan. The television studios, movie theaters, restaurants, shops and apartment buildings that now surround the space demonstrate its beneficial spillover effects.
Lincoln Center gave New York another scarce resource: a public square. Though the city's grid plan incorporated a few residential squares, it made no allowances for monumental buildings or civic squares. The plaza at Rockefeller Center was an exception -- and a reference point for the performance arts center. But at Lincoln Center the designers rejected an initial plan that buried the open space inside the superblock, like at Rockefeller Center. Instead, they connected the expanse of the plaza to the street, at Broadway.
The theaters' glass facades and outdoor promenades were designed as gestures to embrace the public space. Elevated a few steps above street level, the plaza has a sense of grandeur unique among the city's public spaces. It is part of a processional path that extends from street to theater. But the plaza also has the qualities of an well-proportioned outdoor room. In a triumph of urban design, the plaza actually surpasses the quality of the buildings.
Some insist that the plaza doesn't compensate for the forbidding impact of the center's blank walls on adjacent streets. But despite these and other shortcomings, Lincoln Center has arguably improved New York. True, those changes started with the wrenching displacement of nearly 1,700 families and 380 businesses. But it is legitimate to differentiate the vision and impact of Lincoln Center from the urban renewal tactics used by Moses. Had a performing arts compound failed to materialize, Moses would have redeveloped the area anyway, according to a surely less enlightened plan.
Moses is now widely regarded as the antihero of modern planning, but his approach to urban renewal at Lincoln Center was bold and influential. Lincoln Center embodies the proposition that the arts are an indispensable element of good urbanism. From the Georges Pompidou Center in Paris to the Guggenheim Museum at Bilbao, Spain, it has proven a valid and enduring idea.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Lincoln Center's future site in 1957, left, and opening night in 1962. (John Orris/The New York Times); (Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (91%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (89%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (76%); CITIES (75%); SLUM DWELLINGS (74%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (73%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (69%); RESTAURANTS (65%); RETAILERS (60%) AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL; GEOGRAPHIC PROFILES; HISTORY 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (84%) LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (58%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (50%) BALLON, HILARY; MOSES, ROBERT (1888-1981) 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



177 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1341 words

HEADLINE: The World; 
Why America Outpaces Europe (Clue: The God Factor)

BYLINE:  By NIALL FERGUSON; Niall Ferguson is a professor of financial history at the Stern School of Business, New York University, and a senior research fellow of Jesus College, Oxford. He is the author of "Empire: The Rise and Demise of the British World Order and the Lessons for Global Power."

DATELINE: OXFORD, England 

 BODY:
IT was almost a century ago that the German sociologist Max Weber published his influential essay "The Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism." In it, Weber argued that modern capitalism was "born from the spirit of Christian asceticism" in its specifically Protestant form -- in other words, there was a link between the self-denying ethos of the Protestant sects and the behavior patterns associated with capitalism, above all hard work.
 Many scholars have built careers out of criticizing Weber's thesis. Yet the experience of Western Europe in the past quarter-century offers an unexpected confirmation of it. To put it bluntly, we are witnessing the decline and fall of the Protestant work ethic in Europe. This represents the stunning triumph of secularization in Western Europe -- the simultaneous decline of both Protestantism and its unique work ethic. 
 Just as Weber's 1904 visit to the United States convinced him that his thesis was right, anyone visiting New York today would have a similar experience. For in the pious, industrious United States, the Protestant work ethic is alive and well. Its death is a peculiarly European phenomenon -- and has grim implications for the future of the European Union on the eve of its eastward expansion, perhaps most economically disastrous for the "new" Europe. 
Many economists have missed this vindication of Weber because they are focused on measures of productivity, like output per hour worked. On that basis, the Western European economies have spent most of the past half-century spectacularly catching up with the United States. 
But what the productivity numbers don't reveal is the dramatic divergence over two decades between the amount of time Americans work and the amount of time Western Europeans work. By American standards, Western Europeans are astonishingly idle.
According to a recent study by the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development, the average working American spends 1,976 hours a year on the job. The average German works just 1,535 -- 22 percent less. The Dutch and Norwegians put in even fewer hours. Even the British do 10 percent less work than their trans-Atlantic cousins. Between 1979 and 1999, the average American working year lengthened by 50 hours, or nearly 3 percent. But the average German working year shrank by 12 percent.
Yet even these figures understate the extent of European idleness, because a larger proportion of Americans work. Between 1973 and 1998 the percentage of the American population in employment rose from 41 percent to 49 percent. But in Germany and France the percentage fell, ending up at 44 and 39 percent. Unemployment rates in most Northern European countries are also markedly higher than in the United States.
Then there are the strikes. Between 1992 and 2001, the Spanish economy lost, on average, 271 days per 1,000 employees as a result of strikes. For Denmark, Italy, Finland, Ireland and France, the figures range between 80 and 120 days, compared with fewer than 50 for the United States.
All this is the real reason that the American economy has surged ahead of its European competitors in the past two decades. It is not about efficiency. It is simply that Americans work more. Europeans take longer holidays and retire earlier; and many more European workers are either unemployed or on strike. 
How to explain this sharp divergence? Why have West Europeans opted for shorter working days, weeks, months, years and lives? This is where Weber's thesis comes up trumps: the countries where the least work is done in Europe turn out to be those that were once predominantly Protestant. While the overwhelmingly Catholic French and Italians work about 15 to 20 percent fewer hours a year than Americans, the more Protestant Germans and Dutch and the wholly Protestant Norwegians work 25 to 30 percent less.
What clinches the Weber thesis is that Northern Europe's declines in working hours coincide almost exactly with steep declines in religious observance. In the Netherlands, Britain, Germany, Sweden and Denmark, less than 10 percent of the population now attend church at least once a month, a dramatic decline since the 1960's. (Only in Catholic Italy and Ireland do more than a third of the population go to church on a monthly basis.) In the recent Gallup Millennium Survey of religious attitudes, 49 percent of Danes, 52 percent of Norwegians and 55 percent of Swedes said God did not matter to them. In North America, by comparison, 82 percent of respondents said God was "very important."
So the decline of work in Northern Europe has occurred more or less simultaneously with the decline of Protestantism. Quod erat demonstrandum indeed!
Weber's vindication has profound implications for the next year's enlargement of the European Union, when the Baltic States, Hungary, Poland, Slovenia and the Czech and Slovak Republics will become full European Union members.
A crucial feature of this enlargement, compared with those of the 1970's and 1980's, is that the material gap between old and new members is far wider this time. In 1974, the richest old member (Luxembourg) was twice as rich as the poorest new member (Ireland) in terms of per capita gross domestic product. Today, the average Luxembourgeois is more than five times richer than the poorest new member (Lithuania). 
The impact of adopting the European Union's economic and social rules is bound to be far greater for this generation of new Europeans. They should remember what happened in the 1990's to the East Germans, who initially celebrated their accession to the vastly richer West German Federal Republic, only to discover it meant unemployment for roughly a third of the work force.
This is where productivity statistics matter. Even after more than a decade of free-market reforms, productivity levels in the Czech Republic, Poland, Slovakia and Hungary are as low as one third of the French level. What this means is that unless wages in those countries are set at around a third of French levels, their workers will not be able to compete. 
East Europeans are currently able to compensate for their low productivity by working longer hours. The average Czech worker does more than 2,000 hours of work a year -- a figure steadily rising since the collapse of Communism, even as working hours in Western Europe were declining. Unfortunately, European Union labor legislation will reverse this, to prevent what the West Europeans disingenuously call "social dumping" -- the competition from low-wage economies. Czechs will be obliged to work less by a combination of legal entitlements to a shorter working week, longer holidays, higher minimum wages and generous unemployment benefits when their employers go bust because of all this. 
The question is how much the Czechs will care about the ensuing enforced leisure. Like nearly all the 10 new members of the European Union, the Czech Republic is a predominantly Catholic country. (The exceptions are Protestant Estonia and Latvia.) But one striking consequence of 40-plus years of socialist rule in Eastern Europe has been a decline of religious belief almost as marked as that in Northern Europe. 
ACCORDING to Gallup, 48 percent of Western Europeans almost never go to church, but the figure for Eastern Europe is just a bit less, at 44 percent. Meanwhile, 64 percent of Czechs regard God as not mattering at all -- a higher rate than even in Sweden. In this respect the difference between "old" and "new" Europe may turn out to be less than many Americans now believe. Enlargement of the European Union may simply confirm the eastward spread of the leisure preference in an increasingly work-shy and Godless European continent.
The loser will be the European economy, which will continue to fall behind the United States in terms of its absolute annual output. The winner will be the spirit of secularized sloth, which has finally slain the Protestant work ethic in Europe -- and Max Weber, whose famous thesis celebrates its centenary by attaining the status of verity.

GRAPHIC: Photo: By American standards, European workers seem positively idle: the main Frankfurt train station during a railroad strike in March. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (90%); ETHICS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRODUCTIVITY (90%); SOCIOLOGY (89%); NEWS BRIEFS (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (75%); EUROPEAN UNION (75%); POPULATION GROWTH (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (65%) LABOR; RELIGION AND CHURCHES; WORKING HOURS; PRODUCTIVITY; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

PERSON: FERGUSON, NIALL; WEBER, MAX (1864-1920) 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); WESTERN EUROPE (94%); GERMANY (93%); FRANCE (92%); ENGLAND (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); NORTHERN EUROPE (79%); NORWAY (79%); FINLAND (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); DENMARK (72%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%) EUROPE

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



178 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Editorial Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 512 words

HEADLINE: The Life and Death of Foundations 

 BODY:
A bill pending in the House of Representatives would force the nation's foundations to pay out more money in grants every year, providing a bonanza for nonprofit organizations that depend on foundation support. Advocates of the change say they want foundations to make a greater contribution to national needs at a time when the economy is sputtering, wealthy individuals are reducing their charitable contributions and government resources are stretched. But some leading foundations are terrified that the seemingly innocuous bill would virtually ensure their demise by forcing them to spend down their endowments faster than they can make money through investments. The foundations may well be "crying wolf," but Congress needs to explore the consequences carefully before making a potentially momentous change. 
 The bill in question would change the rules governing how much money foundations must distribute each year to retain their exemption from most taxes. Under current law, foundations must spend at least 5 percent of their assets every year, but that sum can include administrative expenses such as salaries, travel and rent. The new bill would require that the whole 5 percent be paid out to charity, forcing foundations to use additional capital to pay their administrative expenses. By one count, the average foundation would have to spend another 0.4 percent of its assets unless it cut its operating expenses. 
 Some foundation executives hint darkly that right-wing ideologues are trying to destroy foundations that support social, environmental and international causes they dislike. But the bill is strongly supported by many charities and by liberal advocacy groups that believe foundations hoard their money and contribute too little toward social and economic change. The National Committee for Responsive Philanthropy, for example, calculates that the proposed new law could generate more than $4 billion in additional grants each year without endangering the foundations' long-term survival.
The push to change the payout law is driven in part by evidence that a few foundations spent lavishly on high salaries and luxurious quarters. But the Internal Revenue Service, which monitors the reasonableness of administrative costs, could presumably police any clear abuses if given sufficient funds. Some of the nation's most respected foundations have high administrative costs because they manage some programs themselves, provide extensive support to community groups that lack skilled management, or send people abroad to monitor projects in foreign countries. 
The critical issue is whether a 5 percent payout rate would deplete foundation assets over time. Dueling studies have come up with conflicting results. Critics have raised an important issue -- whether foundations are more intent on preserving their wealth than in supporting charity. But the proposal has had no hearings in the House and is not included in a Senate-passed bill to encourage charitable giving. It seems foolish to push for potentially far-reaching changes so cavalierly. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CHARITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); FOUNDATIONS (89%); PHILANTHROPY (89%); CHARITABLE GIVING (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); TAX LAW (88%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); TAX EXEMPTIONS (77%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LIBERALISM (71%); AFFLUENT MARKET (71%); TAX AUTHORITIES (68%) TAXATION; EDITORIALS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TAX EXEMPTIONS; PHILANTHROPY; GRANTS (CORPORATE AND FOUNDATION) 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) UNITED STATES

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



179 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Ideas & Trends; 
Just What Does America Want to Do With Iraq's Oil?

BYLINE:  By TIMOTHY L. O'BRIEN 

 BODY:
ATTENTION, shoppers: Iraqi oil is for sale.
 On Thursday, exactly two weeks after the United Nations Security Council lifted 13 years of economic sanctions against Iraq and gave the United States a firm grip on one of the world's most bounteous oil spigots, Baghdad put 10 million barrels of crude up for bid. 
 Although Baghdad is still mired in crime and no weapons of mass destruction have surfaced in Iraq, Washington is helping market Iraqi oil with all due haste. A former Shell Oil executive heads a panel supervising Iraq's oil fields and crude will now be sold directly to refiners, thus eliminating a middleman role once dominated by Russian oil traders. French refiners also once enjoyed a healthy foothold in Iraq before their government wound up on the wrong side of the United Nations war debate, giving a leg up to enthusiastic American and British refiners, which couldn't deal directly with Iraq during the sanctions era. 
Call it a coup de petrole.
And since Iraq has the world's second-largest pool of known oil reserves, the Bush administration's handling of the money that flows from those fields is certain to ripple far beyond Iraq's borders -- particularly because some two-thirds of Iraq's estimated oil bounty remains untapped.
Although Iraq's oil industry is being overhauled in a way that creates welcome opportunities for Fortune 500 oil giants, American authorities promise that oil riches will be spent on Iraqi reconstruction and humanitarian aid. Even so, Iraqis and others Middle Eastern countries remain wary about possible American shenanigans with Iraqi oil and are watching sales to see whether the United States waged a war of liberation or a war of occupation. 
"People in the region and beyond have a great suspicion of U.S. intentions; and with the U.S. and the U.K. in control of the second-biggest pot of oil in the Gulf region those suspicions will be reinforced," said Judith Kipper, co-director of the Middle East Studies Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies. "I think they're unfounded suspicions because the U.S. won't play games with Iraqi oil."
"But since the U.S. and Britain have been busy trying to get U.N. sanctions against Iraq lifted, and haven't been perceived as being as busy restoring public services in Iraq, the perception that this is about oil is reinforced," Ms. Kipper added. "And in the Middle East, perception is everything."
Iraq's oil numbers are humbling.
The country has 112.5 billion barrels of known reserves, second to Saudi Arabia's 262 billion-barrel mother lode. The United States, Mexico, and Canada combined have only 64 billion barrels, and that supply is aging. Venezuela (78 billion barrels), Africa in its entirety (77 billion barrels), Russia (65 billion barrels, including the Caspian), and the entire Asia-Pacific region (44 billion barrels) also are comparative half-pints.
Other Middle Eastern oil titans like Iran, Kuwait, and the United Arab Emirates have oil reserves in the 90-billion- to 98-billion-barrel range. But those fields pump at a much fuller tilt than Iraq's outmoded, jury-rigged operations. 
Once Iraqi oil pumps are back to speed, and the country's untapped fields are probed, it could become an even greater force within OPEC and the world oil markets. As Vice President Dick Cheney once observed in warning of Saddam Hussein's oil aspirations, whoever sits atop the Middle Eastern oil market has a "stranglehold" on the global economy.
It will take time for these dynamics to play out. Oil analysts say it will be at least five years, or perhaps a decade, before Iraq's oil output ramps up fully; it will cost at least $5 billion, they say, to rehabilitate its oil fields. So no tidal waves of oil from Iraq just yet. 
The United Nations resolution lifting sanctions requires that Iraq's oil profits be deposited in a fund to benefit the Iraqi people.
The United States and Britain will oversee the fund, with outside monitors, including the United Nations, checking their work. Some analysts say that Iraqis, not the United States, will prove to be the dominant force in this new oil equation.
"The fundamental decisions about the future of Iraq's oil industry will inevitably be made by the Iraqi people because those decisions will shape Iraq for the next 30, 40 or 50 years," said Daniel Yergin, chairman of Cambridge Energy Research Associates. "Those are decisions that a sovereign nation makes, not the United States government." 
But that leaves the question of how much leverage over Iraq's future the United States has acquired simply by having ousted its government and now by determining the circumstances and timetable for the transition to a provisional Iraqi government. So other analysts think America will exercise much greater influence than Mr. Yergin predicts.
"I expect the United States to continue to play a strong role in the Iraqi oil market five years from now," said Michael Klare, a political science professor at Hampshire College. "It may not be directly, but the U.S. will have substantial power over who taps Iraq's oil market."
As time goes on, Iraq's oil riches may be seen as the limus test of Washington's intentions in Iraq. "I don't think we went there for the oil, and I don't think we went there for the things the White House said we went there for either," said Vahan Zanoyan, chairman of PFC Energy, a business consultancy. "The main reason was to consolidate our position as a superpower."
To dispel the notion that fossil fuel is what took the United States to Iraq, Mr. Zanoyan recommends a well-known remedy: daylight.
"The same transparency and accountability we demanded from the Iraqis is what we should practice ourselves as we manage Iraqi oil," he said. "We should watch, scrutinize, evaluate, but let the Iraqis make the decisions about who gets the contracts. At least then people can't say we went there for the oil."

GRAPHIC: Photo: At an oil pumping station in Kirkuk. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (91%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ENERGY MARKETS (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); POSTWAR RECONSTRUCTION (73%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (61%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (61%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (60%); WEAPONS OF MASS DESTRUCTION (56%) OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS 

COMPANY: SHELL OIL CO (57%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (84%); UNITED NATIONS (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%); SIC2911 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (57%)

PERSON: O'BRIEN, TIMOTHY L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BAGHDAD, IRAQ (90%) IRAQ (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); GULF STATES (79%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); CANADA (79%); MEXICO (79%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%) IRAQ#000T031213SRAQA01# 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



180 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 861 words

HEADLINE: Along Korean DMZ, G.I.'s Ponder Order to Pull Back 

BYLINE:  By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: UIJONGBU, South Korea, June 6 

 BODY:
The anti-American protesters having packed up for the day, the main gate of Camp Red Cloud reopened and American soldiers drifted into bars here tonight, chewing over news that the Pentagon plans to gradually roll up the "tripwire," the 50-year-old placement of American troops between Seoul and the border with North Korea.
 "Tactically, I see what they are trying to do" by pulling the troops out of range of North Korean artillery, said Sgt. Brett Pelotte, 34, who stopped by the Veteran's Club bar. But the North Koreans can easily substitute missiles for artillery, he said, adding: "They know where we are now. They will know where we will be in the future." 
 Under a two-step plan announced Thursday night, the 14,000 soldiers of the Second Infantry Division are to leave about two dozen small bases to concentrate at Red Cloud, the division headquarters, and Camp Casey. Eventually, the division will be moved south of Seoul and the Han River, about 75 miles from the demilitarized zone, the narrow strip of land that has served as the uneasy border between the Koreas since the armistice of July 27, 1953.
Under past military strategy, the soldiers' presence was intended to act as a deterrent in the event of a North Korean attack, a sort of guarantee of an American counterattack. The thinking was that North Korea would think twice before attacking if that meant taking on the United States as well as South Korea.
In current Pentagon thinking, officials have said, the deterrent effect will actually be increased by pulling back the troops, because the bulk of the fighting would be done by long-range, precision weapons.
American troops stationed near the border are essentially hostages to North Korean artillery, tying the Pentagon's hands.
At the bar, Travis Ewbank, a 22-year-old soldier from Indiana, finished reading about the plan in today's Stars and Stripes. He gave it a qualified endorsement, although not entirely for the reasons offered by the Pentagon.
"It will help the South Koreans get more on their own feet," he said. "It will free us up, so we can go anywhere in the world."
But with both soldiers facing the ends of their tours here within months, they listened carefully to the analysis offered by three veterans sitting around their table, men who had a total of half a century of Korea experience among them.
"I don't think our soldiers will be any safer," said Ed Richardson, 65, a retired Air Force sergeant. "With the rockets and missile stuff the North Koreans have got, they could hit Pusan," he said, referring to South Korea's second largest city, on the peninsula's southern tip.
"Consolidating the troops, to me that's putting all your eggs in one basket," continued Mr. Richardson, a Virgin Islands native who plays in the bar's bluegrass band.
Tony Marino, another retired Air Force sergeant, agreed, arguing that the North Koreans would invest in longer-range artillery or rocket systems to hit any of the 37,000 American troops here. 
"Eventually, they will be under the guns of the North Koreans," said Mr. Marino, 72, a native of Reading, Pa. Referring to possible North Korean attackers, he said: "After the first strike, they are going to be moving, too. They aren't going to stick in one place."
As a waitress served another round of beers and sodas, the sparse crowd fell into a hush as the bar television carried a news report on the troop repositionings. 
"The North Koreans have short-range missiles all along the DMZ," said Jim Velie, a retired marine veteran of World War II, Korea and Vietnam. "Within the first hour, or less, they would fire all the missiles. By pulling our troops back, we would give them a fighting chance.
"The long-range missiles they have are not very accurate," he said of the North Koreans. "Militarily, I think it is a very smart move."
But Jimmy Chu, the bar's owner, said it would be a disastrous move -- for him.
Already, bills have piled up at his bar, hit by curfews and temporary base closings caused by demonstrations like the one today. Attended by 300 people, the protest called for the complete withdrawal of American troops, and was marked by scuffles with the police and the burning of an effigy of President Bush.
After cursing the protesters as spoiled kids who have never eaten out of garbage cans the way he did during the Korean War, Mr. Chu, 62, said moving major bases like Red Cloud to the south would cause great economic hardship for little purpose.
"I'd be hurting," he said. Bartenders, landlords and shopkeepers would see their livelihoods destroyed in this city north of Seoul. He estimated that 50,000 people would have to leave the region.
Today, American military public relations officers declined to schedule interviews with soldiers.
They emphasized that redeployment was to take place over several years.
"This is a long-term initiative with no immediate effect to U.S. forces stationed on the peninsula," Lt. Col. Steven A. Boylan, spokesman here for the Eighth Army, said in a written statement. "No firm time lines have been announced or decided."
Combat readiness against North Korea remains the primary mission here, he said in a telephone interview from Seoul.

GRAPHIC: Photos: American soldiers on an exercise last week in the demilitarized zone that has separated North and South Korea since the armistice of 1953. (Associated Press); Ed Richardson, left, and Jim Velie, American veterans, and Jimmy Chu, a Korean bar owner, debate the Pentagon's plan to move troops south. (Seokyong Lee for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY WEAPONS (90%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (89%); VETERANS (78%); KOREAN WAR (78%); AIR FORCES (73%) UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE 

PERSON: BROOKE, JAMES 

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); PUSAN, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (57%) KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (97%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (95%); NORTHERN ASIA (92%) SOUTH KOREA

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



181 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 1339 words

HEADLINE: Is Spanish the Measure of 'Hispanic'? 

BYLINE:  By MIREYA NAVARRO 

 BODY:
Patricia Arias came to New York from Colombia 19 years ago, but she speaks English only to the children she teaches at a church agency. Her husband, Jorge Ignacio, does so only when he talks to customers at the parking garage in Lower Manhattan where he works. In their Queens neighborhood, Jackson Heights, they shop only at the many stores where the proprietors speak Spanish. They watch Spanish newscasts on Univision and Spanish soap operas on Telemundo. "I don't have any American friends," said Mrs. Arias, 33. 
 The Ariases' almost totally Hispanic world is one in which Richard Rodriguez would be a stranger. His parents migrated from Puerto Rico, and he lives in a Latino neighborhood in North Bergen, N.J., but he was born in Hoboken and grew up speaking English. He likes salsa -- and hip-hop. He was raised as a Roman Catholic but says he thinks of himself now as only "spiritual." He speaks Spanglish to his grandparents but watches MTV and BET. 
 "I'm definitely Latino but Americanized," said Mr. Rodriguez, 26, a promotions manager for Urban Latino, abimonthly magazine geared to second-generation Latinos. "It's a fusion of Latin culture and American culture," he said of his background. 
Mr. Rodriguez and the Ariases share a Hispanic identity, but they represent two very significant facets of Latinos in the New York metropolitan region. And the differences between them are increasingly evident. Language and nativity are two of the most stark lines of demarcation, with Spanish the dominant language among many foreign-born Latinos, and English generally the choice of those born or reared in the United States by Hispanic parents. This dichotomy within the country's rapidly expanding Latino population presents a quandary for advertisers, political candidates and anyone else whose business it is to pitch products or policies to Latinos: Which group are you pitching to, and what, besides language, are the differences between them?
Some strategists, like Jose Ithier, who worked on Gov. George E. Pataki's re-election campaign last year, trying to shape the right message in the right language for the right audience, try to cover all the bases. 
Mr. Ithier, now an economic development official with the governor's office in New York City, said that Mr. Pataki recorded radio and television ads in English and Spanish, distributed fliers and mailers that were bilingual and covered an array of issues, and opened speeches and community appearances with remarks in Spanish and then switched to English. 
"You'd be crazy not to do both equally, because it's such a mesh," Mr. Ithier said. 
But some advertisers, like the recently formed New Generation Latino Consortium, say they favor focusing more on Latinos who are bilingual or for whom English is the dominant language. They say that Latinos born in the United States are now the fastest-growing segment of the Hispanic population and that they are getting more attention now even in fields where they have long been neglected. 
The consortium, a group of advertising and media companies in New York and Miami, argues that these Latinos should be reached with culturally sensitive ads the way other niche markets, like African-Americans, have been.
In New York City, Latinos make up 27 percent of the population. National data from the 2000 census on nativity and language spoken at home are not yet available, but the numbers for selected states like New York and New Jersey show that native-born Latinos slightly outnumber those who immigrated, and that the great majority of all Latinos speak both English and Spanish. Nearly 70 percent of the country's 37 million Latinos are under 35, including immigrant children who usually need only a few years to become fluent in English and bicultural. To reach this population, the language increasingly being used is English.
A national cable channel, Telemundo's mun2, is among the newer media outlets now testing cultural relevance by offering talk, music and news magazine programs mainly in English directed toward Latinos in the 18-to-34 age group. In 2001 the publisher HarperCollins began the imprint Rayo, which publishes Latino authors mostly in English.
"We were invisible, as if we didn't exist," Rayo's editorial director, Rene Alegria, said of his market. "People forget we're American."
In a major national survey last year of about 4,200 adults, the Pew Hispanic Center, a research organization in Washington, and the Kaiser Family Foundation found that on questions of attitude and social issues, native and immigrant Latinos differed sharply, reflecting the prevalent sensibilities of either the United States or Latin America. On issues like divorce, abortion and homosexuality, for example, foreign-born respondents were much more conservative than native-born or American-reared Latinos, whose views were more in sync with those of non-Hispanic whites and blacks, the survey showed.
"A second-generation English-speaking Dominican in New York will have more in common with a second-generation English-speaking Mexican in Los Angeles than with a recently arrived Spanish-speaking Dominican in New York," said the Pew Center's director, Roberto Suro. 
Mr. Ithier, the Pataki campaign strategist, said that immigrant Latinos generally want to hear about immigration, citizenship and workplace issues, and the native born are mostly interested in issues related to education, health and quality of life. 
So handing out fliers in Spanish about immigration policy at a Cinco de Mayo event was a safe bet, he said, because such an event would be crowded with Mexican immigrants. But what to do with a list of Spanish-surnamed registered voters, which would include citizens by both birth and naturalization, that a candidate wants to reach through direct mail? 
"You have a Spanish surname, but what are you?" said Mr. Ithier, who unlike his boss is a Democrat, and who was chief of staff for Fernando Ferrer, when he was Bronx borough president. "It's hard to tell."
In fact, the Pew survey showed, Latinos get closer to the mainstream in views and attitudes the farther away they get from their immigrant roots. One telling survey result: the concept of fatalism -- the sense, quite common in Latin America but not in American culture, that a person does not have control over the future -- was embraced by 59 percent of Spanish-dominant Latinos, but by only 24 percent of Latinos who speak mostly English. 
Yet, all Latinos share certain views that set them apart from African-Americans and non-Hispanic whites. For example, the survey found that most Latinos are willing to pay higher taxes for more government services, compared with only 35 percent of non-Hispanic whites and 43 percent of African-Americans who were willing to do the same. 
But a cultural divide is sometimes found even in the same household.
Take the family of Vianni Gomez, an 18-year-old Dominican who lives in Harlem with her parents, two younger brothers and grandmother. She moved here barely four years ago, but she and her 15-year-old brother already speak mostly English to each other, even though her parents understand little English and their grandmother understands none. The siblings also shun Spanish-language television for shows like "American Idol," and neighborhood clothing stores with names like El Mundo for Macy's. 
But Ms. Gomez's parents, Radhames, 49, and Claricia, 47, said that despite wanting to make their life in New York they want to maintain a tight rein on how Americanized their children become. Their daughter, who is studying psychology at City College, has a curfew of 11 p.m. when she goes out with friends, for instance.
"Over there there's more discipline," Mrs. Gomez said, referring to the Dominican Republic. "We want her to ask permission to go out with friends. We want to know where she is."
Ms. Gomez, who said she has had to leave parties while all her friends stayed, confirmed that "at 9 p.m. I know my phone is going to ring. My father: 'Where are you at?' It's like two different worlds."

GRAPHIC: Photos: The flags of Puerto Rico and the United States hang from an apartment building in Washington Heights. (Justin Lane for The New York Times)(pg. 45); Claricia Moreta, left, with her son-in-law, Radhames Gomez; her daughter, Claricia Gomez; and her granddaughter, Vianni Gomez, 18. The elders of the family keep a tight hold on their Dominican heritage. (Ting-Li Wang/The New York Times)(pg. 50) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); MULTILINGUALISM (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (89%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (85%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (76%); REFUGEES (74%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (73%); HIP HOP CULTURE (73%); RELIGION (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (71%); CITIES (71%); GOVERNORS (68%); ELECTIONS (68%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (67%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); IMMIGRATION (64%); RADIO ADVERTISING (62%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (57%) HISPANIC-AMERICANS; SPANISH LANGUAGE; ADVERTISING AND MARKETING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES 

PERSON: NAVARRO, MIREYA 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (96%) NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; NEW YORK CITY

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



182 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14CN; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1363 words

HEADLINE: Media Deals? Don't Expect Many Here 

BYLINE:  By HARLAN J. LEVY

 BODY:
BEFORE the Federal Communications Commission cast its vote last Monday to discard most of its anti-monopoly media ownership rules, newspaper brokers like Maryland-based W.B. Grimes & Company began getting ready to make deals.
 Starting more than six weeks ago, Grimes began a mass mailing campaign to every daily newspaper publisher in Connecticut and every other state, trying to drum up business. "The daily newspapers in Connecticut are good candidates to acquire television stations in their daily markets," said Larry E. Grimes, the company president, on the eve of the vote. 
 In that vote, the F.C.C. generally lifted the ban on a single party owning a TV station and a newspaper in the same market and raised the limit on the number of TV stations any one party can own. It used to be capped at stations serving 35 percent of all TV households in the country. Now it's 45 percent. 
When the agency eased its rules on radio station ownership in 1996, it resulted in a wave of deals. But that's unlikely in Connecticut this time around, according to media analysts, broadcast owners, newspaper publishers, and industry observers. Many predicted there would be a series of less noticeable, smaller-scale changes, although there may be a blockbuster deal or two.
"In reality, nobody knows," said Stephen Effros, a former F.C.C. lawyer, now a media consultant in Washington. "That has been the history of virtually every major ownership rule change."
Mr. Effros cited the most recent one, the cable television-newspaper cross-ownership rules that were eliminated over a year ago.
"The same special interests who were saying this would lead to massive consolidation in local communities made the same arguments then, but there is no evidence whatever that it actually happened."
The new rules, as they pertain to Connecticut, wipe out the ban on a company owning a newspaper and a TV station in markets with more than nine stations, like the Hartford-New Haven market, where there are 10. Also, the rules allow a company to own two TV stations in a market with five or more stations, as long as both stations are not among the top four.
Connecticut has one major market, ranked 28th, which includes a broad area stretching across the New Haven, New London, Norwich, Hartford and Waterbury areas. The market covers much of Hartford, Litchfield, Middlesex, New Haven, New London, Tolland, and Windham Counties, the F.C.C. said.
In Connecticut, the Providence-based LIN TV Corporation owns the only ABC affiliate, WTNH-TV, in the state, and UPN network affiliate WCPX-TV, both in New Haven. The NBC network owns the state's only NBC station, WVIT-TV in West Hartford, and Spanish-language WRDM-TV in Hartford. The Iowa-based Meredith Group is a single owner in Connecticut, with the state's only CBS affiliate, WFSB-TV in Hartford.
The Chicago-based Tribune Company also has a duopoly, owning the sole Fox affiliate WTIC-TV and Waterbury WB affiliate WTXX-TV, as well as The Hartford Courant and the alternative weekly, the Hartford Advocate. The new rules permitting duopoly and single ownership of both a newspaper and a TV station thus allow Tribune to maintain status quo.
But having a duopoly in Connecticut won't prevent these major players from selling or buying stations, or swapping them for those in more advantageous markets, said George Reed, managing director at the Media Services Group, the Ponte Vedra, Fla.-based broadcast broker.
"If you look at the list of owners in Hartford, you've got some pretty big TV companies in that market, like Meredith, LIN, Tribune, NBC, all of which understand the economics of duopoly," Mr. Reed said.
For the last few weeks, calls have flooded consulting houses, including at BIA Financial Network, the Chantilly, Va.-based national media consulting firm. Mark Fratrik, a vice president, said Connecticut was ripe for several deals.
"What could happen is that the Paxson station, WHPX-TV Channel 26 in New London, may be purchased by the CBS affiliate Channel 3 or NBC," Mr. Fratrik said. NBC now owns 34 percent of Paxson Communications, the Florida-based "family" program network, and has an option to buy the rest, Mr. Fratrik said.
Mr. Reed said that WHPX-TV was "the most logical target."
Neither Paxson nor NBC returned telephone calls seeking comment.
"Meredith is a big player in television," Mr. Fratrik said. "They may want to swap Channel 3 with other companies outside Connecticut, someplace else where they own another TV station." Then again, Meredith may stay put, Mr. Fratrik said, "since Hartford is one of their biggest markets."
Meredith would not comment on its plans.
"There are all sorts of things we could and couldn't do," said Douglas Lowe, an executive vice president, "but I know of nothing planned for Connecticut."
Mr. Lowe said he had not heard any merger talk concerning any of the network stations. "Tribune is probably tapped out since it already owns two Hartford stations," he said.
LIN also said it was not planning moves. LIN isn't selling WTNH-TV, "and it's unlikely that we would invest in newspapers," said Deborah Jacobson, a vice president. The rule changes, she said, "would enable us to take our strategy, which is to own strong news stations and partner with a second station affiliated with Fox, WB, or UPN, to additional markets. "Mr. Effros, the former F.C.C. lawyer, said that the smaller media groups logically are the ones most likely to want to expand.
"Big owners such as Disney, G.E., the News Corporation, Viacom, and Time Warner are less likely to make massive purchases," he said, while "the next tier," such as Gannett, Media General, and Tribune, is.
The Bridgeport TV station, WSAH-TV, an affiliate of the Shop at Home shopping network, is for sale, its owner, the Summit America Corporation of Naples, Fla., said. Summit owns five affiliates.
With the new rules, "We think the interest in our stations will be dramatically accelerated," George Ditomassi, Summit president and chief executive, said. "Our options become greater and more pronounced. We have had a number of inquiries about purchasing either single stations or the group. "We think that station prices have been depressed over the last 18 months, and that's beginning to change."
The New York Times Company said it was well positioned to benefit from the rule changes. "We believe valuations will be higher for broadcast properties," Catherine J. Mathis, a spokeswoman for The Times, said. "There may be opportunities to expand our broadcast group through tax-efficient swaps or other arrangements."
Other companies already in Connecticut that could make moves include the New Jersey-based Journal Register Company, which owns the New Haven Register and a collection of shoreline and central Connecticut weeklies; Dow Jones & Company of New York, which owns the Danbury News-Times; Media News Group of Denver, which owns the Connecticut Post in Bridgeport; the Virginia-based Gannett Company, owner of The Norwich Bulletin, and Entravision Communications of Los Angeles, owner of Spanish-language stations WUVN-TV, Channel 18, and WUTH-TV, Channel 47, both in Hartford. 
Most media companies surveyed, including Tribune, Journal Register, Entravision, and Media News Group, would not comment on their plans.
However, "Media News has publicly stated that they'd be interested in owning television stations," said James Rutherfurd, executive vice president of investment banking at Veronis Suhler Stevenson, a New York-based media merchant bank. Karen Pensiero, a spokeswoman for Dow Jones, said the company won't seek a TV station.
"Dow Jones is not in the business of owning and operating radio or TV stations in Connecticut or anywhere else in the U.S.," Ms. Pensiero said.
And The Washington Post has "no current plans to acquire anything," a spokesman, Patrick Butler, said.
The rule changes might make media deals easier, Tara Connell, a Gannett spokeswoman, said. Gannet already owns 100 newspapers and 22 TV stations in 19 markets. "Right now there's not that much on the market, and we're not expecting that much to go on the market because of this, but we will look at whatever comes along, as we always have," Ms. Connell said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The LIN TV Corporation said it was not planning to sell WTNH-TV, above, because of the change in the F.C.C. rules. At left, The Hartford Courant. (Photographs by Thomas McDonald for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BROADCASTING REGULATION (90%); DAILY NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (90%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (89%); NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (78%); MONOPOLIZATION (73%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (73%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (73%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (68%) Terms not available from NYTimes. 

COMPANY: NBC UNIVERSAL INC (84%); LIN TV CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (94%)

TICKER: TVL (NYSE) (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HARTFORD, CT, USA (90%); NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); MARYLAND, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



183 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 5; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: IN THE SCHOOLS; 
3 Graduates Already In the Driver's Seat

BYLINE:  By MERRI ROSENBERG; E-mail: wested@nytimes.com

 BODY:
DURING the commencement season this year, Westchester County's nine colleges turned out close to 4,500 newly minted graduates, hopeful despite the daunting prospect of beginning a career in a particularly unwelcoming economy. 
Here are stories of three members of the class of 2003. 

Broadway Bound
 By the time she earned her bachelor's degree in theater arts and film from Purchase College, Melissa Mazdra, 23, had the kind of working stage credits that could make veteran stage hands envious. 
 She already has an Equity card and her resume includes production experience in the Broadway shows of "Man of La Mancha"; "Take Me Out"; "The Play What I Wrote" and "Amour." She'll be returning to New York City in August to be an assistant technical supervisor on Broadway.
As a member of the production management team, Ms. Mazdra is involved in everything that has to do with the technical side of a show, from scenery and lighting to costumes and sound. Her responsibilities include managing budgets, dealing with unions and hiring the people who do the actual work of building the sets, running the lights and controlling the sound effects.
"At the end of my junior year, the dean of my department asked me if I wanted to intern with Gene O'Donovan, who teaches a production management course," she said. "My first semester, I was working all day from 8 to 5 or 11 at night."
Ms. Mazdra, a St. Louis native, added: "I thought I wanted to do stage managing. I did a little performing in high school, but have always been backstage. Purchase is one of the best turnaround schools in the nation, with a lot of people who are working in theater."

Altered Vision
For Nicholas M. Esposito, 24, a 2003 graduate of Pace University in Pleasantville, earning his degree meant facing a rare challenge. 
When he was a sophomore, Mr. Esposito suddenly became blind as a result of a rare genetic disease, Leber's hereditary optic neuropathy. The disease's rapid onset forced him to withdraw from college for several months so he could learn how to learn as a blind person. Instead of taking his college courses in English literature, Mr. Esposito followed a curriculum at the Lighthouse for the Blind that included working with adaptive technology, learning Braille and receiving occupational therapy.
"When I was out of school, I was eager to get back," said Mr. Esposito, who initially returned to Pace taking two classes until he was able to resume full-time studies in 2000. By using a voice-activated computer program, Mr. Esposito who does retain some peripheral vision, has been able to write papers. Other students helped out when he needed it, serving as note-takers and readers for him. And with the assistance of his Labrador retriever, Guthrie, as his guide dog, Mr. Esposito has been able to negotiate his way around campus or on public transportation. He worked as a student teacher at Woodlands High School, where he taught English, as part of the process for obtaining secondary school certification through Pace. .
"I look at blindness, and try to see it as a blessing," said Mr. Esposito, a guitar player with a steady gig at the Black Whale on City Island. He plans to pursue a graduate degree in English literature from Lehman College and become an English teacher. Though the first couple of months were difficult, he said blindness "sorts out the external, misleading aspects and the superficial judgments that the eyes may make." 

Crossing Cultures
Kristin Leong, a Hawaii-born resident of Washington State, went to Sarah Lawrence College because of its blend of arts and academics. 
As an undergraduate, she worked for the college's career news publication, editing, designing and writing. She worked as an intern at Conde Nast, for Teen Vogue and Vanity Fair magazines, The Feminist Press and Massachusetts' NARAL (National Abortion and Reproductive Rights Action League). On campus, Ms. Leong founded a multicultural and trans-racial adoptee student group, drawing upon her experiences as the child of a Chinese father and Caucasian mother. She also continued her volunteer work, collecting one of the college's Virginia Woolf Briscoe fellowships that recognize both academic achievement and a commitment to community service.
She'll return to Seattle for the summer for a paid internship with an art gallery that focuses on unknown Asian sculptors before moving to Australia next January for a work-abroad experience. Ms. Leong says she is committed to remaining in the nonprofit sector.
"My experience with Conde Nast was great, but it underscored that I need to stay in nonprofits," she said. "I really love print media, and would like to work for something like Ms. or The Feminist Press. It feels grass roots. Artistically, it's important for me to mesh my left and right brains."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Nicholas M. Esposito (James Estrin/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESUMES & CURRICULA VITAE (90%); BLINDNESS (85%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); CURRICULA (78%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (77%); THEATER & DRAMA (77%); FILM (76%); DOGS (75%); MANAGER TRAINING (73%); LITERATURE (71%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (70%); GENETIC DISEASES (70%); EYE DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); PROSTHETIC & ASSISTIVE DEVICES (66%); CONGENITAL DISORDERS (66%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (61%); VOICE RECOGNITION (60%); THEATER (57%); OCCUPATIONAL THERAPY (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES 

ORGANIZATION: PACE UNIVERSITY; SARAH LAWRENCE COLLEGE 

PERSON: MAZDRA, MELISSA; STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE; ESPOSITO, NICHOLAS M; LEONG, KRISTIN; ROSENBERG,MERRI 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%) WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



184 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: IN BUSINESS; 
Fixing the Leaks and Filling the Till

BYLINE:  By CARIN RUBENSTEIN 

DATELINE: PURCHASE 

 BODY:
THE decision to institute a $5 parking fee for those attending concerts at the Performing Arts Center at Purchase College, while less controversial than the proposal to close the Indian Point nuclear plant, caused its own hailstorm of disgruntlement here.
 The man responsible for this incendiary action: Thomas J. Schwarz, 58, who was appointed in April to be the sixth president of Purchase College. 
 Mr. Schwarz explained the other day that the money-making idea had been floating around for years, but nobody had been willing to take the inevitable criticism. 
"I took the flak," he said cheerfully in an interview in his office at the college. 
As a lifelong Manhattan resident, "It had never occurred to me that free parking is considered a birthright in the suburbs," he said. By charging the local arts audience to park, Purchase College expects to raise a much-needed $200,000 next year for scholarships and academic programs, he said. 
It was Mr. Schwarz's determination to raise money, his detail-oriented ability to put a precise financial accounting structure in place and his willingness to place tight controls on spending that got him the job. 
Now more than ever, New York State officials are demanding that college presidents in the public university system raise money from private sources, said Robert L. King, chancellor of the State University of New York, who hired Mr. Schwarz and who applauds his aggressive fund-raising efforts.
With 64 schools and 403,000 students, New York has the largest comprehensive university system in the country, one that is just beginning to tap private donors, according to Mr. King.
"In Mr. Schwarz's time as interim president, he was pretty quick to take up the reins and to address the financial issues," Mr. King said. Mr. Schwarz was appointed interim president of Purchase in August 2002.
A divorced New York lawyer with two grown children who once earned a seven-figure salary as a partner at Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher & Flom, the former owner of Mission Possible, a Mission-style antiques store in Washington, and a former mayor of tiny Ocean Beach, on Fire Island, Mr. Schwarz was an unlikely candidate to lead Purchase, a public institution with 900 employees and an annual budget of $47 million.
A graduate of Hamilton College, a private college in Clinton, N.Y., and of Fordham University School of Law, Mr. Schwarz was not familiar with the financial needs of a public university, nor was he welcomed at first by the faculty and staff at Purchase. When Mr. Schwarz arrived, the school was in a severe financial crisis, and "people were frustrated and upset about the situation," said Deborah P. Amory, the faculty's departing presiding officer and an associate professor of anthropology. 
"Mr. Schwarz was an out-of-the-box candidate, and given the crisis, there was a lot of distrust because he lacked traditional academic credentials," she said.
At the time, the school faced a $5 million deficit and the 500-acre campus was dotted with 30-year-old buildings with leaky roofs and skylights and clogged drains. Since then, Mr. Schwarz has nearly erased the deficit, and he has organized a campus renovation program: the drains are being replaced, the music building and several lecture halls are being rehabilitated and residential areas are being landscaped.
In addition, he has worked to rebuild morale at the school, and to heal the rift between the arts faculty and the liberal arts faculty, Dr. Amory said. Mr. Schwarz "is a believer in participatory democracy, who listens before he decides," she said. 
His cramped, cluttered office is decorated by a lone dying plant, file-filled storage boxes, loose papers and student art, including a huge painting of Siberian huskies (for which he has a special fondness), but Mr. Schwarz still looks the part of the natty New York lawyer. 
"I'm having a great time," he said. 
Mr. Schwarz moved his office from a distant administration building to one more centrally located, and he makes a point to eat in the dining hall and to wander around the campus to talk to students. 
He bought a large photograph from an art student: a haunting color portrait of the boy's working-class parents. Mr. Schwarz also found himself accompanying a sobbing student to the registrar's office to help her change a course that would allow her to work one job instead of three. (Until he did, nobody would let her make the schedule change.)
"If that's not why you're doing this job, you ought to be doing something else," Mr. Schwarz said, as he strolled across the near deserted campus, from which many of the 4,000 students have left for the summer.
Aside from organizing the school's accounting procedures, Mr. Schwarz has become involved in the school's $25 million capital campaign, fund-raising among alumni as well as among his former colleagues in the wealthy New York legal community. His goal is to make sure that the three branches of the school, Purchase College, the Performing Arts Center and the Neuberger Museum together "should have $200 million at the end of a significant amount of time," he said, with at least $100 million by the time he retires.
"We have to be more creative than schools with large endowments in how we use our money," Mr. Schwarz said, adding that he has learned to do a lot with little. Faced with an aging biology laboratory that was not equipped for computer stations, for instance, the science staff built computer stands out of metal pipe, for a cost of about $20 each. "In the private world, they would have ripped out the lab and rebuilt it, spending a few hundred thousand dollars," he said. 
The total state budget for Purchase was $32 million this year, but that is the same amount as last year, according to a spokeswoman, Geraldine Sanderson. The continuing legislative battle in Albany makes it seem likely that the school could receive even less next year, Mr. Schwarz said. 
Individual campuses do not petition the state for financing, said Margaret Sullivan, vice president for external affairs and development. The Purchase College Foundation was created to augment New York State's contribution, since "philanthropy has become increasingly important to all public institutions of higher learning," she said.
"While we will always expect to be funded by New York State, we will absolutely rely on our constituency of community, alumni, foundations, and corporations to enhance our academic programs," she added. 
The downturn in the economy will probably make it increasingly difficult to attract students able to pay the rising tuition at Purchase, Mr. Schwarz said, meaning that raising money for the school is more important than ever. In-state residents pay $3,400 a year tuition at Purchase; out-of-state residents pay $8,300 a year (both pay $800 in mandatory fees). Since the state budget is still being negotiated, the tuition for next year has not been determined.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Thomas J. Schwarz stands at Henry Moore's "Two Large Forms" on the campus. (Richard L. Harbus for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (90%); FUNDRAISING (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (90%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); LAW SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); BUDGETS (71%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (67%); WAGES & SALARIES (66%); ACCOUNTING (52%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (50%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (50%) COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; FINANCES 

COMPANY: SKADDEN ARPS SLATE MEAGHER & FLOM LLP (81%)

ORGANIZATION: STATE UNIVERSITY OF NEW YORK AT PURCHASE 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (81%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (81%)

PERSON: SCHWARZ, THOMAS J; RUBENSTEIN, CARIN 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



185 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 876 words

HEADLINE: THE LAW; 
Counting Up the Costs of a Death-Penalty Trial

BYLINE:  By YILU ZHAO 

DATELINE: WHITE PLAINS 

 BODY:
HOW much does it cost to hold a death penalty trial? New York State spent at least $1 million in its defense of Dennis Alvarez Hernandez, a Honduran immigrant convicted of killing his girlfriend and two of her young children in Yonkers, according to the lead defense lawyer, Robert J. Aiello. The trial was the first capital punishment case in Westchester since New York reinstated the death penalty in 1995.
 The Westchester District Attorney, Jeanine F. Pirro, would not specify how much her office spent on prosecuting the case, although she said it was much less than the defense's expenses. 
 A jury convicted Mr. Alvarez, 24, of six counts of first-degree murder in early May at the Westchester County Court in White Plains. 
When the same jury could not agree on a sentence for him, they handed the sentencing to the presiding judge, Kenneth Lange, effectively sparing Mr. Alvarez's life. In New York State, only a jury has the power to sentence someone to death.
The cost to defend Mr. Alvarez, legal scholars said, was about the average amount that some state courts, including New York, Connecticut and Colorado, spend to represent death penalty defendants. 
"It's a very expensive proposition," said Stephen Bright, a scholar on the economics of death penalty trials and a visiting professor at Yale Law School. "Justice costs money."
The costs added up, said the lawyers for the defense. Mr. Aiello, as the lead defense attorney, was paid $125 per hour, and Michael Spiegel, the associate attorney, was paid $100 per hour, according to a fee scale determined by the state court. (First-year lawyers in major law firms are often paid about $250 an hour.) Both Mr. Aiello and Mr. Spiegel each spent at least 2,000 hours preparing for the case in the months since September 2000, when the killings took place. Lawyers' fees are estimated at about $500,000, according to the defense lawyers.
Then there were the fees for the experts. The psychiatrist who explored Mr. Alvarez's mental state: $350 an hour. The toxicologist who decided his blood alcohol level: $250 an hour. The forensic pathologist who determined the victims' cause of deaths: $450 an hour. The crime scene reconstructionist: $300 an hour. The mitigation specialist who looked for extenuating grounds: $150 an hour. 
There were also routine costs for paperwork. The court transcripts of the pretrial hearings and the trial alone -- a 20,000-page document at $3.75 a page -- cost $75,000. 
The defense lawyers, based in New York City, set up an office in White Plains during the seven-month trial and stayed in a hotel during the week. 
The team also traveled several times to Honduras, where Mr. Alvarez grew up, to interview witnesses.
A 1998 federal study showed that the average cost of representing a defendant in a federal death penalty case that was resolved in trial was about $270,000, although legal scholars say the costs have grown astronomically since then. 
In Texas and Virginia, where capital punishment cases are handled as routine criminal cases and tried more swiftly than in New York, the cost of defense in each case is almost never higher than $250,000, Mr. Bright said. Both Texas and Virginia have come under intense criticism for providing indigent death penalty defendants poor representation.
"New York should be proud of the fact that it gives people adequate justice," Mr. Bright said.
The costs incurred by the lawyers prosecuting Mr. Alvarez are difficult to tabulate. Both George Bolen, the General Trial Bureau chief in the district attorney's office, and Patricia Murphy, the Homicide Bureau chief, who tried the Alvarez case, are two of the most experienced prosecutors working in the District Attorney's office. During the seven-month trial, both devoted most of their time on this case, according to Ms. Pirro's office, although neither received overtime pay.
Routine costs like photocopying and telephone charges are absorbed into Ms. Pirro's $20 million annual budget.
The prosecutors also traveled to Honduras to interview witnesses. 
Last summer Mr. Alvarez offered to plead guilty to all charges in exchange for a sentence of life in prison without parole, and Ms. Pirro rejected the offer. 
"This is the murder of three people; these victims were slaughtered," Ms. Pirro said in an interview in her office last week. "If the death penalty shouldn't be applied in this case, then when?"
Just how much Ms. Pirro spent on the Alvarez case has become a point of contention between her office and her critics.
"You tie up two of your bureau chiefs for seven months, and does that count as a cost?" questioned Kevin M. Doyle, the head of the New York Capital Defender Office. "You have at least seven lawyers involved, and does that count as a cost?" 
Although Ms. Pirro said that only two lawyers, Ms. Murphy and Mr. Bolen, worked on the Alvarez case, the court transcript shows that a total of five lawyers from her office spoke before the judge and two others investigated the case.
Mr. Doyle's agency, created by the 1995 Death Penalty Statute, helped Mr. Alvarez's defense lawyers to prepare for the case. 
Ms. Pirro had her own criticism of Mr. Doyle.
"They stayed in a hotel and opened up an office for six months," she said, "And that's all taxpayers' money."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert J. Aiello, above, Dennis Alvarez Hernandez's lead defense lawyer, who was paid $125 per hour in the case. George Bolen with District Attorney Jeanine Pirro, who declined to say how much the case cost her office. (Photographs by George M. Guterriez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CAPITAL CRIMES (94%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (94%); LAWYERS (92%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); MURDER (78%); VERDICTS (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WITNESSES (78%); FORENSICS (78%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (76%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); CORONERS COURTS & OFFICES (73%); JUDGES (73%); CHILDREN (72%); LAW SCHOOLS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (63%); PATHOLOGY (60%); TOXICOLOGY (60%); TRANSCRIPTS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT 

PERSON: HERNANDEZ, DENNIS ALVAREZ; AIELLO, ROBERT; PIRRO, JEANINE F (DIST ATTY); ZHAO, YILU 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (96%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); COLORADO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); HONDURAS (93%) NEW YORK STATE; YONKERS (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



186 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1894 words

HEADLINE: No. 1, With a Bullet 

BYLINE:  By JULIA C. MEAD 

 BODY:
CAROL KOTSOPOULOS, 41, of Manhasset, was beaten repeatedly over the 17 years of her marriage to Nikolaos Kotsopoulos, 42, before the abuse escalated to murder on May 4, 2002. Mr. Kotsopoulos was convicted on May 21 and faces 25 years to life in prison. 
 The Suffolk police said they were called innumerable times to the Wyandanch home of Amelia Higgins, 46, and her husband, Calvin L. Higgins, 42, before May 1 of this year, when they said Mr. Higgins stabbed his wife to death, then tried to kill himself. Every 15 seconds in this country, a woman is beaten by her husband or boyfriend, and every day from three to four women are murdered by men who claim to love them. These numbers have not changed much over the last few decades. To catalog murders, attempted murders and beatings as part of a recent trend specific to one place is dangerous and misleading.

Laurel Eisner
Executive Director
Sanctuary for Families
Manhattan
 The volume of messy, complicated divorces on Long Island has outpaced the rest of New York State for years and continues to rise. Court orders of protection have hit an all-time high. And now Suffolk authorities report a startling uptick in homicides and attempted homicides by estranged lovers or divorce-court litigants trying to circumvent the legal process.
What happened to love?
"I think people are just miserable," said Lynne Adair Kramer, a matrimonial lawyer and president of the Suffolk County Bar Association. "The economy's terrible. Relationships are under pressure. Drug and alcohol abuse are escalating. Married couples can't look forward to the same retirement and comfortable future that they once expected to spend together."
Overall homicide rates on Long Island continue to decline. Article, Page 7. But Ms. Kramer and other Long Island lawyers agreed that a higher level of tension contributes not only to the divorce rate but also to domestic violence and marital homicide.
Other factors may be at work. Karen Malcomson, the North Fork program director for the Family Service League, said the marital and family counseling agency, which has offices across Suffolk, had a noticeable leap in business since the terrorist attacks on Sept. 11, 2001.
"The impact at first was astounding because of the loss of human life and the ongoing threat," Dr. Malcomson said. "But then there is the continuing, everyday loss of a sense of safety, well-being, optimism and joy."
That lingering disharmony can be displaced onto one's job, children and marriage.
"There's less energy to work on a marriage, more of a tendency to say 'Let's just dump it,"' Dr. Malcomson said.
Lt. Jack Fitzpatrick, the Suffolk police homicide squad's commander, counted two marital homicides in the county in 1999, three in 2000, and two in 2001. In 2002, the figure jumped to four. In 2003, with more than half the year still to go, there have already been three.
In Nassau, there were four in 1999 and again in 2000, then the number spiked to nine in 2001 and dropped off to six last year. There has been just one so far this year, said Lt. Dennis Farrell, the commander of Nassau's homicide squad.
Neither could identify any clear link to divorce, though both asserted one exists. "Divorce can certainly be a catalyst to murder, as can other events, but sometimes those very same factors trigger suicide," Lieutenant Farrell said. "What triggers homicidal rage in one person may trigger despair in another."
The low number of matrimonial homicides makes trends hard to ascertain, but the number of orders of protection is clearly at the highest level ever. The Suffolk sheriff's domestic violence unit served 4,513 such orders in 2001 and 4,803 in 2002, and expects even more this year. Exclusion orders, requiring the immediate removal of one spouse from the family home, went from 499 in 2001 to 564 last year. 
Compare that to 1994, when deputies served 2,549 protective orders plus 296 exclusion orders. "The numbers are just phenomenal," said Alan Otto, chief of staff to the Suffolk sheriff, Alfred C. Tisch. "I would expect them to level off, but who knows when that'll happen." 
Capt. Lawrence Schnurr of the Nassau County Sheriff's Department said 2,349 orders of protection were served last year and 979 through May of this year. Last year they served 690 exclusion ordersand 287 through May 2003.
Captain Schnurr said figures for past years were not immediately available, but added, "I feel confident in saying there has been a steady increase over the past few years."
Contested divorces are likewise increasing on the Island, which already appeared a divorce-prone region.
For years, Suffolk ranked second statewide, ahead of all five New York City counties and behind only Erie County, according to the state Office of Court Administration. However, a quirk in how Erie defined "contested" camouflaged the reality that Suffolk has actually had the highest volume for years, said Peter Sorrento, the statewide matrimonial court clerk. That was borne out in 2002, when Erie adjusted its definition, shoving Suffolk up to first place. Nassau has consistently ranked just behind Suffolk.
"For all intents and purposes, they've been one and two, always, in terms of pending cases," Mr. Sorrento said.
The trend in both counties, but especially in Suffolk, had been toward a gradually expanding backlog and a struggle to meet the Office of Court Administration's goal of closing out each case within a year of filing.
In 2001, the last full year for which figures were available, 1,684 Suffolk couples filed for contested divorces and another 1,612 cases were disposed of, Mr. Sorrento said. That represents a rise in new cases since 1998, when 1,613 were filed, and a drop in closed cases, from 2,048. Though Suffolk has the most Supreme Court justices dedicated solely to matrimonial work -- nine, compared to Manhattan's five -- Mr. Sorrento said 30 percent of its contested cases miss the one-year deadline. Nassau, which has five matrimonial justices, maintains about a 28 percent noncompliance level, he said.
"Suffolk's not doing too bad for a county with such a high volume," said Mr. Sorrento, adding that the same is true of Nassau. "And, where there's so much for litigants to fight over, the courts can't always comply" with a deadline.
He agreed with judges and divorce lawyers that Long Island couples generally have more assets and debts to be divided than litigants elsewhere, and more child custody disputes. Divorce lawyers contend those issues, more than any court delay, pose the greatest source of frustration, anger and, in extreme cases, violence.
"Without a doubt, the paper moves more slowly, and there's a definite need for more matrimonial judges," said Harvey A. Arnoff, a Riverhead lawyer. "I don't think we've ever had better judges than we do now, but the volume is enormous and the financial issues are becoming more convoluted and complex."
Mr. Arnoff and other attorneys contended that equitable distribution laws, adopted more than 20 years ago, spawned an industry of forensic accountants and economists who help determine the dollar value of a spouse's professional license, business or pension, lengthening the time it takes to get a divorce decree. Justice delayed is justice denied, which only fires up the hostility that may already exist between divorcing couples, he observed.
"But violence, that doesn't just come from frustration with the system," Mr. Arnoff said. "That's a function of a more violent society."Actually, violent crime in America has been on the decline over the last decade or so, but the statistics, at least on the Island, do not show the same trend for domestic violence. 
Consider the remarkably toxic divorce of Albert Ermmarino, 44, and Joanne Riccardo, 42. Connetquot High School sweethearts who married in 1984, they founded Padock Auto Body, in Brookhaven, which bankrolled an accumulation of assets and Mr. Ermmarino's moderately successful racing career on the Nascar circuit.
With two teenaged daughters, three houses, a pair of valuable race cars, a prime commercial property and the business to battle over, their divorce has raged on for four years. Settlements were reached, then came unglued. Other personal relationships were poisoned: Mr. Ermmarino was beaten by his nephew, John Merschoff III, during a family argument, and Mr. Ermmarino's brother, Rocco, testified for his soon-to-be ex-sister-in-law. A trial ended in January, and a judge's decision is awaited on how the couple's assets are to be divided.
"It's possible to wrap up a case in a year, even one like this whose file comes in boxes," said Rudolph H. Cartier Jr., Albert Ermmarino's lawyer. "Unless, that is, the clients get involved in internecine warfare, locking each other out of the house, stopping the mortgage payments, and other crazy stuff."
He said his client was impatient more with delays caused by his wife changing lawyers than from any court backlog, but the Suffolk district attorney's office said he tried to speed up the process through illegal means.
According to prosecutors, Mr. Ermmarino told a hit man he was fed up and stood to lose too much money. He allegedly handed over $400 and two restored vehicles, a 1953 Ford pickup and a 1973 Mercedes Benz, as payment for the murders of his wife, brother and nephew. The hit man turned out to be an undercover police officer. Mr. Ermmarino is now in jail, charged with conspiracy to commit murder.
Mr. Cartier said Mr. Ermmarino is innocent but confirmed that, in divorce court, "emotions run significantly higher and the tolerance level significantly lower than in any other type of litigation."
Judith Otter's case against her former husband, Gary Pagar, has inched its way through Family and Supreme Court in Manhattan and Suffolk, town courts in East Hampton and Southampton, the Appellate Division in Brooklyn, for seven years and counting. Her attorney is now hauling the case back to Brooklyn, and Ms. Otter, who lives in East Hampton, said she has never been angrier with her ex-husband and the courts.
"It would be a comedy of errors if it wasn't so sad," she said. "The system has let me down every step of the way."
She estimated she has made more than 60 court appearances. Mr. Pagar, who lives in Manhattan and was once a wealthy investment banker who now claims to be destitute and unable to find a decent job, has been handed two orders of protection and has been repeatedly arrested for missing court dates and child support payments for their 14-year-old daughter. He once served 60 days in jail.
Twice since April, Justice H. Patrick Leis III has released Mr. Pagar with just a warning to resume support payments. Ms. Otter holds $180,000 in judgments for unpaid support and said she has received just $5,000 in the past three years.
She broke down in court on April 11, sobbing uncontrollably. "I find it totally, absolutely disgusting that he can get away with it one more time," she said.
Supreme Court Justice Alan D. Oshrin, who is Suffolk's administrative judge and practiced matrimonial law before taking the bench, agreed that Suffolk's cases tend toward the complicated, combative and lengthy, but declined to speculate on why they are so plentiful.
"The problem is, you have two people who couldn't get along and, if they could compromise, they wouldn't be in court," he said. "It's a dilemma that gets worse before it gets better." 

CORRECTION-DATE: June 15, 2003

 CORRECTION:
"No.1, With a Bullet" June 8 mistakenly classifies cases of marital abuse and homicide as part of a pattern of "messy, complicated divorces" on Long Island rather than what they are: domestic violence.
When a husband beats his wife for 17 years and then kills her, as was the case with Nikolaos and Carol Kotsopoulos, it is highly irresponsible to blame it on the struggling economy and resulting pressures on relationships. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Deputy Jim Hetzer pores through orders of protection at the Suffolk County Sheriff's domestic violence unit. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 7); THE RISE in marital homicides and violence has been attributed to hard economic times and an escalation in drug and alcohol abuse. Divorce lawyers and their clients at the Coholan court complex in Central Islip. (Maxine Hicks for The New York Times)(pg. 1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (90%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (90%); MARRIAGE (90%); HOMICIDE (90%); DOMESTIC OFFENSES (89%); CRIME RATES (89%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (88%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (78%); FAMILY LAW (78%); FAMILY (78%); LITIGATION (77%); LAWYERS (77%); CHILDREN (76%); TERRORISM (75%); TRENDS (74%); ALCOHOL ABUSE & ADDICTION (73%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (73%); FAMILY SERVICES (72%); JAIL SENTENCING (72%); EXECUTIVES (68%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (67%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (62%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (60%); MURDER (58%) MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; DOMESTIC VIOLENCE; TERRORISM 

PERSON: MEAD, JULIA C 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003



187 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 438 words

HEADLINE: LONG ISLAND VINES; 
Wine Center Weighed

BYLINE:  By HOWARD G. GOLDBERG 

 BODY:
The Long Island Wine Council has hired ConsultEcon, a Cambridge, Mass., company, to determine if there is a need for a regional wine center, and, if so, is to "examine the project's economic viability and potential locations," according to Marco Borghese, the council president. A grant from the Empire State Development Corporation is financing the study.
 Instinctively, outsiders' smart money might well bet that, in the long term, such an East End tourism destination will be -- or should be -- in the cards. 
 Whether the feasibility study commissioned by the council, the wine industry's trade association, reaches the same conclusion could be a different story.
In an era when Internet information is crucial to travel, a visitors center would be a logical extension of both the council's own Web site (www.liwines.com) and the mosaic of wineries' sites that taken together easily piece together a profile of the wine region for tourists.
Almost certainly, travel to Long Island by wine aficionados from other states will rise, partly spurred by sun-and-fun articles in national newspapers and general interest magazines that routinely treat the wineries and the high marks their wines get as part of today's East End vacation story.
Wine-country visitors like to ship bottles home, and, step by small step, doing so is becoming easier. Legal restrictions on interstate shipments of wine are slowly crumbling under an onslaught of litigation by critics of restraints of trade.
Increasing numbers of state laws that allow limited or reciprocal shipments by vintners in wine-producing states make it possible and feasible for boutique producers to ship goods out of state. 
The North and South Fork wine industry, of course, is dominated by small producers like Palmer, which years ago broke out of insular sales patterns and began selling in other states. Schneider, a younger producer, now sells in California. Every step Wolffer takes suggests that its long-term goal is to be recognized everywhere as world class. 
In California and in Europe, visitors' centers are common, and indispensable. You come away from orientations about regions and their wineries with piles of maps and literature about nearby wineries, their products and restaurants that feature them with local cuisine.
It's one thing for a red-wine lover to learn abstractly in, say, Wine Spectator, that East End cabernet francs are comers. It could be more memorable to step up to a bar in a visitors center and taste one's way through a brace of them at a nominal fee. Then, on to the wineries to contrast and compare armadas of merlots. HOWARD G. GOLDBERG

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WINE (90%); WINERIES (90%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (89%); BEVERAGE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); RESTAURANTS (78%); LEISURE TRAVEL (76%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (76%); RESTRAINT OF TRADE (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (71%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (63%); LITIGATION (50%) ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES; WINES 

COMPANY: EMPIRE STATE DEVELOPMENT CORP (72%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND WINE COUNCIL; CONSULTECON (CO) 

PERSON: GOLDBERG, HOWARD G 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%) LONG ISLAND (NY)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



188 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 2; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1216 words

HEADLINE: EDUCATION; 
A Dress Code With Teeth

BYLINE:  By ROBERT STRAUSS 

DATELINE: MIDDLE TOWNSHIP 

 BODY:
WHEN Matthew Buesing would come home to visit from time to time, he would see changes - not such subtle ones, he said - at Middle Township High School, where he had graduated in 1999.
 "We used to say, 'Our strength is our diversity,"' said Mr. Buesing, who recently graduated from George Washington University. "But then we heard about ethnic slurs and racial issues and things about poorer people. And fights and just plain lack of pride in the community." 
 He said he did not know what was causing the change in attitude in this district of about 3,000 students, which includes the interior of Cape May County -- a mixed bag racially and economically -- as well as the wealthy beach towns of Avalon and Stone Harbor. But he did know he wanted it to change back. 
 So Mr. Buesing, while still an undergradute, was elected to the school board, and with his colleagues he started down that road last month by implementing a stringent dress code.
 While the new regulations, which will go into effect at the start of school in the fall, do not mandate uniforms, they do seem to reach back to the 1950's and an era more reminiscent of the Doo-Wop architecture in nearby Wildwood.
 Come fall, male and female students alike will have to wear collared shirts, turtlenecks or sweaters. Dress pants and khakis will be allowed, but only in tan, navy blue or black. Jeans, T-shirts, tank tops and anything that "exposes the back, chest, shoulders or midriff," according to the new code, is out. Gone will be the recently fashionable "hoodies" or hooded sweatshirts, baseball caps, sweatpants and cargo pants. Shirts are limited to four basic colors -- white, gray, navy and light blue -- as well as black and orange, the Middle Township school colors. No stripes. No plaids.
 School board members and district officials insist that the restrictive code will cut down on disciplineproblems, freeing the staff to teach instead of spending time searching for weapons or drugs in baggy clothing.
 "It is definitely a character issue," said Daniel Money, a member of the Middle Township school board who is also principal of the Burlington County Institute of Technology, a magnet high school in Westampton. "I think you level the playing field for kids when you raise some standards in living and in dress, and this is what we are trying to do."
 Mr. Money added: "It's not a uniform, as some might characterize it. That would not be appropriate for a community-based school. We are giving choices, but we are setting standards."
 But Angela Plagge, who has one daughter who graduated with Mr. Buesing and two others headed for the high school in the fall, is not so sure. While Ms. Plagge said she applauded the notion of fewer distractions, she questioned whether such a restrictive code would serve that purpose.
 "Frankly, my biggest complaint is that this is a rule for the kids who don't follow the rules already," she said. "There is already a dress code, and my kids and most of the kids follow it. Why should they be penalized and have to buy a whole new set of clothes? The kids who don't follow these rules will find new ways of breaking rules."
 Mr. Money countered with personal experience: the results achieved when he imposed a similar dress code three years ago at Burlington County Institute of Technology.
 "There we based the argument on the idea that you only have one chance to make a good first impression and many of our students have to go out and get jobs, so that is important," he said. "It helped out in many ways. You aren't coming in to class in hoodies or pants hanging below your buttocks or baseball caps. You can't hide."
 He added: "All the excuses of whatever - looking at girls with bare midriffs, even - are gone. There is just more time to be academically prepared."
 At the school board meeting last month when the code was passed by a 7-1 vote of the school board, several parents and students threatened to go to the American Civil Liberties Union to support them in a lawsuit. But Deborah Jacobs, legal director of the New Jersey chapter of the A.C.L.U., said last week that so far no one had reached out to her.
 "Legally, there is not much recourse for things like this," Ms. Jacobs said. "If they said they wouldn't educate your child because you didn't comply, perhaps there could be something. But in practicality, these things are a difficult fight."
 Ms. Plagge said it was not a lawsuit she was after --just what she said was common sense.
 "I have a lot of trouble with the idea that wearing a uniform of sorts will encourage a sense of unity and pride," she said. "That is an idealistic and lovely thought, but it is naive." 
 Around the state, there seems to be little clamor to follow Middle Township's lead. The state Department of Education requires each district to have a dress code, though there are no particular guidelines. And Michael Yaple, a spokesman for the New Jersey School Boards Association, said his organization had not heard of any other district -- except for Mr. Money's school -- that had such a restrictive dress code.
 "Boards consider uniforms, but in general, dress codes are not so strict as they were years ago," Mr. Yaple said.
 In Wildwood, for example, the dress code prohibits "doo-rags," hats and sunglasses in school and bans beach attire like swimsuits underclothing and flip-flops. But there are no restrictions on colors, and students are allowed to wear shorts.
 Gail Cohen, a spokeswoman for the Cherry Hill School District, said: "We have never really had a problem with our dress code. Styles change, and we have to be aware of that."
 T-shirts and jeans are part of today's informal uniform today even at the prestigious Lawrenceville School -- where blazers and ties were required before the dress code was abolished about 30 years ago. The policy there states, "Dress at Lawrenceville is not formal, but students are expected to dress in a way that respects the standards and academic purpose of the school." In other words students can wear shirts or pants of any color, including jeans and T-shirts without printing, and even team uniforms on game days.
 Back in Middle Township, Mrs. Plagge said there was a big difference between a ban on bare midriffs, which was part of the old dress code, and the restrictions of the new code, especially financially.
 "All right, you say these clothes don't have to cost much, which may be true," she said. "But then, you know as soon as the kids come home from school, they're going to flop these on a chair and put on what they used to wear. That means we have to have two sets of clothes every day."
 She went on: "Then they are talking about this leveling the playing field. But you can buy khakis at K-Mart or khakis at J. Crew, and don't tell me that kids don't know the difference. You can have $200 sneakers or those with holes in them."
 But Mr. Buesing's mother, Karen, who is the assistant superintendent of schools in Middle Township, said the dress code was just the first step in instilling a renewed sense of pride in education in the district. "This is a K-through-12 thing and it will take time for parents and kids to adjust," she said. "Frankly, a lot of the people upset are juniors or parents of juniors, but God forbid you spend your last year in school looking nice."

GRAPHIC: Photos: A stringent -- and controversial -- dress code will go into effect in the Middle Township School District in the fall. (Photographs by Mary Godleski for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); SCHOOL DRESS CODES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (88%); SCHOOL PRINCIPALS (77%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (77%); MAGNET SCHOOLS (72%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (71%) EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; APPAREL 

COMPANY: UNIFORM AS (61%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (58%)

PERSON: STRAUSS, ROBERT 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%) MIDDLE TOWNSHIP (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



189 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 14NJ; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1653 words

HEADLINE: Uneasy Lies the Crown In a Divided Senate 

BYLINE:  By LAURA MANSNERUS 

DATELINE: TRENTON 

 BODY:
SOME political careers in Trenton ended on Tuesday, and some will crash in November. But one casualty that will cause no mourning is the odd marriage of John O. Bennett and Richard J. Codey. 
 As co-presidents of the evenly divided Senate, the two have led it through 16 months of lockstep legislating. And the Senate has led Mr. Bennett and Mr. Codey though 16 months of political frustration. 
 "Neither Codey nor Bennett has put their imprint on the legislative agenda the way they would have wanted to," said Stephen Salmore, a political scientist at Fairleigh Dickinson University who has served as a consultant to Republicans. "It's hard to be a strong personality if you can't back it up with a majority." 
 Amid the polite plodding in the upper chamber, the primary elections last week launched an official struggle for control of the Senate, a battle expected to be long, ugly and expensive. Many say it will show how deeply partisan the business of Trenton has become.
 Yet in some way the resolution will provide relief for the two leaders, who have problems all their own. Mr. Bennett, the Republican, damaged by news reports of irregularities in his billing of local governments that hired his law firm, finds his own seat in peril. Mr. Codey, the Democrat, has to bind together a party that just witnessed brawls in several crucial districts. 
 "On balance, the Democrats have more work to do today than the Republicans," said Ingrid Reed, the director of the Eagleton New Jersey Project at Rutgers. But referring to Mr. Bennett, she added, "Republicans are going to have to decide whether they think he can carry through to November." 
 Gossip about the leaders' weaknesses has been persistent, though much is mere scenario-drawing and fueled by alliances of the moment, which in Trenton shift as fast as those at the popular youths' cafeteria table. 
 Mr. Bennett is fighting rumors that he will withdraw from the race or give up his leadership post under pressure from fellow Republicans. As for Mr. Codey, recent reports had him losing support in his caucus as well, although a couple of Democratic candidates who might have opposed him in a post-election leadership fight were defeated on Tuesday. 
 Over the next few weeks, each has to hold together his caucus, with not a vote to spare, in the fight over the budget. Then starts an election campaign in which the two men, who have become friends, will be trying to unseat each other. 
 In addition to each other, they have a common and formidable enemy in George E. Norcross III, a former Camden County Democratic chairman and Commerce Bancorp executive, who has amassed considerable influence in South Jersey and throughout the state.
 Obviously, each party aims to take control of the Senate. Less obviously -- because to say so openly would offend party solidarity -- some legislators have come to believe that shared control is worse than none at all.
 "The first choice is that their party be in control," said Jon Shure, president of New Jersey Policy Perspective, a research organization here, and a Democrat. "The second choice is that the other party be in control,and the third choice is this."
 Mr. Bennett and Mr. Codey alternate months presiding over the Senate, but they post bills to be voted on by mutual consent; if they cannot agree on the maximum of 30, each may choose up to 9 of his own.
 Together, the two Senate leaders have produced legislation limiting jury awards in medical malpractice cases, restricting campaign contributions and rewriting the auto insurance law. 
 Nonetheless, many in the Senate and many more outside say there was much more to be done.
 "Over all, it's worked out poorly," Senator John H. Adler, a Democrat, said. "My sense is that both parties have managed to find a way to avoid dealing with some of the hardest issues. We haven't slowed the growth of local government or the property tax, haven't found a fairer way to tax New Jersey residents, haven't done a lot legislatively to deal with sprawl or New Jersey's economy."
 Senator Joseph M. Kyrillos Jr., the state Republican chairman, said, "It's amazing that we've been able to do what we've done, although I'm not sure we've accomplished much." 
 Since both parties have a reasonable shot at winning control, Mr. Shure said, legislative business has turned into a kind of perpetual campaign.
 "What's happening in New Jersey mirrors what's happened in Washington," Mr. Shure said, "which is legislative governance has taken a back seat to legislative politics." 
 But Mr. Salmore sees a bigger leadership vacuum in Trenton. 
 "In general, I think the quality of the leadership in both parties is not as good as it was 10 or 15 years ago," he said. "There's no strong personality down there. There is no strong, effective leader that is setting an agenda in Trenton. It's a matter of local warlords." 
 He added that neither Mr. Bennett nor Mr. Cody had "articulated a coherent agenda, an articulation of where they want state policy to go."
 And to make matters worse, he continued, "The Democrats are afraid to cut taxes and the Republicans are afraid to cut spending." 
 Both Senate presidents protest that the legislative process has been surprisingly orderly, and some outsiders agree. Many members say, too, that the Senate has been more productive than the Assembly, where the Democrats have a 42-to-37 majority.
 "We've been able to get things done, all 40 of us," Mr. Codey said. "But despite that, I have one marriage -- it's been a very successful one -- and I don't need this one. I want a divorce." 
 As for Mr. Codey, his own fortunes improved with the primary election results last week. Democratic candidates backed by Mr. Norcross and another Democratic power broker, former state Senator John A. Lynch, who would also like to install someone other than Mr. Codey in a Senate presidency, lost in Monmouth and Hudson counties. 
 Now, said state Senator Raymond J. Lesniak, Mr. Codey's leadership is "absolutely, totally secure."
 "If certain things had turned the wrong way," Mr. Lesniak said, "it could have been in jeopardy."
 Mr. Bennett, on the other hand, is not assured of his own seat in November. He is still fending off the Monmouth County Republican chairman, who says he is not electable, and his home-county newspaper, The Asbury Park Press, which has reported that he overcharged one town he served as municipal attorney, charged unusually high fees for reorganizing the town's municipal code and gave part-time staff jobs to his mother and his mother-in-law.
 Reflecting on his straits, Mr. Bennett said: "I say to Codey: 'You're an Essex County Democrat. You're used to this. I'm a Monmouth County Republican. I'm not used to this."' 
 Mr. Bennett maintains that Mr. Norcross, with whom he quarreled last summer over a proposed sports arena in Newark, vowed to destroy his political career. He says Mr. Norcross gave The Asbury Park Press information that would look suspect, although both Mr. Norcross and the newspaper have dismissed the accusation. 
 He also says Mr. Norcross, through political committees where he has allies, is prepared to pour $2 million into the campaign of Mr. Bennett's opponent, Ellen Karcher. 
 Mr. Norcross declined to comment, but Richard McGrath, the spokesman for the Democratic State Party, said Mr. Bennett was not the object of a vendetta but simply one more beatable Republican. 
 "He's just drawing a bogeyman to make himself a victim," Mr. McGrath said. "His wounds are self-inflicted."
 Mr. Bennett also claims Governor McGreevey as an enemy, although the Democratic governor was publicly sympathetic to the Republican leader when, as the accusations against him piled up in March, many in the State House predicted his demise. 
 Mr. Bennett splashed his primary campaign brochures with the governor's "hit list" of leading Republicans that the Democrats hired researchers to investigate. And Mr. Bennett opened his victory speech Tuesday night with a shout: "I'm proud to be No.1 on the governor's hit list!" 
 Mr. Bennett's margin of victory, 58 percent to 42 percent for his conservative opponent, Rich Pezzullo, clearly buoyed him. Still, he must overcome a discouraging trend even among Republicans: Mr. Bennett's own latest poll, a survey of likely Republican voters taken on May 19, showed that 30 percent viewed him unfavorably, twice as many as did in February, before the newspaper's reports began. The number who viewed him favorably was barely changed, at 56 percent. 
 His Republican colleagues have been publicly supportive, if circumspect.
 "John had a great victory last night and can rightly feel good today," Senator Kyrillos said on Wednesday. "He's shown a lot of steeliness, and he's won his district for a long time." 
 He then added, "I'll leave it at that." 
 In the general election, with four or five closely contested Senate races, the Democrats will have the advantage on spending. They plan to have about $15 million available as against about $8 million that the Republicans are expecting.
 In addition, for more than 40 years the sitting governor's party has lost seats in every midterm election, a pattern that makes the Senate, and perhaps even the Assembly, attainable by the Republicans -- particularly in a year when painful spending cuts will be necessary to make up a budget shortfall that the governor estimates at $5 billion. 
 Any senator who may be angling for the next Senate presidency -- and part of the reason that few are expecting a coup is that no names have been circulating -- will have a chance to achieve a higher profile as the budget is negotiated. 
 The budget must be approved by the end of this month, when all 120 legislators leave Trenton until November. The negotiations will require deal-making, grandstanding and an opportunity for unprecedented cooperation in a divided Senate.
 As Senator Adler put it, "I expect everybody to be obstructionist."

GRAPHIC: Photos: John O. Bennett, left, a Republican, and Richard J. Codey, a Democrat, have uncomfortably presided over an evenly split Senate. (Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. 1); John Bennett, Republican Senate co-president, above, campaigned in Freehold. Days earlier, his Democratic counterpart, Richard Codey, spoke with Governor McGreevey. (Jill C. Becker for The New York Times and, below, Associated Press)(pg. 8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%) POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS 

COMPANY: TD BANK NA (82%)

ORGANIZATION: FAIRLEIGH DICKINSON UNIVERSITY (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (82%)

PERSON: BENNETT, JOHN O (SEN); CODEY, RICHARD J (SEN); MANSNERUS, LAURA 

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON, NJ, USA (94%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) NEW JERSEY

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



190 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 4; Column 4; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 327 words

HEADLINE: June 1-7; 
OTHER NEWS

 BODY:
NASA's problems go farbeyond falling foam, according to an early outline of the report by the independent panel investigating the accident that doomed the shuttle Columbia and its crew. 
 The outline portrays the fatal Columbia mission as the tip of an iceberg of problems that include communications breakdowns and an increasingly complacent attitude toward warning signs. Budget pressures and administrative shuffles add to the pressure on the National Aeronautics and Space Administration, the report suggests. 
Attorney General John Ashcroft urged Congress to give the authorities still greater power to pursue terrorism suspects. But the USA Patriot Act, as the sweeping antiterrorism law that grew out of the Sept. 11 attacks is known, has led to official votes of protest from more than 100 communities because of civil liberties concerns.
The United States and South Korea agreed gradually to reposition American troops far away from the demilitarized zone that separates North and South Korea to make them less vulnerable to attack by the North.
In the most sweeping reform of its own management in three decades, the New York Stock Exchange will disclose how much it pays its chairman, Richard A. Grasso, and remove Wall Street executives, including a friend of Mr. Grasso, from the committee that sets his pay. Mr. Grasso and other senior officials of the exchange will also step down as directors of companies whose shares are listed on the exchange.
The unemployment rate rose to 6.1 percent in May, its highest level in nine years, but the pace of layoffs has slowed over the last two months, suggesting that the economy might have stabilized and could begin adding jobs this summer, forecasters said. 
 A bipartisan majority of the Senate Commerce Committee indicated that it would vote to overturn some of the deregulatory media-ownership rules adopted last week, but their efforts face an uphill battle, particularly in the House of Representatives. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); SPACE SHUTTLE (79%); NEWS BRIEFS (79%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (78%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (78%); US PATRIOT ACT (76%); TERRORISM (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (75%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); ACCIDENT INVESTIGATIONS (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); BOARDS OF DIRECTORS (72%); STOCK EXCHANGES (72%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (70%); LAYOFFS (65%) NO INDEX TERMS FROM NYTIMES 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (90%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



191 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1298 words

HEADLINE: BEST SELLERS: June 8, 2003 

 BODY:


	 	 	 		 	 	 		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Fiction		 	 	 		 	 	 	 1	2	10	THE DA VINCI CODE, by Dan Brown. (Doubleday, $24.95.) The murder of a curator at the Louvre leads to a trail of clues found in the work of Leonardo and to the discovery of a centuries-old secret society.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 2	1	2	NAKED PREY, by John Sandford. (Putnam, $26.95.) In his new job as a troubleshooter for the governor of Minnesota, Lucas Davenport investigates the apparent lynching of a black man and a white woman.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 3	5	7	THE GUARDIAN, by Nicholas Sparks. (Warner, $24.95.) While trying to choose between two suitors, a young widow realizes that her life is in danger.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 4	4	3	THE SINISTER PIG, by Tony Hillerman. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) Sgt. Jim Chee of the Navajo Tribal Police and his retired mentor, Joe Leaphorn, probe the murder of an undercover agent.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 5	6	6	THE SECOND TIME AROUND, by Mary Higgins Clark. (Simon & Schuster, $26.) After the head of a medical research company goes missing, a magazine columnist finds herself the target of a sinister cabal.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 6	8	6	THE DEVIL WEARS PRADA, by Lauren Weisberger. (Doubleday, $21.95.) A young woman acquires a job at a fashion magazine, along with the boss from hell.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 7	3	7	ARMAGEDDON, by Tim LaHaye and Jerry B. Jenkins. (Tyndale, $24.99.) The 11th volume of the "Left Behind" series, in which the forces of good battle the forces of evil after the rapture of the saved. (+)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 8	11	48	THE LOVELY BONES, by Alice Sebold. (Little, Brown, $21.95.) A 14-year-old girl looks down from heaven as she describes what happens in the aftermath of her kidnapping and murder.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 9	7	4	A COLD HEART, by Jonathan Kellerman. (Ballantine, $26.95.) The psychologist-detective Alex Delaware investigates the murders of rising stars.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 10	12	16	 *THE KING OF TORTS, by John Grisham. (Doubleday, $27.95.) A public defender in Washington happens upon a frightening conspiracy.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 11	14	3	EXECUTIVE POWER, by Vince Flynn. (Atria, $25.) The C.I.A. agent Mitch Rapp goes after a dangerous but unknown assassin who is bent on starting a war.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 12	13	4	NO SECOND CHANCE, by Harlan Coben. (Dutton, $24.95.) The 6-month-old daughter of a successful surgeon is kidnapped.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 13		2	VILLA INCOGNITO, by Tom Robbins. (Bantam, $24.) Three American M.I.A.'s choose to remain missing after the Vietnam War.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 14	9	2	THE TRAVELER'S GIFT, by Andy Andrews. (Thomas Nelson, $19.99.) In an inspirational tale about the "decisions that determine personal success," a down-on-his-luck middle-aged man travels back in time. (+)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 15	10	2	THE OTHER WOMAN, by Eric Jerome Dickey. (Dutton, $23.95.) An already fragile marriage faces its sternest test when both the husband and the wife have affairs.		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Nonfiction		 	 	 		 	 	 	 1	1	2	AN UNFINISHED LIFE, by Robert Dallek. (Little, Brown, $30.) A biography of John F. Kennedy by a professor of history at Boston University.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 2	10	3	A SHORT HISTORY OF NEARLY EVERYTHING, by Bill Bryson. (Broadway, $27.50.) From the Big Bang to the 21st century: a guided tour of the physical world.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 3	2	10	LEAP OF FAITH, by Queen Noor. (Miramax, $25.95.) An autobiography by the widow of King Hussein of Jordan.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 4	11	3	THE TEAMMATES, by David Halberstam. (Hyperion, $22.95.) The story of a friendship among four men who played for the Boston Red Sox in the 1940's.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 5		1	BEYOND BELIEF, by Elaine Pagels. (Random House, $24.95.) The author of "The Gnostic Gospels" examines early Christianity through the Gospel of Thomas.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 6	4	3	A PATRIOT'S HANDBOOK, selected by Caroline Kennedy. (Hyperion, $27.95.) Essays, letters, speeches, poems and song lyrics that celebrate America. (+)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 7		1	THE CLINTON WARS, by Sidney Blumenthal. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $30.) A political memoir by a journalist who served as a senior adviser to President Clinton.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 8	6	20	WHAT SHOULD I DO WITH MY LIFE? by Po Bronson. (Random House, $24.95.) The stories of 55 people who found their calling after years of struggle. (+)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 9	7	2	 *MONEYBALL, by Michael Lewis. (Norton, $24.95.) How Billy Beane, the general manager of the Oakland Athletics, produces a successful team despite having one of the smallest payrolls in baseball.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 10	3	10	DERELICTION OF DUTY, by Robert (Buzz) Patterson. (Regnery, $27.95.) A retired Air Force colonel who served in the White House contends that Bill Clinton "compromised America's national security." (+)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 11	13	2	WHO'S YOUR CADDY? by Rick Reilly. (Doubleday, $24.95.) A sportswriter recounts his experiences caddying for Jack Nicklaus, David Duval and others.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 12	5	8	KRAKATOA, by Simon Winchester. (HarperCollins, $25.95.) An account of the volcanic eruption in 1883 that led to the deaths of more than 36,000 people.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 13		1	IN THE COMPANY OF HEROES, by Michael J. Durant with Steven Hartov. (Putnam, $24.95.) A former United States Army helicopter pilot relates his experiences as a soldier and prisoner of war in Somalia.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 14	9	2	 *OPEN, by John Feinstein. (Little, Brown, $25.95.) The author of "A Good Walk Spoiled" reports on the 2002 United States Open.		 	 	 		 	 	 	 15	14	6	POSITIVELY FIFTH STREET, by James McManus. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $26.) A novelist reports on the 2000 World Series of Poker, in which he took part. 		 	 	 		 	 	 	 16	12	4	 *REEFER MADNESS, by Eric Schlosser. (Houghton Mifflin, $23.) A study of three facets of the black-market economy: the marijuana and pornography businesses and the plight of illegal immigrants.		 	 	 			Weeks	 		 	 	 	This	Last	On	 		 	 	 	Week	Week	List	Children's Paperback Books		 	 	 		 	 	 	 1	1	104	HOLES, by Louis Sachar. (Dell Yearling, $6.50.) A boy who has been unjustly sent to a detention center tries to solve a mystery. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 2	2	43	HARRY POTTER AND THE GOBLET OF FIRE, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $8.99.) A British boy competes against other aspiring wizards. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 3	5	10	HIGH TIDE IN HAWAII, by Mary Pope Osborne. Illustrated by Sal Murdocca. (Stepping Stone/Random House, $3.99.) The magic treehouse takes Jack and Annie to an island of long ago. (Ages 6 to 9)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 4	10	2	JUNIE B., FIRST GRADER: BOSS OF LUNCH, by Barbara Park. Illustrated by Denise Brunkus. (Stepping Stone/Random House, $3.99.) A little girl helps out in the school cafeteria. (Ages 4 to 8)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 5	6	11	THE SISTERHOOD OF THE TRAVELING PANTS, by Ann Brashares. (Delacorte, $8.95.) Four friends and a magical pair of pants. (Ages 12 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 6	3	89	HARRY POTTER AND THE PRISONER OF AZKABAN, by J. K. Rowling. (Scholastic, $7.99.) A boy's life at witchcraft school is threatened. (Ages 10 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 7	4	9	THE LIZZIE McGUIRE MOVIE, adapted by J. G. Weiss and Bobbi Weiss. (Disney/Volo, $4.99.) Lizzie meets an Italian pop star in Rome. (Ages 9 to 12)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 8	9	3	ARTEMIS FOWL: THE ARCTIC INCIDENt, by Eoin Colfer. (Miramax/Hyperion, $7.99.) A young criminal mastermind must team up with his adversaries, the fairies, to save his father. (Ages 12 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 9	7	40	ARTEMIS FOWL, by Eoin Colfer. (Miramax/Hyperion, $5.99.) A 12-year-old criminal mastermind combats a dangerous group of fairies. (Ages 12 and up)		 	 	 		 	 	 	 10		19	JUNIE B. JONES IS A GRADUATION GIRL, by Barbara Park. Illustrated by Denise Brunkus. (Stepping Stone/Random House, $3.99.) An accident happens to a kindergartner's cap and gown. (Ages 4 to 8)	

Rankings reflect sales, for the week ended May 24, at almost 4,000 bookstores plus wholesalers serving 50,000 other retailers (gift shops, department stores, newsstands, supermarkets), statistically weighted to represent all such outlets nationwide. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above. A dagger (+) indicates that some bookstores report receiving bulk orders. Expanded rankings are available at The New York Times on the Web: nytimes.com/books. Best-seller lists for children's picture books, children's chapter books and children's paperbacks, respectively, are published in rotation on succeeding weeks; all three lists appear each week on the Book Review's Web site. Publishers have provided the age designations for their best-selling children's titles. Rankings for children's paperbacks do not include serials.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (90%); BOOK REVIEWS (90%); MURDER (89%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (89%); KIDNAPPING & ABDUCTION (78%); WRITERS (78%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (73%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (69%); PSYCHOLOGY (67%); FASHION & APPAREL (66%); VIETNAM WAR (60%) NO INDEX TERMS 

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%)

PERSON: DAN BROWN (78%); JOHN GRISHAM (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAVENPORT, IA, USA (57%) MINNESOTA, USA (72%); IOWA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003



192 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1859 words

HEADLINE: Grand Allusions in Botswana 

BYLINE:  By John Leonard; John Leonard reviews books for Harper's Magazine and The Nation, movies for "CBS News Sunday Morning" and television for New York magazine.

 BODY:
 MORTALS
By Norman Rush.
715 pp. New York:
Alfred A. Knopf. $26.95.
 From six years with the Peace Corps in Botswana, Norman Rush has now produced three books so full of brainwork, contour, sinew and laser light that we don't want to leave home without him: we would never notice or feel as much. In the stories in "Whites" (1986), expats shopped for meaning at a Dark Continent spiritual garage sale. "Mating" (1991) was a joy ride, a book of wonders about true love, star-crossed anthropology and a matriarchal Shangri-La in the Kalahari desert. "Mortals" is a disillusionment, a black comedy of blown covers, botched intimacies, bad manners and worse politics in a southern Africa on which, as if it were a sand screen, the West projects its own dementias. 
So "Mortals" isn't another "Mating" -- no windmills, solar panels, dung carts or boomslangs. Not every novel, even by Norman Rush, can be a parable of sex and utopia, an allegory of Mother Africa, a romance of political economy and a rewrite of Botswana's social text in discursive feminism. Many of us felt about "Mating" the way its hero, the "radical decentralist" Nelson Denoon, felt about revolution: "Every- thing we want in a society is what we find brought out in people in the moment of insurrection. Spontaneity! Spontaneous hierarchy! Self-sacrifice! Staying awake all night! Working until we drop! Audacity! Camaraderie! The carnival behind the barricades." For 12 years, even though we should have known better, we've been waiting for a sequel. But "Mortals" is more keening than camaraderie, less a carnival than a curse or purge. 
We do learn from "Mortals" what finally became of Tsau, Denoon's commune in the Kalahari. It is still run by women, but Germans have contracted them to grow and harvest grapple plants, or devil's claw, an ingredient of an aphrodisiac concoction that sells well in international health-food stores. So Tsau has turned into a one-horse company town like Hershey, Pa. 
And 330 pages into the new novel, the hero and heroine of the old one actually show up for a cameo, campaigning against dowry murder, on a stop between India and Zimbabwe. They are less thrilling than we remember. Nelson Denoon, injured while trying to videotape an attempted wife-burning, needs a wheelchair and an oxygen tank. His "mate," who does most of the talking and finally has a name (Karen), is dressed down in a drab tunic and a man's wristwatch. But we are delighted to see them, because by the time Nelson and Karen Denoon arrive in "Mortals," Ray and Iris Finch have already frazzled our nerves. In "Mating" we rooted for Nelson to realize that Karen was as smart as he was and for Karen to decide that Nelson was worth the risk of her autonomy. In "Mortals," we want to avert our eyes as Ray and Iris spend 700 pages throwing away 17 years of marriage. 
"In Africa," thinks Ray, "we're all in costume, look at us." 
Ray and Iris are falling apart from too much of each other, in spite of their cloud trees and house servants, their goat stew and sandalwood, their piggeries and termites. Ray, whose English Lit teaching job at a fancy private school in Gaborone is a cover for his contract service to the C.I.A., as well as a way of imagining himself to be more complicated than he really is, more of an "array" of alternative possibilities, is soon to leave for the north, where some violent trouble is partly his fault. Iris, a decade younger than her husband, "free-associating through the universe of her disappointments," will presently adulterate with a black American doctor, Davis Morel, who, when he isn't treating her mind and body, campaigns to "lift the yoke of Christian belief from Africa." 
Although "Mortals" covers a lot of ground, except for excerpts from a manuscript by Ray's gay brother, Rex, who is dying of AIDS back in the States, and tape recordings of people being spied on, we are stuck inside Ray's head. And it isn't as roomy as Nelson's or Karen's. While he is sometimes obliged to think about Rex, the brother he never loved, or Boyle, his new C.I.A. section boss who did things in Guatemala so terrible that he can't even brag about them, or Kerekang, the dagga-smoking social reformer who quotes Tennyson as often as Ray quotes Milton, mostly Ray obsesses about Iris. She is "his one great friend, his sufficing friend, his pivot and anchor." He wants "to float her in love" so that she will open up "like those paper flowers." Not only, without her, is the world "unintelligible to him," but she is also "uniquely funny." 
(One must say that the evidence for this is inconclusive. Ray, a besotted spouse, dotes on certain Irisisms the drive-by reader is likely to find less than hilarious. He quotes, for instance, her quip that "You must be History because you just repeated yourself." His brother, Rex, seems funnier, describing a Mexico "as frightening as Grace Jones and frightening in somewhat the same way she is. It's sort of beautiful but you get the feeling it wants to bite you." And Ray can be funny, too, especially when hungry, eating the names of writers -- Rice Edgar Burroughs, Oats Joyce Carol, Salmon Rushdie, Spuds Terkel and Bacon Francis.) 
After a while, Ray's uxoriousness seems creepy even to Iris. And when he suspects that she is having an affair, professional paranoia morphs into a persecution complex. His watchfulness, not to be distinguished from spycraft, stalks and suffocates. "You turn into a kind of crouched thing," Iris says, "a crouched listening beast, listening for what everything I say might mean, beyond the simple thing I said itself. . . . It feels like suction." On the other hand, Iris isn't exactly supersubtle, or morale-building, when she says to Ray one night in bed: "Do you know that I don't know if your penis is particularly large or not?" Or when the book she packs for him to read on his trip north is "Madame Bovary." 
"Lately," thinks Ray, who has always hated intuition, coincidence, luck and odd conjunctions, "he was looking too closely at everything around her. It was fear. It felt valedictory." His undercover operations aren't working out much better than his marriage, even if he still feels that "working for the agency resembled working for a giant pharmaceutical more than anything else. Sometimes the pharmaceutical giant got it wrong. It put out the Dalkon Shield, say. But the overall effect of the pharmaceutical was to provide help against disease and suffering, wasn't it?" He consoles himself by recalling passages from D. H. Lawrence, Gerard Manley Hopkins and William Empson: "The true man, the suffering man, is both rebellion and obedience, the ecstasy of apostasy and the hell of inevitable compliance. . . . We are all of us Milton, rebelling and complying and rebelling and complying until we die exhausted."
So far, even in Botswana, we are still on a Cheever/Updike adultery coordinate, with some of Evelyn Waugh's Guy Crouchback to bloody the waters with martyrdom referents. The satiric sendup of postcolonial pretension is equally familiar, from Orwell in Burma to Durrell in Egypt to Burgess in Malaya to Paul Scott in India. So is the spook spoofery, straight out of Graham Greene's Havana and John le Carre's Panama. About Davis Morel's thesis that Christianity is nothing more than "organized regression" and obedience training, intended to infantilize Africans, Rush is as shrewd and hilarious as he was about socialism in "Mating" (with I think a wicked wink at similar sentiments in Nietzsche and Machiavelli). And he is just as postmodern as he is postcolonial when he implies that living in literature is dangerous -- that what looks like "a midden of thought-gems so acute, so beautiful, so apt" as to amount to a how-to manual for the world of action is actually, alas, just another playacting script or delusional system like the cover stories, conspiracy theories and false-bottomed narratives of the clandestine intelligence agencies. 
"Chopping ashes," Iris early on explains to Ray, who thought he knew everything. "Kgabatlela melora. It's what the Batswana say about someone who's doing something really pointless. I guess our closest equivalent would be 'pounding sand,' but that doesn't really capture it in the same way." All the whites in this story seem to be chopping ashes as if they were making art. 
Stop here if you read novels for the plot twists. Now, in the lunatic north, everything gets real and hairy: scorched earth, slaughtered cattle, wild Boers and a brand-new C.I.A. wet dream about Communism's making a race-based comeback with the diamonds and gold of "Mandelaland." Whether or not Kerekang's modest protest movement represents a genuine threat to the ever pliable government of Botswana, the C.I.A. has called in white South African paramilitaries to kill it. Ray, there to observe in his customized Land Cruiser with the money and weapons stashed in a tool chest, is instead held hostage and then tortured by these gangsters. And who should come to check up on him but his wife's lover, the "part-time Antichrist," Dr. Morel with his black medical bag and his own opinions about John Milton, who is likewise arrested, held hostage and tortured. Neither Freud nor Wilhelm Reich can do them any good, much less Wordsworth, Blake and Coleridge, Joyce and Jean Cocteau, Wagner and Matthew Arnold, Yeats and Harold Pinter, Thoreau and Samuel Beckett -- although all of them are mentioned. 
Suffering and fraternity at last . . . but now we must must talk about pilgrimage and levitation, sacrifice and salvation -- about what Norman Rush with a grin calls "immaterialism." Just as Ray emerges from a captivity narrative like Don DeLillo's "Mao II" or Richard Powers's "Plowing the Dark," he suddenly finds himself in another literature altogether, among submachine guns and Molotov cocktails, in a garden of fire in a dead man's boots, with his brother's manuscript strapped to his chest like a suicide bomb. After which, as if in a novel by Dostoyevsky or Robert Stone, he will be resurrected in a cave of snakes in the Bushman desert, and ascend a "monadnock" of boulders more bell-shaped than pyramidal, where he will look at the stars and think about Dante in a holy haze of narcotic smoke. 
I am tempted to say that, in this desert, Siddhartha has met Conrad's Kurtz -- except that Madame Bovary is waiting back at the rondavel for both of them. So marriage is a kind of colonialism, and imperialism is a sort of sex crime, and Christianity turns a blind eye in its other cheek. 
"My utopia," we were told in "Mating" by the anthropologist Karen, "is equal love, equal love between people of equal value, although value is an approximation for the word I want. Why is it so difficult?" Ray's redemption will require him to teach in another country. You may want to go back over the novel to read all the paragraphs you skipped on John Milton and "Paradise Lost," not only to try to figure out who's Cromwell in this scheme -- who's the king and who's the regicide? -- but also to think about Africa as a garden, and the tree of knowledge, and principles of disobedience, and whether Jesus Christ was the first hostage.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Stephen Savage)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); WOMEN (74%); LITERATURE (72%); DESERTS (69%); MANNERS & ETIQUETTE (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (66%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (60%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (55%); HEALTH FOOD STORES (50%) BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS 

ORGANIZATION: PEACE CORPS (84%)

PERSON: LEONARD, JOHN; RUSH, NORMAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: KALAHARI DESERT (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (78%) BOTSWANA (94%); AFRICA (91%); ZIMBABWE (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (78%); UNITED STATES (78%)

TITLE: MORTALS (BOOK) 

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



193 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 744 words

HEADLINE: Closeout 

BYLINE:  By Mitch Epstein 

 BODY:
Epstein Furniture was started in 1911 in Holyoke, Mass., by my grandfather, Israel Epstein, who bartered furnishings for potatoes and ponies. In 1939, my father, Bill Epstein, inherited an immigrant dynasty. By 1970, Epstein Furniture was the largest furniture-and-appliance store in western New England. My father kept it open six days a week, every week, for 60 years. If a serviceman wasn't available at night, Dad would make house calls, with a sense of responsibility as great as any doctor's, to fix a broken refrigerator or stove.
 Epstein Furniture was always a family business. My brother, Rick, took over much of the store's management in the last decade. My father's sister, Selma, worked there a couple of hours a day for 25 years. An absence of communication among these three partners plagued the store in its last decade, as America's business culture was changing, with chain stores and marketing campaigns overtaking the shops that were hands-on and word of mouth. 
 In 2000, after years of operating in the red and with no choice in sight, Rick turned the store over to a liquidation company, which held an emergency going-out-of-business sale. My father fought hard against this, but it was too late. Too much had been lost. 
Then, oddly, seven months after the store's official closing, business recommenced. My father refilled the emptied main showroom with whatever hadn't sold at the liquidation, along with odds and ends he had saved for decades for a "final tag sale." The store was, for him, a family legend and the symbol of his life's offering to his family and community. He would not let it go easily.
In the midst of my father's troubles, I went to Holyoke to help, but there was little I could do. I became mesmerized, though, by the drama unfolding, and I was moved to make a piece of work -- part still photography, part video -- to better understand his life. As a young man, I tried to create a life for myself that was altogether different from my father's. Now, years later, documenting the final days of my father's business was a way, even if I didn't know it at the time, to overcome my alienation from my father.
How did Bill Epstein, former Chamber of Commerce Businessman of the Year in 1974, end up in this predicament? 
My father and his generation of men were and still are driven to fulfill an American dream that had its apogee in the 50's: Work hard, do well. When and how did that equation fail -- for him and for a whole country of American dreamers?

Dialogue Overheard at the Liquidation Sale

Husband (after purchasing mattress): A cocktail and two ends?
Saleswoman: $365.
Husband: It's $365? I've just given you $800. I used to work for Simmons; I know how much you paid for the mattress. You made a good profit on that mattress . . . that I know.
Saleswoman (smiles): Let's see what we're talking. What did you say?
Husband: I offered you $250.
Saleswoman: Tell you what, I don't think we're anything near there, but I'll find out.
Wife: Then if we paid $800 for the mattress. . . .
Saleswoman: Yeah, but it's going to be the best investment you've ever made. If you value your sleep -
Husband: I don't sleep.
Wife (laughs): He always sleeps on the sofa.
Saleswoman: Why?
Husband: Well, it's a little place in Southeast Asia.
Saleswoman: Oh, yeah, it took a toll on you. You've never been the same.
Husband: Something like that.
Saleswoman: Something like that.
Husband: I'm on 100 percent disability.
Saleswoman (to wife): Are you from Vietnam?
Wife: No, I'm from China.
Husband: I went to China to pick her up.
Saleswoman: And did he do a good job?
Wife: So far, so good.
Husband: Believe it or not, as time goes on -- it scares me -- it's getting better.

Conversations With My Father
Many factors, according to my father, led to the store's undoing: the new mall on the city's outskirts that, as he put it, "sucked the blood out of downtown"; the ruthless methods of contemporary business; the vagaries of an economy he believed would always carry him aloft, but which marginalized him. "I can't complain about history," he said. "My complaint is of today's business and the way business is done. In my mind, it is too competitive a world." Another time, he admitted what he hadn't been able to all along. "It was a mistake not having accepted that a change was coming about and this was the time to get out," he said. "I didn't make it clear to myself. I should have been more aware of it. It is too late to call the moves over again."

GRAPHIC: Photos: "Downtown Holyoke," top, and "Liquidation Sale Sign," from the book "Family Business," to be published by Steidl in fall 2003. Opposite: "Dad at His Office." (Mitch Epstein); "Accounts Receivable."; "Epstein Furniture Warehouse."; At left, stills from "Retail." a companion video to "Family Business." (Brent Sikkema); Still of Bill Epstein pricing goods from "Dad." a companion video to "Family Business." Right: "Dad's Old Briefcase at the Store." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LIQUIDATIONS (89%); FAMILY (89%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); CLOSINGS (77%); HOUSEHOLD APPLIANCE STORES (77%); RETAILERS (77%); FAMILY COMPANIES (75%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (53%) FURNITURE; SMALL BUSINESS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL) 

ORGANIZATION: EPSTEIN FURNITURE (CO) 

PERSON: EPSTEIN, MITCH; EPSTEIN, ISRAEL 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); NORTHEAST USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%) HOLYOKE (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



194 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 2776 words

HEADLINE: Suddenly Popular 

BYLINE:  By Stephen J. Dubner; Stephen J. Dubner is the author, most recently, of "Confessions of a Hero-Worshiper." He is writing a book about the psychology of money.

 BODY:
Mark McDonough has a boyish face, outsize eyebrows that dance like dragonfly wings when he speaks and an awful lot of money. He makes a point of not revealing how much -- not to me at least, or to you. But he has more than he will ever need. Because he did not earn the money himself, however, he has a rather complicated relationship with it. He sometimes calls the money "the monster that jumped into my bed."
 He grew up in Paxton, Mass., an hour west of Boston, one of two sons of a hard-working father who made a fortune in plastics. Although it took a long time for McDonough's mother to stop clipping coupons, the family eventually assumed a solidly upper-middle-class life. "My parents would say, 'Well, you know, you are rich,"' he told me. "I'd say, 'Yeah, sure,' but I hadn't seen any of it yet." After college at Vassar, he earned a master's degree in business at the Sloan School of Management at M.I.T. and started a company that developed a computer database. He married, had a daughter and was heading toward a divorce, all without having seen any family money. 
 It was during his divorce negotiations that he was compelled to tap into his inheritance. He did this reluctantly. "One of the family rules was that you don't ask for money," he said. "It's there, but you don't ask for it. You're rich, but you're not rich." His parents freed up enough money for the settlement. A few years later, when his share of the family business began to be liquidated, he was suddenly a wealthy man. By then he had earned another master's degree, this one in marriage and family therapy, and he was counseling welfare families outside Boston. "Welfare people and inheritors have a lot in common," he told me. "They both know they can't survive on their own."
McDonough, 47, speaks excitedly and discursively. With the zeal of a reformer, he relishes telling his cautionary inheritor's tale. 
"So first of all," he said, "there's this closet called the Green Closet. It's one of the last taboos. This culture tells you, if you have more money, you'll be happier. But rich people are in this unique position to say: 'You know what? More stuff doesn't mean more happiness.' But as a rich person, you absolutely cannot tell anybody that there's anything wrong with your life because, first, everybody knows you should be really happy, and, second, they say, 'I should have your problems!' Then there's the shame component. With inherited wealth, there's this little logic chain: I have a lot of money, I should be really happy, but I'm not happy, so I must be really bad."
In 1986, John L. Levy, a sort of freelance philosopher, wrote a monograph called "Coping With Inherited Wealth." It was one of the earlier works in what has become the crowded literature of "affluenza." Levy laid out the traits common to many children of wealth: low self-esteem and self-discipline, difficulty using power, boredom and alienation and guilt and suspiciousness.
McDonough fit snugly into Levy's template. He found himself investing and giving away money recklessly. "I felt I needed to right all the world's injustices," he said. "If you could make a valid case as to why not having money was an impediment in your life, I'd just open up my wallet." Above all, he says, he felt guilty. "It was sort of this Holocaust-survivor thing -- 'Why me? Why did I get to have all this and others did not?'
"And then," he said, "I magically bumped into someone who felt like, Why not me? Now this Why Not Me felt she should have a big chunk of my money, and since I was Why Me, she got a big chunk of my money. When you're bedding down with someone, it's very hard to say no." McDonough's new girlfriend was capable of spending thousands on catalog clothing in a single phone call. "I told her that I came into a lot of money but I didn't know how to enjoy it. She was willing to teach me though, and I signed up for her course. We went on some very expensive vacations that just made my toes curl."
It wasn't as if McDonough hadn't known he would come into money someday. Nor was he what estate lawyers call "a waiter," an heir who never gets on with life, in anticipation of the money's arrival. He was a good example, in other words, of the modern inheritor. People like him bear no resemblance to Richie Rich. They have not been steeped in a culture of wealth and entitlement; they have not been cocooned from the hurly-burly. They are not accustomed to being with money and handling it. They often feel uneasy if they step up a social rung or two. They see their friends, and maybe even their spouses, looking at them differently. They look at themselves differently.
It is an axiom of economics that the more options you have, the better off you will be. But psychology argues otherwise (as does common sense). It seemed that for McDonough, sudden wealth produced too many options. It removed all the rules and conventions and constraints. He found that he couldn't affix a value to anything. Sure, the money belonged to him, but it didn't really feel as if it did. The money was running him, not the other way around.
There are a lot of Mark McDonoughs in America, and many more on the way. They are the offspring of the postwar workhorses who made rubber gloves and cardboard boxes, who sold lumber and life insurance, who built shopping centers and consulting firms and medical practices. They will also increasingly be the children of the aging baby boomers, heirs to the mountains of money that that generation accumulated. Some of this money has already been passed along. Eventually, of course, it all will, and will amount to the largest transfer of private wealth in history.
The dot-com boom may have been spectacular, but it was one torrential cloudburst, with a savvy or lucky few sticking out their buckets before it ended. The Great Wealth Transfer -- as it is breathlessly called by financial advisers, estate lawyers, tax collectors, philanthropy directors and assorted "wealth counselors" -- will be a steady, soaking rain for decades. A 1999 report by the Social Welfare Research Institute at Boston College estimated that at least $41 trillion, and quite possibly double or triple that amount, will change hands by 2052. More than six million estates of $1 million and above will be settled.
The federal government stands to take its trillions (depending on the future of the estate tax). As does the nonprofit sector (again, depending in part on the estate tax, which is the impetus behind so much charitable bequest). But those are the broad landscapes, where even broad changes can be hard to appreciate. The more vivid dramas will play out among individual heirs and their families. 
"We're just beginning to see how this is going to impact everybody," says Robert Kenny, the executive director of More Than Money, a peer network and support group for philosophically inclined wealthy people (including Mark McDonough). "Let's say you're a boomer, in your 50's, and the transfer happens now from your parents. The tuitions are paid, the dentist's paid, you already have the second house. Now all of a sudden, there's this chunk of money. What are you going to do? Lots of people move to Malibu, and they're bored out of their skull."
More Than Money is one sort of group that will probably thrive as the Great Wealth Transfer unspools. Founded in 1991, it has about 1,200 members trying "to explore the impact of money in their lives," as the literature puts it, "and to act on their highest values."
Among the group's guiding lights is Paul Schervish, a sociologist of wealth and philanthropy and co-author of the Boston College wealth-transfer report. A former Jesuit, Schervish is sharp-thinking and plain-spoken. He is a devout proponent of philanthropy but doesn't like the way fund-raising is often practiced. "There's this continuous bullying of the donor," he told me, "and this back-room discussion that uses such terms as 'roughing up the donor,' 'prospecting,' 'cultivating,' 'closing.' It's a sales mentality." 
A significant inheritance, Schervish told me, can easily be a life-scrambling event. "It's what I call temporal empowerment," he said. "It's the ability to reshape your past, attend to the present and chart a future according to your will."
But what might that future look like? Money may be many things to many people, but it is never neutral. Americans in particular seem uncomfortable with the notion of having "enough" money; there is only too little and, for a growing minority, too much. Having too much may solve certain problems, but it tends to create others, some of them purely emotional.
"Money finds the cracks in a relationship," one inheritor, a woman in her early 30's, told me. Her husband -- now her ex-husband -- insisted that money wasn't important to him, but he got upset when she kept her assets in her name alone. "Particularly for women," she said, "it's very hard to be the one with the money."
Jeff Weissglass, chairman of More Than Money, came into family money sooner than he expected, or wanted: within the space of two years, his father and both of his wife's parents died. Weissglass had already downshifted from a Wall Street law career to a job in community-development banking in Chicago. Now the new money left him feeling "like an outsider," he said. "It's a fear of being not seen as a whole person when you let it be known that you don't have this issue in your life that's such a dominant part of the lives of most people." When he's not working for More Than Money, Weissglass, 46, is now primarily a parent. He especially dislikes the odd looks he gets when he's the only father in his kids' playground; he admits that he doesn't like appearing "unaccomplished."
This need for self-actualization -- a phrase you may recall from Psych 101, sitting atop Abraham Maslow's famous pyramid of human needs -- is what most consumes the inheritors I spoke with. They tend to have opted out of the sort of work responsible for the money they now own. As McDonough put it, "There was no satisfaction in making the pile a whole lot bigger." And so . . . what now? What sort of life becomes an heir most?
One inheritor I spoke with, a man in his mid-30's, briefly followed his hard-charging father into the investment world. But after two years there, and a few more years meandering, he recast himself as a consultant to nonprofit organizations. 
And what, I asked him, does your father think of your work? A strange sound came out of him, somewhere between a grunt and a sigh. "Boy," he said, "can you find that out for me?"
New wealth also presents the practical issue of fending off the multitude of opportunists, speculators and hustlers who would gladly be your new best friend for, oh, just a 1.5 percent commission. This perpetual pressure would explain the curious ground rules at a More Than Money conference I visited in early May. Attendees were required to sign confidentiality and nonsolicitation agreements. (Financial advisers have been known to try joining the group to troll for clients.) They were encouraged to remove their name tags whenever entering the hotel's common areas. Placards bore More Than Money's logo rather than the group's full name. "Our hope," a handout explained, "is to minimize the use of provocative language that might elicit unwanted questions from outside of the M.T.M. community."
A few days after that conference, I attended another one, held at a golf resort in Palm Beach Gardens, Fla. It was for the people who want to help the Mark McDonoughs of the world handle their new reality, actualize their new selves. It was a meeting of the Sudden Money Institute, a coalition of financial advisers, psychologists, accountants, philanthropy advisers and estate lawyers trying to make sense of -- and get their piece of -- the Great Wealth Transfer.
The institute is the invention of Susan Bradley, a longtime financial planner and author of "Sudden Money: Managing a Financial Windfall." Bradley is blond, confident and a fast and engaging talker with a whisper of a lisp. "I'm not here to make my millions," she told me. "It'd be nice if that were to happen. But I'm here because this is a personal and collective mission." The mission, as stated in the conference program, is "to create a space to dissolve the boundaries that separate our professions and focus on the interior side of wealth together."
It is never easy for a hard-sell business to get in touch with its soft side. But that is what the Sudden Money Institute -- and the entire financial-services world, it seems -- is trying to do. As money grows ever more central to American culture, and as ever greater doses of psychology are injected into the world of money, financial advisers are making the claim that they are, in effect, the new generation of therapists.
The Sudden Money gathering, however, never felt as much like a meeting of the minds as like a sales conference. Which is what, for all its aspirations, it was. A panel discussion about "wisdom communities," for instance, featured the president of the Institute for Certified Divorce Planners and a long-winded estate lawyer who plainly came to collect referrals. The notion that we were there to dwell on "the interior side of wealth" was not helped by the fact that the meeting room overlooked a luscious swimming pool, and that every presentation was punctuated by the clack-clacking of golf shoes en route to the pro shop. 
A low-grade anxiety, meanwhile, seemed to creep into every corridor conversation. As vast as the Great Wealth Transfer will be, the cottage industry to which the Sudden Money people belong is becoming severely competitive. More and more psychotherapists, their practices wounded by managed care, are repositioning themselves as "wealth coaches." Even the banks and brokerage houses have begun to offer warm-and-fuzzy financial planning. I couldn't help feeling a twinge of concern for the future Mark McDonoughs, besieged by so much financial psychobabble.
Robert Kenny, of More Than Money, came to the Sudden Money conference reluctantly -- out of professional courtesy, he told me -- and by the end of it, whatever enthusiasm he had was spent. Trained in counseling and educational psychology, he is all in favor of candid conversations about money. But shilling and carping wasn't what he had in mind. And too many people there, whether they would admit it or not, were dying to get hold of his membership list. All those thoughtful millionaires, just begging for guidance.
A few days afterward, I caught up with Kenny by phone. When I asked just how aggressively he had been courted at the conference, he laughed. Very, he said. But at least it had been a learning experience: "It's the closest I'll ever get to feeling how my membership feels every day."
Mark McDonough didn't last long as a welfare-family therapist. He did, however, recently break up with Ms. Why Not Me. It has taken him several years, but he finally learned that he has the right -- and the need -- to say no. He is no longer a walking wallet for needy friends or slapdash philanthropists. "I have my spiel now," he told me. "I say, 'I've come to understand that I have many charities, and one of them is not you."' He has even started enjoying his money -- a little bit. "One of the ways I know I'm rich is, when I go to the W Hotel in New York, I decide to buy the high-speed Internet access for $14.95. I still have a hard time spending the $14.95, but I just do the sign of the cross over it and say, 'I can afford this.' You stop doing those eternal calculations."
Money is the puzzle of his new life, and he has begun to solve it. "You either grow it or you give it away, but you need to keep it flowing," he said. "If it's just sitting there, you're living in fear. Fear that it'll run out." He is openly awestruck by the creative philanthropy being practiced by some other inheritors he has met. "Generosity takes away your fear," McDonough said. "But I'm not ready to give away all my money yet. I'm still trying to own it first."
For now he stays busy with a serious hobby, a pair of astrological-database Web sites he built. He's keeping his eyes open, meanwhile, for a philanthropy that turns him on. And, perhaps, for a wife.
"I've come to realize that having money is my ethnicity," he said. "In the same way you say you're Irish-American or Italian-American or Jewish-American -- it doesn't say everything about who you are, but it does tell a lot about your character. It gives a clue about the culture that you come from. It's the same way with money. But here's the trick: We all want to be loved for who we are, not what we've got." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: More doesn't mean better For Mark McDonough, a financial windfall brought guilt, too many options and the feeling that the money was running his life. (Mary Kocol for The New York Times); (Christoph Niemann and David Harry Stewart) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (87%); MEN (75%); FAMILY SERVICES (75%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); MARRIAGE (74%); COUPLE COUNSELING (71%); WILLS (65%); DIVORCE & DISSOLUTION (65%) WILLS AND ESTATES; BOOKS AND LITERATURE 

PERSON: DUBNER, STEPHEN J; MCDONOUGH, MARK; LEVY, JOHN L 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (88%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

TITLE: COPING WITH INHERITED WEALTH (BOOK)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



195 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 2904 words

HEADLINE: The Sink-or-Swim Economy 

BYLINE:  By Harris Collingwood; Harris Collingwood writes frequently on business and finance. He lives in Cambridge, Mass.

 BODY:
What is it with this economy, anyway? Going strictly by the numbers, the most recent recession has been mild in comparison to previous downturns. Since the economy peaked in March 2001, the major markers of economic health -- industrial output, personal income and wholesale and retail sales -- have all traced smaller declines than in the average post-World War II recession. That's why many economists, among them Jeffrey Frankel, a professor at Harvard University's Kennedy School of Government, are inclined to dismiss today's complaints about economic stress and anxiety. "People got spoiled by the 90's boom," Frankel says. "They forgot what recessions are like." 
 But Frankel concedes there's something odd about this latest economic decline. After a short-lived retreat in 2001, gross domestic product after adjustment for inflation actually grew throughout 2002 and managed a 1.9 percent gain in the first quarter of 2003. Yet the economy shed more than 500,000 jobs between January and April. And as Frankel notes dryly, "Wages are not doing so well, either." The latest evidence of wage stagnation: the Labor Department's report last month that the average weekly paycheck, once inflation and seasonal factors are considered, shrank 0.3 percent from March to April of this year. All the contradictory signals have economists wondering what manner of beast stands before them. "In recent economic history," says Robert Hall, an economist at Stanford University's Hoover Institution, "there's been nothing quite like this continued modest G.D.P. growth combined with continuing declines in employment." 
 Different economic indicators have pointed in opposite directions before, of course, but something other than the usual short-term statistical noise is at work here. What's weird, and deeply unsettling, about today's economy is that the big picture bears so little resemblance to the small picture, that is, to everyday life. The big picture shows the economy tracing a gentle, rather lazy slope -- a few tenths of a percentage point up or down, nothing too drastic. Closer to ground level, meanwhile, the action is nonstop and frenetic. At any given moment, some people and businesses are enjoying outrageous good fortune. Others are falling under a rain of slings and arrows. 
But when the people making money faster than they can count it are placed, statistically speaking, alongside the people reduced to counting every penny, all that up-and-down activity averages out to something that looks like stability. Economists have a term for the local-level volatility that affects individual firms but doesn't show up in the big-picture statistics. They call it "idiosyncratic volatility," and it is the signature of our economic age. Not to mention the source of much of our anxiety. 
Alan Greenspan, chairman of the Federal Reserve Board, noted our idiosyncratically volatile time in a 2002 speech in which he reviewed the behavior of the U.S. economy over the past two decades. Technological innovation, as well as deregulation and trade liberalization, "fostered a pronounced expansion of competition and creative destruction," he observed. "The result through the 1990's of all this seeming-heightened instability for individual businesses, somewhat surprisingly, was an apparent reduction in the volatility of output and in the frequency and amplitude of business cycles for the macroeconomy." Translated from Fed-speak, that means that for the past 20 years, individual companies have prospered or failed, entire industries have grown up while others have vanished and, when all that frantic sinking and swimming in the economic waters is plotted as a graph of overall output, it looks like a gently rising curve. Meanwhile, the periods of economic expansion keep getting longer, while the recessions get shorter and less severe. 
That's the sign of a robust system, says Michael Mauboussin, who is paid by Credit Suisse First Boston to think big thoughts about markets and financial behavior. "It takes two essential features to make a system robust," he says. "You need diversity, and you need interaction. That describes the American economy. You have diversity, a lot of local agents doing their own thing based on local information. And these agents interact in the marketplace; at some point, two agents will meet at a price. Then you have a big diversity in outcomes -- some buy, some get bought, some win, some lose -- and that makes for a robust, stable system." A few lines of John Ashbery's seem to apply: "The whole is stable within/Instability . . . /a Ping-Pong ball/Secure on its jet of water."
Recent economic and technological developments have made the system even more robust and stable -- and its constituent parts more idiosyncratically volatile. "In the 1950's," Mauboussin says, "the economy was asset-driven: resources were concentrated in big factories. Business gets bad, and the factory's running at only 50 percent capacity, but you still cling to that factory, because it's too hard and too expensive to replace. Today the economy is people-driven. That gives you much more flexibility, easier resource allocation." Or less technically, it's simpler to get rid of people than a factory. At the same time, thanks to the proliferation of information technology, market signals reach companies faster. They react more quickly and flexibly, reallocating resources -- cutting jobs -- at the first hint of weaker demand.
"Flexibility is good in the aggregate," maintains Frankel, the Harvard economist. It's hard to argue with him. Since the end of World War II, the duration of the average economic expansion has increased to 54 months, while the duration of the average recession has shrunk to 10 months. That's a big improvement over the herky-jerky economic cycles that characterized the prewar decades, when the average expansion, at 26 months, was barely longer than the average recession, at 21 months. "In the old days, all the earthquakes were 6's on the Richter scale," says Donald Ratajczak, a consulting economist and retired Regents professor at Georgia State University. "Now they're all 3's."
That moderation has been achieved, paradoxically, by transmitting job insecurity up the economic ladder. Recessions used to land most heavily on manufacturing workers, the part of the labor force that would be furloughed any time manufacturers misread the market signals and made more goods than they could readily sell. So-called core employees -- managers, headquarters workers, most administrative personnel -- were spared. "Goods producers used to take 70 percent to 80 percent of the job loss," says Ratajczak. "Now they only take 45 percent to 50 percent. The rest falls on the core employees who used to be safe." 
The changing pattern of layoffs is a portent of the "friction free" economy that many economists aspire to. "It's an economist's wet dream," says Roger Martin, dean of the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto and a former co-head of the Monitor Consulting Group. "Economists love maximum efficiency. But people don't. We want market efficiencies to make us richer, but we don't like what an efficient market feels like."
Of course we don't. Nobody likes to lose, and efficiency is one of the chief prizes of capital's victory over labor. Martin's thesis is that capital completed its conquest of blue-collar labor in the 80's, when Ronald Reagan broke the U.S. air-traffic controllers' union and Margaret Thatcher crushed the British coal miners' strike. White-collar workers held out until the recession of 1990-91, when thousands of middle-management jobs -- for example, in the defense sector -- were vaporized. That got through to the labor force: there were no "core jobs" anymore. Management had the whip hand. In the name of efficiency, volatility had trickled up to middle management, and resistance was futile.
Greenspan has taken note of this development, and as with idiosyncratic volatility itself, he doesn't sound too upset about it. In Congressional testimony in 1998, when the economy was defying historical precedent by growing rapidly without accelerating wage inflation, Greenspan opined that widespread fear of layoffs served a useful purpose by keeping workers' wage demands in check. 
For an economist, a little fear may be a salutary thing, but the rest of us find it harder to appreciate. At lunch on a bright spring day, a friend obsesses over the fate of a former colleague, an engineer with 20-odd years of experience who was a senior manager of a firm working on Boston's Big Dig, the $14.6 billion infrastructure project that began in 1987 and is still going strong. Toward the end of last summer, a chronic illness acted up -- he was working brutal hours, 100 percent of them billable to the Big Dig -- and his doctor ordered him to take some time off. Puttering on his boat one afternoon, the engineer collapsed. He nearly died, and spent close to two months in intensive care. He was eager to return to the office, where his friends were, but his recovery was slow, and it was March before he was back at work again. Two weeks later, he was fired.
"Ultimately," my lunch companion says, "his friends fired him. He thought they would stick up for him. But all they said was: 'You earn X and you bill Y. Don't let the door hit you on the way out."' She stares out the restaurant window at the traffic, or maybe past it to her own uncertain prospects. In the aggregate, sure, flexibility is a good thing. But we don't live in the aggregate; we live down here at sea level, and these days every time someone who seemed unsinkable vanishes beneath the economic waves, those around him recalculate their own odds of staying afloat.
The human nervous system wasn't built for extended uncertainty. Like other animals, we react predictably when faced with a threat. Our pulse accelerates, our breathing comes in shallow gasps. Ordinary biological activities -- digestion, immune function, tissue repair -- shut down until the threat has passed. And there's the rub. In the wild, the threat passes quickly, one way or another. But for homo economicus, the threat never goes away, even or especially if it never quite arrives.
Unlike most other animals, points out Robert Sapolsky, a neuroscientist, human beings can -- and often do -- experience stress simply by imagining stressful situations. No immediate threat is necessary. "For 99 percent of the beasts on this planet," Sapolsky tells lecture audiences, "stressful situations include about three minutes of screaming terror, after which the threat is over or you are over. We humans turn on the exact same stress response thinking about 30-year mortgages." And mortgage-induced terror often lasts much longer than three minutes.
Sapolsky likes to say that Hans Selye, the Canadian scientist who discovered the stress response (and borrowed the word "stress" from metallurgy to describe what he observed), "was smart, creative, insightful and totally incompetent at handling laboratory rats." Following up on a colleague's discovery of a particular hormone thought to be stress-related, Selye started injecting the hormone into rats to determine its effects. But injecting the rats was a fumbling, painful process that usually culminated in Selye's chasing the rats around his lab with a broom. Still, the study did yield some results: all the rats injected with the hormone developed stomach ulcers. But so did the control group of rats who were injected, Selye-fashion, with saline solution. Selye concluded that the hormone didn't cause the rats' ulcers; the rats developed ulcers because they were constantly being chased by an angry scientist wielding a needle and a broom.
Rat stories are a staple of Sapolsky's repertory. He likes to tell audiences about a series of rat experiments that all took place in cages with floors wired to deliver a mild shock at a time of the experimenter's choosing. In oneexperiment, a rat was shocked 10 seconds after a warning light went on. Armed with that predictive information, the animal mellowed right out, absorbing the shocks with minimal stress response. Absent the warnings, however, the rat would develop ulcers. In another experiment, rats learned they could sometimes prevent the shock by pressing a lever. No ulcers. Then the experimenters shocked the rats even though they had pressed the lever. Still no ulcers. The lever promoted an illusion of control that forestalled chronic, unrelieved stress.
Would that our cages came equipped with warning lights and levers. Unable to predict or control the shocks that life administers, we respond to chronic, unrelieved stress just as do the most unfortunate rats: muscle atrophy, diminished sex drive, hypertension and all the other ailments that ensue when we shut down all processes except those needed to deal with a clear and present danger. This is what leads researchers to predict that 50 years from now, the biggest public health problem in the developed world will be depression. 
Credit Suisse First Boston's Mauboussin invited Sapolsky to speak last year at an annual conference attended by some of Wall Street's most accomplished players, people who earn millions of dollars by investing billions of dollars of other people's money. "Here's Sapolsky," says Mauboussin, "he doesn't know a thing about money management. Here are all these money managers, they don't know anything about neurobiology. But when he was finished, they all said, 'That guy is playing my song.' "
Think about that. The attendees at Mauboussin's conference sit at the tippy-top of the American economic pyramid. And yet they identified with Sapolsky's tales of stressed-out lab rats as readily as any wage slave worried that the next paycheck might be the last. That's the devil's bargain of the sink-or-swim economy: from the highest to the lowest, the price of ever-greater collective stability is ever-greater individual insecurity.
Although we drift in the same sea, it's hard to feel we're all in the same boat. Isolation, Mauboussin theorizes, is another byproduct of idiosyncratic volatility. Robust systems depend on interaction, and interaction is a function of connectivity -- the e-mail and cellphones and Web sites that enable us to communicate with anyone anywhere and transact business 24 hours a day. "It's a funny thing," he notes, "but as connectivity has increased, average firm size has decreased. Connectivity accelerates disaggregation." The more connected we become, the more complete our isolation.
But why reach to blame technology for our growing atomization when good old competition is close at hand? As Frankel says, lowballing it as usual: "There's a trend toward dog-eat-dog." The fear of layoffs that Greenspan noted extends vertically to the boss and horizontally to anyone younger, smarter, cheaper who threatens our jobs. So much for worker solidarity -- it's hard to make common cause with someone who, we suspect, wants to snatch the bread from our mouths. In such circumstances, Hobbes's "war of all against all" is less a bleakly accurate observation than a self-fulfilling prophecy.
Solidarity is an artifact of an age before idiosyncratic volatility. Before there was a Federal Reserve System or unemployment insurance or friction-free labor markets, the economy bucked and skidded like an old jalopy with a bad clutch. But its volatility was a collective phenomenon. The Great Depression made up the common substance of experience for an entire generation. Today the larger economy traces an arc that little resembles the shape of individual fortunes. It rolls ahead serenely, as our lives grow ever more crowded, anxious and solitary.
When dot-coms were going to take over the world, there was much approving talk of the free-agent economy. Have skills, will travel: human capital was like any other form of capital in the friction-free economy, there to be reallocated as the market might dictate. In this new stage of economic evolution, our job security would evaporate, but our wealth would increase. Or so went the sales pitch. In reality, our jobs are less secure, but all the job-hopping doesn't make us richer. Academic studies have shown that about 60 percent of the people who move from job to job (voluntarily or not) wind up with lower lifetime earnings than their less adventurous counterparts who remain for years with the same employer. Still, the notion persists that we can and will climb from a well-paying job to one better, as the bidding for our services heads ever higher. "Everyone thinks they're going to be a major-leaguer," Ratajczak says with a laugh. "Everyone's above average."
But rising doubts may be eroding that assurance. As retail sales stagnate and consumer confidence remains low, the economic navigators at the Federal Reserve worry about deflation. In a deflationary environment, people defer immediate purchases of already cheap goods because they assume that prices will be even lower next month. But the calculus may be different this time. Consumers may be reluctant to buy because slowly, grudgingly, they are losing faith in the American master narrative, with its promise of social and economic advancement in return for hard work. Americans have always taken for granted that better days are coming. Is our present angst the first flicker of suspicion that the better days have already been and gone? 

GRAPHIC: Photo (Christoph Niemann and David Harry Stewart) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); RECESSION (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (78%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); CENTRAL BANKS (68%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (67%); RETAIL SALES (57%); WORLD WAR II (56%) UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT; WAGES AND SALARIES; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION 

ORGANIZATION: HARVARD UNIVERSITY (57%); STANFORD UNIVERSITY (54%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (58%) COLLINGWOOD, HARRIS 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



196 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 2550 words

HEADLINE: The History of American Capitalism in a Single Industrial Complex 

BYLINE:  By Jon Gertner; Jon Gertner is a contributing writer at Money magazine.

 BODY:
To take the pulse of the American economy, you could do worse than go to Maynard, Mass., and toss questions at Jeff Taylor. As the chairman of the Internet job board known as Monster, Taylor has built a central hub for the world's job seekers and located it just down the hall from his large corner office. Actually, the hub is somewhat less grand than it sounds: a brightly lighted room, dense with the fug of electronic heat, lined with rows of Dell computer servers. These are the company's databanks. Monster currently has about 26.5 million resumes on file and lists about a million help-wanted ads from employers every month. "Each of these servers can do 480 job searches a second," Taylor said as we paused in front of some blinking equipment on a recent afternoon. "We get two million visitors per day and 30,000 new resumes. People come here quietly and stomp around looking for work. They're here right now." 
 Taylor can quickly relate what the traffic through this room says about the state of health-care jobs (strong and growing), general desperation (we're still in a trough) and manufacturing (those 2.5 million lost jobs may not be coming back). He considers Monster an early indicator of trends in the broader market. So it is not encouraging to hear that at this moment, in midspring, a rebound is not visible -- postings by employers remain flat to down. 
 Monster itself, on the other hand, has been a profitable company in good years as well as not-so-good years. Taylor ascribes this in part to the Monster name (originally Monster.com), which came to him in a dream one night in the early 1990's, and to his business model, whereby employers pay and job hunters get free access. And then there's the location. While it matters little to the job hunters that their virtual search takes them through this building, it says a great deal about the evolution of business in America. Indeed, Monster is a highly evolved product of its environment, not the garish purple walls and dot-com decor, but rather the 19th-century redbrick mill in which Monster first rented space five years ago and where it now occupies 280,000 square feet.
It is not a stretch to say the mill in Maynard is a microcosm of the U.S. economy. Taylor knows it, and so do many of the other 90 companies that call it home. The mill is a sprawling labyrinth of buildings comprising about 1.1 million square feet; the tenants here, most of them technology firms of one form or another, have survived the slump and have found a way to either hang on or prosper. This seems to go with the territory. The ups and downs here over the course of 150 years present a self-contained history, a history writ in miniature, of the country's financial health. The mill has seen plenty of booms. It has weathered spectacular busts. And its tenants have often, in matters large and small, offered hints about what comes next.
Maynard lies about 25 miles west of Boston, just beyond the rural bedroom communities of Concord and Lincoln. As you drive in from western Massachusetts, rolling apple farms on the outskirts give way to working-class homes that were once company housing, rented by the month in the early 1900's by millworkers and foremen. The small downtown village itself is a patchy mix of provincialism and sophistication, where bars, appliance outlets and a few shuttered storefronts mingle with cappuccino shops and Brazilian, Thai and Indian restaurants. Like much of the Boston metro area, the town has enjoyed rising home values over the past few years, but Maynard, with a population of 11,000, could never be mistaken for a telegenic Yankee village. It has been settled over the last century and a half by a succession of impoverished immigrants who came to work the mill, first from England and Ireland, then from Italy, Finland, Poland and Russia.
During my days in Maynard, I spent a good amount of time with Joe Mullin, a town native who's now a partner in the real-estate concern that owns and manages the mill buildings. Mullin is a Harvard graduate who counts former classmates like Al Gore and Tommy Lee Jones as friends, but he is also a fifth-generation millworker whose grandmother left school in the fifth grade to work 60 hours a week on the looms here. Mullin has a great-uncle who went deaf in the mills, and many of the town residents have relatives who lost their hearing, and often their health, from a lifetime of loud and brutal work there. "They had no pension," Mullin said one afternoon as we climbed the 120 steps of the mill's clock tower together. "And this was before they had workers' compensation."
Mullin is fluent in his buildings' history, relating how in the 1840's an entrepreneur named Amory Maynard diverted part of the Assabet River into a mill pond so he could build a woolens plant. The first factory here failed in the panic of 1857, but a few years later, Maynard helped reorganize the business into the Assabet Manufacturing Company, which succeeded instantly by producing blankets and flannels for the Union Army. Over the next few decades, one massive brick building after another was added to the site -- until the business collapsed again in 1898, a failure that ravaged the savings of town residents who used the Assabet company as their bank. Within a year, the deed was sold to the American Woolen Company, a textile giant that eventually expanded the site to more than a dozen buildings and by 1920 had transformed the complex into the largest wool factory in New England. During that era, the millworkers, whose ranks numbered several thousand, were brought inside the gates with a blast of a whistle at 6:45 a.m. and began the day at 6:59 sharp with the single chime of a bell. Bales of raw wool arrived by truck and train and moved from building to building to be processed, spun, woven, tinted and ultimately rolled into bolts of cloth. Paul Boothroyd, a curator of the town's historical society, recalls that as a child in the 1940's, he could tell the color of a woolen order by the color of the river, whether yellow, blue or green -- the extra dye was dumped into the Assabet.
By the 1940's, wool production had begun to move abroad and to the Deep South, and after World War II, American Woolen scaled back its Maynard work force to about 1,200. Then in 1950 it closed down the mill shop altogether. A talk with Boothroyd, like a talk with Mullin, is a quick way to dash some of the more romantic associations these buildings inspire. "My father died at age 68," Boothroyd said. "And the cause of death -- just worn out."
In the early 1950's, with American Woolen gone and the town dying, it was Joe Mullin's father, a Maynard selectman, who helped bring in a group of businessmen that purchased the mill property and began to market it to a variety of local businesses. By the mid-1950's, the mill was host to an odd mix of companies -- light industrial, heavy industrial, back office, front office, warehouse -- in search of bargain rates and room to expand. Companies like Raytheon, for instance, and American Can Company didn't seem particularly geared to a hulking woolen plant but nevertheless found that the space, the rent and the local talent pool were good for growth. In 1957, an M.I.T. graduate named Ken Olsen, who was backed by what was then one of the few venture-capital firms in existence, visited the mill. He saw something usable here in the raw and drafty building with poor heat, layers of paint and floorboards deeply saturated with lanolin, and he decided to rent 8,600 square feet for a startup he named the Digital Equipment Corporation. His engineers liked to keep odd hours, working problems deep into the night and disregarding any power structure or pecking order. They didn't mind the holes in the floor or the birds flying around the rafters inside, and none of them yet knew what a tech incubator was. In those early days at the mill, however, with Olsen's encouragement, they seemed to be creating one.
Digital is a good example of those vanished entities of the first computer era whose innovations fragmented into tens of thousands of other new ideas and whose work force splintered into hundreds of other corporations. Historically speaking, it became the second largest computer company in the world after I.B.M., and the largest producer of minicomputers. Under Olsen's leadership, the company bought the entire mill complex in 1974 and used it as a corporate headquarters until Digital suffered a sharp decline after misjudging the market for PC's and Unix-compatible machines. Olsen was ousted in the early 1990's, and Digital downsized; in 1993, its new executive team decided to sell the mill and move out. A few years later, Digital was purchased by Compaq -- which in turn merged in 2002 with Hewlett-Packard. 
Joe Mullin's group had begun to rehabilitate the empty mill, which they rechristened Clock Tower Place, in 1998. Some of the executives on the development team had been impressed by Microsoft's grounds in Redmond, Wash., and decided to try and create a self-contained campus in that image. They made it a priority to bring in a child-care facility, cafeteria and gym (actually, Gold's Gym). Meanwhile, the Route 128 corridor nearby was enjoying a revival not unlike the one in Silicon Valley, and the Clock Tower Place owners hoped they could undercut the competition for technology companies in Cambridge and Waltham, Mass. Under Olsen, Digital had already tidied up the mill, and the floor plan made it easy to alter the space for companies of any size or need. And there was something else as well. Before Digital moved out -- and long before anyone could see the potential of such an investment -- the company's executives had decided to hang miles of fiber-optic cable from the ceilings.
The optimistic long view -- that what is useful in this economy will ultimately be used again, whether it is a building or an idea or an employee -- runs against the grain in an age of uncertainty. But it's hard to spend time at the mill and see how it could be any other way. It's there in the smokestack, which is now a cellular reception tower for Verizon, AT&T and others; it's there in the optical cable that made the mill an option for leading-edge companies like Monster, PalmSource, Aprilis and Electronic Data Systems; it's there in the former Digital employees I spoke with who now work for some of the smaller startups here and who also make up a core of some 20,000 to 30,000 workers within Hewlett-Packard. Moreover, the mill's reinvention transcends the purely physical. At a dedication ceremony here recently, Olsen came to talk about how his original computers trained the generation of tech entrepreneurs that have moved in. One of those entrepreneurs, Harvey Deitel, is a former Boston College computer science professor who runs a corporate computer training and textbook company out of the mill. Deitel's first computer experiences, in the mid-1960's, were on a Digital machine that had been donated to M.I.T. by Ken Olsen; he later went to work for Digital doing corporate training. When I visited him, he took me into his office -- a huge office by any standards, with soaring ceilings and extraordinary high windows -- and insisted I take it all in. "This is Ken Olsen's old office," Deitel said proudly. "This is a special place."
Not all the stories here hit such grace notes. Many dot-coms that set up shop in the mill in 1999 or 2000 quickly imploded. There was computer.com, which spent more than 50 percent of its startup money on one Super Bowl Sunday and failed quickly thereafter. There was digitalgoods.com, which spent enormous sums designing a splendid new office and was gone in less than two years. Even today there are empty offices left behind by obscure companies that collapsed, like LumaPath, and technology giants like Lucent, which purchased startups that then pulled out. (Lucent still pays rent on this "shadow space.") All told, there is ample proof, as if more were needed, of how many entrepreneurs and executives have failed in the last few years. On one walk through the mill, I came upon a group of men and women sitting in a semicircle outside the cafeteria. I imagined they were working on a product launch, and in a sense they were, though not in the way I presumed. This turned out to be a group of volunteers from 495NSG -- a networking support group of about 1,500 out-of-work technology employees from the Route 495 corridor. They've rented an office here and were trying to work on articles of incorporation to make themselves into a nonprofit. "We are trying to extend our services to the long-term unemployed," said its director, Tony Badman, a former tech company middle manager who was working as a substitute letter carrier for the U.S. Post Office. "Unfortunately, we are in fact now a business."
It was tempting to suggest that he go visit Jeff Taylor of Monster a few buildings away. Taylor is an unreconstructed optimist, a man who, in an early publicity stunt for his company, set the world record for water-skiing while being pulled by a blimp. Certainly that was a different moment for money and business in America, a moment when anything seemed possible and nothing seemed too outlandish. Still, Taylor isn't one to dwell on what has happened since as some kind of tragedy unique to our times. "1961, 1971, 1975, 1981, 1992, 2001," he said as we paused by a window that overlooked the mill pond. "This has happened before. And it has happened in recent-enough memory that we should start to plan on business cycles and corporate cycles with a little bit more regularity. We behave badly as a country around some of these predictable events."
What Taylor is readying himself for are the demographic changes of the coming decades -- sparked by the retirement of the boomer generation -- that he is certain will create the worst employee shortage in modern U.S. history. The hordes of job seekers who've come to his site during the downturn have allowed Monster to carve out an increasingly large part of the help-wanted pie -- to go from a company that merely "remedies market inefficiencies," as Taylor put it, to a force that has the potential to accelerate the pace at which Americans shift jobs and chase opportunity. Indeed, Taylor says he believes that someday soon, when the economy comes roaring back, Americans will never have to suffer in a job a minute more than they'd like. "With a million technology jobs open in 1999," he said, "there was absolute panic. When you talk about 10 million open positions, you're talking about companies going out of business not because of their products or services but because they're not good at recruiting or retaining talent."
As he sees it, this is the future. Lots of jobs, lots of options, but also more churn -- a different kind of churn, perhaps, but a permanent churn. It is hard to envision such a thing in today's climate of layoffs and wage freezes. Then again, volatility moves us in all different ways, up as well as down, and always toward unforeseeable ends. By all accounts, those people rummaging through the databanks down the hall, the millions of Americans now searching and searching for work, shouldn't have ended up in a reconfigured 19th-century mill. But here they are. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Circa 1905; The first boom: The American Woolen Company.; 2003; After an exodus of dot-com failures, the mill is in the midst of a revival. (Maynard Historical Society, from "Images of America: Assabet Mills," Arcadia Publishing, 1999); Circa 1930; Workers in the spinning room.; 2003; The spinning room today, part of the Monster offices.; Circa 1930; Workers in the dressing-spool area.; 2003; The spool area today, used by Powell Flutes. (Maynard Historical Society, from "Images of America: Assabet Mills," Arcadia Publishing, 1999, 2003, Daniel Peebles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EMPLOYMENT LISTINGS & SITES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NETWORK SERVERS (75%); HEALTH CARE (66%); RENTAL PROPERTY (64%) LABOR; COMPUTERS AND THE INTERNET; UNITED STATES ECONOMY 

COMPANY: MONSTER WORLDWIDE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: MONSTER.COM 

TICKER: MWW (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS561320 TEMPORARY HELP SERVICES (58%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (58%)

PERSON: GERTNER, JON 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (98%) MAYNARD (MASS)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



197 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
Correction Appended 
 Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 4034 words

HEADLINE: Ivy Envy 

BYLINE:  By Mark Levine; Mark Levine is a frequent contributor to the magazine. His last article was about a $19,450 cellphone.

 BODY:
A street-level marquee on the mottled limestone facade of a onetime hat factory just east of Washington Square Park, in Greenwich Village, advertises the current attractions at the Bottom Line cabaret. Bohemian spirits have congregated at the nightclub since 1974, when the opening-night party drew Mick Jagger, Carly Simon and Janis Ian. In those days, a college kid might have been presumed to be more enthralled with folk rock than with finance. No longer. Now, several flights up, in a warren of cramped offices, the bottom line is disputed in ways that would spin the heads and glaze the eyes of aged hippies. There, in the halls of New York University's department of economics, a group of data-crunching devotees of things macro and micro have become leading characters in a drama of academic empire building -- and brand building -- that has captivated aficionados of the sporting world of higher-octane higher education. Last August, N.Y.U. served notice of its "white-hot ambitions," in the words of Richard Foley, the school's dean of the faculty of arts and sciences, by announcing its Steinbrenner-like acquisition of eight new economists and its intention to pursue another dozen or 15 over the next few years. N.Y.U.'s higher-ups are betting on economics, the abstruse and insular discipline that Thomas Carlyle dubbed "the dismal science," to set the tone for something the school's new president, John Sexton, a man temperamentally incapable of understatement, calls "a new paradigm for the American university." 
 Peter Diamond, a professor of economics at M.I.T. and president of the 18,000-member American Economic Association, cannot recall an academic hiring spree of such dimensions in the field -- let alone one that unfolded in sorrowful budgetary times for American universities. N.Y.U.'snew faculty members were lured from the World Bank, the London School of Economics, the University of Michigan and Boston University, among other places. (In addition, N.Y.U.'s Stern School of Business, which has its own economics department, grabbed Adam Brandenburger, a star theorist, from Harvard, and Niall Ferguson, a leading historian of economics, from Oxford.) The most stunning coup, by far, was N.Y.U.'s hiring of Thomas Sargent, who is among a handful of most-revered economists living, and who is widely regarded as a leading contender for an eventual Nobel Prize. Sargent turned down offers from the University of Chicago and M.I.T. -- both solidly ensconced among the top five economics programs in the world -- and came to N.Y.U. from Stanford, which, along with Harvard and Princeton, typically rounds out most estimates of the field's elite. In ballpark terms, N.Y.U.'s moves had the appearance of a solid small-market team -- the St. Louis Cardinals, say -- beefing up its roster to make a run at the pennant by adding a core of solid role players and a Hall of Fame pitcher in the prime of his career. "The people N.Y.U. is getting are terrific," admits Robert Lucas, a Nobel laureate at the University of Chicago. "It's not Top 5 yet, but I'd say it's Top 10. We wanted Sargent, so when they hired him, it certainly got our attention." According to Michael Kremer, a development economist at Harvard: "What N.Y.U. has done is not something that happens every year. I think Harvard had better stay on its toes." 
 N.Y.U.'s economics department has come a long way since the 70's, when a university chancellor called the program the worst in the country. Around that time, a department chairman was fired for financial improprieties. "It was the Dark Ages," says Andrew Schotter, 55, who joined the department 27 years ago. Desperate to raise its profile, the department hired a quartet of famous but elderly economists, including 1973 Nobel laureate Wassily Leontief, who was at Harvard. "Some of these people were thinking, O.K., I'm at the end of my career, I'll move to New York and go to the opera," says another longtime faculty member. During Schotter's eight years as department chairman, however, the department "decided to change the norms that fostered mediocrity." And by 1998, a study published in The Journal of Economic Perspectives, one of the top professional publications, had ranked N.Y.U.'s economics program sixth in the country for the quality of faculty research. Indeed, after years of bolstering its ranks with promising young economists, N.Y.U. had begun encountering a problem well known to second-tier sports franchises: as its personnel matured, they became bait for better-established schools. In 1999, his first year as chairman of the department, Douglas Gale remembers: "We had 30 people, and 10 of them had offers from other schools; some of them had multiple offers. We lost people to Princeton, Yale, the Kennedy School of Government at Harvard, University of Pennsylvania." N.Y.U. pays its valued faculty well -- new entry-level professors in economics earn around $80,000, and the top senior faculty members make more than $200,000 -- and the school was prepared to match the salary offers of outside bidders. The problem of retaining faculty was not strictly monetary, though. N.Y.U. could simply not vie with the top schools on the basis of what Mark Gertler, the current chairman of the economics department, refers to as the mother-in-law effect -- "not just how good the school might be, but what a mother-in-law will think."
Academic wooing makes other forms of romance seem straightforward in comparison. It begins in rumor and often ends in abject spurning; its convolutions occur somewhere near the juncture of Freudian psychology and economic game theory. Academic economists appear to have a peculiarly keen interest in continually testing their market value by flirting with interested schools. Yaw Nyarko, who has been at N.Y.U. since 1988, says "it's taken for granted" that some advance their salaries by getting the school to match an offer from somewhere else. As such, a department in the suitor's role often finds itself expending time, energy and self-esteem on what turns out to be an elaborate tease. According to Gale, a typical batting average in senior faculty recruitment is about .200 -- that is, two hires for every 10 offers. After a few years of being roundly rejected by their prospects, Gale and his colleagues began the 2001-2002 academic year wearily intending to chase six or seven recruits, in the hope of hiring one or two. The department had "hit a wall," as one of its members, Jess Benhabib, puts it.
On Washington Square Park, though, loftier plans were being laid for economics. There, on the top floor of the Philip Johnson-designed red sandstone megalith that houses Bobst Library and the offices of the university's top administrators, John Sexton, dean of N.Y.U. Law School since 1988, was preparing to take over N.Y.U.'s presidency. Sexton had no particular interest in or knowledge of economics as a scholarly matter. What he had was a desire to generate a high-volume buzz around his vision for a new N.Y.U. In this vision, N.Y.U. would emerge as the school of the Pepsi -- or Mountain Dew -- generation: a vibrant upstart competitor to richer, tradition-laden places like Harvard and Princeton. N.Y.U. would be forward-thinking, Clintonesque in the breadth and voraciousness of its embrace and eager to capitalize on its downtown urbanity, aspiring, in Sexton's words, to be "the world's first global university in the world's first truly global city -- the intellectual epicenter of the world's epicenter." Sexton had the bold strokes down. It was the opening move that eluded him. "Where do we start?" he recalls thinking. Then, suddenly, "economics jumped out as an opportunity."
At N.Y.U. Law, Sexton was known as "the hugging dean." One former colleague of his tells me that "you learned to measure how well you were pleasing Sexton by whether you had a one-hug, a two-hug or a three-hug meeting." I receive a single somewhat-more-than-perfunctory hug on my first visit to Sexton's office. He peels off his jacket, loosens his tie, drops into an armchair, leans forward until I am tempted to lean back and lunges into a three-hour harangue. He blends an outer-borough politician's mastery of hardball tactics with an evangelical zeal that can wear down cynics. He says he "thinks in ever-widening concentric circles," and he talks that way, too. Raised in the urban beach town of Belle Harbor, on the Brooklyn-Queens border, and educated by Jesuits, Sexton went to Fordham, a Catholic university, on scholarship. During his freshman year, his father died, and for reasons Sexton is at a loss to explain, he turned his attention to coaching a debating team at St. Brendan's, an all-girls Catholic school in Kings Highway, Brooklyn. He called the club the Society, instilled in it "Communist" values and says it provided the model for his missionary approach to education -- what he has come to call the Common Enterprise -- in which teachers, students and their institution are tightly bound by a sense of shared duty. He ran the club for 15 years, and the girls won five national debating championships. Timothy Healey, a young priest at Fordham, liked Sexton and steered him into a graduate program in theology; Sexton wrote his dissertation but failed to have it typed for a dozen years, by which time he was about to get a degree from Harvard Law. He joined N.Y.U.'s law faculty in 1981, after serving as a clerk for Supreme Court Chief Justice Warren Burger; he became dean seven years later.
During his reign at the law school, Sexton engineered the most stunning climb to the top in the recent history of American legal education. The school, which had barely broken into the ranks of the Top 20, came in the view of many observers to merit utterance in the same breath as Harvard, Yale and Stanford. It did this mainly through Sexton's relentless faculty recruitment, which involved spending at least 10 hours, and sometimes many more, in one-on-one sessions with faculty being considered for hire. Sexton sold his vision of a law school centered on the Enterprise. "In the Enterprise, we want people who view their role in a university as a sacred trust," Sexton says. "We want people who impose on themselves, daily, the requirement to answer affirmatively to the question, 'Am I living a useful life?' " His plan worked surpassingly well. Between 1992 and 2002, Sexton persuaded three dozen senior professors to bolt from the likes of Harvard, Yale, Stanford, Chicago, Virginia and Michigan. Sexton paid competitive salaries but refused to engage in "free-agency bidding." The people who made good Enterprise players, he says, were not motivated primarily by money. Money, however, was instrumental to Sexton's ambitions for the law school, and his gift for raiding faculties was matched by his success at raiding sources of fund-raising. In 1998, he ended a seven-year fund-raising campaign that took in $185 million, at that time a record for a law school.
As president, Sexton has been determined to send a clear message to faculty, students and the world of higher education that the Enterprise is going universitywide. "I believe in convergence," Sexton explains, "and there were a number of factors that made economics ideal to use as a prototypical experiment of the values I'm hoping will permeate the university." Sexton's decision to elevate economics was, unsurprisingly, fundamentally economic in nature. Sexton knew that America's business-obsessed society of the past decade had made economics the sexiest, most attention-getting discipline in the humanities and social sciences. A high-powered economics department was apt to generate favorable publicity for the university, and to spur its elevation in coveted but much-scorned rankings like those put out by U.S. News and World Report. Moreover, N.Y.U.'s economics department was chronically understaffed, its student-teacher ratio higher than that of any other department in the College of Arts and Science. In the context of N.Y.U.'s $1.5 billion annual budget, a splashy investment in economics was relatively inexpensive, especially in comparison to the cost of recruiting scientists, who require multimillion-dollar labs for their research. Above all, Sexton had determined that N.Y.U.'s economics department was already solid enough that a modest boost from the president could push it to the top of the standings in its field, and give Sexton the biggest bang for his faculty buck.
In February 2002, Sexton agreed to assist economics in its pursuit of Patrick Kehoe, a top-notch macroeconomist at the Federal Reserve Bank in Minnesota. Sexton arranged to spend a Friday and a Saturday with Kehoe in Greenwich Village, and he liked him immediately. Kehoe, an Irish-Catholic who had attended Providence College, came from a milieu with which Sexton was intimately familiar.
Personal matters would ultimately prevent Kehoe from coming to N.Y.U., but a few days after his visit, Kehoe called Sexton and started talking about the economist he most admired, a man named Tom Sargent. Sexton had never heard the name. Sargent, Kehoe explained, had led a revolution in macroeconomics. What's more, Kehoe said that he believed that Sargent embodied the qualities -- boundless intellectual energy and deep commitment to students -- that Sexton had identified as core attributes of the Enterprise. Sexton asked if Kehoe had Sargent's phone number, and a few days later, Kehoe patched through a conference call to him, in Palo Alto. Sexton told Sargent that he wanted to fly to California that weekend to meet him. Sargent demurred, but Sexton refused to get off the phone until he extracted a promise from Sargent to come to New York and hear about Sexton's plans for N.Y.U. "Then," Sexton says, "I checked with the people in economics about whether they'd be interested in Sargent, and they said, 'Wow.' " 
During his conversations with Sargent, Sexton learned that after just four years at Stanford, Sargent was indeed looking to move, and had entered into discussions with Chicago and M.I.T. Sexton sprang into high gear. At the end of February, he convened a meeting with the entire economics faculty, at which he spoke of his desire to nab Sargent and presented the terms of a deal: "I told them, 'If you folks, the princes and princesses of cost-benefit analysis, will transform your approach to the institution, I will help you become one of the great departments in the world." In effect, Sexton was offering to make economics the charmed first node of the Enterprise. The department would get showered with presidential attention, but would have to demonstrate a willingness "to subordinate your own interests to a collective compact of excellence." In baseball terms, Sexton's mission was to persuade the faculty that each member should aspire to be a Luis Sojo -- the unglamorous journeyman on two championship teams of the Yankees -- rather than an Alex Rodriguez. Sexton stressed that he was willing to use the resources at his disposal -- like housing benefits and private-school-tuition assistance for children of faculty members -- to bring what he called "A-plus" scholars to N.Y.U., but that if doing so caused current faculty members to beg for similar packages, then "the deal's off." Sexton also hinted at the costs of deciding against the Enterprise. As he likes to say, "I would not want to be the object of the verb 'ignored' when the subject of the sentence is John Sexton."
One economist at the meeting told me: "A few of the deadwood in the department were upset about the issue of salary. They've been here a long time and haven't had outside job offers, so they're not that well paid. But economists are realists about markets and don't begrudge people getting what they're worth. The great majority of us realized that what was good for the department was ultimately good for each of us, because being in a high-status department raised everyone's status." The department held a vote, unanimously endorsing Sexton's plan. After the meeting, Sexton ran into Jess Benhabib in Washington Square. " 'The department is electric,' " Sexton recalls Benhabib saying. According toBenhabib, "John said: 'Why haven't you hired anyone yet this week? Who are you hiring next week?' " 
Thomas Sargent's office at N.Y.U. has two exposures -- one looking south toward the Woolworth Building, the other facing Tower Records to the east -- but otherwise it betrays no signs that its occupant is the recipient of special favors. It has industrial carpeting and bare walls. Predictably haphazard stacks of files and cardboard boxes are pushed against a wall, gym clothes lie folded on a windowsill and bookshelves are cluttered with economics texts, including some that Sargent has written. A collection of stories by Jorge Luis Borges, "Labyrinths," rests on a corner of the desk. On his wrist is a plastic Casio watch with keys for a calculator. Sargent is, in Sexton's admiring words, "one of those people at a world-class level who hasn't sought to be on 'Nightline' " -- a sharp, if implicit, contrast to Jeffrey Sachs, the celebrity-status economist hired by Columbia last year, for whom Columbia bought an $8 million town house. Sargent, 59, is the most famous living economist that noneconomists have never heard of. Thirty years ago, he developed an intuition that the prevailing macroeconomics models, particularly those dealing with inflation and interest rates, were predicated on flawed assumptions about the behavior of markets, and that these flaws provoked governments to intervene in economies in destabilizing ways. He pulled apart the models and reconstructed them using what he called "rational expectations" of marketplace behavior. The results of his work have changed monetary policy around the world and played a major role in bringing inflation rates under control in developing countries. 
Sargent did not come to N.Y.U. for riches. He could have commanded a similar salary -- thought to be around $210,000 -- at any number of other schools. But he says he had a "hunch" about N.Y.U. "It's a kind of workingman's department," he tells me. "It doesn't have a big head compared to other places. The people here don't have consulting firms. They're doing real work -- they teach, they do research. And they're really decent people. I need other people to do my best work. Economics is like sports -- the real stuff is being done by young guys, and you have to work hard to keep up with them. Old guys like me are like boxers -- we've seen a lot of moves, but our reflexes are slower. There are a lot of young guys here to keep me sharp."
During Sexton's first meeting with Sargent, Sargent spoke of the need to bolster support for graduate students; the letter Sargent received offering employment specified the creation of 20 new graduate fellowships. Sexton promised to renovate the shabby quarters of the economics department. Above all, when Sexton got wind of the fact that Sargent's wife directed a program at Stanford to assist faculty members in buying housing in high-cost Palo Alto, he created a similar position for her at N.Y.U.
Sargent deliberated for months before making a decision. Nonetheless, word had gotten out in the field that he was taking N.Y.U.'s offer seriously. Ennio Stacchetti, an old colleague of Sargent's, received a phone call from Sargent "strongly hinting that he was on his way to N.Y.U." Stacchetti promptly accepted his own offer from N.Y.U. John Leahy at Boston University did likewise. For Gianluca Violante, a young macroeconomist, what transpired among the recruits was "a critical-mass effect. Economists like to think of it as a 'coordination equilibrium,' in which one person's independent decision is affected by the decisions of others around him. In other words, something big was going on." Violante, the only untenured academic among the eight new faculty members, turned down an offer of tenure at the London School of Economics for an office next to Sargent. Most of the new hires were already leaning heavily toward coming to N.Y.U. before Sargent made his interest apparent. Some were eager to live in New York; most said they felt that N.Y.U. was a step up from the departments they were leaving; one is said to have feuded with a dean at his former job. Still, Sargent's name was an enormous draw, the way that teaming with Michael Jordan at his peak would have been for basketball players in quest of a championship. One economist after another told me that the most important factor in deciding to take a job -- far more important than salary, which tends not to vary much from one top program to another -- is the quality of colleagues. "You can't just go out and buy people," Benhabib says. "Productive people want to conquer the world. They want to make a mark in research, and they need to interact with others to do that." 
In August, Sargent met Sexton for lunch at an Italian restaurant in the Village and told Sexton he was coming to N.Y.U. Sexton was thrilled. In the throes of his enthusiasm, he prevailed on William Berkeley, a trustee of the business school, to donate $10 million to finance joint programs between the university's two economics departments. By that calculus, Sargent had paid for himself many times over before ever teaching a class.
the second time I meet Sexton, I still receive just one hug, though Sexton remarks favorably on my new haircut. "I'm what in Brooklyn we call a 'noticer,' " he says. Sexton is a master of the economics of sincerity. As Sargent learned, it is difficult to be in Sexton's presence and not want to join his faculty.
I decide to question Sexton about his sincerity -- to ask whether the Enterprise might not be construed as an elaborate marketing strategy, a way of selling N.Y.U. by positioning it as a hipper alternative to the better-heeled schools with which it wishes to compete for talent and money. After all, N.Y.U.'s endowment may be $1.1 billion, but on a per student basis that is a tiny fraction of Princeton's worth. 
"Exactly!" Sexton shouts. "I think branding is just another name for the story we tell of ourselves, and I want our story to be told. Yes! Mythology, salesmanship, branding -- it's all the same thing. There's a pejorative sense to that word 'branding,' but there's a sublime sense as well. N.Y.U. had no mythology. We had no way of knowing who we were, what we were here for. The greatest power of a university president is to be the Homer of the community."
In many respects, Sexton's apparent design is to mold N.Y.U. to the contours of his own large personality. He tells me that he is already "expanding the economics experiment" to the English and history departments -- that is, pledging resources in exchange for a commitment to share his vision. "My hypothesis was correct," he says. "I knew that if we could get the economists to join the Enterprise, it would be easy to get those who deal with matters of the soul to go along." While he is still in his honeymoon as president, Sexton seems to have quashed the potential for revolt by persuading faculty members that his bounty will be extended to all who sign up for the Enterprise. Kathleen Gerson, chairwoman of the department of sociology, told me: "I'm not threatened at all by what happened in economics. This is definitely not a zero-sum game." Richard Foley, dean of the faculty of arts and science, predicts, "There are going to be a lot of winners at N.Y.U. in coming years." Meanwhile, Sexton hints to me that he is on the verge of bringing a two-time Pulitzer Prize-winning historian and a prominent Harvard genomist to N.Y.U. "My mind is flooding," he says. 
Sexton's phone rings. He greets the party on the other end with gusto. "I think about you and the project all the time," he says into the receiver. "I'm available to you any time you want. I'm at your disposal." He pauses and listens to his caller for a moment, nodding his head in silence. "I, personally, will be your partner in this, and I will not let you down," he promises, before hanging up.
Sexton turns to me. "Now, that was a woman who is thinking of giving us $150 million," he says. "Sincerity counts." 

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 2003

 CORRECTION:
An article on June 8 about New York University's efforts to make its economics school one of the elite in the United States referred imprecisely to the status of the university's law school in the late 80's, when a similar effort was under way there. More than just cracking the Top 20, in 1987 it rose to No. 9 on the U.S. News & World Report rankings of American law schools. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Franchise Player: Thomas Sargent, the star acquisition of N.Y.U.'s economics department. (Lloyd DeGrane); The Mastermind: John Sexton, the university's president and "mythmaker." (Brian Finke for The New York Times); The Team: The economics department (not all member shown), including the chairman, Mark Gertler (second row, right), united behind Sargent's plan to acquire "A-plus talent." (Bryan Burkey/N.Y.U. photo bureau) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (89%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (76%); BUDGETS (76%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (73%); HAT CAP & MILLINERY MFG (73%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (72%); NOBEL PRIZES (69%); HISTORY (68%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (67%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (63%); BRANDING (53%); AWARDS & PRIZES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes.

PERSON: MICK JAGGER (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); BRANDENBURG, GERMANY (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



198 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 6; Column 1; Magazine Desk; Pg. 83

LENGTH: 3056 words

HEADLINE: The Toxic Pharmacist 

BYLINE:  By Robert Draper; Robert Draper is a writer at large for GQ magazine.

 BODY:
He worked in an obscure little room, 9 feet by 9 feet. For several hours a day, he sat in his white lab coat before a white table in the center of the room, mixing powders and creams in a sterile compartment beneath a ventilator hood. The labor, though humdrum, required great dexterity and care: smoothing gritty chemicals into paste, drawing precise dosages of toxins into saline solutions and, in the end, creating medications from scratch. For nostalgia-prone types in the pharmacy profession, drug compounding was something of a lost art, conjuring up images of cloaked and bearded apothecaries hunched over foaming test tubes. Such romantic notions held no sway over Robert Courtney. He was, at the bottom of his soul, a man of commerce. 
 His customers at Research Medical Tower Pharmacy in Kansas City, Mo., had no inkling of this. After Courtney would emerge from the sterile compounding room with their medications in hand, he greeted them with an Old World civility that complemented his fastidious haircut and the crisply professional dress beneath his lab coat. "What a gentleman," Delia Chelston exclaimed to her husband after the pharmacist offered her a seat while he filled her prescription. Through her oncologist, Chelston also received from Courtney's pharmacy the chemotherapy medication known as Taxol, which she was taking to battle ovarian cancer. By early 2001, it dawned on her that she had been experiencing none of the drug's crippling side effects. After considering the spectrum of possibilities, Chelston did as most cancer patients would. She took the Taxol's seeming benignness as an encouraging sign that she was defeating the odds. 
 Another of Courtney's customers, Mary Ann Rhoads, sadly notified her longtime pharmacist one day that her new insurance company required that she obtain her interferon from another outlet. It surprised Rhoads when Courtney followed her out to her car, tapped on her window and said quietly: "I think I can help you. Bring your insurance cards and come inside." He then refilled her prescription as always and continued to do so thereafter. "I considered it a favor," she recalls. 
And so on a summer day in 2001, when Rhoads discovered that the syringes of medication she had just purchased from Research Medical Tower Pharmacy were barely half full, it did not occur to her to suspect the accommodating Courtney of anything other than human error. After Rhoads returned the syringes to Courtney, he reacted with surprise. Then he disappeared into the obscure little room. He emerged, in time, with freshly filled syringes.
Touching her arm, the pharmacist assured her, "We'll take care of you."
Today, Courtney is a ward of the Federal Bureau of Prisons. For perhaps the next 30 years, he will inhabit a prison cell more or less the size of the room where he committed his crimes. That he has earned his confinement no one, not even Courtney himself, denies -- not after he confessed last year to diluting the medications of thousands of individuals during a nine-year spree of avarice. Mary Ann Rhoads was among the 10 grim-faced cancer patients or surviving loved ones who gave statements during Courtney's sentencing Dec. 5. Since the pharmacist's crime was a novel abomination -- apparently no one had ever sought to dilute chemotherapy medications for profit -- the hearing was charged with anguish and vendetta to a degree seldom seen except at war-crimes trials.
When it was Courtney's turn to speak, he said in a tiny voice, "It's very traumatic listening to these people." Still, in an attempt to explain his actions, he could manage only a stammering, "I don't know why I did this." Then Robert Courtney was led away, a pallid, elfin figure in chains, consigned to freakdom in the annals of pharmacology.
He fit no one's profile of malevolence. Born an itinerant preacher's son in Hays, Kan., in 1952, the source and shape of Robert Ray Courtney's middle American yearnings crawled under the radar of his peer group and teachers alike. They did not appear to blossom until 1986, when the druggist one day asked his boss of 11 years if the latter would be willing to sell his pharmacy in the Research Medical Tower in Kansas City. By the time he acquired a second pharmacy in Merriam, Kan., Robert Courtney was nearing 40 and affecting the vanilla swagger of a suburban Turk. He drove a Mercedes and owned a mammoth house in the exclusive Tremont Manor enclave, situated in the northern reaches of Kansas City. In 1990, Courtney divorced the mother of his two daughters and retained custody of the children. As part of the divorce agreement, Courtney paid her a lump sum of $196,000.
He promptly began wooing an attractive woman he had known since childhood, when his father was a minister in Scott City, Kan., and hers preached to a congregation 50 miles away. She was now living in Detroit, and when she came to visit him, Courtney had charms to dangle. He proffered the keys to his ex-wife's Jaguar. He showered her young son with gifts. He took her out in a horse-drawn carriage. Two months into their courtship, the pharmacist presented her with a four-carat diamond ring. She agreed to a wedding on Valentine's Day 1991. But just after Christmas, Courtney talked her into an elopement. 
Almost instantly, Courtney's second wife (who agreed to be interviewed with the stipulation that she not be named) came to regret her decision. The pharmacist, who always wore dress slacks and striped button-downs even during hours of repose, forbade her to wear casual attire around the house. "He wanted my hair, my clothes, my nails to be perfect," she recalls, "like a doll on a shelf." She wore a size 3 dress; Courtney -- who in the wake of his divorce had shed a great deal of weight -- exhorted her not to gain a pound. At one point, when she had nothing he deemed appropriate to wear to an upscale church event, Courtney handed her $600 and instructed her to buy a new dress. He also told her to dispense with her Pontiac Fiero and buy a new car. He stated, "As long as you're married to me, you'll drive a BMW."
Courtney dispatched his bride to pick out a new house. But her choices, she says, were never sufficiently grand. The pharmacist threw money around in the presence of his church friends. Yet he could also be fiercely parsimonious. He complained that his parents were squeezing him for money, though the new wife could see no evidence that this was so. Just a day or two into their marriage, Courtney informed her that she would have to find a job in Kansas City. He told her that she needed to think of ways they could save money. Courtney came up with one of his own: when the two dined at restaurants, he asked his wife not to order her own dish, but rather to eat off of his plate. 
His moods careered from ebullience to aloofness. She began to be frightened by him. When they disagreed about something, Courtney's face would harden "into that crazed look like he wanted to murder me." He yelled at one of his daughters in public and slapped her at home. The new wife had seen enough and left him after four or five days. Robert Courtney annulled the marriage a few months later. 
Unchastened, Courtney two years later married a third, and much younger, wife, the former Laura Braugh. In 1994, the Courtneys added twins to their brood. Later, Courtney drew up plans for yet another residence, in excess of 5,000 square feet, to be built either elsewhere in Tremont Manor or in the equally coveted Riss Lake subdivision. The house, which never came to fruition, was designed to be child friendly, with the breakfast room and a breezeway angled to permit monitoring of the children at play in the backyard. Courtney was emphatic on these matters. But the architect could not help noticing that the husband did all the talking, while Laura Courtney, the stay-at-home mom, "seemed to be mostly an observer."
Though Courtney's dedication to his family as well as his church may well have been sincere, the economic expression of his attachments is impossible to ignore. He maintained extensive control over the household's financial affairs: Laura had signed a prenuptial agreement, and two of his daughters as well as his father were on his payroll. At Northland Cathedral, Courtney's fine tenor earned him a spot as soloist in the church choir. But it was his money that earned him particular distinction. As far back as 1990, his second ex-wife recalls him "bragging about his donations all the time." In 1999, Courtney pledged $1 million to the church's building fund, to be paid over a three-year period. (The church has announced that it will give the $600,000 thus far received to Courtney's victims.) "He was obviously a person to be respected -- he seemed to command that," says one of his former fellow church members, who also remembers Courtney as "a different sort of fellow, kind of withdrawn. Even in church groups, when something pretty hilarious would be going on, I don't recall us sharing any belly laughs."
To his church friends, Courtney was not an easy read. But pressures were apparently building, some of his own design. After both of them remarried, the pharmacist called his second former wife in the mid-90's. "He sounded stressed," she says. A large family, a plush house and cars, frequent skiing trips to Colorado and massive church donations required the kind of salary few if any licensed pharmacists would ever earn. By his own confession to law-enforcement authorities, Robert Courtney's quest for ill-gotten gains began about the time he divorced his first wife in 1990 and paid her the $196,000. Around then, he began to buy prescription medications from a retired pharmaceutical rep through the so-called gray market -- legitimate drugs acquired outside the supply chain. For the next decade, Courtney purchased these items in cash at an under-the-table discount, marked them up and sold them. It amounted to a nice profit center -- and, perhaps, a criminal point of departure.
"The path to hell leads one step at a time," says Mike Ketchmark, the brash but persistent attorney who successfully litigated a $2.2 billion civil judgment against Courtney. "I think he started from the gray market and realized you could make a whole bunch of money. Then he'd get orders in from people who were on their deathbed, and he'd slice a little bit. Then he realizes he can just continue to cut it, and no one's going to notice. It's a felony once you engage in the gray market; you're then breaking down the barrier of a person's inhibition. You don't go from being John-Boy to Charles Manson overnight."
Two months before his arrest in August 2001, the pharmacist who in 1990 listed his gross income as $48,000 had amassed $18.7 million in total assets. During approximately the same time frame, Robert Courtney would, by law enforcement estimates, dilute 98,000 prescriptions for 4,200 patients.
The sheer voraciousness of his dilutions suggests the compulsion of a pathological shoplifter. At times, Courtney diluted conservatively; at others, he reduced medications to trace amounts, seemingly taunting their recipients: Feel anything now? Though Courtney's highest profits came from diluting expensive chemotherapy medication -- a plaintiff's lawyer says he pocketed as much as $50,000 in the treatments of a single cancer patient -- Courtney adulterated a total of 72 different drugs, including fertility drugs, antibiotics, drugs to prevent nausea and others to improve blood clotting. "Basically," says Judy Lewis, the F.B.I. agent in charge of the Courtney investigation, "if you could mix it or inject it, he diluted it." In addition to shorting prescriptions and buying meds from illegal sources, the pharmacist chiseled whenever an opportunity arose. To one oncologist in the Research Medical Tower where he worked, Courtney dispensed generic drugs while charging them for the more expensive brand-name versions. When customers could not make their $5 or $10 copayments, the kindly pharmacist would let them slide, in exchange for taking back the supposed equivalent portion of their medications to be resold later.
"He was sloppy," says Todd Graves, the United States Attorney who oversaw Courtney's prosecution. But the imperfect criminal had seized upon a perfect crime. As a pharmacist, Courtney knew the vagaries of modern medicine. Studies indicate that up to 50 percent of patients feel they are getting better when treated with placebos. At the same time, one study shows that fewer than 1 in 5 pancreatic cancer victims remain alive a year after treatment with Gemzar chemotherapy. If Robert Courtney's indistinct moral code required a rationale for his criminal behavior, he most likely took comfort in what amounted to his defense in the civil proceedings against him -- namely, that regardless of his dilutions, his customers were destined to die anyway. That a patient's precise response to a particular dosage of chemotherapy remains difficult to discern was glumly acknowledged by Dr. Verda Hunter, the oncologist who first detected Courtney's scheme. Hunter testified in a deposition that even as Courtney was skimping on her patients' medication, "I did not have a time where I felt response rates or range of side effects were unexpected or different."
Courtney understood the peculiar vulnerabilities of his victims and of the professional world he occupied. For all his nefarious extracurriculars, he never strayed far from the drug industry's self-described "closed supply chain," overseen by the Food and Drug Administration, which refers to itself as a regulatory "gold standard." Still, drug company officials themselves estimate that 10 percent of the pharmaceuticals traveling through the closed supply chain are counterfeit. Meanwhile, the industry's pre-eminent sales research organization, IMS Health, concedes that its data capture only "roughly 70 percent of all prescriptions dispensed in the U.S." With so many drugs unaccounted for or fraudulently introduced, Courtney could rest assured that it would be nearly impossible to track his dilutions. 
Still, his connivings were destined to invite scrutiny. Ever secretive, Courtney had long made it his policy to fend off inquiries from pharmaceutical reps in the Kansas City region about how much of which drugs he was selling. The reps, who depended upon such information to claim their commissions, widely considered him a jerk. Darryl Ashley, a sales representative for Eli Lilly, especially loathed Courtney, going back to 1989, when the latter reneged on a sales contract. In 1998, it came to Ashley's attention that Courtney was selling more of Lilly's Gemzar chemotherapy medication to the doctors in the Research Medical Tower than he was buying from Ashley. Ashley figured that Courtney might be getting the drugs outside of regular channels. When an investigation failed to reveal another supplier, Ashley and his superiors let the matter slide. Then in the spring of 2001, Ashley casually mentioned the matter to a nurse who worked for Hunter, whose office was in the Research Medical Tower and who had been buying chemotherapy meds from Courtney's pharmacy since 1999. 
Alarmed by the discrepancy, Hunter decided to have one of the pharmacist's prescriptions for Taxol tested. When the results revealed that the drug was diluted, the doctor became, in her words, "physically sick." And yet even when F.B.I. and F.D.A. agents reviewed the evidence supplied by Hunter on July 27, 2001, the implications seemed inconceivable. Recalls Judy Lewis of the F.B.I., "I think everybody who sat around that table that day had the same feeling, which was: 'There's got to be another explanation. I don't care how it looks. No one could do this."'
The agents persuaded Hunter to take part in a sting operation. Though she had quit using Courtney after the Taxol lab test came back -- prompting the pharmacist to offer a discount -- Hunter now ordered six more prescriptions from Research Medical Tower Pharmacy. On Aug. 7, the F.D.A. provided the test results; each had been diluted to between 17 and 39 percent of the required dosage. That same day, Hunter ordered two more prescriptions of Gemzar and one of Taxol. The results came back from the lab on the 8th. The concentration levels had been reduced to 28 percent, 24 percent and virtually zero. On the late afternoon of Aug. 13, 2001, federal law-enforcement agents swarmed the pharmacy.
Robert Courtney eyed the search warrant with dispassion. Two agents suggested that he follow them outside. The three of them sat in a government vehicle and talked about the three IV bags that Hunter had ordered on the 7th. Yes, the pharmacist acknowledged, he had most likely mixed them himself. Could he explain why their dosages had been so drastically diluted? 
Courtney calmly replied: "No sir, I can't. I don't understand it."
What is even harder to understand is why a man worth nearly $20 million would continue to steal from cancer patients as if his own life depended on it. For his customers like Delia Chelston and Mary Ann Rhoads -- both of whom remain in remission today -- chemotherapy represented a last hope. Robert Courtney, a virtual stranger -- worse still, the friendly neighborhood druggist, a devout Christian and family man of sturdy Midwestern stock -- had snatched that hope away. "I felt violated," Rhoads said during Courtney's sentencing.
If those words fell hard on Courtney, the depths of his remorse can only be deduced by what he is now denied. Incarcerated, he fastidiously writes prayer cards in his prison cell as he once diluted medications in his compounding room. Though church members have visited him in prison and he remains married to Laura, the pharmacist who once demonstrated his commitment to faith and family in monetary terms cannot express his devotion in even the most rudimentary of ways.
Shortly into his imprisonment, the federal inmate petitioned for temporary release to attend the wedding of his daughter Valerie in Tiffany Springs, Mo. Courtney expressed his desire to be able to give his daughter away to her new husband "in the traditional way."
The judge, Robert E. Larsen, denied the motion, noting dryly, "Defendant would be unable to give his daughter away at her wedding while dressed in a prison jumpsuit and wearing leg chains and handcuffs." 

GRAPHIC: Photos: Before: Courtney on the job at Research Medical Tower Pharmacy. (Video Still from KMBC-TV/The Associated Press); After: Courtney on videotape, giving a deposition. (Video Still by Fred Blocher/The Kansas City Star/The Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (90%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); PHARMACISTS (90%); CANCER (90%); ONCOLOGY (78%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (76%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (76%); PHARMACIES (76%); COMPOUNDING PHARMACIES (76%); PROTEIN BASED DRUGS (71%); OVARIAN CANCER (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (67%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (67%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (65%); CHEMOTHERAPY & RADIATION (65%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (64%); PRISONS (61%) CANCER; DRUGS (PHARMACEUTICALS); FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION 

PERSON: DRAPER, RICHARD; COURTNEY, ROBERT R 

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (71%) MISSOURI, USA (87%); KANSAS, USA (56%) UNITED STATES (87%) KANSAS CITY (MO)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



199 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 2; Column 3; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1095 words

HEADLINE: MUSIC: THE PHILHARMONIC TRANSFER; 
Unless Avery Fisher Hall Can Program Its Way Out

BYLINE:  By JOHN ROCKWELL 

 BODY:
LET us assume that the merger between the New York Philharmonic and Carnegie Hall, announced last week, comes to pass. There will be some hurt feelings and some prickly contractual negotiations. But the way everyone is talking, it's a done deal.
 The clear winner is the orchestra. Some of us prefer the drier, clearer acoustics of the orchestra's current home, Avery Fisher Hall, at least for some music. But Carnegie sounds better for most big-orchestra showpieces, and it has a prestige that Fisher has never been able to match. The Carnegie move helps solve the problem of where the orchestra will go during Fisher's reconstruction, a two-year interregnum. It does not solve the longstanding conundrum of what the Philharmonic should do with itself in the summer. But the issue here is the main season, and when the move is completed in 2006, the Philharmonic should be sitting pretty. 
 To my taste, Carnegie Hall will not be sitting so pretty. And as one who once worked for Lincoln Center, as director of the Lincoln Center Festival, I suspect that Lincoln Center is not in as dire straits as some seem to think.
Carnegie owes much of its prestige to the parade of great visiting orchestras that have made music on its stage. When the Vienna Philharmonic, the Berlin Philharmonic, the Boston Symphony, the Philadelphia Orchestra, the Chicago Symphony, the Cleveland Orchestra and many more want to play New York, they want to play at Carnegie. It's been a decades-long festival of excellence: sometimes safe and predictable excellence, and sometimes not as excellent as hype made us hope, but excellence nonetheless. Now that festival is coming to a close.
Avery Fisher Hall been constrained by the Philharmonic's laying legitimate claim to many of its available dates, and most of the prime ones. And in recent decades, the Philharmonic has not been a vividly exciting center of New York's orchestral life. Pierre Boulez was perceived as cold and distant, Zubin Mehta as flashy and uninterested, and Kurt Masur (whom I admired) as sober and stolid. Lorin Maazel is seen as flashy and willful.
All of that could change. The move to Carnegie will probably coincide, more or less, with Mr. Maazel's departure and the advent of a younger, more creatively exciting music director. Maybe even an icon like Arturo Toscanini (who arrived as one) or Leonard Bernstein (who became one), though icons are in short supply these days. It's hard to generate excitement week in and week out, no matter who the music director is. And a lack of excitement can't be compensated for by the added security of an enhanced endowment and new subscription audiences for Carnegie. Although the initial programming announced for the new Zankel Hall is lively, the spark may well dim in the main auditorium.
At Lincoln Center, meanwhile, the immediate impression might be that the rats are scurrying down the hawser, fleeing a sinking ship. The New York City Opera is making noises about abandoning the center for a Ground Zero cultural center not yet designed, let alone built. The Philharmonic is on its way out. Who's next? What is to become of the grand late-50's and early-60's dream of a cultural center that would bring everyone together, a dream that spawned imitators all over the world?
NOT much bad, say I, and maybe something good. The urban-renewal aspect of the Lincoln Center project has long been fulfilled. The remaining constituents -- the Metropolitan Opera, the New York City Ballet, Jazz at Lincoln Center, the Juilliard School, the Lincoln Center Theater, the Film Society of Lincoln Center, the Chamber Music Society of Lincoln Center, the School of American Ballet, the Library of the Performing Arts and Lincoln Center Incorporated, which is both landlord and producing arm -- are not likely to go anywhere soon.
Not, at least, in terms of their membership in the center and the devotion of the bulk of their activities to it. Jazz at Lincoln Center has already moved down to Columbus Circle while retaining its ties to the center. The Lincoln Center Theater and even Great Performers and the Lincoln Center Festival, both productions of Lincoln Center Incorporated, routinely perform off campus.
Even if the constituents squabble among themselves and with the central administration, and even if, deep down, some of them wonder whether having joined the center years ago was such a swell idea, they are pretty much locked in. They are bound by investments in their buildings, a lack of viable alternatives and sheer inertia. In other words, Lincoln Center is not about to disintegrate.
But what about Avery Fisher Hall? The Philharmonic's departure frees up Lincoln Center's planners to reshape the hall for more flexible uses and hence more interesting programming. Of course, unless the center can still somehow get the Philharmonic to pay for part of the redesign, it will be hard to afford. But the economy must eventually turn around. Mustn't it?
As for programming, given a hall applauded by all, with acoustics that allow both musicians and audiences to hear music in a satisfying way, the prospects look bright. Jane S. Moss, the center's vice president for programming, must be licking her chops. For years she has had to squeeze her orchestral offerings in around the Philharmonic's schedule. She has still managed coups, like the London Symphony's Berlioz concerts this season. But the opportunities for coups will now increase exponentially.
They could include other ensembles, extant or newly formed, taking up residence in Fisher Hall. Most likely, they will mean guest appearances more and more imaginatively programmed. Perhaps, even, many of the prestige orchestras that have graced Carnegie will choose to move to Fisher, or be forced to do so by a lack of dates in the Philharmonic's new home. If the revamped Fisher Hall further differentiates itself from Carnegie by slimming down from 2,800 seats to, say, 2,200, it may be more suitable for chamber music and early music than Fisher is now or Carnegie will continue to be.
Not all will be smooth sailing. Standard-issue orchestra concerts -- those without a blue-chip ensemble, box-office stars or extraordinary programming -- have been a hard sell of late in both Fisher and Carnegie. But here is an opportunity for programmatic innovation, and Ms. Moss and her Lincoln Center colleagues have proved themselves good at that. I look forward to the forthcoming upheavals in our musical life with keen anticipation.
Especially if Lincoln Center has the good sense to install a pipe organ in Fisher Hall.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Christian Northeast) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLASSICAL MUSIC (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC (89%); FESTIVALS (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (76%); THEATER (72%); RELOCATIONS (70%) MUSIC; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS 

COMPANY: CARNEGIE HALL CORP (85%)

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%); CLEVELAND ORCHESTRA (54%); PHILADELPHIA ORCHESTRA (54%) NEW YORK PHILHARMONIC; LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (NYC); CARNEGIE HALL (NYC) 

INDUSTRY: SIC7922 THEATRICAL PRODUCERS (EXCEPT MOTION PICTURE) & MISCELLANEOUS THEATRICAL SERVICES (85%)

PERSON: ROCKWELL, JOHN 

GEOGRAPHIC: BERLIN, GERMANY (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 



200 of 772 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2003 The New York Times Company 
 The New York Times

PUB-DATE: June 8, 2003
 Late Edition - Final 

SECTION: Section 5; Column 5; Travel Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1139 words

HEADLINE: PRACTICAL TRAVELER; 
The Benefits Of Air Alliances

BYLINE:  By SUSAN STELLIN; SUSAN STELLIN contributes regularly to the Travel section.

 BODY:
FOLLOWING the shifting partnerships among airlines may seem a bit like keeping up with alliances on reality TV shows like "Survivor": of interest to some, but for most people, probably not a worthwhile investment of time.
 However, as the airlines increasingly rely on partnerships to survive an industrywide financial crisis, there are a few things travelers should know about what these agreements mean for consumers, particularly frequent fliers. While the growing number of airline alliances may not bring leisure travelers all the benefits the carriers promise, they do open up opportunities to earn and redeem frequent flier miles. 
 For starters, it's helpful to know which carriers are currently aligned. As on reality shows, these alliances change from time to time. 
 Among the domestic carriers, probably the best-known alliance is between Continental and Northwest, which have been partners since 1998. Tim Cassady, managing director of alliance development for Continental, calls Northwest a "strategic partner," describing this as a deeper level of commitment than Continental has with some of its other partners like Qantas, Hawaiian Airlines and Alaska Airlines.

One Flight, Two Airlines
 Continental and Northwest "code share" on almost all their domestic and international flights, meaning that Continental sells a flight with a "CO" number while Northwest sells that same flight under an "NW" number. Whichever sells the ticket keeps the revenue, but it is the same plane, operated by one of the two carriers. From the airlines' perspective, such relationships enable them to expand their networks without incurring the costs of flying to new destinations themselves.
 A big benefit of the Northwest-Continental alliance -- and typical of other airline partnerships -- is that members of either airline's frequent flier program can choose to earn Continental OnePass miles or Northwest WorldPerks miles on a particular flight. A passenger who buys a ticket from Northwest can give the agent a Continental frequent flier number and earn OnePass miles for the trip. 
 "You don't need to be loyal anymore," said Randy Petersen, editor of Inside Flyer magazine, which tracks frequent flier and other travel loyalty programs. "You can search for the best fare and end up with the miles of your choice, and that's pretty nice." (Partner airlines may have different fares for the same flight.) 
 Most airlines include such mileage arrangements in their partnership agreements, and the options are proliferating. Last summer, Continental and Northwest announced their intention to add Delta Air Lines to their alliance, raising concerns among government regulators that this could stifle competition.
 After some back and forth with the Department of Transportation and the Department of Justice, which must approve such agreements, the Delta addition got the green light. However, Continental and Northwest agreed to limit the number of routes each would code-share with Delta, at least initially, as well as to abide by some other restrictions intended to prevent the carriers from gaining an unfair advantage over smaller competitors. Mr. Cassady, the Continental executive, said that "sometime this summer" the airlines would begin putting various aspects of the alliance, including reciprocal frequent flier benefits, into effect. 
 US Airways and United announced their own alliance last July, which has also received government approval. In October, the two gave members of their airport clubs reciprocal privileges, another benefit typical of alliances. Since last November, members of both airlines' frequent flier programs have been able to earn either US Airways or United frequent flier miles on each carrier's flights and have been able to redeem miles for a free ticket on either airline since April.
 I flew from New York to Pittsburgh on US Airways in January, but chose to earn United MileagePlus miles for the trip. However, when I decide to cash in those United miles for a free ticket, I can do so on either United or US Airways -- or for that matter, a number of other carriers that also have partnerships with United, like Lufthansa, Air Canada or Varig. All three, plus several others, are members of the Star Alliance, www.staralliance.com, an international alliance of airlines that enables each member's frequent fliers to earn and redeem miles on the others' flights.
 American Airlines, in turn, is a member of the oneworld alliance, www.oneworld.com, which also includes British Airways, Cathay Pacific, Iberia and Qantas, among others. Domestically, American also has a partnership with Alaska Airlines.
 Despite -- or maybe because of -- all these overlapping partnerships, many travelers "don't really knowwhat they mean, and more importantly, they don't know how to take advantage of them," Mr. Petersen said.
 "Alliances are probably one of the most valuable assets of a frequent flier membership, both for earning miles and burning miles," he said, adding that travelers who cannot redeem miles for the route or dates they want on one airline can often find seats available on a partner.

Finding a Line's Partners
 But that does not mean you can take 10,000 miles from, say, your United Mileage Plus account and combine them with 15,000 US Airways Dividend Miles for a free domestic ticket. All the miles for an award have to come from one account, and the programs themselves remain separate, with their own award levels and rules. The best way to find out which airlines a carrier is partnered with is to check its Web site; most list their airline partners in the section describing their frequent flier program.
 Terry Trippler, who follows air fares for CheapSeats.com, advises travelers considering a flight that is a code share to check the fares with both airlines. "It's the same airplane, but the fare could be different on both airlines," he said. Also, one partner may be sold out and the other has seats available, he said. 
 Although airlines are required to tell customers a flight is a code share, Mr. Trippler said, they cannot say what price the partner has available for that same flight; travelers have to find out on their own. Also, domestic airlines are prohibited from discussing fares with domestic competitors, alliance or not.
 For their part, the airlines mainly benefit from these alliances by being able to sell tickets to customers headed to places they do not fly. "Every airline in the world, big or small, serves some markets very well, serves other markets in a mediocre way and some markets not at all," said Ben Baldanza, senior vice president of marketing and planning for US Airways. "When you put two networks together, we both become stronger."
 At a time when many carriers have either declared or face bankruptcy, these alliances do have some "Survivor" parallels.

GRAPHIC: Drawing (Andy Rash) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (92%); REALITY TELEVISION (91%); AIRLINE ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (91%); FREQUENT FLYER PLANS (90%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (89%); LOYALTY MARKETING (89%); AIR FARES (78%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (78%); DOMESTIC TOURISM (76%); LEISURE TRAVEL (71%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (62%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (60%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (57%) AIRLINES AND AIRPLANES 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (92%); DELTA AIR LINES INC (74%)

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (92%); DAL (NYSE) (74%)

INDUSTRY: SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%) SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION; 

PERSON: STELLIN, SUSAN 

GEOGRAPHIC: ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2003 

 
