

601 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 9; Column 1; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1645 words

HEADLINE: Welcome to West Palm Beach

BYLINE: By GUY TREBAY

DATELINE: WEST PALM BEACH, Fla. 

 BODY:
JUST a short car ride from the fierce ficus hedges, the aproned housemaids and the hand-buffed Bentleys of Palm Beach is a place that might as well be galaxies away. It is West Palm Beach, a city of 84,000 grown up around a service community that Henry Flagler established to house workers to build and staff Palm Beach, the utopian sandlot he conceived as a pleasure ground for his fellow plutocrats.
 In recent decades, West Palm Beach sank into bleached-out desuetude. Drifters congregated in $19-a-room motels. Drug dealers claimed whole neighborhoods. Prostitutes plied the strip malls that line the emblematic north-south route, the Dixie Highway. ''I've lived here for 25 years, and when I came, everything west of the highway was crack houses,'' Rico Baca, an antiques dealer with a shop on the South Dixie Highway, said earlier this month.
 All that is changing fast. Hip clubs like Fusion and restaurants like the Painted Horse Cafe now ornament a spruced-up downtown, whose main drag is the once-forgotten Clematis Street. A shiny new CityPlace mall has imported the New Urbanism to the center city, and cultural institutions like the Norton Museum of Art have made a bid to put Palm Beach County on the cultural map. 
 But the real story in this city's revival involves immigration -- specifically, an infusion of fancy Northerners looking to establish a new beachhead. Over the past 18 months, they have been snapping up the quirky stock of West Palm Beach's midcentury ranch houses and cinder-block bungalows, drawn in equal parts by low prices, the allure of gentrification and the simple geographical beauty of an area that lies midway between the Atlantic and a major international airport. 
 The newcomers who are rapidly colonizing neighborhoods like Northwood, El Cid, Flamingo Park, College Park and South of Southern, or So-So, are an unexpected bunch, refugees from the Hamptons and other exclusive parts. ''The word 'development' is on everyone's lips every hour of the day,'' read an article about South Florida written in the March 1926 issue of Vogue. One could easily make the same claim today.
 ''It's really happening,'' said Beth Rudin DeWoody, the real estate heiress and New York socialite, who has bought three adjacent houses in the Northwood area. Ms. DeWoody renovated one house, is restoring another and knocked down the third. ''I paid less for all three than you'd pay for a tear-down on a side street in Palm Beach,'' she said. Ms. DeWoody was drawn to what locals considered the wrong side of the tracks -- the Intracoastal Waterway, which divides West Palm Beach from Palm Beach -- by both economics and a decided increase in buzz. ''What happened is that a lot of Northerners loved the idea of Miami, went down there and discovered that maybe it's just another big city at the end of the day,'' she said.
 West Palm Beach, on the other hand, remains a seductively drowsy place, with a weekend farmers' market on Narcissus Avenue where the socialite Peter Pulitzer sells oranges and venison; 1920's holdovers like the Hoffman's Chocolate Shoppes, where locals go for their coconut cashew crunch; and an intoxicatingly Floridian aura of laissez-aller. Partly it is this snoozy and time-stopped quality that has suddenly made it attractive to the kind of New Yorkers whose names one does not readily associate with terms like ''Florida room'' and ''shotgun shack.'' And partly it is prices that until recently were low enough to beggar belief: the median price of a single-family home sold in West Palm was $132,000 in February 2002, and it has climbed 66 percent to $210,000 in February of this year. 
 In the past two years, John Loring, the creative director of Tiffany & Company, has purchased no fewer than five small houses scattered throughout College Park and Flamingo Park in West Palm Beach. He has furnished them with goods bought at Harris Kratz, Galere and Erhard Dannenberg, three of the prime dealers who occupy a stretch of the Dixie Highway that is known as Antique Row, but nonetheless has the ambience of a strip-mall Coin-O-Mat.
 Howard Kaminsky, the former head of Random House, recently purchased a simple frame house in the middle-class area called Flamingo Park. The best-selling self-help author Alexandra Penney and her companion, the painter Dennis Ashbaugh, also bought a trim frame house in Flamingo Park and painted it a sprightly tropical yellow with turquoise trim.
 ''It's all about no pretense down here,'' said Ms. Penney, whose New York residence is in the exclusive River House. ''In New York, I sleep on Pratesi. In Florida, I use percale wash and dry.''
 Michael Schultz, the president of Lulu Guinness and a founder of Urban Outfitters and Anthropologie, and his wife, Lisa, the executive vice president of Kmart and for many years a creative force at the Gap, have joined the run on West Palm Beach, buying a house whose yard is lined with travelers palms and which abuts a retail building's parking lot. The civil rights lawyer Michael Kennedy and his wife, Eleanore, recently took possession of a simple New England-style house in West Palm Beach that could easily pass for a car barn on their other vacation place, an estate on Georgica Pond in East Hampton that is so much an archetype of the moneyed life that it often serves as the backdrop for photo shoots for luxury goods.
 ''There is also a whole population of gay guys who've come down here and thrown taste at the place,'' Dennis Ashbaugh said. What attracts the newcomers is the same thing that draws everyone else, he added: ''There's good value, a tolerant community, a nice place to walk the dogs and you don't have to deal with the cold.''
 Perhaps the most bankable sign of West Palm Beach's turn of fortune is the arrival of Paige Rense, the editor of the shelter magazine behemoth Architectural Digest. After searching for over a year, two weeks ago Ms. Rense and her husband, the painter Kenneth Noland, settled on a house in So-So, a simple stucco two-story structure within sight of the water and with a thatched Tiki hut in the backyard. According to local real estate agents, the purchase price was $1.18 million, a figure that puts it near the very top of the local market. A majority of the houses in West Palm Beach still sell for less than $500,000, and many for half that sum.
 ''You can get a great house for less than it costs for one of the Bentley Azures'' you see all over Palm Beach, said Burt Minkoff, who left a marketing firm he ran in New York to get in on the West Palm Beach boom. Mr. Minkoff has transformed himself into an intricately networked local real estate guru, buying, selling and remodeling houses. He is now renovating his third. ''I was burned out on work, looking to downsize, change my career and find new solutions in life,'' he said.
 Mr. Minkoff moved first to Miami and then, at the recommendation of Ms. DeWoody, to Palm Beach. ''But Palm Beach made Southampton look edgy,'' he said.
 And indeed the folkways of the mega-rich of Palm Beach, said Simon Doonan, the creative director of Barneys New York, are so ossified and hermetic as to require a neologism to do them justice. ''Mayer Rus came up with the word 'tussy' to describe that slightly nightmarish fanciness,'' Mr. Doonan said, referring to a House & Garden editor whose resume should carry a notation that reads ''Will epater for food.''
 Palm Beach may be tussy central, said Mr. Doonan, who recently bought a condominium in a building set on a part of Palm Beach island that until recently was known, with the unselfconscious bigotry that seems typical of the place, as the Gaza Strip. ''Once you cross the bridge into West Palm everything is immediately detussified,'' he said.
 In fact, there are three bridges between the mainland and the island, although in social terms these can seem all but redundant. ''Audrey Gruss came over here once,'' said Mr. Ashbaugh, referring to the New York socialite who commutes to her $50 million estate on South Ocean Boulevard on a Gulfstream IV. ''She just looked around and said, 'What in the world are you doing here?' '' Mr. Ashbaugh said.
 The question does not seem so odd when one considers that the gap between the country's wealthiest people and the rest of us spans a distance a good deal wider than the Intracoastal Waterway. On Palm Beach, 12-year-old children routinely wear Rolex Air-King wristwatches. The rich there live, as they always have, in an atmosphere of such suffocating indulgence that the greatest local luxury is complaint.
 ''I love Palm Beach,'' said Steven Stolman, the New York designer whose print skirts and dresses have become a welcome sartorial default among people for whom Easter-egg-colored Lilly Pulitzer shifts are regulation wear. Mr. Stolman, who has bought a residence in Palm Beach, said, ''The reality is there's not much mixing'' between West Palm Beach and Palm Beach societies. And for the newcomers of West Palm Beach, that is not at all a bad thing.
 ''If we get invited to a party on the island, I try to dress like this so I won't be asked back,'' said Mr. Ashbaugh, a charismatic ex-surfer whose address book can probably hold its own against that of the most aggressive jet set type. (The core of Mr. Ashbaugh's wardrobe tends to be a Red Dirt T-shirt from Kauai and khaki cutoffs that might have been used to mop shrimp-boat bilge.) ''There's something else happening down here,'' said Mr. Ashbaugh, something he likens to the establishment of a beachhead for a New Southern Bohemia.
 Of course, there are those who see in the latest migration a repetition of earlier ones. ''The first wave of the baby boomers is doing exactly what their parents did,'' Mr. Minkoff said. ''They're re-evaluating their lives and thinking about what they're going to do with their lives and also how they can do it without being freezing cold.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: MIGRATING SOUTH -- Beth Rudin DeWoody, a philanthropist, sitting in her West Palm Beach home. Above, the artist Dennis Ashbaugh bought a house. Left, Burt Minkoff sells real estate. At top: a local sign. (Photographs by Scott Wiseman for The New York Times
inset and below, Cindy Karp for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
THE PLACE TO BE -- Below, the home of Paige Rense, the editor of Architectural Digest. Right, Christa's South Antiques and Seashells
far right, Sloan's ice cream parlor.
BEING SEEN -- Lining up to get into the Monkey Club. (Photographs by Cindy Karp for The New York Times
 above, Scott Wiseman for The New York Times)(pg. 5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); COASTAL AREAS (73%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); IMMIGRATION (70%); COCAINE (70%); RETAILERS (70%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (70%); ANTIQUES & COLLECTIBLES (68%); REFUGEES (66%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (60%); AIRPORTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



602 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 1; Ideas & Trends: Frontier Justice

LENGTH: 1182 words

HEADLINE: On the Web, Vengeance Is Mine (and Mine)

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ

 BODY:
YOU can almost hear the spurs jingling.
 Self-appointed sheriffs scan eBay and Yahoo auctions looking for fraud. When they find it -- or at least when they think they've found it -- they warn buyers or make outrageously high bids themselves in order to end the auction and prevent potential victims from falling into the trap. Elsewhere, private crusaders cruise Internet chat rooms for pedophiles and report their findings to law enforcement -- or even expose them online. And hackers release programs into cyberspace that repair the damage done by malicious computer viruses. 
 In the movies, it always looks so good and pure: the lone gunman rides into town to clean up the lawlessness committed by bad men. From Shane to Bronson, the vigilante theme runs deep in American culture. So it should come as little surprise that the online world -- for good or ill -- is teeming with vigilantes who take matters into their own hands. 
 ''Cyberspace has turned from a village in which visionaries held that self-government will work into an urban jungle,'' said Amitai Etzioni, a sociology professor at George Washington University. ''Large parts of it are beyond the law.''
 Which is perhaps why certain kinds of people feel the need to jump in. 
 ''People get tremendously frustrated'' with fraud and scams, said Ina Steiner, the publisher of AuctionBytes.com, an online newsletter. ''There's a sense of urgency that victims have, and it just doesn't synch-up with the time that it takes law enforcement to pursue these matters.''
 So the vigilantes strike. Some, like John McGowan, simply hand over information about questionable activity to the proper authorities. Mr. McGowan, an unemployed mathematician in New York, makes it his business to track down hackers who use viruses to commandeer personal computers to send unsolicited e-mail, or spam. He gets in touch with Internet authorities and fills them in. ''I do my part,'' he said in an e-mail interview. ''When it helps, it feels good.'' 
 Others go further. One of the self-appointed auction cops, who asked that his name not be used so that he would not lose his eBay privileges, sends e-mail to potentially fraudulent sellers asking them about their auctions. But he attaches surveillance software that reveals information about the seller, and he uses that information to track them down and report them to the Internet service provider. If the account has been hijacked from a legitimate eBay member -- a common practice of fraudulent sellers -- he calls the owner of the account as well. ''My goal is to help other people,'' he said.
 And others go further still. Perverted-Justice.com, a Web site that tries to expose online predators, teams up with local television stations like WDIV in Detroit for stings in which men are lured by chat room messages to a meeting with, they are led to believe, a 14-year-old girl. Instead, they are greeted by television cameras. Perverted Justice, which claims as its mission a desire to imbue potential predators with ''an extra bit of paranoia,'' also posts pictures of alleged ''wannabe pedophiles'' on its site. 
 PART of this do-it-yourself approach to justice flows directly from the same quality of online life that makes bad behavior so easy to pull off: anonymity. That's something that Internet advocates on both sides of the law jealously guard from regulation. ''Historically and currently, anonymity is part of how constitutional democracies are supposed to operate,'' said Marc Rotenberg, president of the Electronic Privacy Information Center, ''and it would be bizarre to say, 'Oops! Can't do that any more.'''
 But even more broadly, the appeal of online vigilantism stems from the persistent sense that the Internet remains a very Wild West kind of place. One of the first groups formed to protect online civil liberties evokes that sense of prairie justice in its name: the Electronic Frontier Foundation. The name was the brainchild of John Perry Barlow, a co-founder of the group and a former lyricist for the Grateful Dead. Mitchell Kapor, the other co-founder and a high-tech entrepreneur, said the original idea was wrapped up in the ''romantic myth of the frontier.''
 These days, however, he says he regrets that the organization's name suggests a subtle endorsement of '''take the law into our own hands' behavior.''
 That's partly because, just as in the real world, cybervigilantism doesn't always work out for the best. Executives at eBay argue that vigilantes -- well intentioned as they might be -- can wrongly disrupt legitimate deals. Law enforcement officials aren't big fans of the stings, either. Ray Johnson, a deputy investigator with the Internet crime unit for the sheriff's department of Wayne County, which includes Detroit, said, ''We thought it was nice that they were putting it out there, and let people know that there is a problem.'' 
 On the other hand, he said: ''They embarrassed these people, but they didn't put them behind bars. When we do a case, we not only embarrass them, we also put them behind bars, or put them in treatment.'' The vigilante stings actually make prosecution more difficult, he said, since they put people on notice that the police might investigate them. Private crime fighters also don't follow the rules the police use to avoid issues of legal entrapment. If Mr. Johnson tried to use transcripts of the chat room come-ons in a criminal proceeding, he said, ''they'd throw it right out in a heartbeat.''
 Still, at least some Internet do-gooders feel that law enforcement is too slow or too ignorant of the ways of the Web to handle the ever-shifting criminal element there. 
 Seth Pack is the director of the Counter Pedophilia Investigative Unit, a group made up of former hackers who search for online predators and turn over their names to law enforcement agencies. The problem, he said, is that ''law enforcement is ill-equipped to handle these types of jobs, as far as tracking cybercrime, and particularly pedophilia.'' 
 Along those lines, the very presence of so much vigilantism on the Internet might well suggest that individuals are simply rising up where institutions fall short. Online auction sites, Mr. Kapor said, must clean their houses; Microsoft, he said, has to make its software secure against viruses and hackers. ''Vigilantes are in many cases responses to real problems where you'd like to see a much stronger institutional response -- where there has been an institutional failure,'' he said.
 The lingering worry in all of this, says Jonathan Zittrain, a co-founder of the Berkman Center for Internet and Society at Harvard Law School, is that if neither institutions nor individuals can adequately police the Net, the government will be forced to step in even more than it already has. The online world, Professor Zittrain says, is in the process of asking Abraham Lincoln's core question in the Gettysburg Address, which he paraphrases as ''are we capable of governing ourselves?''
 The jury is still out on that question, but Professor Zittrain said, ''It's clear that the status quo is not working.''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Terry Allen) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNET AUCTIONS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (89%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); CHAT ROOMS (78%); SPYWARE (76%); SOCIOLOGY (76%); COMPUTER VIRUSES (76%); COMPUTER NETWORKS (76%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (71%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (71%); SEX OFFENSES (71%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (70%); EMAIL MARKETING (67%); INTERVIEWS (60%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (51%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: EBAY INC (86%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

TICKER: EBAY (NASDAQ) (86%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS454112 ELECTRONIC AUCTIONS (86%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (86%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



603 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1183 words

HEADLINE: A Long Fuse Links Tangier To Bombings In Madrid

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: TANGIER, Morocco 

 BODY:
Here in the city's casbah, where European diplomats once competed for influence over the surrounding North African coast, Islamic terrorists now plot, intelligence officials say.
 At least five of the men arrested in connection with the train bombings in Madrid came from Tangier and have ties to other natives of this ancient city who have been implicated in past terrorist activities. Moroccan officials believe that the cellular telephone detonator used in the bombings was developed here.
 The men are linked to a broader group of Moroccan militants who returned from Afghanistan in the late 1990's to plan attacks and recruit others, and who have now spread across Europe. Their influence is growing. 
 Last September, 14-year-old twin girls were sentenced to five years in a juvenile correctional home after having been convicted of a plotting suicide attack against a supermarket in Rabat, the Moroccan capital, that sold alcohol. And earlier this year, Islamists near the traditionally conservative city of Meknes assaulted a policeman for ''impious'' behavior. Dozens of extremists were arrested, including one wanted in connection with the Casablanca bombings last year that killed 45 people including 12 terrorists.
 ''We have seen since the Casablanca attacks in May last year a real mushrooming of these cells,'' said a Western diplomat in Rabat.
 The Moroccan connection grew out of the Islamic revival that has swept the Muslim world and itself is an outgrowth of the Muslim Brotherhood movement founded in 1928 to re-establish the Islamic caliphate that collapsed with the Ottoman Empire after World War I.
 The trend has deepened in Morocco's north, where unemployment among its young men is as high as 30 percent, creating a breeding ground for militancy. With its proximity to Spain, just eight miles across the water, Tangier has been a jumping off place for terrorists into Europe.
 Attitudes have grown increasingly anti-Western along with Islam's rise and have powered a political movement during the past 10 years that has sought to fill the void left by a stunted democratic system. Talk of clean government, job creation, anti-Israeli Middle East policy and Islamic values has made the country's Justice and Development Party one of the strongest in the country.
 The party now ranks third in Morocco's Parliament, but it would have even more seats if the government had not prevented it from putting forward more candidates in the 2002 elections. Many people believe the party would win a national election.
 But with the rise of political Islam has grown a radical fringe whose most visible manifestation in Morocco is the Salafia Jihadia movement. The movement's spiritual leader, Muhammad al-Fizazi, preached a fiery brand of anti-Western Islam from a mosque in Tangier before his arrest last year. He is now serving a 30-year prison sentence for inciting violence in Morocco.
 Mr. Fizazi became a touchstone for Moroccans returning from Afghanistan. They grafted onto the Salafia Jihadia movement, Moroccan officials say, and from its followers recruited the suicide bombers who attacked Casablanca last year. ''You have to assume that if there were 15 willing to blow themselves up, there are dozens more still waiting in line,'' the diplomat in Rabat said.
 The returning Islamists also found recruits among wealthier Moroccans who span two worlds but, frustrated by their secondary status in Europe, found in political Islam a purpose.
 ''My brothers were not like this when they left Morocco,'' said Jamal Benyaich, scion of a rich Tangier family whose eldest brother, Abdelaziz, has emerged as a central figure in the Moroccan militant network. Jamal's other brothers, Salaheddin and Abdullah, both became Islamic fighters, too.
 ''They became Islamists in Europe,'' he said. ''All of them lived a very European life in Morocco but came back with a new personality.''
 Abdelaziz Benyaich was born in 1966 and grew up in Tangier, the son of a former Moroccan Army officer who served in the Western Sahara and grew rich in real estate. 
 According to his brother, Abdelaziz was a normal kid in high school who went to bars and dated girls. In 1986, he went to Spain on vacation and stayed two years.
 He came back to work in the family business and married a Frenchwoman named Alice in 1996. He began traveling a lot to Spain, France and Britain and started praying regularly, his brother said. Alice converted to Islam, and the couple had a son and a daughter.
 ''My brother changed a lot in this time,'' said Jamal Benyaich. ''He didn't go out that much and started to become a strong Muslim.''
 It was during this period that Abdelaziz recruited another Tangier native, Jamal Zougam, to join a Qaeda cell in Spain, according to Moroccan officials.
 Mr. Zougam grew up in Tangier's old city. He and his half-brother, Muhammad Chaoui, followed their mother to Spain in 1983 when Mr. Zougam was 10. Both men have been arrested and charged with murder for the Madrid attacks.
 The second-oldest Benyaich, Salaheddin, meanwhile, followed Abdelaziz to Spain and also became a devout Muslim. In 1996, he left to fight in Bosnia and returned missing an eye. He is now serving a 19-year sentence for his role in the Casablanca attacks.
 Abdelaziz's spiral into militant Islam apparently accelerated in 2002 after his wife left with their children. He followed them to France, but the French police deported him, his brother said. Mr. Benyaich never recovered, his brother said, and avoided friends and began traveling more.
 Moroccan officials say he met several times that year with Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, a confederate of Osama bin Laden who, antiterrorism officials say, is behind a series of attacks. They say Mr. Benyaich was also part of a broader group aligned with Al Qaeda called the Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group.
 Perhaps the last straw for Abdelaziz was the death of his brother Abdullah, who went to Afghanistan in 2001 and was killed in the American bombing of Tora Bora. 
 Intelligence officials say Abdelaziz began providing operational and financial support to two terrorist cells in northern Morocco that plotted attacks in Morocco and France. He fled the country a day after the Casablanca attacks and the Spanish police arrested him in Algeciras, Spain. He had a plane ticket for Tehran, Moroccan officials say.
 Moroccan investigators searching his home in Tangier found a cellphone that had been tampered with to make a detonator, the officials say. They later determined that Mr. Benyaich had hired an electronics expert to help him develop such a detonator in which the ring of an incoming call or the telephone's internal alarm would provide the contact with the telephone's battery to set off an explosion.
 Moroccan investigators saw the device as an important evolution: Al Qaeda had previously relied predominantly on suicide bombers to carry out its attacks. They now say they believe that Mr. Benyaich was the source of the cellphone detonator design used in Madrid.
 ''They were exactly what we found in Abdelaziz's house after May 17 last year,'' one official said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The death of Abdullah Benyaich, above, in an American bombing raid on Tora Bora, Afghanistan, deeply affected his brother, Abdelaziz, below, in photos provided by the Moroccan government. Abdelaziz has become a central figure in the inquiry into the Madrid bombings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOMBINGS (92%); TERRORISM (91%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (91%); RELIGION (91%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (90%); ARRESTS (90%); MEN (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (89%); SENTENCING (88%); PRISONS (88%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (86%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONSERVATISM (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); MOBILE & CELLULAR COMMUNICATIONS (77%); WORLD WAR I (77%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); JUVENILE JUSTICE (77%); JAIL SENTENCING (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (75%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); POLITICAL PARTIES (72%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (71%); JOB CREATION (70%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (94%) EUROPE (94%); MOROCCO (94%); SPAIN (94%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); NORTHERN AFRICA (92%); AFRICA (91%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



604 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 2; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 3; IN BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1159 words

HEADLINE: Arriving on Track 1, a Reborn Yonkers Station

BYLINE: By MARC FERRIS

DATELINE: YONKERS 

 BODY:
THE scaffolding has come down at the train station in downtown Yonkers, revealing the brick and granite building designed by Warren & Wetmore, the architectural firm that created the facades and interior of Grand Central Terminal. 
 A thorough face-lift at the station, a Beaux Arts jewel box at the head of Larkin Plaza, is almost finished. Once again, the clocks on the facade and in the ticket room are accurate, symbolizing renewal for a building that was built in 1911 but had been neglected for years.
 ''There were six shades of black inside, as bad as Grand Central was before its renovation,'' said Mari R. Miceli, deputy director of facilities and stations for Metro-North Railroad, which owns the building. 
 The Yonkers station was an afterthought of sorts for Warren & Wetmore, a firm that also designed the Poughkeepsie station. The building has features also found in Grand Central, which was completed in 1913, including arched windows, triangular lamps over the ticket booths, a vaulted Guastavino tile ceiling in the concourse, and carved terra-cotta capitals atop several columns emblazoned with the New York Central Railroad logo. 
 The station is something of a stepchild among local relics. Metro-North has never sought landmark status for it, so it has never been officially singled out for historical or architectural significance. The city's landmarks board gets applications from property owners, rather than suggesting that buildings should be made into landmarks, said Lee Ellman, director of the planning bureau at the Yonkers Department of Planning and Development.
 Despite the railroad's obvious impact on the city's development and the building's role as a main public portal for Yonkers, the station is a phantom in most history books. No file about the building exists at the city's planning bureau, said Mr. Ellman, and reference librarians at the local-history room of the Yonkers Library also reported a dearth of information about it.
 The station's relative invisibility over the years helped preserve it. ''Benign neglect is the jargon we use when a building is saved in spite of itself,'' said city's principal planner, Mario Caruso. 
 For many years, homeless people camped out in the bathrooms. Pigeons left calling cards on the sidewalks and the platforms. The architects hid the water-runoff system beneath the building's skin, but once it began to leak, the bricks seemed to bleed water when it rained. 
 Repairing the runoff system was one big change in the renovation. Now, new copper drains run from the bracketed cornice down the building's exterior.
 Ms. Miceli, the project manager for the station restoration, may be the only person who can identify the real dentils, round-head rivets, sconces and chandeliers from the replicas. She said specialized subcontractors, who are growing harder to find, undertook the work. A California company restored and reproduced the sculptured terra cotta, perhaps the structure's most striking ornamentation, which adorns the facade, the concourse, and the waiting room. Pigeon-proofing consists of a series of discreetly placed electrified wires. 
 The work at the station, which began in October 2001 and is expected to be completed by September of this year, will be paid for by Metro-North as part of a $93 million capital improvement project along the Hudson Line that will rehabilitate nine stations. 
 The $4.5 million rehabilitation of the Yonkers station is just a small part of the work undertaken by Metro-North at the downtown facility, which will total $35 million by the time the project -- including track work and everything else -- is finished, and the station opens completely to the public, in February 2005. 
 Other heavy work in the project includes refurbishing one 3,000-foot retaining wall along the south side of the viaduct, replacing track beds and the reconstruction of the four steel bridges that cross the underpasses to the Hudson River.
 Warren & Wetmore's building is the third train depot to occupy the spot. It opened at a time when trains served long-distance travelers and pioneer commuters. That history explains the cavernous waiting room -- which still contains the original oak benches and circular steam heaters and the shell of what was once a telegraph closet. Ms. Miceli has entertained the idea of putting a restaurant in the room.
 Just south of the station, an area used in turn by horse-drawn carriages, trolleys and buses is now a pedestrian mall and new home to the city's statue of a onetime resident and favorite daughter, Ella Fitzgerald. Ms. Miceli says she is considering using the sheltered arcade for a farmer's market or for vendors' stalls
 The statue's future is a cause for concern, said City Councilwoman Patricia McDow, whose district includes the waterfront. ''There had been talks about moving Ella Fitzgerald, that they found some eagles in storage at Grand Central Station,'' that might occupy the statue's space, she said. ''To me that's a wrong move, because pushing aside Ella Fitzgerald would crystallize how many of us in the community feel pushed out of the waterfront development.''
 The square is Metro-North property, but the statue belongs to the city, which will maintain the area, said Jim Pinto, the downtown and waterfront development director for Yonkers. The cast-iron bald eagle is one of a number that used to adorn an earlier Grand Central Terminal; they were scattered after the building was razed and have been resurfacing, and Yonkers had sought to give a home to one of the birds.
 The station projects an austere street presence, along with the 1927 post office and the Trolley Barn, built in 1903, its closest neighbors at the junction of Buena Vista Avenue and Main Street. On the intersection's southeast corner stands the steel frame of a new 70,000-square-foot office building. 
 Metro-North has moved the station's lighting and ventilation infrastructure, allowing installation of windows and a door on the station's western wall, which overlooks the Hudson. Above the culvert where the Saw Mill River empties into the Hudson, the railroad will make a new entrance, with access by a new esplanade planned by the city of Yonkers to connect Hudson Park to the next large development parcel, owned by the city, currently used as a parking lot. 
 The city will accept proposals from private developers and plans to decide the two-acre site's future within a year, said Richard Halevy, spokesman for Mayor Phil Amicone. A leading candidate for the development is Collins Enterprises, a Stamford-based developer, which built Hudson Park, Mr. Pinto said. 
 The station's revitalization is one piece of the waterfront's rebound. ''This will create a great entrance for someone coming from Manhattan who is considering moving here,'' said Mr. Ellman. ''It sets a nice stage, but if there aren't interesting things happening in the first place, a great train station won't get people to come here.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The renovation of the Yonkers railroad station, designed by the architects of Grand Central Terminal, is nearly complete. Many of the original details have been restored. (Photographs by Chris Maynard for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (91%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (90%); TRAINS (90%); HISTORIC SITES (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (89%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); CITIES (73%); HISTORY (71%); LIBRARIANS (63%); HOMELESSNESS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



605 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 5; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 2; The Week Ahead

LENGTH: 97 words

HEADLINE: ECONOMICS

BYLINE: By David Leonhardt

 BODY:
Three years have passed since employment peaked in the United States, the longest jobs slump since before World War II. 
Will this week mark the beginning of the end?
 The Labor Department will report Friday how many jobs the economy added in March. For months now, economists have been predicting decent gains only to be disappointed. Many now seem chastened and are forecasting an increase of only about 100,000 jobs, which is 50,000 or so shy of what is needed to keep up with population growth. At this point, meeting even low expectations might seem like progress.
 David Leonhardt


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR DEPARTMENTS (88%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (86%); WORLD WAR II (85%); POPULATION GROWTH (83%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



606 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 5; Column 1; Travel Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1263 words

HEADLINE: Rare Birds: American Tourists

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES. 
MICHAEL WINES is chief of the Johannesburg bureau of The Times.

 BODY:
THE British are coming to South Africa: 463,000 of them last year, up 45 percent in the last five years. So are the Germans: an increase of better than 50 percent since 1998. The Chinese may be the fastest-growing segment of all: more than 33,000 in 2003, an increase of almost 30 percent in a year.
 And Americans? They have not come -- not in the numbers dreamed of by South African hoteliers, restaurateurs and safari operators, who have now set about to change that. 
 As the 10th anniversary of independence and apartheid's downfall approaches, South Africa is pursuing the American tourist -- the last big game, so to speak, to elude this nation's increasingly savvy tourism industry. Last month, the government tourism office began a new Web site, www.southafrica.net/heritage, aimed at black and white Americans intrigued by South Africa's lush culture and uplifting recent history. 
 The idea, says Prudence Solomon Inzerillo, the president of South African Tourism: U.S.A., is to broaden the nation's appeal beyond its base of aging baby boomers to a new, pick-up-and-go class of younger American urbanites who want a new thrill. ''They've heard of South Africa, but they're not quite sure what it holds,'' she said in a recent telephone interview from her office in Manhattan. ''Most Americans have a hard time with Africa. If something negative happens, they think it is happening all over the continent.'' The challenge, she said, is to separate South Africa's generally upbeat story from some of southern Africa's more problematic ones.
 On the face of it, South Africa does not seem such a hard sell to Americans. This is Africa's first-world outpost -- an effusively friendly English-speaking land with a rich mix of European and African culture, heart-stopping scenery, sophisticated food and a climate even more agreeable than the Mediterranean's.
 Yet for South Africa, as for many tourist-hungry nations, Americans are a difficult sell these days. The threat of terrorism has affected travel by Americans far more than those from other countries; the stop-and-go United States economy also has been a factor. South African tourism faces two other problems: Africa's reputation as a troubled continent, and the nation's end-of-the-earth remoteness, which translates into high air fares and bone-tiring flights.
 Europeans, who are closer and less skittish, have seized the moment. In the last five years, their visits to South Africa have leapt by close to 70 percent, to 1.34 million a year. By comparison, only about 192,000 Americans visited South Africa last year, an increase of a little more than 25 percent over the same period. (Because of record-keeping changes, the 2003 figures are not exactly comparable to earlier years, but they offer an idea of the extent to which Europeans -- and not Americans -- have embraced South Africa as a destination.) 
 South Africans could argue with some justification that American concerns are unfounded. Weeklong package tours now run as low as $2,000 a person, not much more than the customary $1,500 round-trip air fare that has discouraged many American travelers.
 The last five years have witnessed an explosion in the construction of four- and five-star hotels in Johannesburg, Cape Town and other major cities, putting the country in a class with virtually any other major tourist spot. Hyatt, Sheraton, Holiday Inn and the other major brands have become staples here in the last few years, as are local chains, which offer comparable comfort and competitive prices.
 THE beauty of South Africa, in fact, is that it is such a seamless blend of first-world and exotic experiences. Cape Town, Johannesburg and Durban offer an abundance of luxurious wine-country hotels, five-star beach resorts and nonstop nightclubbing and gallery-hopping. Yet a few hours out of town, on American-quality superhighways, are abundant wildlife and untouched vistas that could pass for Ireland, Israel or the Wyoming badlands. In town, visits to places like Soweto and District Six, a mixed-race Cape Town neighborhood bulldozed at the height of apartheid, impart a tangible sense of history. 
 There is one big downside: crime. Mostly but not always of the purse-snatching ilk, it is a serious and continuing problem in a nation with 40 percent unemployment and a vast, idle youth. Tourism officials like to say that Washington is every bit as dangerous as, say, Johannesburg, and some statistics may back that up. But the truth, as most South Africans of any race will testify, is that this nation is a work in progress, and that security is a worthwhile but not overriding concern. A dose of caution is both prudent and almost always sufficient. 
 The mushrooming growth of tourism here suggests that safety has not been an issue with the vast bulk of travelers.
 ''We have a database with 11,500 accommodations in it.'' said Vanessa Sand, the publisher of AA South Africa, a guide to the country's lodgings. ''That's double what it was in 1994, when we became a democracy. The quality of five-star establishments today is just so much higher. A tremendous amount of money has been plowed into tourism.''
 Some of the high-end safari camps, led by the Mala Mala and Londolozi game reserves, on the edges of Kruger National Park, have been rated by travel publications as among the top vacation destinations in the world -- and priced accordingly, at $1,000 a night and up.
 Terrorism, so far, has been a nonissue. Indeed, bombings by Al Qaeda in Kenya last year may have diverted wildlife watchers from the vast Serengeti plains to South Africa, a seemingly safer destination with equally abundant lions, elephants and other so-called Big Five animals.
 The government also has worked with some success to upgrade its budget accommodations at national parks, many of which offer topnotch wildlife experiences, from Motel 6 status to something approaching the quality of American park lodges. 
 The effort is paying off. Some rooms and gift shops in Kruger, for example, already are as well-appointed as those in the United States. 
 That is the bread and butter of African tourism, and it will draw visitors to this remarkable nation in any ordinary year. But South Africans are betting that this, the 10th anniversary of majority rule, is far from an ordinary year -- and that this time, visitors will come to see Mandela's prison cell and the nation's 300 museums as much as the leopards at Mala Mala. 

Some timely reasons to visit
 Freedom Day, April 27, marks the celebration of South Africa's transition from apartheid to independence, and it's traditional to honor the event with vivid parades of acrobats, dancers and other performers. The government plans to spend up to $12 million on the celebration; details are available at www.10years.gov.za.
 The link to independence is tenuous, but that is no reason to pass by the North Sea Jazz Festival, April 10 and 11 in Cape Town. The festival, in its fifth year, has become a national favorite and claims a new home this year in the sleek, recently completed Cape Town International Convention Center. Thirty performances on multiple stages include such artists as Ursula Rucker, Miriam Makeba and Femi Kuti; for details, visit www.nsjfcapetown.com/moreinfo.asp.
 For background reading, a coffee-table book, ''The World That Made Mandela,'' by the historian Luli Callinicos, (STE Publishers) traces Nelson Mandela's life from his birthplace in Qunu to Johannesburg, where he was first held prisoner, to Soweto to Mpumalanga province to Cape Town and the Robben Island prison. MICHAEL WINES


GRAPHIC: Photo: The ferry to Robben Island from Cape Town, with Table Mountain in background. The dance troupe Manyanani will perform on Freedom Day, April 27, in Cape Town. (Photo by Eric Miller/iAfrika Photos)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LODGING (77%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (76%); TOURISM (75%); GOVERNMENT TOURIST OFFICES (74%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (72%); INTERVIEWS (72%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (71%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); CONVENTION & VISITORS BUREAUS (69%); TOURISM DEVELOPMENT (69%); BABY BOOMERS (67%); AIR FARES (60%); ANNIVERSARIES (55%); WEB SITES (53%); TERRORISM (50%) Travel and Vacations

PERSON: Michael Wines; Prudence Solomon Inzerillo

GEOGRAPHIC: CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA (91%); JOHANNESBURG, SOUTH AFRICA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) SOUTH AFRICA (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (94%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); SOUTHERN AFRICA (79%); MEDITERRANEAN (79%) South Africa

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



607 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 8; Column 1; Sports Desk; Pg. 9; BackTalk

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Tournament Has Become March Monopoly Madness

BYLINE: By JEFFREY L. KESSLER. 
Jeffrey L. Kessler is co-chairman of the litigation department at Dewey Ballantine L.L.P. and represents the N.I.T. in its antitrust litigation against the N.C.A.A.

 BODY:
Every March, college basketball fans have been primed to experience one of the world's most powerful monopolies -- the N.C.A.A. tournament. This event, which is enjoying a $6 billion, 11-year agreement with CBS, has become the poster child for commercialism in college sports and all of its adverse consequences on student athletes. What most fans don't realize, however, is that the N.C.A.A. tournament did not acquire, and does not maintain, its monopoly fairly. It does so through a set of anticompetitive rules that force all invited schools, under pain of severe penalty, to participate only in the N.C.A.A. tournament and to boycott any competing events. This was not always the case.
 Once upon a time, the National Invitation Tournament, which is older than the N.C.A.A. tournament and culminates every year in Madison Square Garden, provided strong competition to the N.C.A.A. tournament and attracted many of the top teams in the country. In 1950, for example, City College of New York played in and won both tournaments. 
 In 1962, Loyola, Mississippi State, Dayton, the University of Houston and St. John's all chose to participate in the N.I.T. rather than accept invitations to the N.C.A.A. tournament. In 1970, Marquette, one of the best teams in the nation that year, chose to go to the N.I.T. over the N.C.A.A. tournament, which provoked an outcry by the powers that ran the N.C.A.A. tournament.
 During this time, college basketball fans benefited from the excitement, and the lower ticket prices, created by having a healthy competition between two premier postseason tournaments.
 The National Collegiate Athletic Association, however, was not happy with this exercise of free choice by its member schools and the resulting strong competition with the N.I.T. It saw the pot of gold that a monopoly could produce and, in the early 1980's, took decisive action.
 The N.C.A.A. changed its rules so that all schools invited to its tournament would be required to boycott the N.I.T. under the pain of N.C.A.A. penalties, and combined that rule with a major expansion of the N.C.A.A. tournament field to 64 teams from 32. The result is that each year the N.I.T., or any other tournament that may try to enter the market, is prevented from competing for any of the best teams in the country, and the N.C.A.A.'s monopoly power and profits are assured.
 To appreciate the unfair and anticompetitive nature of the N.C.A.A.'s rules, consider an example from the board game Monopoly. Imagine that a new rule in that board game required that all of the best properties -- Boardwalk, Park Place, the railroads and the rest -- be assigned to only one player (the N.C.A.A.), while the remaining contestants could try to acquire only Baltic Avenue, Mediterranean and the other streets with much lower values. Could these other players effectively compete?
 We all know the answer. The N.C.A.A. would always win the game and generate huge profits from its properties, and there would be no fair competition at all. That is how the N.C.A.A. tournament dominates today. It prohibits the top teams from participating in any postseason tournament other than the N.C.A.A. tournament.
 Why should fans and the public care about this? The CBS contract shows that there are at least six billion reasons for fans to be concerned. When an institution is able to charge monopoly prices, consumers (in this case, college basketball fans) are the ones who ultimately pay.
 Moreover, there is an obvious connection between the billions earned by the N.C.A.A. tournament and the conflict of interest that inevitably occurs when the self-appointed guardian of student-athlete welfare is also responsible for operating one of the most profitable sports monopolies in the world.
 The result is a pervasive culture of money that drives the N.C.A.A. and its power conferences. The lure of multimillion-dollar payoffs for success in the N.C.A.A. tournament creates intense pressures on student athletes that help lead to abysmally low graduation rates on the top teams. In seeking billions of dollars in monopoly profits, the N.C.A.A. has clearly lost its way.
 There are numerous reasons our country has antitrust laws to prevent anyone from engaging in anticompetitive practices to acquire or maintain a monopoly, not the least of which are the interests of consumers and the public policy that supports giving everyone a fair opportunity to compete. That is why the Supreme Court has called these laws our ''charter of economic liberty.''
 There is no reason the N.C.A.A. monopoly should not have to comply with these laws. In fact, this is what the Supreme Court held in 1984, when it applied whe antitrust laws to strike down an N.C.A.A. rule that prevented its members from competing in the sale of broadcast rights to college football games. As a result of that decision, more college football games have been broadcast, for lower rights fees, benefiting all fans in the process.
 If you believe that the N.C.A.A. and its power conferences have become too consumed by the pursuit of money and that something needs to be done about the rampant commercialism of N.C.A.A. decision-making, don't underestimate the corrupting influence of the monopoly power of the N.C.A.A. tournament. 
 Like a 7-foot center playing in a fixed game in which no one else is allowed to be taller than 6 feet, the N.C.A.A. tournament uses its anticompetitive rules to roll over the competition and collect its payday from all of the fans. It's time for the N.C.A.A. to end its anticompetitive rules and let its tournament stand on its own feet in competing with the N.I.T. or any other postseason tournament. March would be just as mad, and far more beneficial to students and fans.


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Barton Silverman The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (93%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); TOURNAMENTS (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (89%); BOARD GAMES (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (78%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); SPORTS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); TICKET SALES (73%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: ST JOHN'S UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF DAYTON (55%); MISSISSIPPI STATE UNIVERSITY (55%); UNIVERSITY OF HOUSTON (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MISSISSIPPI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



608 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1143 words

HEADLINE: No Snow to Shovel And No Grass to Cut

BYLINE: By ALLAN RICHTER

 BODY:
SUBURBIA comes with a front lawn. Whether it's a patch little larger than a blanket or a sweeping sward big enough for football practice, the suburban stereotype, which the Island has done so much to create, includes a house with a yard. 
 But houses make Steve and Sharon Persky of Long Beach nervous. Someone could trip on the sidewalk and sue them for all they are worth. The lawn sprinkler system could break; the deck could rot; termites could invade. 
 ''If you buy a house that's 50 or 60 years old, once you buy you don't know what you're getting into,'' Mrs. Persky said. ''You don't know what your costs are going to be. If you run into one blip, you can be crushed. You have to expect the unexpected.''
 The Perskys, both 39, could afford a nice house. But they prefer the uncomplicated life that they say an apartment provides, even with two young sons, Philip, 4, and Jeffrey, 2. 
 ''We didn't have any of the responsibility of owning,'' Mrs. Persky said, referring to the apartment they rented in the late 1990's in Boca Raton, Fla. ''When the toilet didn't flush, we just called the rental agency, and they fixed it. It was beautiful.''
 So now they are searching for another apartment to rent on Long Island. 
 They are not alone. Soaring home prices in recent years have helped increase demand for rental units, while supply, especially of rental houses, has declined because owners capitalized on the huge sums their properties could command by selling. 
 The Long Island Board of Realtors does not track the apartment rental market, but Joseph Mottola, the group's chief executive, said that rentals were in demand because of a short supply. ''The townships are somewhat reluctant to grant apartment house zoning,'' Mr. Mottola said. 
 Board of Realtors data show strong demand for co-ops and condos in both Nassau and Suffolk Counties. In the first two months this year, median Nassau condo prices were up 50 percent over the same period last year, and co-op prices were up 14 percent, while Suffolk condo prices were up 34 percent and co-op prices 32 percent. In all cases, the percentages are outpacing those for price increases for detached houses.
 Long Island has about 30,000 co-ops, two-thirds of them in Nassau, and about 32,000 condos, 90 percent of them in Suffolk, according to county figures. There were more than 182,000 rental units of all types on the Island in 2000, according to the Census Bureau, up from almost 169,000 in the 1990 census. But as a percentage of total housing, rentals actually declined slightly, from 19.9 percent to 18 percent in Suffolk and from 19.5 percent to 19 percent in Nassau.
 ''Not only has the population increased, but the mix in that population is such that we have more singles, married couples without children and seniors, and yet we don't have more rental units,'' said Pearl M. Kamer, the chief economist of the Long Island Association.
 While they shop for something better, the Perskys are renting the second floor of a Long Beach house but see few benefits to living there. ''There's no direct access into a backyard,'' Mrs. Persky said. ''Yesterday my little one fell down the stairs, and I had to take him to the hospital for 10 stitches.''
 When the Perskys moved to the Island from Florida in 2002, they looked at a dozen houses to buy but settled on renting an apartment instead. ''Once I decided not to go that route, this whole anxiety just left my body,'' Mrs. Persky said. 
 They recently considered a $3,600-a-month three-bedroom apartment in White Sands on the Long Beach boardwalk, a new luxury high-rise built by Sun America Development, a Glen Head developer.
 Long Beach officials once greeted the idea of apartment houses along the boardwalk with consternation because of 1960's-era zoning along the shore, east of Long Beach Road, that allowed tall buildings stacked next to each other with little space between them. In fact, the shoreline buildings in the east were sometimes compared with the Great Wall of China. 
 Glen Spiritis, Long Beach's new city manager, said newer buildings like White Sands to the west ''all have a tremendous amount of side yard space between towers'' and more parking. ''Smart growth is really nothing more than good planning, and we did that back in the early 80's,'' said Mr. Spiritis, the city's planning director from 1979 to 1986.
 Apartment construction on the Island began to edge upward about seven years ago, when officials began allowing more condo apartments and town houses for residents 55 and older to curb their flight to Florida and North Carolina, recalled Bo Hulse, a broker at the Prudential Douglas Elliman offices in Westhampton and Miller Place.
 Long Island town officials ''knew they had a problem because everyone was leaving,'' Mr. Hulse said. ''Now, with this new construction, rather than taking the equity down to Florida, these people would leave it in Nassau and Suffolk.''
 In recent years, AvalonBay Communities in Alexandria, Va., has mimicked the self-contained condo and town-house complexes with upscale garden apartments that offer golf, tennis and community pools. These are are more palatable to town planners than traditional brick apartment buildings, Mr. Hulse said.
 AvalonBay has built more than 1,000 high-end rental units in Long Beach, Smithtown, Melville and Glen Cove. A complex in Coram is being built, and so is the second phase of a complex in Glen Cove. Typical tenants are transitional: young families en route to buying houses, transplants with new jobs on the Island, empty nesters and the newly single.
 Peter Febo, the portfolio director for AvalonBay's Long Island properties, said that most of the complexes do not cater to children. The 312-unit Avalon Commons complex in Smithtown, for example, has only a small playground, just large enough to accommodate the children who visit their divorced parents who live there. ''We don't have a lot of kids,'' Mr. Febo said. 
 On average, Mr. Febo added, AvalonBay's tenants stay no longer than two years. Neil Lenowitz, 43, a personal injury lawyer who moved into Avalon Commons in 1999 after separating from his wife, is an exception.
 ''The longer you live there, you become the mayor,'' he said. ''You know where everyone is and what everyone's doing. It's fun.'' 
 Mr. Lenowitz added that he has had his share of relationships with single women at the complex. ''With enough friends there, it's almost like college living,'' he said. 
 But now Mr. Lenowitz, who pays $1,800 a month for his one-bedroom apartment, has met someone with whom he hopes to settle down, and they are considering buying a house or condo. So he doesn't plan to renew the lease on his apartment when it expires in January.
 ''Once you have that significant other, it's time to get out,'' he said. ''Apartment living has seen its run with me. But will I miss this? Absolutely.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Meaghan Maul, far right, and Yui Nagashima have rented an apartment at the new White Sands building, above, on the boardwalk in Long Beach.
 At Granada Towers in Long Beach, Paul Joseph, left, with his dog, Reilly, lives in a penthouse apartment. So does Marni Shapiro, far left, on the staircase of her duplex with her fiance, Tom Wallace. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (89%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (89%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); SUBURBS (79%); HOUSING MARKET (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (77%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (72%); CENSUS (69%); PRICE CHANGES (69%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



609 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14LI; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3235 words

HEADLINE: Through The Roof

BYLINE: By RICHARD LEZIN JONES

DATELINE: ROSLYN HEIGHTS 

 BODY:
KIRIL TZOTCHEV has a problem: figuring out how to live among the wealthy, even though he isn't really one of them.
 To hear Mr. Tzotchev tell it, he is just about the furthest one can be from rich: he is an artist. But those who buy his work tend to be in a higher tax bracket. So when it came time to shop for a home, he kept in mind the old adage and followed the money.
 ''My art, the wealthy people can afford it,'' said Mr. Tzotchev, 42, a naturalized citizen who came to the United States from his native Bulgaria more than a dozen years ago. ''I want to be around the rich people,'' he said with a chuckle that indicated he was only half joking. ''As an artist, I have to be here.'' 
 So he focused his house hunt on the area around tiny Roslyn Heights, a place close to some of the most affluent communities on Long Island, yet known as a potential trove for middle-income bargain hunters. Still, the prices for places he liked were a bit outside sculptor range. So he decided to wait out the market. That was two years ago. He's still waiting.
 ''The price,'' Mr. Tzotchev said, ''it keeps going up and up.'' 
 Up is the operative word for home values everywhere in the New York metropolitan area, particularly with mortgage rates so low as to be virtually unprecedented. 
 Those factors have combined to increase price tags even in places like 6,300-person Roslyn Heights, which was once seen as a refuge for those with mid-level incomes but upper-crust aspirations.
 According to sales figures for Roslyn Heights compiled by the Multiple Listing Service, the sales database shared by real estate agents, buyers need more than twice as much money as they did just two years ago to get a foot on the bottom rung of the market. The lowest sale price for a house in the hamlet has risen from $135,000 in 2000 to $322,000 today.
 Multiple offers on many properties are a given. Bidding wars are not uncommon. And sociologists and other planning experts say that a byproduct of these escalating pricetags is that very often the middle class, who for decades formed the core of communities like Roslyn Heights, find themselves priced out of the market.
 Agents say it isn't hard to figure out what's driving values here so high.
 ''Lack of product. Period,'' said Linda Wohl, a vice president with Daniel Gale Associates and manager of the real estate brokerage's Roslyn office. ''The school district is excellent. The community is desirable because of that. There's the accessibility. We have more buyers than we have houses.'' 
 According to Multiple Listing Service statistics for Roslyn Heights, the average sale price of a home has nearly doubled in the last four years, from $429,463 in 2000 to $848,926 today. That's a sharp acceleration from the 1990's, when home values in Roslyn Heights grew about 16 percent, according to census figures.
 ''The market has changed,'' said Ms. Wohl, who has sold real estate in the Roslyn area for nearly three decades. ''The market is a little bit of a slow roller coaster. This is a seller's market. Still, I remember when interest rates were 17 percent and we still sold houses. Now, we have more buyers. There are multiple offers. The numbers are incredible.''
 And that is a sentiment shared by both agents and prospective buyers alike. ''I don't know where people get the money to afford it,'' Mr. Tzotchev said. ''If you don't inherit, I don't know where you get it.''

Downwardly Mobile
 Sociologists and economists say soaring real estate prices mean it simply costs more for a middle-class family to stay in the middle. Some experts see a widening gulf in the middle of the middle class, separating those who have and those who have more.
 On Long Island there are great extremes of wealth and poverty, and then, somewhere in the middle, is a middle class whose definition is at best slippery. 
 Nationally, if a family's annual income is $75,000, by most definitions the family belongs to the middle class. 
 By that standard a low six-figure income would put a Long Island family in the upper middle class nationally -- yet that family may well not be a position to buy a house in most of the Island's communities. 
 ''More and more it's a case of winners and losers in the middle class,'' said Susan S. Fainstein, a professor of urban planning at Columbia University. ''There are two groups. If you have a secure and steady job, own a home, you can be doing quite well. Then there are all those people who are on a slippery slope who are afraid that they're going to lose their job or that it will go off to India. 
 ''They're the ones who are the forgotten middle class,'' she said.
 Dr. Fainstein said that those most affected by skyrocketing home values in the region are first-time buyers and the young.
 ''The people for whom it's really hard are people just entering the housing market, young couples, people without a nest egg or without parents who can help them,'' she said. ''They're the middle class that's downwardly mobile, because even if you have a decent income, who has $60,000 in the bank for a down payment when they just got out of college or graduate school or wherever?''
 The current tightening of the real estate market in the New York metropolitan region is simple supply and demand. Because there is little affordable housing being built, whatever existing quality housing stock remains is sometimes fought over by prospective buyers with dueling bids.
 All of which serves to price large segments of the middle class out of some real estate markets.
 ''I don't know how people are doing it,'' said Rachel Ranis, a sociology professor at Quinnipiac University in Hamden, Conn. ''It's very hard for any family to buy in this market unless both parties are working.''
 At the same time it has become harder for many to enter the housing market, those who do make it want even more once they get there. 
 ''People's expectations have gotten higher,'' she said. ''Before, we were happy to have just one car in a household. Now, everyone has to have a car. If you buy a house, everyone has to have a room. People have changed a lot.''
 What has remained largely constant, Professor Ranis said, are the forces that drive homebuyers into the suburbs around the region: the quest for bigger yards, better schools and perhaps a slower, more measured pace of living.
 Professor Ranis noted that another factor appears to be playing a larger role: worry. 
 ''One thing we find is that you're worried that you will be able to duplicate what you've always considered middle-class,'' she said. ''The key value is how to keep yourself where you are and your children, how to give them the best start.
 ''There's a lot of pressure on people to keep up with what they're accustomed to,'' she said. ''It's no longer about keeping up with the neighbor next door, it's their own wants and what they're accustomed to.''
 But in the status-conscious suburbs, a larger home is still the No. 1 symbol of success.
 ''The ones who are doing well, you see people going out and getting bigger and bigger houses,'' Dr. Fainstein said. ''You look at some of these homes that have closets the size of my bedroom when I grew up.''
 And the reason size matters?
 ''It's the symbol of your achievement, the symbol of your status,'' Dr. Fainstein said. ''It puts a premium on those homes with the center hall and the chandelier and all this space where you can demonstrate your lifestyle.''
 While practically no one would prefer that a community be poorer rather than richer, some experts wonder about the effects of such changes on the character of established middle-class communities.
 ''All of the suburbs that have maintained quality housing have become more and more exclusive,'' Dr. Fainstein said.
 More exclusive perhaps, but also, say some, communities in high-priced markets grow less diverse and its residents less connected socially.
 ''It has a huge impact of community connectedness,'' said Robert Fisher, the director of urban and community studies at the University of Connecticut's West Hartford campus. ''The issue of social connectedness, a lot of that has to do with destabilization. While bringing affluence into these communities, a lot of people are pushed out as well.''
 Not to mention, Dr. Fisher said, those who because of high prices never get to enter some communities in the first place. ''What's happening is that the American dream is a little bit less within the reach of a lot of people,'' he said.

Shaped by Transportation
 For decades, Roslyn Heights has been a fairly typical Long Island bedroom community. But its roots go deeper than those of most Nassau or Suffolk locales.
 Present-day Nassau County was part of the Dutch New Netherlands colony, but Myrna Sloam, the archivist at the Bryant Public Library in Roslyn, said the first Old World settlers in the Roslyn area were the English, who crossed Long Island Sound from Connecticut and set up quarters at the head of Hempstead Harbor in 1643 as a first step toward establishing what is now Hempstead about eight miles south. 
 The settlement became Roslyn, and Roslyn Heights is one of a cluster of communities around it, also including Roslyn Estates, Roslyn Harbor, East Hills and Flower Hill. 
 Like countless other towns on the Island, early life in the Roslyns revolved around the water -- fishing and clamming -- but even from its beginnings, life here was a little bit different, Ms. Sloam said. 
 ''It was almost an industrial village,'' she said. ''There was farming on the outskirts, but there was a grist mill going back to the 1700's. There was a paper mill and other parts of a little industrial, craftsman community.''
 Perhaps the most significant event in the area's early history was when the Long Island Rail Road came to the Roslyn area in 1864. ''That made it easier for people to get out here,'' Ms. Sloam said.
 It also made it easier for residents to make their way into the city. Before the rails came, the preferred method of transportation into Manhattan was by steamboat. Estimated travel time? About 3 hours. ''And that was the fast way,'' Ms. Sloam said. ''The roads could take 6 or 7 hours if it rained.'' (Insert your own Long Island Expressway joke here.)
 As the area entered the 20th century, the mills faded, the steamboats disappeared and Roslyn Heights began to grow up around the train station. By the 1930's the five main villages that make up the Roslyns were in the middle of an uptick in home construction that would herald the population boom across the Island after World War II.
 ''None of the other industries carried on in any other way,'' Ms. Sloam said. ''It just became a suburban community.'' 
 And, in some areas, a decidedly upscale suburban community at that. But in a sea of affluence, Roslyn Heights had reputation as place where middle-class buyers could find bargains.
 ''Traditionally, the Heights was more affordable,'' Ms. Sloam. ''But from what I'm hearing the prices have gone up.''
 Making things more difficult for homebuyers here is the growth in home prices in surrounding communities. Two census tracts within seven miles of Roslyn Heights -- including communities like Old Westbury and Brookville -- notched the highest percentage increases in home values on Long Island from 1990 to 2000, according to census figures. 
 The spike in home prices here over the past few years came after a decade during which census figures show Roslyn Heights actually lost population. In the 90's, the population of the Heights dipped about 2 percent. Its black population fell from 9 percent to 6 percent, while the number of Asians (5 percent in 1990) and Hispanics (4 percent in 1990) grew to 10 percent and 7 percent, respectively.
 The community's growth has also been reflected in its schools, which agents say buyers frequently cite as a key draw. More than half of the children of Roslyn Heights attend the Roslyn Union Free School District; the rest are in the Mineola district. Barry Edelson, the district's director of community relations, said that over the past decade and half the student population has grown by more than third, from 2,400 in 1990 to roughly 3,300 today.
 ''We've grown a lot in the last 10 to 12 years,'' said Mr. Edelson, but not because many new homes had been built. Rather, he said, ''it's been strictly demographic -- we're going from a town of people without children or whose children are not in school to younger families.''
 Indeed, fully 40 percent of taxpayers in the district have school-aged children, Mr. Edelson said, an increase of about 15 percent from a low several years ago.
 Besides the area's school system, another attraction for potential buyers is the area's proximity to New York City. Located about 20 miles east of midtown Manhattan and convenient to Northern Boulevard, the Northern State Parkway and the Long Island Expressway, the Roslyns are enticing for weary commuters.
 ''People always talk to me in terms of access and accessibility,'' said Renee Hughes, an agent with Daniel Gale.
 And when it comes to price tags? Ms. Hughes says she rarely sees customers who lapse into slack-jawed sticker shock anymore. 
 ''It's about 50-50,'' she said. ''Some do. But most people already know what they're getting into.''

A Seller's Market
 During an open house here last Sunday, Yami Dotan, a Century 21 agent in the Roslyn Heights area for a dozen years, frowned as she described a couple who had recently made an offer on a home that they coveted.
 ''They made a low offer,'' Ms. Dotan said. ''I say to everyone, 'Give your best offer, as close as you can to the asking price,' because owners here will get the asking price.''
 Ms. Dotan said she knows a handful of sellers who have increased their asking price after noticing what was happening in the market.
 ''It's amazing,'' she said. ''I remember days I would have a listing and I would open the door for an open house and the listing would expire and not go sold. I would get so frustrated.
 Within 40 minutes of the Sunday open house, four families had visited. The asking price for the rather ordinary-looking, gray four-bedroom Colonial built just after World War II: $729,000.
 Prospective buyers have learned that such prices are just about par for the course here in Roslyn Heights, a pleasant though unremarkable community where much of the housing stock is postwar Colonials and split-levels. 
 Sarah Pak was one of those visiting the open house. She said she had scoffed at the idea of paying in the upper six figures for a home in the area last year, much to her chagrin. In just the past year, real estate sales figures show, the average price for a home here has jumped about $150,000.
 ''The demand is very high,'' said Ms. Pak, 37, who visited the gray Colonial with her husband, Yoon, 38, and their children, Curtis, 7, and Joseph 3. ''I'm not surprised. We were looking last year. The prices have gone up since then.''
 Ms. Pak said that she and her husband are concerned about letting another year pass without buying something.
 ''Now, I realize,'' she said, ''this is the time.''
 The Paks' story is familiar to Ms. Dotan. ''I had a customer two years ago, his friends told him, 'Don't buy, wait, the market's too high, it's going to crash,''' she said. ''Now he can't afford it because he has the same budget and the prices have gone up and up.''
 Since Ms. Dotan's prospective buyer balked in 2002, the average price here has increased by more than a quarter million dollars, according to sales figures. 
 ''Every time you think it's the top,'' Ms. Dotan said of home prices here. ''And then it goes up again.''
 Part of what's driving the increases in home values here is what agents said was a spike in renovations and what are commonly known as ''knockdowns'' -- homes that have been purchased with the intent of being razed so that a new, more luxurious property can be built.
 After leaving the gray Colonial, Ms. Dotan headed toward one property in the Country Club section of Roslyn Heights that was bought in the last five years or so for about a half-million dollars. The original home had been rebuilt and reborn as a majestic four-bedroom Colonial with a maple and granite gourmet kitchen and a walk-in closet upstairs about the size of a freight elevator. The owner was selling, asking $1.5 million.Ms. Dotan said it wasn't far-fetched for the owner to try to command that kind of asking price. In fact, she said, he was one of the customers who raised his initial price after watching the market boom.
 ''We had to raise the price here,'' Ms. Dotan said. ''He saw what's going on around here.''
 Some people involved in construction and real estate on Long Island wonder whether the market for such opulent homes can be sustained.
 ''I think anything over a million dollars and higher has plateaued,'' said Muzzio Tallini, a builder with Signature Homes in Elmont. ''I think people who spend that kind of money want value and they're going to start asking, 'Who are you to be charging that kind of dough?'''
 A visitor to the Country Club Colonial, Mike Youdim, was looking for a home in the Roslyn Heights area so that he and his wife, Sharona, can be closer to his parents.
 ''These prices are whew,'' he said, shaking his head as he made his way through the master bedroom upstairs. ''It's ridiculous.''
 Mr. Youdim told Ms. Dotan that about four years ago he was looking for a home in the area and found that didn't want to pay for anything in the what-now-seems-pretty-reasonable half-million dollar range.
 ''We were hoping the prices were going to steady,'' Mr. Youdim said. ''But every year you wait, it goes up another 15 or 20 percent.''

Location, Location
 Kiril Tzotchev knows from those kinds of increases. Even after more than two years of looking for a home in the Roslyns, he still struggles to fathom how the market is able to sustain itself.
 Currently, he and his wife, Irina, are renting a modest place in Greenvale, about three miles northeast of Roslyn Heights.
 ''We're just trying to make a living,'' said Mr. Tzotchev, who also rents an artist's studio down in Sea Cliff.
 And while Mr. Tzotchev dreams of home ownership, he fears that at the current rate he won't be able to afford anything he likes unless he hits the big time. And he wonders if even that will help.
 ''It's very expensive even if you are famous artist,'' he said.
 Not too long ago, he came upon a house that looked great on the outside and had a decent price tag: $400,000. Once inside, he realized that there was a catch: it had only one bedroom.
 ''Four hundred thousand dollars,'' he said, disbelief dripping from every syllable. ''For one bedroom.''
 In hindsight, he wishes that someone had warned him away from the area before he fell in love with it.
 ''When I emigrated, I didn't even know where I was going,'' he said. '''Nobody said, 'This is the place to be for artists.'''
 But he found that for him it was.
 Mr. Tzotchev is able to make a decent living between sales in a good year, he may sell a piece every month or so and teaching art courses at the Nassau County Museum of Art. Indeed, he's so spoiled by the area's charms and its well-heeled art buyers that he seems determined to stick the market out.
 ''I like the quietness of the area,'' Mr. Tzotchev said. ''As an artist I want to be not disturbed. That's why I'd like to be in a quiet area amongst the birds.'' He paused, then added with a laugh: ''Amongst the rich people and the birds.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 4, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of an article about rising home prices misstated the affiliation of Yami Dotan, a real estate agent in Roslyn Heights. As the article said, she works for Century 21 Laffey Associates (not for Signature Homes). 
 Another picture caption with the article misidentified the school district for a gray colonial at 5 Meadow Lane. It is Herricks, not Mineola. 
A picture caption last Sunday with the continuation of an article about rising home prices misstated the affiliation of Yami Dotan, a real estate agent in Roslyn Heights. As the article said, she works for Century 21 Laffey Associates (not for Signature Homes). 
 Another picture caption with the article misidentified the school district for a gray colonial at 5 Meadow Lane. It is Herricks, not Mineola. 

GRAPHIC: Photos: For Kiril Tzotchev, living and working near the affluent North Shore buyers of his sculpture is a business necessity. But he and his wife have not found a house anywhere near his Sea Cliff studio that they could afford to buy.
In Roslyn Heights, known as a middle-class oasis among the wealthy villages of northwestern Nassau, bargain-priced houses have vanished from a market driven by strong demand, limited supply and low mortgage rates. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 10)
Yami Dotan, a sales associate at Signature Homes, led Sharona and Mike Youdim of Manhattan through the master bathroom and walk-in closet of a house on Sycamore Lane in the Country Club neighborhood of Roslyn Heights. With a thorough rebuilding and expansion nearly completed, the house was offered for $1,449,000, three times what the owner paid for it a few years ago.
During an open house on Yale Street in the South Park area of Roslyn Heights, June Pitkow of Roslyn spoke with George Fiori, an agent in Century 21 Laffey Associates' Greenvale office. The 3-bedroom house, built in 1947 and recently remodeled, is listed at $678,000.
 Sarah and Yoon Pak of Bay Shore and their sons, Curtis and Joseph, toured a colonial on Meadow Lane in Roslyn Heights. Though it is 57 years old and in the Mineola school distrtict rather than the highly regarded Roslyn district, the house was listed for $729,000. (Photographs by Phil Marino for The New York Times)(pg. 11)Drawings (Illustrations by Gary Zamchic)(pgs. 1, 10)Chart/Map of Long Island shows the percentage change in family income. From 1990 to 2000. Adjusted for inflation. By census tract. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (85%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SCULPTURE (77%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (76%); SALES FIGURES (76%); HOME PRICES (75%); VISUAL ARTISTS (72%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (71%); REAL ESTATE LISTING SERVICES (71%); SOCIOLOGY (67%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%); BULGARIA (54%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



610 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 1; Week in Review Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 347 words

HEADLINE: Turning In Terrorists: Take the Money and Run

BYLINE: By KARI HASKELL

 BODY:
HOW much is Osama bin Laden worth? Does $50 million sound about right?
 Last week, the House passed, 414-0, the Counter-Terrorist and Narco-Terrorist Rewards Program Act. The bill, if it becomes law, would raise to $50 million the maximum reward from the State Department's Rewards for Justice Program for information leading to Mr. bin Laden's capture. That is double the previous bounty and 10 times the reward offered six years ago. 
 But if $25 million hasn't tempted a snitch, or at least a successful one, will $50 million? 
 Only time will tell. Representative Mark S. Kirk, Republican of Illinois, one of three sponsors of the legislation, suggested that, because ''a large part of Al Qaeda is being funded by the sale of heroin,'' the money might tempt drug dealers. 
 Mr. Kirk said that the biggest obstacle to recruiting informants in Afghanistan and Pakistan's northern autonomous regions, where Mr. bin Laden is thought to be hiding, is illiteracy. 
 In some villages 97 percent of the population can't read or write, limiting the effectiveness of rewards notices printed on matchbooks, posters and flyers.
 The new bill provides money for radio and television ads. It would also allow bounties to be paid in the form of equipment, including tractors or trucks. 
 The rewards program, which was begun in the mid-1980's, has paid more than $55 million dollars to 34 people, according to a State Department official.
 The largest sum, $30 million, was recently awarded to the informer who led the United States military to Saddam Hussein's sons, Uday and Qusay Hussein. The new millionaire was immediately evacuated from Iraq, the State Department official said. 
 For obvious reasons, many informants leave their country, said Mr. Kirk, adding that the United States actively helps to relocate them. 
 The person who turns in Mr. bin Laden would be wise to take the money and run, said Bruce Hoffman, a terrorist specialist at the RAND Corporation. 
 If identified, the person's entire family would be eliminated, he said. ''Anyone taking a tractor should consider themselves marked.''


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photo by Tony Cenicola/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (93%); AL-QAEDA (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); NARCOTERRORISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); NEWS BRIEFS (76%); RELOCATIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (68%); HEROIN (68%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (68%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (66%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: RAND CORP (63%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (63%)

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (90%); MARK STEVEN KIRK (74%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



611 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 14WC; Column 4; Westchester Weekly Desk; Pg. 5; DEVELOPMENT

LENGTH: 1155 words

HEADLINE: Prestige, Money and a Border

BYLINE: By CARIN RUBENSTEIN

DATELINE: SLEEPY HOLLOW 

 BODY:
AN unusual dispute over the location of a handful of very expensive homes has set off a buzz here, pitting the Tarrytown public schools against the homes' builder in a conflict involving ancient board minutes and 1950's surveys conducted by the Rockefeller family.
 The seeds of the dispute were sown when the developer, Spectrum Communities, planned the 11 custom homes it is building in Sleepy Hollow. Spectrum, based in Valhalla, says the homes are in the small and coveted Pocantico Hills Central District, and not in the Tarrytown schools.
 Ten of the homes on this nearly 12-acre hilltop with sweeping views of the Hudson River have already been sold, for an average of $2 million apiece, and were advertised by Spectrum as being in the Pocantico Hills Central District, based on information the company got from tax records provided by the town of Mount Pleasant. But it turns out, according to an administrative decision, that the homes might actually be in the Tarrytown school district. 
 Spectrum is marketing the new development as ''truly magnificent personalized estates'' called ''The Legends at Pocantico Hills.'' 
 The builder ''feels that putting Pocantico Hills on those mansions is going to make quite a difference in the prices,'' said Carol A. Wilson, 70, a member of the Pocantico Hills school board who has lived there all her life. ''Because he calls it Pocantico Hills, and people want to move there, he thinks he's going to make something out of it. But as far as I'm concerned, it's not in Pocantico Hills because it was given to Tarrytown.'' 
 The 11 disputed parcels ''are located wholly within the geographic boundaries'' of the Public Schools of the Tarrytowns, according to a ruling March 9 by District Superintendent Ronald L. Smalls, to whom New York State law gives jurisdiction. This is true, Mr. Smalls ruled, despite the fact that school taxes on the property have been collected for the Pocantico Hills Central District since the 1950's.
 To make this decision, Mr. Smalls relied on evidence presented by the developer and the school districts, which included district maps dating to 1947, excerpts of minutes from school board meetings held in 1950, and property surveys prepared for a neighbor, John D. Rockefeller Jr. The Rockefellers own a great deal of land here, and their presence still looms large.
 All parties involved agreed that the two school districts traded this piece of land back and forth several times in the early 1950's. This happened, the parties agreed, when Tarrytown was trying to build a new high school, and wanted the option to build it on this site, which was part of the Pocantico Hills Central District. 
 The third and final time the districts made such an exchange, the location was not legally changed back into the Pocantico Hills district. 
 Then, in 1953, a similar hearing was held about which district included the site, and officials said it was part of the Public Schools of the Tarrytowns. ''Based on all information I have received, I have no compelling reason to change that decision,'' Mr. Smalls said recently.
 Strong objections to the ruling have been raised by Mitchell C. Hochberg, president of Spectrum Communities, who said that the boundary should be based on the original intent of both school districts, and not on the fact that the parties neglected to complete the paperwork 50 years ago. Mr. Hochberg said he would appeal the decision to the commissioner of education. 
 Mr. Hochberg said the timing of the dispute was suspicious, because Tarrytown officials waited to contest the matter until the houses were under construction. He added that the district was having budget problems and might be especially eager to collect Tarrytown school taxes from these homes, which are substantially higher than those in the Pocantico Hills district.
 Money and prestige, of course, are at the heart of the discussion. The new homeowners could find they are paying higher Tarrytown taxes and that their children go to the Tarrytown schools. The Pocantico Hills community and schools are smaller and tinged with the Rockefeller aura and are arguably more desirable, too, so one could assume that the sudden move of these houses into the Tarrytown district, which is more culturally and economically diverse, might change their value. 
 Howard W. Smith, superintendent of the School District of the Tarrytowns, responded that he had not been aware of the development until several residents alerted him that they had seen advertisements for the luxury homes, proclaiming them to be in the Pocantico Hills district. He acknowledged that if these 11 homes were to be added to the Tarrytown tax rolls, overall school taxes in the district would decrease by at least 1 percent.
 The fact that the Mount Pleasant tax maps were faulty doesn't matter, according to Norma G. Meacham, the lawyer for the Tarrytown schools. 
 ''There is no dispute,'' agreed John H. Gross, the lawyer representing Pocantico Hills Central District, which is not contesting the superintendent's decision. 
 If he had known the land was in the Tarrytown school district, Mr. Hochberg said, he would not have paid as much as he did for the property, which was $3.52 million, according to Mount Pleasant assessor, James J. Timmings.
 ''The public perception is that the Pocantico Hills is smaller and more intimate, and has higher value to homeowners than the larger Tarrytown district,'' said Mr. Hochberg.
 Mr. Hochberg's lawyer, Kevin J. Plunkett of Thacher Proffitt & Wood in White Plains, sent a letter to both school districts on March 19, demanding that they ''effectuate the legally and morally required alteration of the school district boundary lines.'' He also demanded that the Tarrytown school district satisfy ''the reasonable and wholly justified expectations of the many innocent purchasers'' of the homes by ceding the boundary, since their ''children have every right to legally attend a school in the Pocantico Hills Central School District.''
 ''To serve us with a demand to direct us to redraw the boundaries counter to the lawful decision of the BOCES district superintendent is astounding to us,'' responded Mr. Smith.
 After receiving Mr. Plunkett's letter, Mr. Smith responded with his own letter to state senator Nick A. Spano, alerting him to the dispute. He also said that Mr. Plunkett has sought and received a change in boundary from the state legislature, and he said that such action would not be appropriate in this case. 
 Meanwhile, the skeletons of big homes are rising on what used to be a wooded hillside, stirring fond memories for longtime residents like Mrs. Wilson, who used to live in an old house owned by the Rockefellers on what is now the Legends property, and whose children went to school in Tarrytown. Although almost all the trees have been razed, she said she's happy that ''they left the maple tree I used to climb, and part of my backyard.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo: A border dispute has cast doubt on the issue of which school district these new homes are in. (Photo by Susan Stava for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (89%); SCHOOL BOARDS (88%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (78%); EDUCATION FUNDING (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); TAX LAW (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); EVIDENCE (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: SPECTRUM ASA (70%)

TICKER: SPU (OSL) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541360 GEOPHYSICAL SURVEYING & MAPPING SERVICES (70%); NAICS541330 ENGINEERING SERVICES (70%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (70%); SIC1382 OIL & GAS FIELD EXPLORATION SERVICES (70%)

PERSON: JAY ROCKEFELLER (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



612 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; National Desk; Pg. 28; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE REPUBLICANS

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: A Trusted Bush Aide to Return, but Not to Washington

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER and RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
Karen P. Hughes was always described as one of the most powerful women ever to serve in the White House. But the most attention she ever got was when she left her West Wing office 21 months ago and went home with her family to Texas. Now she is coming back, and as far as the battered White House is concerned, it is not a moment too soon.
 Ms. Hughes is stepping up her engagement with the president's re-election campaign just as she is beginning a six-week tour for a new book, ''Ten Minutes From Normal,'' an autobiography that friends say paints a predictably glowing portrait of her longtime boss, the president of the United States.
 To the relief of Bush aides who acknowledge that the White House has been on the political defensive since January, the memoir hits bookstores Tuesday, the week after a book by Richard A. Clarke that blasted the administration with the charge that Mr. Bush ignored warnings about the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 But advisers to the president say that Ms. Hughes's impending return to a more full-time role has stirred some unease within a campaign that has been wholly the province of Karl Rove, Mr. Bush's chief political adviser. The president trusts Ms. Hughes like almost no one else on his staff, so much so that some Bush aides say they are worried that a return of the two-headed Rove-Hughes team could lead to internal disputes about strategy and message that so far have been muted. Others point out that even though Ms. Hughes and Mr. Rove have a history of tension, they also have a history through three campaigns of working it out. 
 ''There's always friction with Karl,'' said one Bush adviser, who asked not to be named because he did not want to be seen as criticizing Mr. Rove. ''But some of it is because of the difference of their jobs. Karen's job is to articulate the message, and Karl's job is to cater and pander to the base. Karl is trying to work in the Grover Norquist and Ralph Reed message, and Karen is listening to the soccer moms.''
 To the surprise of those who predicted that Ms. Hughes's influence would wane in proportion to her distance from the Oval Office -- and that Mr. Rove would grow all the more powerful -- the reality is that she is returning more powerful than ever. Despite giving up her official capacity as counselor to the president, Ms. Hughes continued to advise Mr. Bush from Austin. They talk several times a week, and the president regularly asks in meetings, the Bush adviser said, ''Has anybody asked Karen about this?''
 Unlike Mr. Rove, who has become a lightning rod for criticism of the administration's aggressive political operation, Ms. Hughes is the smiling, media-savvy White House representative whose book now wraps her -- and, by implication, the president -- in the heroism of motherhood. Its theme is clear by the identifying lines under her name on the book's front jacket: ''Counselor to the President. Wife and Mother. The woman who left the White House to put family first, and moved back home to Texas.''
 Ms. Hughes, who declined to be interviewed for this article, is not moving back to Washington, which she once disdained as a place where ''everyone you meet is always looking over your shoulder for somebody more important.'' Instead, she will keep her base in her house in Austin, where she lives with her husband, Jerry, and son, Robert, and make more trips to the capital. 
 Friends say that by August she expects to be traveling full time with Mr. Bush, and will remain with him until Election Day.
 But for the next six weeks, she will cross the country on a 16-city book tour that will have the effect of a publisher-subsidized campaign trip. On Monday night, the day before her book is in stores, Barbara Walters will interview her on ABC. The same day, Time magazine will publish excerpts. Viking, Ms. Hughes's publisher, will not say how many copies of ''Ten Minutes From Normal'' it is printing, but describes its publicity campaign as extensive.
 Ms. Hughes, 47, has already spread the message about Mr. Bush in her speeches around the country, for which she receives $50,000 each, according to a person familiar with her contract.
 ''She's involved enough in the campaign message to incorporate that into all of her speeches,'' said Nicolle Devenish, the Bush campaign's communications director. Ms. Hughes's speeches have evolved since the early Democratic primaries, Ms. Devenish said, into more pointed comments about Senator John Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee.
 To some extent, she never really left the White House, even after she loaded her golden retriever, Breeze, and her most treasured presidential mementos into her Mazda one hot July day in 2002 and made the long drive back to Texas. By the time she reached Alabama a day and a half later, she had spoken to the president twice on her cellphone, reassuring him at one point, she said then, that a speech he had made slamming corrupt executives had been well received at least in the Econo Lodges on America's highways.
 Since then, Ms. Hughes has not only spoken to Mr. Bush regularly, but has had a major hand in drafting his most important speeches. She is in contact with Mr. Rove and Dan Bartlett, the White House communications director, up to several times a day, as well as with Bush campaign officials in Arlington, Va. Bush advisers describe her as doing what she likes best -- helping to shape the president's words and the overall message out of the White House -- without the daily headaches of her old job, which required her to manage a staff of 43 in the White House communications, speech writing and news media offices.
 ''She's a great gut-check on the campaign message on what's getting through,'' Ms. Devenish said.
 Most recently, Ms. Hughes was an advocate of the howitzer treatment of Mr. Clarke, the former counterterrorism chief who was attacked by the White House as politically motivated and dishonest. She was also a sounding board for Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, who reached out to Ms. Hughes this week for advice on how to present her case against the criticisms of Mr. Clarke, who said she had ignored his dire warnings about terrorism.
 Ms. Hughes also advocated dropping from the State of the Union address any mention of the president's ambitious proposal to send humans to Mars, which was attacked by members of his own party as extravagant folly. ''At some level the policy gesture didn't pass the communications straight-face test,'' the Bush adviser said.
 More recently, Ms. Hughes welcomed television crews to her home in Austin at 4 a.m., so she could appear on five morning programs to promote Mr. Bush on the day his first campaign commercials were broadcast. The commercials showed enough images of the devastated World Trade Center to be criticized by some families of the victims as exploitive, but Ms. Hughes, a former television reporter, would not budge off message.
 ''She was the first one to plant the flag and say a discussion of the president's leadership in the days and weeks after 9/11 is exactly what this campaign will be about,'' Ms. Devenish said.
 Now Ms. Hughes is working on the speeches and central themes of the Republican National Convention to be held in New York City this summer. After she left the White House she became a paid consultant to the Republican National Committee.
 As for Mr. Rove, Bush advisers say that he and Ms. Hughes will work things out, as they always have. In 2004, as in 2000, Mr. Rove will remain on the ground handling strategy while Ms. Hughes will be up in the air with the candidate -- a distance that seems to suit everyone.
 ''They'll be fine,'' said Mary Matalin, a campaign adviser and a friend of both Ms. Hughes and Mr. Rove. ''Think of it as left brain and right brain. They both scratch different itches, and the president likes them for different reasons.''
 Mr. Rove ''has an amazing capacity for huge amounts of interesting and relevant information,'' Ms. Matalin said. ''He will sit there and go through pages of things, and it's the kind of information he knows the president likes -- where everybody is on an issue, where the press is, where the Hill is, what's going on in the field, what's happening in the polls, how many new registered voters there are.''
 And Ms. Hughes? ''She sits and she watches and she gets ahead of the story, and she tells him how to jump in,'' Ms. Matalin said. ''Her job is with him, totally unique, and undoable by anyone else.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Karen P. Hughes, arriving in Houston by Air Force One three weeks ago, left the White House in 2002. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (75%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (74%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (73%); BOOKSTORES (70%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: KARL ROVE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (73%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (73%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



613 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1456 words

HEADLINE: New Focus on Bush's Actions Before 9/11

BYLINE: By DAVID JOHNSTON and ADAM NAGOURNEY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 27 

 BODY:
In the summer of 2001, according to witnesses interviewed by the independent commission investigating the Sept. 11 hijackings, President Bush was told repeatedly of terror warnings pouring into American intelligence agencies, mostly about threats overseas.
 The director of central intelligence, George J. Tenet, who briefed Mr. Bush on threats almost daily, ''was around town literally pounding on desks saying that something is happening, this is an unprecedented level of threat information,'' said Richard Armitage, the deputy secretary of state, who was quoted in a Congressional report last year.
 But even as the warnings spiked in June and July that year, there appeared to be little sense of alarm at the White House, officials of the Central Intelligence Agency told the commission. It was not until Sept. 4 that Mr. Bush's national security team approved a plan intended to eradicate Al Qaeda and not until Sept. 10 that Mr. Tenet was told to put the plan into effect. 
 Now, nearly two and half years later, the issue of whether Mr. Bush and his advisers failed to respond adequately to the threat of terror before Sept. 11, 2001, has become the focus of intense scrutiny and debate in Washington. 
 The White House had long hoped to avoid just such a discussion of Mr. Bush's actions before the hijackings, fearing it would draw attention to the first months of his presidency rather than the period after Sept. 11 when he took military action against Al Qaeda and the Taliban in Afghanistan. The White House had opposed the creation of the independent commission and for many months cooperated reluctantly with the panel.
 White House fears were realized this week when Richard A. Clarke, the former White House counterterrorism coordinator, depicted the first months of the Bush presidency as a time of indecision and inaction on terrorism. Many of the preliminary findings of the commission supported the picture Mr. Clarke outlined in his new book, ''Against All Enemies: Inside America's War on Terror,'' published by Free Press. 
 Politically, as the presidential campaign rolls forward, a pivotal question is whether that portrait, which the White House worked feverishly to undermine, will raise questions about what has been a fundamental part of his re-election appeal. Mr. Bush is expected to defend his conduct when he answers questions to be asked by the commission's chairman and vice chairman, assuring continued attention on this phase of his presidency. They will question Mr. Bush in private for about an hour. Vice President Dick Cheney has also agreed to answer questions about his activities prior to the attacks. 
 On Sunday, Condoleezza Rice, the national security adviser, will appear on ''60 Minutes,'' the CBS program on which Mr. Clarke first criticized his former White House colleagues a week ago.
 The commission is expected to release a report on its finding in late July, when the Democrats will meet in Boston to nominate Mr. Bush's opponent. 
 Mr. Bush has often talked about how his presidency did not, in a real sense, begin until Sept. 11 when, he said, he found in the aftermath of the attacks the defining purpose of his presidency. Mr. Bush and his aides have made his prosecution of the war on terror the touchstone of his re-election campaign.
 Mr. Bush and his aides say they believe that his leadership after Sept. 11 created an irrevocable bond with voters that would be nearly impossible to erase and will ultimately overshadow any questions raised about the pre-Sept. 11 period of his presidency.
 Still, they have acknowledged that this would be a very different kind of election had it not been for the attacks, and that any advantage the president enjoys going into the election is because of that chapter of his presidency. The White House selected the time and place of the convention where Mr. Bush will be nominated -- New York City, less than two weeks before the third anniversary of the attacks -- with that in mind.
 Several Republicans not associated with the Bush campaign said that they were concerned about the turn of events, warning that the commission findings and Mr. Clarke's testimony were a challenge to the central pillar of Mr. Bush's campaign appeal: his handling of the Sept. 11 attacks. 
 Senator John Kerry, Mr. Bush's likely opponent, has long said that a critical part of his own strategy to defeat Mr. Bush was to at least even the playing field on issues of national security and foreign affairs, and thus move the presidential debate to the issue of the economy.
 ''Let's be as generous as possible,'' said one Republican strategist, who said he did not want to be quoted by name in criticizing the White House. ''If voters believe Clarke, than Bush's greatest strength -- his response to terrorism -- is significantly eroded. This Clarke stuff is significantly bad for Bush.''
 The net effect of the week's debate has, Mr. Bush's advisers argued, been to at best discredit Mr. Clarke and at worst cloud the issue. ''I think in the end, he's not going to have any credibility,'' Charles Black, a Republican consultant with ties to the White House, said of Mr. Clarke. ''I think any objective person watching this is going to come away saying this is confusing at best.''
 The White House is responding to Mr. Clarke and the commission's findings with a strategy that includes Ms. Rice's ''60 Minutes'' appearance. She has made multiple appearances this week to make a case that she was actively involved in the decision making before Sept. 11. 
 Beyond that, Mr. Bush's aides hope to shift any blame about security shortcomings to the Clinton administration, arguing that the Bush administration was hardly alone in underestimating the potential threat of a domestic terrorist attack and that Mr. Clinton had no success in eliminating Al Qaeda.
 The White House strategy also involves what officials said would be a continued effort to discredit Mr. Clarke and to confuse the dispute with a battery of accusations and counteraccusations intended to increasingly make this dispute appear to be a partisan fight between Republicans and Democrats.
 ''Our analysis is that the Democrats were so eager to thrust the 9/11 hearings into the political arena that they resorted to an overreach that kind of ignored some basic facts that the American people know about President Bush,'' said Nicolle Devenish, Mr. Bush's campaign communications director. ''The world was watching in the days and weeks after 9/11.''
 A review of the evidence produced this week provides relatively little direct information about Mr. Bush's thinking, statements or actions regarding terrorism in the months after he took office. The commission's reports suggest that he left the issue largely to top advisers, who studied it, but took no concrete action against Al Qaeda or Osama bin Laden.
 The commission's reports show that Mr. Bush was warned repeatedly about terrorist threats, but they provide no indication that he urged his aides to accelerate their policy review or produce specific plans in response to the warnings, from outgoing Clinton administration officials and from Mr. Tenet, his own intelligence chief.
 In May 2001, Ms. Rice recalled in a private meeting with the commission, Mr. Bush grew impatient with repeated warnings in his daily briefings. At one point, Ms. Rice said, the president expressed impatience with ''swatting flies,'' and urged his advisers to take more aggressive steps against Al Qaeda. But there is no indication that his complaints had any impact.
 Instead, the evidence suggests that Mr. Bush allowed the terrorism issue to drift down the list of White House priorities from the relatively high importance given it by President Bill Clinton's national security aides. For the most part, Mr. Bush advisers told the commission that they continued the operational activities of their predecessors.
 On Aug. 6, 2001, Mr. Bush, was told in a briefing held at his ranch in Crawford, Tex., that Mr. bin Laden's followers were believed to be capable of hijacking commercial jets in the United States. It was a scrap of information, based on a single 1999 British intelligence report and not enough to be considered credible.
 The briefing was disclosed by Ms. Rice in May 2002 in an apparent effort to show that Mr. Bush was eager for information about terrorism and wanted to know more about the possibility of a Qaeda attack in the United States. But this week, Richard Ben-Veniste, a commission member, said that the C.I.A. had advised the panel that the agency's official who met with Mr. Bush did not recall him requesting the information and that the agency itself had come up with the idea of briefing the president on terrorist activities involving aircraft.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Administration officials testifying before the commission investigating the Sept. 11, 2001, terrorist attacks. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); TERRORISM (90%); HIJACKING (90%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (90%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); AL-QAEDA (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WAR ON TERROR (78%); TALIBAN (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); APPROVALS (73%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (56%)

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); DICK CHENEY (78%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (66%) DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (66%) UNITED STATES (95%); AFGHANISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



614 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1133 words

HEADLINE: Virginia Political Shocker: Republicans for High Taxes

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO

DATELINE: RICHMOND Va., March 25 

 BODY:
In a year when Republicans nationwide are embracing President Bush's tax-cutting mantra, an influential group of Republican state senators here is advocating the unthinkable: a multibillion-dollar tax increase that dwarfs a competing proposal by the Democratic governor.
 It is an improbable development in a state where both parties articulate Jeffersonian ideals of small government and low taxes. But it is all the more surprising in a presidential election year, when Republicans almost everywhere are resisting tax increases and trying to cast Democrats as big spenders. 
 The proposal has infuriated the antitax conservatives who control the House of Delegates, the legislature's lower house, and caused a stalemate over the state budget that is threatening to disrupt government services. 
 ''I'm getting looks of bewilderment in my district,'' said Delegate M. Kirkland Cox, a leading antitax Republican from southern Virginia. ''People ask: 'What's going on up there? How do Republicans propose a $4 billion tax increase?' ''
 Only a handful of legislatures are considering major increases to broad-based taxes, like those on sales or income, even though two-thirds of the states are predicting budget gaps in 2005, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures. Most of those increases have been proposed by Democratic governors, including the governors of Iowa and Kansas.
 More commonly, legislatures are cutting programs or increasing taxes and fees on businesses, services or products, mainly cigarettes. Several states, including Maryland and Pennsylvania, are also considering gambling proposals to stop chronic budget shortfalls.
 ''Virtually every state is raising all kinds of user fees,'' said David Brunori, director of editorial operations for Tax Analysts, a nonprofit group. ''Virginia is one of the only states trying to increase real taxes. The politics of antitaxation is very much alive and well.''
 The Virginia Republicans' plan, which passed the Republican-controlled Senate with Democratic votes in February, calls for raising cigarette, gas and sales taxes, as well as income taxes on the wealthy, to raise nearly $4 billion over two years. The plan would reduce taxes on food and on lower incomes.
 The additional revenue would be used to close gaps that Gov. Mark Warner predicts will recur for years to come. But the Senate would also sharply increase spending on salaries for state workers, prisons, health care, public schools and state universities, all of which they contend have been damaged by two years of drastic belt tightening.
 ''We felt it was time to make a significant investment in Virginia,'' said Senator Thomas K. Norment Jr., the Republican floor leader, who, along with the Senate president, John H. Chichester, is a leading advocate of the plan. ''I absolutely hate taxes, but as a colleague said, I love Virginia more.''
 The plan has outraged the conservatives who dominate the state Republican Party, driving a deep wedge into a party that is more powerful than it has been in decades.
 Senator George Allen and Attorney General Jerry W. Kilgore, the front-runner for the Republican nomination for governor in 2005, have blasted the Senate plan, arguing that revenues are growing fast enough to close the shortfall. They contend that major tax increases should be put before voters in a referendum.
 ''The Senate Republicans have violated their own campaign pledges not to raise taxes,'' said Kate Obenshain Griffin, chairwoman of the Virginia Republican Party. ''And nothing has changed since the election, except that the economy has improved.''
 As a result of the feud, budget negotiations have ground to a standstill, with House Republicans opposing any increase in sales or income taxes, the centerpieces of the Senate plan. For the first time in Virginia history, the state legislature, the General Assembly, failed during its regular session -- which ended on March 13 -- to enact a budget for the new fiscal year, which begins July 1.
 The impasse, which shows no signs of ending, has put Governor Warner, a Democrat, in the politically odd but potentially advantageous position of trying to mediate between the warring Republican factions.
 ''The Senate Republicans are such morons, because they've made Warner look like the centrist, the peacemaker,'' said Stephen Moore, president of the Club for Growth, a conservative group that has vowed to finance primary campaigns against any Senate Republicans who vote for raising taxes. 
 In an interview, Mr. Warner rejected the idea of holding a referendum on taxes. ''That would turn us into California,'' he said. Virginians support reasonable tax increases, he argued, ''because they know you can't buy something for nothing.''
 Governor Warner kicked off the tax debate last year when he called for an overhaul of the state code, prompted by projections of recurring budget shortfalls and a threat by Moody's Investors Service to downgrade the state's triple-A bond rating. Only seven states have a rating that high, allowing them to borrow money at lower rates.
 Like the Senate Republicans, Mr. Warner proposed raising income taxes on the wealthy, as well as sales and cigarette taxes, while lowering income taxes on middle- and lower-income residents. But his plan, which would raise $1 billion in new revenues over two years, is far smaller than the Senate's. 
 The House has approved its own budget plan, which would raise $500 million in new revenues over two years by closing some business tax exemptions. But it rejects most of the large spending increases endorsed by Governor Warner and the Senate Republicans.
 Analysts say that despite somewhat improved economic conditions, 2005 will remain a tough budget year for most states because costs, particularly for pensions and Medicaid, are rising faster than revenues. Yet, they say, the antitax, budget-cutting ethos that is the legacy of the Republican revolution of the 1990's dominates many legislatures.
 Political analysts say the Republican squabble in Virginia is unlikely to hurt President Bush in November. But it could wound Mr. Kilgore in next year's race for governor if the budget impasse causes a government shutdown. A similar battle pitting Republicans against Republicans in 2001 is widely thought to have helped Mr. Warner win election. 
 Ms. Smith of the state Republican Party rejected this assertion. She said that moderate Republicans represented a small fraction of the party and that only Governor Warner, who pledged not to raise taxes in 2001, had been hurt by the fight.
 Peter Ferrara, president of the Virginia Club for Growth, disagreed. 
 ''The Republican Party is in a crisis,'' Mr. Ferrara said. ''If they can't agree to a budget and cause a shutdown, they are handing the Democrats a field day.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Gov. Mark Warner of Virginia, center, with his fellow governors Dirk Kempthorne of Idaho, left, and Gary Locke of Washington. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); TAX INCREASES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (88%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); SALES TAX (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (69%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL CONFERENCE OF STATE LEGISLATURES (55%)

PERSON: GARY LOCKE (58%); MARK WARNER (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); DIRK KEMPTHORNE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (95%); IDAHO, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



615 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 4; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 13; About That Election, Mr. President . . .

LENGTH: 738 words

HEADLINE: Pay More Attention to the Economy

BYLINE: By Bob Dole. 
Bob Dole was the Republican candidate for president in 1996.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Ten years ago, when I was thinking about running for president, I received a seven-page letter from former President Richard M. Nixon about the 1996 campaign. Nixon discussed President Bill Clinton's strengths and weaknesses, laid out his thoughts on the state of national politics and then, near the end of the letter, gave me his ultimate advice: if the economy is generally good, you are likely to lose.
 As it turned out, the economy was too good for my own good. Most Americans felt prosperous and thought the future looked even brighter. They gave President Clinton credit and voted him another term. 
 The good news for President Bush this year is that the economy is looking up on his watch, too. All the major indicators are moving in the right direction. America has enjoyed nine consecutive quarters of economic growth. In the second half of 2003, the economy grew at the fastest rate in nearly 20 years. Meanwhile, inflation is down and interest rates are at historic lows. The result is that ownership of homes and automobiles is at a record high.
 Creating new jobs remains a problem, but even those numbers are headed up. Since August 364,000 jobs have been added. The current unemployment rate is lower than the decade averages for the 1970's, 80's and 90's. Even the stock markets, which presaged the 2001 recession when they began falling in 2000, are adding value. Although both are down slightly so far this year, in 2003 the Dow Jones Industrial Average rose by 25 percent and the Nasdaq by almost 50 percent.
 And here's the kicker: some economic indicators are even more favorable now than they were back in 1996. The misery index -- the combination of unemployment and inflation -- is actually lower now than it was at this point in 1996. And less misery is a good thing for incumbents.
 The only way Senator John Kerry and the Democrats are going to be able to beat President Bush is if they convince voters that the economy is not doing as well as it is. That's a tough task; I know because I tried to do it eight years ago.
 You can't stand up at a rally and root for a sluggish economy. But the Democrats will certainly give it all they've got, and President Bush needs to stand firm, repeating all the good statistics until voters can recite them in their sleep.
 President Bush also has one clear advantage that President Clinton never enjoyed: people view him as a robust leader on defense and security issues. Over the last several months the Democrats have directed a lot of firepower at the president, trying to soften up his foreign policy record. No doubt Senator Kerry will continue attacking the president on the issues of diplomacy and instability in Iraq.
 Senator Kerry's attacks could carry weight. He is a war veteran who may convince many people that he'd be a capable leader on defense issues. The question is whether voters are more inclined to support a war veteran -- or a tested and proven war president.
 As noble as Senator Kerry's service in Vietnam was, his record on Iraq is a little spotty. In 1991 he voted against the Persian Gulf war. Then in 2002 he voted for the current war against Saddam Hussein. But then in 2003 he voted against the $87 billion legislation to finance operations and rebuilding in Iraq. Only 12 senators opposed that bill, while 87 supported it.
 President Bush ought to continue to point out Senator Kerry's inconsistencies. And the president should also remind voters that he has maintained a single, unified vision and pursued a relentless strategy for carrying out the war on terrorism since 9/11.
 The Democrats will try to exploit voters' impatience with the situation in Iraq, and events like the recent bombing in Madrid will make people uneasy. But the president can't let the voters forget some key facts: Saddam Hussein is in jail; Iraq has a new Constitution built on democratic principles; the Taliban have been overthrown; 50 million people in Iraq and Afghanistan now are getting a little taste of freedom; and other rogue leaders, like Muammar el-Qaddafi of Libya, now know that the United States means business.
 The war on terrorism and the economy will be on voters' minds as they watch this campaign unfold -- and when they go to the ballot box on Nov. 2. On both issues, President Bush has the facts on his side. His job now is simply to remind voters that America is safer and more prosperous than it was on the day he was sworn into office.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Illustrations by Jim Frazier) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (91%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); STOCK INDEXES (87%); POLITICS (78%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (74%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (74%); JOB CREATION (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (68%); INTEREST RATES (68%); FOREIGN POLICY (62%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (90%); GEORGE W BUSH (89%); JOHN KERRY (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); IRAQ (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



616 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 3; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3239 words

HEADLINE: Uptown Moving Upscale

BYLINE: By JOSH BARBANEL

 BODY:
WITH apartment prices rising across Manhattan, Vivian Ducat, a documentary filmmaker and creator of multimedia Web presentations, found the home of her dreams on the top floor of the Riviera, an aging but opulent building on Riverside Drive at West 157th Street, built in 1910 on a site where John James Audubon had an estate in the early 19th century.
 From the windows of her newly refinished oak-paneled dining room, Ms. Ducat can look out at the Empire State Building, and then she can wander down a long parquet hallway to her bedroom and watch the sun set behind the George Washington Bridge. The price was $650,000 for 1,600 square feet of space, including a butler's pantry and a maid's room. Only a decade ago this was a jarringly high sum for most Manhattan apartments, but today it is a fraction of what a similar apartment would cost farther downtown.
 At a time when the average two-bedroom apartment in the rest of Manhattan is selling for more than $1 million, price-numbed refugees like Ms. Ducat have been making the trek uptown to Harlem, Hamilton Heights, Washington Heights and Inwood, places once off the map of many brokers and buyers, to find more space at a lower cost, driving up prices of co-ops and condominiums there, too. 
 A new study of a decade of apartment sales illustrates this trend. It found that prices in the parts of Manhattan dense with co-ops and condominiums -- below 96th Street on the East Side and 116th Street on the West Side -- have more than doubled from 1993, when the city was emerging from a real estate downturn, through 2003, with average prices rising from $444,000 to $1.06 million.
 But in the last four years, the study showed, the rate of the rise in these traditional Manhattan co-op and condo neighborhoods has slowed, while uptown prices have soared as more and more buyers, once deterred by abandonment, crime and longer commuting times have looked northward. Sales north of 96th Street on the East Side and 116th Street on the West Side, which currently account for 4 percent of apartment sales in Manhattan, are at their highest prices on record, though far below prices in other neighborhoods. 
 The market survey, by Jonathan Miller of the Miller Samuel appraisal firm, found that since 2000, when the economy and the stock market hit a peak, co-op and condominium prices per square foot in northern Manhattan have risen 63 percent, while prices elsewhere in Manhattan -- which started from higher dollar figures -- have risen by an average of 26 percent. Prices below 14th Street have risen by 33 percent, followed by 28 percent on the West Side and 19 percent on the East Side.
 Mr. Miller said that while demand for multimillion-dollar luxury apartments has picked up in the last few months, demand for more moderately priced condos and co-ops has been strong for most of the last few years. Powering the rise in prices was a combination of low interest rates, increasing demand and a smaller inventory of apartments for sale, as many long-term renters decided to buy -- with increasing numbers of buyers venturing northward in search of affordable apartments.
 ''There has been a surge in activity at the entry level, and it continued to 2003,'' Mr. Miller said. ''We saw improvements despite a weak economy, and this was largely fueled by historically low interest rates.''
 The report also documents a 7.5 percent decline last year in the number of sales across Manhattan, as fewer owners put their apartments up for sale. The limited supply of apartments helped push up prices, but brokers and economists disagree on the cause. Economists say the low inventory is a sign of a weakness in the economy. Brokers say the market is so strong that owners are afraid to put their apartments on the market until they have already found a new property to buy.
 Rae D. Rosen, a senior economist at the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, said that a sluggish job market has meant fewer people moving in and out of New York, and therefore a lower supply of apartments for sale. ''Prices get bid up anyway,'' she said, ''because the city remains such a magnet and a place that people want to be.''
 Steven James, a senior executive vice president at Douglas Elliman, who supervises 300 brokers, said the shrinking inventory of apartment listings had contributed to the price rise and a return of a frenzy of bidding wars this winter ''every week, sometimes daily.''
 He described two one-bedroom apartments in postwar buildings -- one in Union Square, one in the West 70's -- offered for more than $600,000, with each attracting six or seven bids. ''Isn't it sad,'' he said, ''that a one-bedroom at $625,000 is the low end.''

Northern Migration
Driven Uptown By Price Pressure
 But it is just such price pressure that has driven many buyers who want to stay in Manhattan to look farther and farther uptown.
 Throughout the 1990's there has a gradually awakening of interest in uptown Manhattan, as middle-class buyers rediscovered brownstone neighborhoods in Harlem, taking chances on areas that were often perceived as too close to the edge of crime, drug trafficking and decay. For much of this period co-op and condominium prices remained flat.
 But over the last four years, brokers say, prices across upper Manhattan began rising in co-ops and condominiums too, as first a wave of people in the arts -- artists, musicians, theater people -- moved in, followed by a more eclectic and increasingly affluent mix of accountants, architects, schoolteachers and business people.
 Many had been renting for years farther downtown, saving up their down payment on an apartment. Without equity in an existing condo or co-op to sell, some buyers do not have enough cash to enter the regular Manhattan apartment game, brokers say. Last year, two-bedroom apartments in upper Manhattan averaged $340,000, but brokers say prices have continued to rise this year.
 Mark Jordan, a corporate recruiter, and his partner, Daniel Chisholm, a French teacher at the Collegiate School, spent a year looking to move from their rented studio on West End Avenue in the 70's. They wanted quiet and light and a real kitchen, ''not a Bunsen burner in a closet,'' Mr. Jordan said. These were nonnegotiable, he said. 
 On the West Side, they found they could afford two tiny rooms, with windows facing walls. Then, Mr. Chisholm went apartment hunting for a friend who was moving back to New York City and discovered Washington Heights. 
 He found a neighborhood, identified by brokers and neighborhood groups as Hudson Heights, a sliver of land that rises up along the Hudson, west of Broadway, between J. Hood Wright Park at 173rd Street and Fort Tryon Park, that was spared much of the decay that eroded many neighborhoods in the 1960's and 1970's. 
 Now they are preparing to close on a four-room co-op in a 1930's Art Deco building on Pinehurst Avenue and West 187th Street. They have a separate dining room, a sunken living room and a shared rooftop deck. The price is $310,000 with maintenance of $566 a month. 
 They were taken with the neighborliness of the streets, the new restaurants that had opened in the last few years and Frank's Gourmet Market, which while ''not Zabar's'' had enough exotic cheeses and other delicacies to make them feel they were not leaving Manhattan for the wilderness. 
 ''The more we went to the neighborhood, the more we liked it,'' Mr. Jordan said. ''The apartments were pretty big, there was less noise and people seemed less hurried and stressed. People say hello to each other on the street.''

The Neighborhoods
Renewal Comes In Different Styles
 Upper Manhattan includes a mix of different neighborhoods with different demographics, histories, housing stock and styles of condominium and co-op apartments. In Harlem and Hamilton Heights, a neighborhood to the west of Harlem, there are a mix of older co-ops and newer condos and co-ops in renovated or new buildings, as the neighborhood goes through a period of renewal.
 Many of the new buildings were built with government subsidies or on low-cost land, through the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development, and include a mix of market rate and subsidized apartments for sale. For the subsidized units there are income limits, typically $104,000 a year for a family of four, though most buyers to date have had far lower incomes, housing officials say. 
 Within the next few years hundreds of additional co-ops and condominiums will be completed, in buildings from 119th Street in East Harlem to Frederick Douglass Boulevard in Central Harlem to Bradhurst Avenue and 145th Street, according to Susan Ponce de Leon, a director of program operations for the department.
 In Mr. Miller's market study, which includes sales of apartments with income restrictions, prices averaged $340,000 last year for two-bedroom apartments in Harlem. 
 At the Rosa Parks, a new six-story red-brick building, with penthouses, set to open this spring at 163 St. Nicholas Avenue at West 118th Street, all 64 condominiums sold out quickly, according to Natasha Sinkov, a broker at Douglas Elliman, even in the face of several price increases. She said contracts had been signed for market-rate two-bedroom apartments for as much as $440,000, while a three-bedroom penthouse duplex with a 1,200-square-foot private terrace went to contract at $670,000. Prices in some of the building's units were kept lower to keep them affordable, under an agreement between the developer and the city, which provided land for the project.
 Farther north, Broadway has always been the dividing line, with high-quality housing built for the upper middle classes to the west near the river and the more utilitarian middle-class and working-class housing to the east, according to Andrew S. Dolkart, an associate professor at Columbia University who teaches and writes about architectural history and preservation in Manhattan. The co-op and condo markets are centered on the west side of Broadway. 
 Last week, Joel Levin and his wife, Tara Collins, were still unpacking boxes in their ground-floor apartment in a four-story building at Hudson View Gardens, with a view across to the Palisades out of a rear bedroom window. Their building faces a garden and stone retaining wall, on a perpetually quiet landscaped private street.
 They paid $361,000 for a 1,100-square-foot two-bedroom apartment with a remodeled kitchen and a Sub-Zero refrigerator and were just getting to know their new neighborhood. Hudson View Gardens is a development with 453 apartments in 15 Tudor-style buildings at Pinehurst Avenue and West 183rd Street. It opened in 1924, as one of the first co-op developments in Manhattan.
 For Mr. Levin, the location was ideal. He teaches and runs the computer lab at the Fieldston School in Riverdale. She is a lawyer at Legal Aid Society with an office in Lower Manhattan, at the other end of the island. They wanted to stay in Manhattan to avoid what they feared would have been a two-hour commute for one or the other if they had moved to Brooklyn or Riverdale. 
 They had been paying $1,433 for a rent-stabilized 750-square-foot apartment on West 110th Street near Broadway, the rent low enough to allow them to begin accumulating a down payment. ''For years people were telling us the real estate market was going to drop, but we were watching and waiting for eight years,'' Mr. Levin said.
 But by the time they started looking, it was too late for the Upper West Side. So they found a new neighborhood, Hudson Heights, that felt like a quiet Brooklyn neighborhood, but hard by the city. Mr. Levin said there are no washing machines or dryers allowed in apartments, and until the electricity is upgraded, they are permitted to use only low-power air-conditioners.
 One 900-square-foot apartment at Hudson View Gardens tracked by Mr. Miller, sold for $50,000 in 1994 and then doubled in price to $118,000 four years later. Last spring, it sold again for $330,000, a sixfold increase in a decade.
 Simone Yen Song, a broker in Washington Heights since the mid-1980's, watched co-op prices drop in the early 90's and then witnessed the rebound over the last five years. She said many Manhattanites were scared off by their fears of longer commutes and the perception that Washington Heights is a dangerous place.
 Even when Washington Heights had a reputation as a regional drug center, she said, the neighborhood remained stable, never abandoned by the middle class and working people who lived there. ''There are perceptions that were never true,'' she said. ''Washington Heights is 50 blocks. This immediate neighborhood has never been close to the drugs. People thought this neighborhood was too far away, until they got on the subway and realized it is 20 minutes to Midtown.''
 Just across the street from Mr. Levin's home and closer to the river is Castle Village, which opened in 1938 with 579 apartments in a series of 14-story towers set on open lawns with a promenade overlooking the river. Another large co-op development, Park Terrace Gardens, is in Inwood near Inwood Hill Park and the northern tip of Manhattan. Built before World War II, it has 400 hilltop apartments in five buildings.
 Not everyone moving northward is a first-time home buyer. Ms. Song told of one buyer, a C.P.A. and investor, and his wife, who paid $630,000 a few years ago for a 2,300-square-foot double apartment in Castle Village with sweeping views of the Hudson and then spent several hundred thousand dollars renovating it, far more than the couple had expected. 
 But unlike many other purchasers moving northward, they were downsizing. They had just sold a 4,000-square-foot loft in Astor Place, where they had lived for 20 years, for $2 million, and they were searching for a smaller place that was still large enough to hang their art collection. 
 Living closer to the George Washington Bridge makes the trip to their golf club in New Jersey more convenient, and they were still only 20 minutes from Carnegie Hall and Lincoln Center.

Inventory Dwindles
'We Don't Have Much Product'
 As in the rest of Manhattan, the supply of apartments on the market in upper Manhattan dwindled last year -- but far more steeply, falling 25 percent, according to Mr. Miller's analysis. 
 Gus Perry, the principal broker of Stein-Perry Real Estate in Washington Heights, attributed this to a spike in prices in 2002, which brought out a rush of sellers trying to take advantage of the higher prices. Now, ''We don't have much product,'' he said. ''Anything that comes on the market in a nice building is basically name your price.''
 Uptown living does have some inconveniences. In some neighborhoods there are few services and residents are forced to do most of their shopping elsewhere. There are still shells of buildings and vacant lots in some neighborhoods, standing as silent reminders of a troubled past. Crime and open drug sales have sharply declined as they have across the city, but the police are still under pressure in many communities to do more. 
 With the quality of many local schools lagging, many new residents send their children to private schools and public schools outside the neighborhood. But brokers say, discerning parents can find some higher quality schools or parent-supported alternative programs. 
 For example, Public School 187 on Cabrini Boulevard is a highly regarded traditional K-8 school. In Inwood, the Muscota New School, an alternative program at P.S. 176 has attracted interest, while the Hamilton Heights Academy is a small parent-founded alternative program in P.S. 28 on West 155th Street now in its second year. Groups of parents are working on other new schools and programs as well.
 The perils and promises of the uptown co-op market are evident along upper Riverside Drive, where Ms. Ducat now lives with her husband, Ray Segal, a documentary film producer, and two sons on the 12th floor of an ornate 1910 building with a vast marble lobby and 202 apartments that follows a curve along Riverside Drive from West 156th Street to West 157th Street.
 Ms. Ducat grew up on West 72nd Street near Riverside Drive and after some stints in Boston and abroad, returned to live in the 80's on the West Side. But for a decade she yearned for more space in classic old New York apartment building, just across from where she now lives. It was 1992, a time when the New York co-op market was in the doldrums. Ms. Ducat saw an ad in The Westsider, a neighborhood weekly for an apartment in the Grinnell, an eight-story building topped by corner towers at 800 Riverside Drive.
 There was a 10-room apartment available, with high ceilings, and butler's and maid's rooms. But her husband said no. He had lived years before on the Lower East Side and knew, he said, what it was like to live in a bad neighborhood. She thought of that apartment often over the years.
 Last May, Ms. Ducat, an executive editor at Columbia University Digital Knowledge Ventures, a group in the university that develops Internet-based courses and presentations, idly typed the name ''Grinnell'' into Google and rekindled a passion and a quest that led to the purchase of her apartment across the street.
 Her new apartment had been renovated by Michael Laudati, a movie makeup artist who frequently works with Harrison Ford. In his spare time, Mr. Laudati buys and restores historic properties in authentic styles. He said he worked on Ms. Ducat's apartment over the course of more than a year, stripping, rebuilding and refinishing cabinets, doors and woodwork and matching period lighting.
 During the years that Ms. Ducat pined after a grand old apartment, the neighborhood of her dreams had gone through some extraordinary transformations as well. Jude Dayani, a broker with Orsid Realty who lives in the Riviera said that the entire building had been purchased for about $1 million in 1980 and converted to a co-op in 1985, in the midst of the conversion frenzy. 
 Values rose and fell and rose again. One six-room apartment on the eighth floor tracked by Mr. Miller sold for $149,000 in 1987 and then sold again in 1993 at foreclosure for $23,000. But earlier this year it was sold a third time for $520,000. 
 The only apartment now on the market is a one-bedroom unit on the 11th floor with an asking price of $465,000, Ms. Dayani said.
 In light of the rising prices, it seems possible that many once elegant rental buildings along Riverside Drive could be candidates for conversions to condominiums in the future. 
 Now Ms. Ducat has a stack of articles and books about the history and architecture of her chosen neighborhood in a prominent place in her built-in bookcases. In her dining room, she now has space to display possessions long locked away in cabinets: a colorful fruit bowl, a sculpture brought back from her travels in Zimbabwe years ago. 
 She is a volunteer with a group, Uptown Treasures, that promotes cultural institutions from Hamilton Heights to Inwood, though, she said, she never thought of doing anything like that while living on the West Side. She has come to believe that her new neighborhood, with its mix of cultures and languages, is more authentically New York, than her old neighborhood on the West Side is today.
 ''Now,'' she said, ''Broadway in the West 80's might as well be suburban, with Coach leather, Godiva chocolate and Victoria's Secret.'' Her new neighborhood, she said, ''reminds me of the Upper West Side of the 1960's.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: View from the apartment of Vivian Ducat on the top floor of the Riviera on Riverside Drive at West 157th Street. (Photo by Librado Romero/The New York Times)
 Tara Collins and Joel Levin outside Hudson View Gardens. (Photo by Barbara Alper for The New York Times)Chart: ''Same Direction, Different Rates''While average apartment prices continue to rise in all Manhattan neighborhoods, the rate of increase in price per square foot is higher in recent years, although from a lower base, in upper Manhattan.Graph tracks average price for a two-bedroom apartment, in millions, for Downtown, West Side, East Side and Uptown from 1994 to 2003.Downtown, West Side and East Side: +14%Uptown: +68%Percentage change in price per square foot, 2000-2003Uptown: 63%Downtown: 33West Side: 28East Side: 19(Source by Miller Samuel)Chart: ''Size Matters''Median sale price for Manhattan apartments south of East 96th Street and West 116th Street. The steepest increases over the decade came at the extremes, with the smallest co-ops and the largest condos registering the highest percentage gains.1993 TO 2003 PERCENTAGE CHANGECO-OPSFour or more bedrooms: 128%Three: 136%Two: 143%One: 204%Studio: 263%CONDOSFour or more bedrooms: 300%Three: 187%Two: 203%One: 163%Studio: 154%(Source by Miller Samuel)(pg. 8)Chart: ''For Family Size Apartments, Steep Price Tags''Median prices for two-bedroom apartments in selected Manhattan neighborhoods. In neighborhoods where either co-ops or condominiums overwhelmingly predominate, only one is charted.Graphs track median prices for two-bedroom condominiums, co-ops or combined from 1994 to 2003 for the following areas:GREENWICH VILLAGETURTLE BAY/MIDTOWN EASTLENOX HILLFIFTH AVENUE/PARK AVENUE CORRIDOR -- Co-ops onlyUPPER EAST SIDEUPPER MANHATTAN -- Co-op and condominium sales combinedSOHO/TRIBECACHELSEA -- Condominiums onlyCLINTON/MIDTOWN WESTLINCOLN CENTERCENTRAL PARK WEST -- Co-ops onlyUPPER WEST SIDE(Source by Miller Samuel)(pg. 8)Map of Manhattan highlighting above mentioned areas. (pg. 8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); RESIDENTIAL COOPERATIVES (89%); TRENDS (78%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH (65%); POLLS & SURVEYS (64%) Housing; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Condominiums; Cooperatives

PERSON: Josh Barbanel

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (98%) NEW YORK, USA (98%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; Harlem (NYC); Hamilton Heights (NYC); Washington Heights (NYC); Inwood (NYC)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



617 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 11; Executive Life

LENGTH: 1008 words

HEADLINE: Outsourcing Joins the M.B.A. Curriculum

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER S. STEWART

 BODY:
MELISSA DVORAK and 20 other M.B.A. students from Indiana University's Kelley School of Business decided to spend spring break this year traveling around India. But the trip was not meant to be a vacation.
 Under the auspices of the M.B.A. program, Ms. Dvorak and her classmates spent 10 days learning about outsourcing from local and international companies in cities like Bangalore, New Delhi and Mumbai. 
 ''Outsourcing is a subject we need to know about if we want to be competitive in the future,'' said Ms. Dvorak, 29, who is in her second year of graduate school.
 Outsourcing has become a prime subject for business students. Thousands of white-collar jobs are moving overseas every year, and at least 3.3 million jobs in service industries, accounting for $136 billion in wages, will leave the United States by 2015 for lower-cost countries, according to Forrester Research.
 ''It's not something you can ignore,'' said Ms. Dvorak, who had just finished an eight-week course in outsourcing that she was required to take before the trip.
 Other business schools besides Indiana are offering courses or other instruction in offshore outsourcing, and students are signing up in an effort to add to their managerial tool kits. 
 ''You hear about outsourcing all the time these days,'' said Amir Nahai, 26, a first-year student at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth. ''But you don't really know what the advantages and disadvantages are.'' 
 Tuck does not offer a course in outsourcing, but it provides the opportunity for overseas exposure to the subject. Over his midterm break, Mr. Nahai traveled to China, South Korea and Japan on a tour sponsored by the school and called the Tuck Global Consultancy. The program focuses on foreign business logistics, ethics, global citizenship and supply-chain management.
 Interest in outsourcing ''is really booming,'' said Joseph A. Massey, director of the Center for International Business at Tuck. Since the inception of the consultancy program six years ago, the number of participating students has grown to 70 from 19. Some 30 percent of Dartmouth's M.B.A. class of 2003 completed internships or did work overseas before graduation, an increase of about 5 percent over 2002 and 10 percent over 2001. 
 Other M.B.A. programs, like those at Cornell, Stanford and Bentley College, also offer looks at offshore outsourcing. Bentley, in Waltham, Mass., just began a course called ''I.T. Offshoring,'' to be followed by a 14-day trip to India.
 ''India is a leader in terms of services provided -- about $6 billion worth,'' said Donald Chand, a Bentley professor of computer information systems, who taught the class. ''And it's an English-speaking country. The opportunity to continue to expand there will be a big issue for the next generation of managers.'' 
 At the Massachusetts Institute of Technology's Sloan School of Management, two business professors, Amar Gupta and Lester C. Thurow, have added a course called ''Offshoring'' to the spring curriculum. The class, devoted to the subject of sending jobs overseas, reached its 70-student limit within 24 hours of opening for enrollment. 
 The first day, students squeezed in to hear the two professors talk about how outsourcing works strategically, culturally and organizationally. A few students from Harvard Business School also slipped in to get in on the conversation.
 ''We don't have a class like this,'' said Pankaj Soni, 29, a second-year M.B.A. student at Harvard. ''And from a professional standpoint, it's of enormous value.''
 ''IT'S a hot topic,'' said Professor Gupta, pointing out that in some cases, M.B.A. students go overseas themselves, ''to China, to India, wherever, and they'll need to be able to manage operations irrespective of where they're posted.''
 Last year, Professor Gupta began leading a trip to India lasting a week and a half. In addition to visiting domestic and multinational companies in India, students met with financial policy makers and dined with the president, Abdul Kalam.
 That trip was preceded by a different course, ''Special Studies in Management: India,'' for 20 students. (Seventy students had tried to sign up, Professor Gupta said.) 
 The trip was meant to help students understand not only outsourcing but also the cultural aspects of overseas work, he said.
 Anita Khosla, 27, a first-year student at Sloan, is among the students in Professor Gupta's course this semester. This month, she went with the class to India, where her parents were born.
 ''There's no book where you can read about this,'' she said. ''There's no history. It's happening right now. And as students, we're a part of the next big thing.''
 Timely topics have caused explosions of interest at business schools before. In the late 1990's, courses in entrepreneurship and electronic commerce proliferated. 
 ''When e-commerce became a fad, people were talking about strange business models; they didn't have the competence to teach these classes and took the syllabi off the Web,'' said Ravi Aron, assistant professor of operations and information management at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. Today, he said, most schools are not prepared to teach outsourcing. ''It's still very new,'' he said.
 Wharton and several other top business schools, including the University of Chicago Graduate School of Business and the Stern School of Business at New York University, say they address outsourcing when necessary in classes about international economics.
 ''The issue of offshoring is of great interest to students,'' said Thomas F. Cooley, dean of Stern. ''But it's only the latest issue in a long movement to a more global economy.''
 But Professor Gupta predicted that student enthusiasm for outsourcing classes would grow as the global market expanded, and that more business schools would start courses in the subject.
 ''It's definitely more than a passing fad,'' he said. ''It's not something that's going to be talked about for only one or two years. We'll still be studying this carefully for a very long time.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: On their spring break, Melissa Dvorak, top right, and some Indiana University classmates watched Wipro employees in Bangalore, India. (Photo by Namas Bhojani for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); CURRICULA (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); OFFSHORING (89%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (76%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%); ETHICS (68%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (62%) Labor; Colleges and Universities; Graduate Schools and Students; Business Schools; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: INDIANA UNIVERSITY (91%)

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (56%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (56%)

PERSON: Christopher S Stewart

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW DELHI, INDIA (88%); MUMBAI, INDIA (73%) KARNATAKA, INDIA (88%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) INDIA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); JAPAN (79%); CHINA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



618 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7; Personal Business

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: A Legacy of Rancor: Estate Fights Rising

BYLINE: By GAY JERVEY

 BODY:
TO hear two of their daughters tell it, James and Virginia Null were the kind of parents who embodied the word ''fair.'' When it came to their children, they divided everything equally. They thought in terms of the number three. Favoritism? No such thing.
 During their 47-year marriage, the Nulls, who lived in Forest Park, Ga., lavished love and gifts on their three daughters -- Cindy, Amy and Pam. ''If anybody went through my parents' house, they would see three sets of everything, one for each daughter,'' said the youngest, Pam Mazikowski, 41. ''Three sets of china, three sets of crystal, or three gold bracelets. Whatever it was, it was in sets of three, so it never looked as if one child was receiving more than the other.''
 Indeed, the Null clan, which included three grandsons -- Amy had two boys and Cindy had one -- seemed to be close, living in different cities but sharing holidays, graduations, band recitals and Little League games. 
 But the family closeness shattered shortly after Virginia Null, a credit union manager, died of cancer in March 2000 at the age of 62. Three weeks after her death, Mr. Null, then 72, sharply altered his financial arrangements. He designated his middle daughter, Amy Osborne, 45, as a joint tenant on his financial accounts with the sole right of survivorship. Her name was also added to the title to his house. As a result, upon his death in June 2002, almost all of Mr. Null's assets, estimated at several hundred thousand dollars, went directly to her; her sisters received next to nothing.
 Although Mr. Null's will, written in the early 1980's, stated that his estate was to be divided equally among his three daughters, ''the right-of-survivorship clause and joint tenancy upstaged the will completely,'' said Adam Gaslowitz, an Atlanta lawyer who is representing Mrs. Mazikowski and the eldest sister, Cindy Gardner, 49, who are contesting the distribution of the estate. A trial is expected to begin in late spring or early summer.
 The Null litigation is hardly unusual. Lawyers say it is typical of suits contesting wills, often filed by members of the baby-boom generation whose parents are now in their 70's and 80's. A confluence of circumstances, lawyers say, has resulted in an increase in family strife over inheritances. 
 Mr. Gaslowitz, who has written articles about the subject for law journals, said he has seen a steady increase in estate fights among children. ''There are a lot of people who are living off their parental dole, and as their parents are nearing the end of their lives, these children are grabbing as much of the estate as they can get and are far less willing to share it with their siblings.'' 
 For those hurt by the uneven economy of the last few years, Aunt Millie's money may suddenly be the only game in town. Stock market downturns, layoffs and shrunken pensions have ruined many a retirement plan, and people must also consider the likelihood of longer life spans and the possibility that Social Security and Medicare may fail to provide the money they are expecting. 
 ''Probate litigation is always sagging up and down,'' said Dominic Campisi, a San Francisco lawyer who specializes in such work. ''But when things go badly, people realize that they need their inheritances.''
 By some indications, the pressure is mounting as the promise of hefty inheritances appears to be dwindling. In a study conducted last fall, AARP found that by 2001, the median value of inheritances going to baby boomers was $47,000 in 2001 dollars. That compares with the average of $90,000, measured in 1989 dollars, that two Cornell University economists, Robert B. Avery and Michael S. Rendall, projected in a 1993 report. That figure was an average for the half-century from 1990 to 2040; the Cornell authors projected an average of $43,814 in 1990, rising to a high of $107,180 in 2030 before falling to $97,636 in 2040. 
 The Cornell report estimated that more than $10 trillion would pass to the baby boomers in that half-century. The AARP report analyzed data from the Federal Reserve Bank's 2003 consumer finance study and reached a much less optimistic conclusion. As of 2001, its report said, only 14.9 percent of boomers expected to receive an inheritance, ''suggesting that for most people, inheritances will remain an elusive, or small, contributor to their retirement security.'' 
 ''There had been some papers in the early 1990's that suggested that there would be this large transfer of wealth from the current retirees to the baby boomers,'' said John Gist, the associate director of the AARP's Public Policy Institute. ''But we concluded that this was not going to be the huge windfall that everybody had thought.''
 In the case of the Null estate, the two sisters argue that Mrs. Osborne -- who lived 10 minutes away from their father and handled many of his financial affairs after their mother died -- persuaded him to change his financial arrangements. They say that he had no idea what he had done. 
 ''My father was very vulnerable and dependent after my mother died,'' Mrs. Gardner said. ''He was recovering from complicated heart surgery and a long hospitalization. He was extremely ill. He couldn't drive. He came home with IV's in his arm. My mother had always taken care of everything. '' 
 Mrs. Osborne's lawyer, Darrel Hopson, said he did not allow his clients to comment on pending litigation, but he said that her father took action deliberately. ''He was a very competent man, and he knew exactly what he was doing,'' Mr. Hopson said. ''It seems to be a trend that if our elderly parents favor one child over others because of that child's contribution to the parents' well-being and a closer relationship to their parents, the other children feel that their parents don't have the right to leave their property to who they want to leave it to. They feel that they deserve gifts from their parents based solely on the fact that they were created by their parents.''
 The other two sisters disagree with that. Their lawyer, Mr. Gaslowitz, said that their father continued until the day he died ''to tell people that he had taken care of all of his daughters equally.''
 Although he knew that Mrs. Osborne was helping with his finances, the lawyer said, ''he had no idea that he had left her everything.''
 On the day of their father's death, while the family was planning his funeral, Mrs. Osborne and her son gathered her father's papers, Mrs. Gardner said. ''That was our first inkling that something was wrong,'' Mrs. Gardner added.
 They said they received their next hint when Mrs. Osborne initially would not return their phone messages requesting a copy of the will. Shortly thereafter, Mrs. Osborne served them with papers indicating that they had 10 days to contest the distribution of the estate. They contacted a lawyer, who referred them to Mr. Gaslowitz, who has practiced estate litigation for 20 years.
 Mrs. Gardner and Mrs. Mazikowski said that although they were closer to each other than they were to their sister, they were blindsided by the turn of events. ''I had a friend who once went through something like this,'' Mrs. Gardner recalled. ''And at the time I said: 'Oh, this would never happen in my family. Never, ever!' So I try to say to people, 'Don't be naive. I was so naive.'''
 She said that all of the sisters were close to their father.
 ''Both Pam and I were in daily contact with my father. Pam, who lived an hour away, talked to him three times a day and saw him at least once a week. And when he was sick in the hospital, one of the three of us was always with him. At the time, I lived 500 miles away but whenever he was hospitalized I visited him. We were all constantly in touch with him, not just Amy.'' 
 ''Everybody has said the same thing about this -- that this is the last family that they thought this would have happened to,'' she added. 
 MRS. GARDNER said her father could not have intended the estate to be focused on only one child. As an example of how he viewed them, she recalled a visit to the hospital when she introduced herself to a nurse whom she did not know.
 ''She said: 'I know who you are. I know the names of you and your sisters and your children. All your father ever talks about is ''my three girls.''' This has been just brutal. You can't go through and have any closure. I told a friend of mine that there is either a book or a country song in this. And it is not just about Amy going against us. It is about her going against my parents, because they could not have been kinder, more generous people.'' 
 Mr. Gaslowitz said the emotional pain involved in the case was not unusual. ''Cases like this -- and this is a pretty classic one -- are long, expensive, grueling and extremely emotional, just gut-wrenching,'' he said. ''People do things to their families that they would never think about doing to a stranger. You are fighting with your family, and it doesn't get any worse than that.''
 As he spoke, he referred to a cartoon that he keeps taped to his computer: ''There are two guys sitting on a cloud with angel's wings, and one guy says to the other: 'I love this. I have been up here for 11 years and my will is still in probate.'''


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Sean Kelly) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); JOINTLY HELD PROPERTY (89%); LAWYERS (84%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); ESTATE GIFT & TRUST LAW (76%); FRIENDLY & PROVIDENT SOCIETIES (71%); WILLS (71%); YOUTH SPORTS (68%); CANCER (66%); LITIGATION (61%); BABY BOOMERS (50%) Wills and Estates; Research

ORGANIZATION: AARP INC (59%) Aarp

PERSON: Gay Jervey

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (57%) GEORGIA, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



619 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; Investing

LENGTH: 1531 words

HEADLINE: Where to Turn When Inflation Roars Again?

BYLINE: By J. ALEX TARQUINIO

 BODY:
MANY strategists see signs of higher inflation on the distant horizon and suggest that investors adjust their stock portfolios before it draws closer.
 Over time, stocks tend to beat inflation. But in the short run, rising inflation can hurt stocks by squeezing profit margins. That is particularly true for companies that are sensitive to interest rates, like those in financial services and real estate, because higher inflation generally leads to rising interest rates.
 Investors who want to guard against inflation should gravitate toward industries that benefit directly from it, many advisers say. In this category, they include energy and industrial materials, as well as companies that produce consumer staples like foods and tobacco products. Such companies stand a better chance of passing along higher costs to consumers. 
 ''In times of economic weakness, if you can eat it, smoke it or drink it, then you should buy it,'' said Sam Stovall, chief investment strategist at Standard & Poor's.
 Inflation has been mild of late. The Consumer Price Index rose by less than 2 percent in 2003, a year of low interest rates. But some recent evidence suggests that higher inflation could be at hand. The index rose a seasonally adjusted 0.3 percent in February, after a surprise increase of 0.5 percent in January. But the core inflation rate, which excludes the volatile energy and food categories, was just 0.2 percent for both January and February. 
 Consumers who drive a lot or live in colder areas of the country are feeling the sting of inflation in higher prices for oil and natural gas. Energy prices rose 1.7 percent in February, after spiking 4.7 percent in January, the largest one-month increase since the start of the war in Iraq. 
 Estimates of future inflation rates vary widely. S.&P. expects inflation to remain moderate, with the core rate up 1.6 percent in 2004 and 2.1 percent in 2005.
 Still, energy prices can have a strong ripple effect, said Michael Metz, chief investment strategist at Oppenheimer & Company in New York. He said he expected that higher fuel costs would lead to greater increases in the Producer Price Index, a measure of wholesale inflation, over the next two months and in the Consumer Price Index by late spring. He expects core annualized inflation of 5 percent by year-end.
 Cheap imports, particularly from China, have kept a lid on prices of many consumer goods, Mr. Metz said. But he says that he sees import prices starting to creep up, and that he does not think American productivity gains can keep offsetting higher costs.
 Once higher inflation kicks in, Mr. Metz said, it has a way of feeding on itself. ''Inflation is a psychological phenomenon,'' he said. ''Vendors experiment with boosting prices, then it spreads like a contagion.''
 SEVERAL strategists say they expect industrial stocks to perform better than they did in the late 1990's, when the market regarded them as stodgy ''old economy'' stocks and favored technology stocks instead. ''We have a generation of portfolio managers that buy technology, because that's what has worked,'' said Henry Herrmann, chief investment officer of Waddell & Reed Financial, a mutual fund company in Overland Park, Kan.
 But Mr. Herrmann said some portfolio managers were starting to shift toward industrial stocks. That could raise the market capitalization of these companies, he said, to 18 percent to 20 percent of the S.&P. 500-stock index, from about 10 percent today.
 ''The only way to get these stocks into mutual fund portfolios is for managers to buy them, and that will push up prices,'' he said.
 Mr. Herrmann says he likes Deere and Caterpillar because both may hitch a ride with rising commodity prices. Higher prices for industrial metals like copper, nickel and aluminum will cause an increase in mine construction, he said. Caterpillar, based in Peoria, Ill., makes much of the heavy equipment used in this work, so its earnings should increase, he said.
 He also sees an agricultural boom ahead. ''Protein consumption is very low in China, and it's going to rise,'' he said. That would push up prices for crops like soybeans and corn, which is used to feed chickens. For Midwestern farmers, who have suffered through years of lower prices, the shift would let them make purchases they have been putting off -- including tractors made by Deere, which is based in Moline, Ill.
 ''Deere will clearly have more pricing power over the next couple years,'' Mr. Herrmann said. ''They're going to need it, because they consume a lot of steel, and prices will be up. But I think they will also be able to improve profit margins.'' 
 Energy prices have already risen sharply, but many analysts expect them to fall back a bit. Oil traded at $35.73 a barrel on Friday, up from $28.63 a year ago, and natural gas traded at $5.40 per million B.T.U.'s, up from $5.10. 
 Shares of energy companies are probably a better deal now than direct investments in the commodities, said Jack Cunningham, portfolio manager of the Salomon Brothers Investors Value fund, which returned 35.62 percent over the 12 months through Thursday. ''Even though we expect some commodity prices to come down, we still expect some of the stocks to be good opportunities,'' Mr. Cunningham said.
 The market is treating shares of major oil companies as if oil prices will fall to $22 to $23 a barrel, he said. ''We're still concerned about uncertainties in Iraq, Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, terrorism and the U.S. dollar,'' he said, so he expects oil prices to decline to $28 to $30 a barrel and linger there.
 His fund owns 685,000 shares of BP, based in London, and 325,000 shares of Total, the French oil and chemical company. He says he thinks both companies have stable long-term reserves and good potential growth, and that both have good dividend yields -- BP at 3.71 percent and Total at 3.5 percent.
 Mr. Cunningham says that he expects natural-gas prices to remain strong and that the best investment opportunities in the category are among American drillers. The fund owns 420,000 shares of Nabors Industries, a land-based natural-gas driller, and 460,000 of Global Santa Fe, primarily an offshore driller. Both are based in Houston.
 When it comes to producers of consumer goods, many analysts say the ability to pass along higher costs for raw materials and transportation is crucial.
 Mr. Stovall, of S. &P., said inflation of 3 to 4 percent could even help producers of relatively low-cost necessities like cereal and toothpaste. Such businesses may be able to raise prices more readily than others.
 Kellogg, based in Battle Creek, Mich., has learned how to increase sales while keeping prices high, said Carl Sibilski, a stock analyst at Morningstar Inc. ''Look at all the Kellogg brands when you walk down the grocery store aisle,'' he said. ''There was a time when Kellogg thought they could sell more cereal by lowering prices,'' he said. Instead, in recent years, the company has been making quality improvements like the addition of dried fruit to its cereals, he said.
 Mr. Sibilski said smokers would continue to pay whatever the Altria Group, the cigarette maker, decides to charge for popular brands like Marlboro and Virginia Slims. He said Altria, formerly known as Philip Morris, had ''famously passed along price hikes to cover everything from lawyers' fees to legal settlements.''
 AMONG the businesses that may fare poorly amid higher inflation are those that rose sharply over the last year, including those in financial services, technology and real estate.
 Most financial services companies, like banks, mortgage lenders or credit card issuers, tend to be hurt by rising interest rates. Real estate, especially the richly valued American housing market, may also suffer if mortgage rates rise, analysts say.
 ''If rates go up, new entrants to the housing market will not be able to bid up existing homes, which is what many homeowners are counting on,'' said Mr. Metz at Oppenheimer.
 Technology is a trickier call, some analysts say. Manufacturers have very little pricing power because customers now assume that information technology prices will always fall. On the other hand, if a technology company created a product that could make businesses more efficient, it would be better able to name its own price.
 One way to gauge stock performance during inflationary times is to look back at the 1970's, said George A. Roche, the chairman of T. Rowe Price. Mr. Roche was an analyst for the company's New Era fund in 1969, when the fund was started as an inflation hedge, and later managed it. 
 He says that he expects a climb in inflation, though not a return to the 1970's version. ''But I think the 70's provide an instructive example,'' he said. In that decade, energy, mining and tobacco were among the best-performing industries, while clothing, airlines and cars were among the worst.
 Although Mr. Roche says he thinks a shift toward inflation-sensitive stocks is already under way, he predicts that stocks over all will be a good hedge against inflation over the next 5 to 10 years, ''because you own shares in a dynamic enterprise and, over time, it finds ways to cope with the new conditions.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Some energy stocks are good opportunities, says the fund manager Jack Cunningham. (Photo by Chester Higgins Jr./The New York Times)Chart: ''Remembering That 70's Kind of Inflation''When picking stocks to hedge against inflation, some analysts look to the 1970's -- a period of sustained price increases -- to gauge how particular industries may fare if inflation rises.InflationGraph tracks year-over-year change in the monthly level of the Consumer Price Index, seasonally adjusted, since the 1960's.Best- and worst-performing industries during the 1970'Sectors of the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index, returns from December 1969 through December 1979Oil and gas drilling and equipment: +615%Gold and precious-metals mining: +560Domestic, integrated oil: +198Aerospace and military: +157Entertainment: +145Restaurants: +124Natural gas: +117Tobacco: +110Overall index: +17Automobiles: -26Airlines: -31Electric utilities: -31Consumer finance: -32Apparel: -34Trucks and parts: -38Personal-care products: -42Alcoholic beverages: -59(Sources by Bureau of Labor Statistics
 Standard & Poor's)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INFLATION (93%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (89%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); OIL & GAS PRICES (89%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (88%); PRICE CHANGES (87%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); BONDS (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (77%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); IRAQ WAR (72%); IMPORT PRICES (72%); IMPORT TRADE (72%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (69%); PRODUCTIVITY (66%) Stocks and Bonds; United States Economy; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

COMPANY: OPPENHEIMER & CO INC (63%)

ORGANIZATION: BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (59%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (63%)

PERSON: J Alex Tarquinio

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



620 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; In the Region/Long Island

LENGTH: 1347 words

HEADLINE: Helping Hard-Pressed Owners Safeguard Homes

BYLINE: By CAROLE PAQUETTE

 BODY:
WHEN Mary Williams decided that her home in Roosevelt was in dire need of repairs and that she needed financial help to make them, she turned to the Community Development Corporation of Long Island, a nonprofit housing group based in Centereach. 
 ''My main concern was the leaking roof,'' Ms. Williams said. ''I told them I also needed the walkway repaired and the driveway blacktopped. It was all dirt, and every time it rained it became muddy.''
 The group steered Ms. Williams to a three-hour home safety seminar offered by the Long Island Insurance Services Committee, which is a partnership of the Community Development Corporation, five insurance companies and several community groups. The partnership offers not only advice but also, in many cases, the financial means for making home repairs. 
 Ms. Williams, who has been a clerk typist for Nassau County for 33 years, earning $37,493 a year, subsequently received financial help for an $18,337 project to repair her walkway and install a new roof, driveway, gutters, a stoop and some windows. 
 Because her income was below $54,600, which is 80 percent of Long Island's median for a family of two, she qualified for an $11,002 grant from the State Affordable Housing Corporation. She also received a $7,335 home improvement loan from the Community Development Corporation of Long Island Funding Corporation at a fixed interest rate of 5 percent, repayable over 150 months at $65.59 a month. Ms. Williams, who lives with her daughter, a nursing student, also has a $552 monthly mortgage payment on her home.
 Mrs. Williams is among 707 Nassau and Suffolk homeowners who have had their homes repaired through the three-year-old program. Among the goals of the program is to help homeowners with low to middle incomes to maintain their homes without falling victim to predatory lenders or contractors and, in some cases, to lower their insurance premiums. ''Certain low-income neighborhoods are targeted by predatory lenders and contractors,'' said Marianne Garvin, executive vice president of the Community Development Corporation of Long Island.
 The partnership is one of the first of 225 programs around the nation being created by the national NeighborWorks Insurance Alliance, an industry organization, according to Todd Pittman, director of the alliance, which is based in Washington, D.C. ''The NeighborWorks system is the best vehicle to reach into the community,'' he said. ''Homeowners who know how to maintain their homes are less likely to have a loss.''
 The 2004 budget for the Long Island program's operation is $404,372, which comes from its insurance partners, the Ford Foundation, the Fannie Mae Foundation and the Citigroup Foundation. 
 SINCE the program began in November 2000, more than $3.3 million in loans and grants have been paid out for home projects. The families receiving assistance have had average household incomes of a little more than $15,400. The most common major repairs involved electrical and heating systems, and the most common preventive measures are aimed at heading off losses from fire or water damage. 
 During the seminar, instructors discuss such issues as replacing washing machine hoses, cleaning gutters and repairing roofs to avoid flooding; replacing smoke alarm batteries and outdated wiring, and installing deadbolts; and repairing stairways and walkways to prevent liability claims. 
 After the seminar, the homeowners are offered a free home survey by a rehabilitation specialist to check for any hazardous conditions that may exist. Of the 828 people who have attended the seminars, 75 have had repairs done as a result of the survey.
 While the seminars are open to homeowners of all incomes, only those with a family income that is less than 80 percent of the area's median qualify for a state grant from the Affordable Housing Corporation. (Long Island's median income for a family of four is $85,300.) The grant is considered a deferred loan, which is forgiven if the homeowner remains in the house for five years. 
 It must be at least partially matched with other funds: the homeowner's own money or the housing group's home improvement loan. Such a loan is available for a family of four making less than $98,095, which is 115 percent of the area's median income. 
 ''The C.D.C. loan is spread out over a time that is reasonable for that particular family,'' Ms. Garvin said. ''In addition, C.D.C. bids the job and supervises the construction because it is often hard for the homeowner to manage contractors, and not to be ripped off.''
 Up to two-thirds of those who attend the seminar are older people who are living on fixed incomes and have paid off their mortgages, Ms. Garvin said. ''They have lived in their home for many years but may have let it deteriorate over time while they pay taxes and other expenses,'' she said. ''Home maintenance is often pushed to the back burner.'' 
 First-time home buyers are also being helped through the program. ''Many are buying existing homes at the low end of the market,'' Ms. Garvin said. ''They are spending all their money to buy the house and don't have a lot of cash left over to fix it up.''
 THE C.D.C.'s low interest loans benefit home buyers who might have low credit scores and are considered risks by banks, Ms. Garvin said. ''We will take on a more risky loan,'' she said. ''We do underwriting and look at it carefully and stretch underwriting guidelines. All our borrowers pay us back, and they have a safer home.''
 The Long Island Insurance Services Committee program began in the western Suffolk community of North Amityville and has slowly branched out to other areas, according to Deborah Rotunda, executive director of the North Amityville Taxpayers Association, one of three community groups on the committee in addition to the C.D.C. The North Amityville Community Economic Council and the Central Islip Civic Council are also members. 
 North Amityville is a five-mile-square working-class community of 16,005 people that was built in the mid-1940's, Ms. Rotunda said. The median income is $45,084, and the average house costs about $180,000.
 ''We found that a lot of folks are improperly insured,'' she said. ''They don't understand the impact of homeowner insurance, and the seminar provides them with an independent opinion so they are not at the mercy of questionable information by unsavory businesses.''
 Larry Gorecki, chairman of the Long Island Insurance Services Committee, said that once homeowners have paid off their mortgages, they are not required to keep their homeowner's insurance, and, improbable as it seems, ''many give it up.'' Not surprisingly, the committee recommends that homeowners keep their insurance for protection. 
 SOMETIMES, seminar advice can help owners lower their insurance premiums. ''If the home has been upgraded, there will less likely be a loss and premiums could be lowered,'' he said. ''Most companies offer discounts, ranging from 2 percent for a smoke alarm to 16 percent for a central alarm system.'' Mr. Gorecki is the district sales manager for Liberty Mutual Group, which participates in the partnership along with the Allstate Insurance Company, Nationwide Insurance, the State Farm Insurance Company and Travelers Property Casualty. 
 One common claim involves water damage, according to Jeanne Salvatore, a vice president of the nonprofit Manhattan-based Insurance Information Institute. For every $100 the insurance company pays out in claims, $17 involves water damage, she said.
 Gerard Dolan, the owner of Allstate agencies in West Hempstead and Oceanside, said: ''There are real safety issues in the low to moderate income range. People are not aware of these and need to correct them. And they need to know how to connect home safety impacts with insurance rates.'' 
 Tamara Sperling, a spokeswoman for State Farm, said: ''We've seen a lot of our policyholders interested in working with the C.D.C. to improve their homes. I've seen it on Long Island and in the five boroughs. People really want to know what's available to them to repair their homes.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary Williams points out repairs to Marianne Garvin, an officer of the Community Development Corporation. (Photo by Kirk Condyles for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (88%); FAIR LENDING (86%); HOME SECURITY (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (77%); INSURANCE (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); HOUSEHOLD NUMBERS (71%); PREDATORY LENDING (70%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%); MORTGAGE LOANS (65%); INTEREST RATES (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%) Home Repairs and Improvements; Insurance

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (60%); CITIGROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: long island insurance services committee; community development corp of long island

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (60%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (60%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: Carole Paquette

GEOGRAPHIC: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Island (NY)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



621 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1127 words

HEADLINE: Official Is Said To Recommend Sharon Charge

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET

DATELINE: JERUSALEM, March 27 

 BODY:
Israel's state prosecutor has decided to recommend that Prime Minister Ariel Sharon be indicted on charges of taking bribes from a real estate developer, Israeli news media reported Saturday night. 
 Any such recommendation would go to Israel's attorney general, Menachem Mazuz, who would then make the final decision whether or not to indict in the next several weeks. An Israeli justice official said Mr. Mazuz expected to receive a recommendation from the prosecutor within days. 
 So far, Mr. Sharon has not been charged with any wrongdoing; his office declined to comment on the reports. 
 The case involves a real estate developer who was indicted in January on charges of trying to bribe Mr. Sharon with about $700,000, most of it paid to Gilad Sharon, his son. 
 The reports came at the end of a turbulent week for Mr. Sharon and Israel, which has undergone more than three years of conflict with the Palestinians. On Monday, after a decision by the government, Israeli forces killed the spiritual leader of the militant group Hamas with a missile strike. Israelis are now braced for retaliation threatened by Hamas, while the army keeps up an offensive against the group. 
 The recommendation of an indictment would significantly add to the political burden on Mr. Sharon as he attempts his boldest yet most delicate mission as prime minister: rallying support in Israel and the Bush administration for his plan unilaterally to withdraw soldiers and settlers from most or all of the Gaza Strip and part of the West Bank.
 Channel Two television reported that Edna Arbel, the state prosecutor, would recommend in the next few days that Mr. Sharon be indicted on charges of accepting bribes from the developer, David Appel, in what is known as the Greek island affair.
 In issuing its indictment of Mr. Appel in January, the court said he had tried to secure Mr. Sharon's help in real estate deals, including a resort and casino on a Greek island, starting in the late 1990's, when Mr. Sharon was foreign minister in a previous government.
 Advisers to Mr. Sharon have said they expect Ms. Arbel to recommend an indictment. But they have also said that at a particularly delicate time, with the fate of a sitting government probably at stake, Mr. Mazuz is likely to hold any such recommendation to a very high standard of proof and likely conviction.
 But speaking on condition of anonymity, a senior politician from Mr. Sharon's rivalrous Likud faction called a recommendation to indict ''quite serious in itself.'' He said a recommendation would force Mr. Mazuz to present ''very good reasons why not to'' indict. He said it could put pressure on Mr. Sharon to step aside in advance of an indictment to preserve the stature of his office.
 The Sharon government appointed Mr. Mazuz, who has a reputation as independent-minded, to be attorney general only in January. He was selected from a list of three proposed by an independent commission.
 Mr. Sharon's predecessors as prime minister, Ehud Barak and Benjamin Netanyahu, served under threat of indictments that never materialized. Mr. Sharon has said he will serve ''at least until 2007,'' when elections are scheduled.
 Mr. Mazuz would be likely to take at least a month, and probably longer, to decide whether to indict, the justice official said. 
 If Mr. Mazuz decides to proceed with an indictment, Mr. Sharon would then have the chance to demand a hearing to argue against that step. Should Mr. Mazuz still decide to move forward, he would begin a legal process to strip Mr. Sharon of his immunity to prosecution as a member of Parliament. ''It's a long, long process,'' the official said.
 Legal experts are divided about whether an indictment would automatically compel a sitting prime minister to resign. But if he is indicted, Mr. Sharon, 76, will come under tremendous political pressure to step down immediately.
 He continues to dominate Israel's politics, but his popular support has faded as the economy languished in recent months and the conflict with the Palestinians ground on. 
 Further, he has outraged the far-right parties in his governing coalition with his announced intention to withdraw without a peace agreement from some of the territory that Israel occupied in the 1967 Middle East war. Mr. Sharon says that Israel needs to draw more secure boundaries, and that if it does not act now, it risks an eventual, internationally imposed solution to the conflict that will deprive it of more territory. 
 Members of Likud have also opposed the plan, and some are already jostling to replace Mr. Sharon. 
 In general, Likud leaders have remained publicly silent about the possibility of an indictment. But Limor Livnat, the minister of education and a rising Likud official, said in January that Mr. Sharon would have to step aside if indicted.
 The third element of Mr. Sharon's governing coalition, the centrist Shinui Party, portrays itself as a proponent of clean government. Joseph Paritzky, the minister of infrastructure and a Shinui member, told the Web site of the Israeli newspaper Yediot Aharonot on Saturday that Mr. Sharon would have to resign if indicted, saying Shinui would otherwise leave the coalition. 
 Yet Mr. Sharon has a long history of defying apparent political doom, and the limits of governing Israel under indictment are untested.
 In separate cases involved a cabinet minister and a deputy minister, Israel's high court has ruled that an indictment on charges reflecting moral lapses forced immediate resignation.
 But some legal experts say the court might treat a prime minister as being in a unique category, since his resignation would force a change of government. Other legal experts regard the existing precedents as binding.
 Mr. Sharon's advisers have already begun laying the groundwork for a possible political defense, saying the prime minister, preoccupied with matters of state, is very trusting of those around him.
 The indictment of Mr. Appel charged that he had told Mr. Sharon that Gilad would make a lot of money, but it did not lay out evidence that Mr. Sharon had knowingly taken a bribe. Legal experts say it would be possible to prosecute one man for giving bribes, without prosecuting the target of the bribe, if he was believed to be unaware of the intent.
 For proposed payments of $3 million, Mr. Appel hired Gilad to promote the development of a resort and casino on a Greek island, though, the indictment said, he ''did not have the relevant professional skills.''
 After hiring Gilad, Mr. Appel made monthly payments to an account of the Sharon ranch, which is in Gilad's name, the indictment said. The indictment of Mr. Appel listed 15 separate payments, some in dollars and some in shekels, totaling about $700,000. The resort was never built.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gilad Sharon, top, the son of Prime Minister Ariel Sharon
David Appel, center, a real estate developer
 and the prime minister. (Photographs by Associated Press)(pg. 18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (92%); INDICTMENTS (92%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (91%); HAMAS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BRIBERY (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); ARMIES (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (68%); ARMED FORCES (66%) Politics and Government; Bribery ; United States International Relations; Suspensions, Dismissals and Resignations

ORGANIZATION: HAMAS (82%)

PERSON: James Bennet; Ariel (Prime Min) Sharon; Gilad Sharon; Edna (State Atty) Arbel; Menachem (Atty Gen) Mazuz; David Appel; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (79%) ISRAEL (96%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (94%); GREECE (92%); UNITED STATES (92%) Israel; Gaza Strip; West Bank; Israel

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



622 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Speaker's Grip on Power Weakens as City Council Grows Restless

BYLINE: By JENNIFER STEINHAUER

 BODY:
As City Council speaker, Gifford Miller has a visible pulpit and a built-in constituency of 50 other legislators. 
 But a disparate group of relatively inexperienced council members with wildly divergent agendas have hampered Mr. Miller's ability to burnish his image as a powerful speaker who keeps his members in line and the Bloomberg administration on its toes, according to former council staff members, lobbyists and others who work regularly with the Council. 
 Over the last few months, members of the Council have run over the speaker in ways that would have been impossible in councils past, these experts said. 
 Most notably, last fall, Mr. Miller, who had opposed a version of a law dealing with lead paint in city apartment buildings, was pushed into getting behind the bill after some council members and other advocates for the bill accused him of being a racist. 
 In November, the chairwoman of the Council's Education Committee held four days of hearings on union contracts, enraging the city's powerful education unions, and souring Mr. Miller's relations with them. 
 Two council members are running for mayor, one member has already announced his support for Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg and another, Simcha Felder from Brooklyn -- ostensibly Mr. Miller's ally -- recently held a fund-raiser for himself in the mayor's town house, even though Mr. Miller has made it no small secret that he is interested in running for mayor himself. Mr. Miller's chief of staff, Forrest R. Taylor, recently quit in a mini-huff over a series of disagreements.
 Further, council members continually use the chamber for attention-getting antics, frequently in violation of the body's rules of procedure.
 These acts of independence stem largely from the term-limit system, which leaves council members with small windows to make a name for themselves and no real incentive to be loyal to the speaker, who is also a short timer. 
 ''The powers from this membership are flowing up, when historically how it went was from the top down,'' said Joe Strasburg, the president of the Rent Stabilization Association, who was chief of staff to the last speaker, Peter F. Vallone, from 1986-94. '' ''There is no question his power is diluted because there is too much emphasis on the future of the individual council members.'' 
 Mr. Miller's ability to lead and control his members, who first elected him speaker in 2002, is likely to come under scrutiny next year, should he challenge Mr. Bloomberg in the mayoral election. The speaker, who is 34, is also likely to be tested more this year, as he and other council members try to put their stamp on a budget that has slightly improved spending opportunities.
 Mr. Miller, in an interview in his office in the East Wing of City Hall, dismissed the idea that term limits had attenuated his power, and pointed to the body's unity in passing laws. 
 ''I think actually this Council is increasingly more effective,'' he said, pointing out that in the first two years of the Bloomberg administration, the Council passed 89 local laws, compared with 67 such laws during the first two years of the Giuliani administration. Most votes are close to unanimous, and the body has overridden 15 mayoral vetoes, far more than under previous mayors.
 Further, some members said they were thrilled with their autonomy. While in the past, the speaker controlled his members more closely and used them largely to rubber-stamp deals he made with the mayor, council members today said they were grateful for the opportunity to make their own marks. 
 ''I think he has been very effective,'' said Bill de Blasio, a Democrat from Brooklyn who served on Mr. Vallone's staff. ''From the beginning, he improved members' access to the flow of information. There are open forums to discuss strategic direction, which to the best of my memory Vallone did rarely. Committee chairs, they have much more responsibility now. It is a bit like a cabinet; we know who the leader is, but people feel a real sense of responsibility for their subject matter.'' 
 But it is also clear that many members are straying off Mr. Miller's reservation because they are looking for a new reservation: under the term limit laws passed in 1993, which restrict them, with some exceptions, to roughly two terms, they lost their ability to make a lifetime career in the Council, and so are eager to make names for themselves to propel them to their next elected offices. 
 Members are promoting their own legislation more aggressively, holding news conferences and, in a few cases, defying Mr. Miller and denouncing him publicly, as in the case of the lead paint law. 
 Mr. Miller cannot risk alienating his members; he needs their support in their respective districts should he run for mayor. Further, he owes many members for voting for him for speaker. 
 ''Every one of them serving knows they are going to be out,'' said Mr. Vallone, the former council speaker, who held the post for more than a dozen years. ''Which means there cannot be long-term planning. The speaker now has to spend more time politicking. I could bring people in and say: 'Hey, you have a future here; stop talking about small things and squabbling. You could be finance chair one day, or speaker, or chair of the Land Use Committee.'''
 But now there is no longer a lifetime of opportunity in the Council. ''Now if you are not elected speaker right away, you're finished,'' said Mr. Vallone, who has never been a fan of term limits and who had to leave office himself in 2001 because of those limits. ''So instead you look for ways to get your name in the paper, and the best way to do that is to vote no. The speaker, in order to remain the speaker, has to keep mending political fences because he is also looking for citywide office and you don't want to offend anyone. I just think it is terrible.''
 In part, Mr. Miller has encouraged the current situation, by proclaiming early on that he wanted to have a more democratic legislative body after years of criticism that Mr. Vallone crushed spirits and curtailed discourse. 
 He has given members more latitude, letting them pick their own staffs for committees instead of installing them himself and permitting extreme acts of independence to go unpunished. While it used to be standard fare for the speaker to body-slam members who went against him, Mr. Miller has preferred tiny taps on the head. 
 ''I think this is a body that has been extremely effective at giving individual members the chance to speak out on issues that are important to them,'' said Mr. Miller, who represents the Upper East Side of Manhattan.
 But this democratization, combined with Mr. Miller's own ambitions, has often meant that his members appear to drive him, rather than vice versa. 
 Most striking was the lead paint bill that the Council passed last fall, a bill that Mr. Miller declined to support when it was first introduced last spring. Landlords opposed the bill and denounced its stringent regulations on how they would test for the presence of lead in their buildings. 
 But over the summer, on his way to a fund-raiser, Mr. Miller faced a pack of protesters. Noting that lead paint victims are primarily black, Hispanic and Asian children, they shouted at him, ''Miller, you racist, we have you on our list!'' Councilman Bill Perkins, who sponsored the bill, joined the opposition, and Mr. Miller eventually capitulated. 
 Mr. Miller said that the bill went through hundreds of changes before the final version was passed over Mayor Bloomberg's veto.
 ''Obviously, I was appreciative that he eventually got on board,'' said Mr. Perkins, who represents Harlem and has been the sponsor of much of the Council's more controversial legislation, including a law prohibiting predatory lenders from doing business with the city, which was tossed out by the courts, and a bill, yet to be voted on, that would make major changes in the economic mix of tenants in buildings put up by developers who receive government subsidies. 
 When asked if he drives the Council more than the speaker does, Mr. Perkins said, ''I would not like to touch that with a 10-foot poll.'' He added, ''I do believe that term limits has a bearing on leadership in terms of focus.'' 
 Mr. Perkins himself is considering running for Manhattan borough president. As he put it, ''A man's got to eat.'' 
 More problematic for Mr. Miller were a series of hearings held in November by Eva S. Moskowitz, chairwoman of the Council's Education Committee; during them, she criticized the work rules governing teachers, principals and custodians. 
 After trying to press Mr. Miller to cancel the hearings, Randi Weingarten, president of the teachers' union, attended the hearings with Brian M. McLaughlin, president of the New York City Central Labor Council, sending a message that the unions as a whole were displeased. Mr. Miller was faced with the uncomfortable choice between union members, whose support he would no doubt seek when running for mayor, and Ms. Moskowitz, with whom he is close and who has her own ambitions for higher office. 
 ''The old sense of discipline is gone, much to our disappointment,'' said a union official close to Ms. Weingarten. When she was stopped as she left City Hall last week and asked to discuss Mr. Miller, Ms. Weingarten frowned.
 Mr. Vallone also enjoyed a cordial relationship with Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, with whom he negotiated many an agreement in the privacy of one of their offices. The two had similar sensibilities and political bases, and often found ways to see eye to eye.
 By accounts from both sides, Mr. Miller and Mayor Bloomberg enjoy no such chemistry, and there is far less horse-trading between the executive and legislative sides. Indeed, Mr. Miller spent the last few days taunting Mr. Bloomberg over firehouse closings, elevating the tension between them.
 Mr. Miller acknowledged that the situation was not easy. ''But no one ever said my job was supposed to be easy,'' he said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Gifford Miller, the City Council speaker, has given members more latitude, but this has meant that they often appear to be driving him, rather than vice versa. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 33)
 Speaker Gifford Miller, left, with Councilman James S. Oddo, the Republican minority leader. Mr. Miller's ability to lead and control his members is likely to come under scrutiny next year if he runs for mayor. (Photo by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. 39) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (94%); CITIES (92%); MAYORS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TERM LIMITS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); RENT CONTROL (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (72%); LEAD (69%); LEAD PAINT (69%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (69%); INTERVIEWS (69%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); TEACHER UNIONS (67%) City Councils; Term Limits (Political Office)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (56%) Gifford (Speaker) Miller; Jennifer Steinhauer

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



623 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 2; Book Review Desk; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 699 words

HEADLINE: Let's Rokunroal!

BYLINE: By Richard McGill Murphy. 
Richard McGill Murphy's memoir, ''Lahore Nights,'' will be published next year.

 BODY:

POPULAR MUSIC FROM VITTULA
By Mikael Niemi.
Translated by
Laurie Thompson.
237 pp. New York:
Seven Stories Press. $21.95.
 AS the 1960's dawn, two boys meet on a provincial playground. They start a rock 'n' roll band after watching Elvis Presley gyrate on TV. Their musical collaboration will change them both and, perhaps, the world. Are they John and Paul? Mick and Keith? Nigel Tufnel and David St. Hubbins from ''This Is Spinal Tap''? None of the above: Mikael Niemi's entrancing first novel is about coming of age in the Swedish equivalent of Appalachia, a remote district above the Arctic Circle, near the Finnish border, where the children of loggers and miners grow up convinced that real life is elsewhere. 
 ''We spoke with a Finnish accent without being Finnish, and we spoke with a Swedish accent without being Swedish. We were nothing. There was only one way out. Only one possibility if you wanted to be something, no matter how insignificant. You had to live somewhere else,'' Niemi writes. This could be the setup for yet another novel about an eager young rube seeking his fortune in the metropolis. But for the most part, Niemi's characters don't even venture to Stockholm, let alone London or New York. Instead, they grow up in a rural community that is being transformed by the new economic realities of the Swedish welfare state and by the distant rumblings of a nascent global youth culture. 
 ''Popular Music From Vittula'' was a smash hit in Sweden, where it has sold 700,000 copies since its publication in 2000. In Laurie Thompson's deft translation, the novel is shot through with vivid and often funny depictions of daily life in an exotic corner of the world. As the book opens, the narrator, Matti, who is then 5, watches government steamrollers laying the first paved road that his district has ever seen. Matti soon meets a silent little boy named Niila, who eventually teaches him a private language that becomes their primary means of communication. In the first of many extraordinary set pieces, a Congolese preacher visits the little town of Pajala, whose inhabitants have never before seen an African. Curious villagers pack the local church to hear him preach.
 When his interpreter collapses, the African resorts to a strange tongue that nobody can understand except Niila, who miraculously translates the entire sermon. Only later does Matti realize that Niila's private language is Esperanto, learned from language lessons broadcast on Swedish radio. 
 Pajala is a Communist hotbed. Stalin is a local hero: many young people join the local Red Youth chapter, which books the band to play after a meeting. For an encore, their lead guitarist plays an earsplitting, Hendrix-inspired solo version of the Soviet national anthem. The local girls wear miniskirts and go-go boots, and they know how to scream properly at the band's performances because some of them have attended actual pop concerts in neighboring towns. But Pajala also partakes of older, weirder traditions, notably the sorcerers and changelings of Nordic folklore. (During a fistfight, two older boys turn into bears before Matti's eyes.) 
 I can't think of many recent novels that have better captured the intricacies of social life in a rural community. As the boys grow up, they enter an adult universe of adultery, clan rivalries and religious passion. In a crucial scene, Matti's taciturn, hard-drinking father explains the facts of life to him after taking a sauna. Expecting to hear about birds and bees, Matti is instead told what he must know to function as an adult in Pajala: family feuds, illegitimate cousins, the history of the local labor movement, the oddities of local Protestant ecstatics, the identities of former Nazi sympathizers, an entire web of relationships in which the boy finds his own place. 
 ''I had been a child, and Dad had now taught me how to see,'' the narrator recounts. ''Roots, culture, whatever you'd like to call it, it was mine.'' Niemi thus upends the central conceit of most coming-of-age novels, that the hero must leave home in order to find himself. Niemi's characters, conversely, grow up once they figure out that real life has surrounded them all along. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); POP & ROCK (90%); MUSIC (90%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (89%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (85%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); LITERATURE (75%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%) Books and Literature; Reviews 

PERSON: Richard Mcgill Murphy; Mikael Niemi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); STOCKHOLM, SWEDEN (72%); LONDON, ENGLAND (69%) NEW YORK, USA (78%) SWEDEN (90%); UNITED STATES (78%); ARCTIC (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



624 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; In the Region/New Jersey

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: 1920's Factory in Bloomfield to Be Converted to Lofts

BYLINE: By ANTOINETTE MARTIN

 BODY:
A VACANT Bloomfield factory building that had a significant role in labor union history will be turned into moderately priced loft apartments by a novice developer from Brooklyn. The financing is coming from a nonprofit lending company that supports increasing the supply of low- and moderate-priced rental housing in New York and New Jersey.
 The Community Preservation Corporation, set up 30 years ago in New York by a coalition of 90 banks and insurance companies, makes construction and permanent loans to developers and property owners who want to preserve or expand rental units that are something less than high-end.
 The units may be high-end for the particular community in which they are located, however -- and in fact that will be the case with the Bloomfield apartments. The idea is to make sure there are rental units available at every level of income all across the state, said Annemarie Uebbing, the preservation corporation's director in New Jersey. 
 ''We're the lender for untested areas,'' she explained, ''areas that are questionable, poor areas or untested markets we think can provide the type of housing most needed -- low and moderate-priced rentals.''
 The developer Michael Epstein of Mosaic Realty Partners, a former banker, has stepped forward with a plan to create 48 lofts in a onetime silk stocking factory on Llewellyn Avenue in Bloomfield, situated in the thick of a stable working-class neighborhood. Mr. Epstein, whose construction loan of $4.5 million was provided by the Community Preservation Corporation, and who is planning to begin work next month, said the plan includes one and two-bedroom apartments -- all featuring the existing 11-foot ceilings and new outsized windows in the original style.
 ''I found this building, a beautiful block building, with open space inside, one end to the other, huge windows and high ceilings, and instantly knew it should be lofts,'' said Mr. Epstein, who purchased it three years ago, after the preservation corporation had already become involved.
 The Silk Mill Lofts, as the building will be renamed, is to have an exercise room and a communal patio area and to provide 92 off-street parking spaces for tenants and guests. 
 Monthly rents, said Ms. Uebbing, are projected to be about $1,200 for the 30 one-bedroom apartments and $1,600 for 18 two-bedroom units. Current average rents in Bloomfield, a town more modest than many of its neighbors just across the Lincoln Tunnel from Manhattan, range from $700 to $1,500, she said.
 Bloomfield's housing and rental prices are on the rise, with the advent of Midtown Direct train service there drawing a new influx of New Yorkers. Compared with the vaulting home prices and steep rents found in such suburbs as Montclair, Glen Ridge, Maplewood and South Orange, however, Bloomfield remains a bargain.
 Asking prices of homes for sale in such towns have been soaring. ''How many people can be buying at those higher prices?'' Ms. Uebbing said. ''Besides, there are a lot of people coming from New York City with good incomes who still want to rent.'' 
 MR. EPSTEIN plans to expand the existing building -- which served as the Annin Flag Factory from the 1960's through the late 1990's -- by approximately 5,500 square feet. He plans to create four penthouse apartments, each with two bedrooms and two baths, set back on top of the building so as not to disturb the facade. The existing building has 56,000 square feet of space with round concrete columns running through the interior, brick interior walls and many multipaned windows.
 ''It has been a blighted building, smack dab in a residential neighborhood,'' said Anne Prince, president of the Watsessing Heights Neighborhood Association, which represents an area around Watsessing Park with 1,100 homes. ''It's been a big, vacant hole in the neighborhood, and now I think it's really going to be a lovely little jewel.''
 The neighborhood group, set up in 1997 after ''a lot of New Yorkers moved in,'' worked with a previous developer on developing plans for the building, Mrs. Prince said. When that developer failed to get a tax abatement he sought, he sold the property to Mr. Epstein, and the neighborhood organization began consulting with him.
 ''One of our members is a design consultant by profession,'' Mrs. Prince said, and worked with Mr. Epstein ''on aesthetics and density and on getting the plans through all the various town boards and agencies.''
 Mr. Epstein said he expected the loft apartments to appeal to younger people who commute to New York and was designing them to be ''upscale for the neighborhood.'' 
 The new windows will replicate the old 12-foot-by-7-foot windows with modern energy-efficient models, Mr. Epstein said. ''We are putting in beautiful, very expensive, magnificent large windows that are specially designed for this building. I think they will make the place.''
 The building had its beginnings in 1923, the heyday of silk stockings.
 Mary Krugman, a historian who documented its history so that it might qualify for more than $900,000 in federal historic tax credits, said the building began as the Brilliant Silk Hosiery Factory, producing ''full fashioned'' stockings. This involved use of a highly complex knitting machine that dropped stitches in order to make stockings conform to the shape of women's legs.
 The first national industrywide labor agreement in the history of the hosiery business was signed in 1929, through the efforts of the mill's union, American Federation of Full-Fashioned Hosiery Workers, Ms. Krugman said. ''What is unusual about this union,'' she said, ''is that its members acquired a great deal of knowledge about market conditions in the silk industry and worked with mill owners to try to stabilize it.''
 Silk stockings became a booming business in the 1920's with the rise of skirt hems, introduction of new shoe styles and a new emphasis on colored stockings, she said. Later, in the Wall Street crash of 1929, the stocking industry nearly crumpled. By that time Brilliant Silk had merged with several other companies to become Interstate Hosiery Mills, a Delaware-based concern. Meanwhile, labor was developing new strategies to deal with larger ''conglomerate'' owners.
 Even before the crash, the federation leaders had deduced that the never-ending mill-by-mill battle for better wages and hours was doomed, Ms. Krugman said, and settled on a strategy of ''stabilization through unionization,'' seeking union-management cooperation for the sake of industry survival.
 The federation published and widely distributed a ''white list'' -- pamphlets that promoted buying products from union employers who engaged in fair practices. Ms. Krugman cited this as perhaps the first time in American labor history that a public relations campaign asking consumers to ''look for the union label'' -- a phrase later made famous in the song by the International Ladies Garment Workers Union -- was employed.
 As the economy was going down, the national union negotiated an agreement that would slash the wages of its members in the North in exchange for secure union jobs in Southern shops. A number of silk mill workers in Paterson and elsewhere in New Jersey refused to go along, engaging in ''wildcat'' actions and strikes.
 ''This factory's workers took their own path,'' Ms. Krugman said. ''They wanted to stay union, but didn't want to take the cut in pay either. Somehow, they managed a middle ground, where they picketed and struck in line with the union, but kept their jobs and forced the unionization of two other factories operated by the same owner.''
 By 1942, the silk stocking business had faded, and the factory was closed. It later served for a time as a printing press manufacturing plant and subsequently was the home of the flag-making company.
 Because of what the workers did there, the building has been nominated by the State Historic Preservation Office as a national historic preservation project deserving of government support, she said.
 The Community Preservation Corporation will also provide almost $4.8 million in permanent financing after construction is complete. Ms. Uebbing said that the corporation had primarily focused on urban apartment buildings, but that ''as older suburban communities start to have rental housing, we are turning our interest there.''
 Mr. Epstein's plans amount to ''creative adaptive reuse'' of the former factory to create lower-end market-rate housing, Ms. Uebbing said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Silk Mill Lofts will have 11-foot ceilings and outsized windows. The project will also have an exercise room and a communal patio area. (Photos by Richard Perry/The New York Times, left
 Ming T. Shiang/Feitlowitz & Kosten Architects, right) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (89%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); HOME PRICES (89%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); LABOR UNIONS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (72%); INSURANCE (71%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (60%) Housing; Mortgages; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: COMMUNITY PRESERVATION CORP (91%)

ORGANIZATION: Mosaic Realty Partners; Community Preservation Corp

PERSON: Michael Epstein; Antoinette Martin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (94%) Bloomfield (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



625 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 5; PORTFOLIOS, ETC.

LENGTH: 683 words

HEADLINE: Some Bumps in the Road for Corporate Bonds

BYLINE: By JONATHAN FUERBRINGER

 BODY:
THE corporate bond rally, which has provided a return of 17 percent in 17 months, is running into head winds.
 Slow gains in jobs, rising oil prices, the uncertainty of the presidential election, the high valuation of the market, rising market volatility and the threat of terrorist attacks are all likely to be a drag on returns in coming months.
 Of course, a climb in Treasury interest rates would also be a threat to the corporate bond market. But the Treasury market is confounding the prognosticators, just as it did last year. Rather than rising this year, Treasury yields have fallen. The 10-year note was at 3.83 percent on Friday, down from 4.25 percent at the end of last year. The decline has pushed mortgage rates back to near 45-year lows. 
 Still, there were signs last week that the corporate bond rally could reverse. Jack Guynn, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta, reminded investors that the Fed could not keep its benchmark federal funds rate at its 46-year low of 1 percent. ''If my forecast for more robust economic growth materializes, then, at some point, a Fed funds rate of 1 percent will no longer be the best policy,'' he said in a speech in Tennessee.
 Richard Berner, chief United States economist at Morgan Stanley, declared in his weekly report to clients that ''inflation has bottomed'' and ''most likely will edge higher in coming months,'' which ought to be troubling for interest rates. Growing inflation worries were enough to send the yield on the 10-year note up sharply, nine-hundredths of a percentage point, on Friday.
 Many of the negatives in the bond market are also troubling the stock market, which is wrestling with its first significant correction since the stock rally began last March. But investors may not have focused on another potential bond market disrupter: fast money, moving faster.
 Hedge funds and the proprietary trading desks at big brokerage firms are making more and bigger bets in the market. Quarterly results at Goldman Sachs, reported last week, showed a big earnings boost from bond trading. Goldman said that its exposure to risk -- the amount it is willing to lose on a daily basis -- rose to a record $71 million, much of that in bond and stock trades.
 At the same time, credit derivatives, which allow the creation of synthetic versions of existing corporate bonds, have made speculating in the bond market easier. Shorting, for example, involves selling a borrowed bond in the hope that its price will decline. The borrowed bond is then bought back, and the trader profits on the price difference.
 Now, such transactions are easier because they can be done without the actual bond. Instead, the characteristics of the bond to be borrowed and shorted can be created with a credit derivative. Derivatives also remove the fear of not being able to find a bond to buy back when a trader wants to close a position quickly.
 ''Fast money is a bigger player in the market, and they have a new tool to do what they want to faster and easier,'' said William Cunningham, head of credit strategy at FTN Financial.
 This means that the tone of the market could change much faster if terrorism, job reports, inflation readings or other factors send more negative signals.
 ALREADY, volatility, as measured by the Chicago Board Options Exchange volatility index, is up sharply, but still well below historical highs. There were big daily spurts after the train bombing in Madrid and Israel's killing of the spiritual leader of the militant group Hamas.
 Spreads -- the difference between the yields on corporate bonds and comparable Treasuries -- are relatively narrow, a sign of above-average market valuation.
 Dennis Adler, the corporate bond strategist at Citigroup, acknowledged the headwinds. But he said there was ''no fundamental reason for a drastic correction in the market'' because companies continued to improve their balance sheets and the supply of new issues this year should be well below last year's.
 Mr. Cunningham agreed. For him, this means that this rally has run ''80 percent -- maybe 90 percent'' of its course.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''A Narrower Gap''The spread between the yield on investment-grade corporate bonds and comparable Treasuries has declined sharply from a peak in 2002.Adjusted to account for changes in credit ratingsPEAK: 2.56Oct. '02AVERAGE: 1.17TROUGH: 0.58March '97Graph tracks the spread between the yield on investment-grade corporate bonds and comparable Treasuries from 1986 to 2003.(Source by Citigroup)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); CORPORATE BONDS (91%); BONDS (91%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INFLATION (89%); PRICE INCREASES (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); ELECTIONS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (76%); MORTGAGE RATES (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); SYNTHETIC SECURITIES (66%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (66%); TERRORISM (57%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (57%) Stocks and Bonds

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (69%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%); MORGAN STANLEY (54%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%); MS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (69%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (69%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (54%)

PERSON: Jonathan Fuerbringer

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



626 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 7; Column 1; Book Review Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 1065 words

HEADLINE: The American Opening

BYLINE: By Gabriel Schoenfeld. 
Gabriel Schoenfeld is the senior editor of Commentary, a chess master and the author of ''The Return of Anti-Semitism.''

 BODY:

BOBBY FISCHER GOES TO WAR
How the Soviets Lost the Most Extraordinary Chess Match of All Time.
By David Edmonds and John Eidinow.
Illustrated. 342 pp. New York:
Ecco/HarperCollins Publishers. $24.95.
 AS Marxists presiding over a backward, poverty-stricken society, Russia's Bolsheviks were obsessed with presenting the Soviet Union as an advanced, and advancing, country. One realm in which the Kremlin invested heavily to demonstrate Soviet superiority was the military. Another was chess. 
 The great game of skill was seen as a means by which the intellectual supremacy of Communism could be demonstrated to the entire world. For the first half of the 20th century, the Soviet Union utterly dominated chess, retaining a secure grip on the world championship and filling the ranks of the top players with one grandmaster after another. 
 By the late 1960's, just as the cold war was beginning to warm into detente, this Soviet hegemony came under threat. The challenger was the young American genius Bobby Fischer, who in extraordinary fashion was climbing the rungs of the global chess ladder, hurling down a series of Soviet grandmasters along the way. Soon he had earned the right to challenge the reigning world champion, Boris Spassky, for his crown. The match finally took place in Iceland in July 1972. 
 That contest is the subject of ''Bobby Fischer Goes to War,'' by two journalists, David Edmonds and John Eidinow, the authors of a previous book about Wittgenstein and Karl Popper. Their new work presents a character sketch of both contenders and a close account of the proceedings in Reykjavik, which, thanks largely to the antics of the American challenger (and eventual winner), gripped the attention of the entire world.
 Spassky, then 35, was an urbane outsider in his own country. Unlike many Soviet grandmasters, he had never joined the Communist Party. Indeed, as a young man, he had the temerity to ask a forbidden question in public: ''Did Comrade Lenin suffer from syphilis?'' This earned him an official inquiry. Later, at risk to his career, he refused to sign a petition put before him by party bureaucrats on behalf of the American Communist Angela Davis. He also flirted with Russian nationalism, at one juncture calling himself ''an honorable anti-Semite.''
 Instead of subservience to the authorities, Spassky relied upon his prowess over the chessboard to obtain what he wanted amid the scarcity of planned economic life. Most of what he wanted, according to this account, was to be left alone to play the royal game, to enjoy the exceptional privilege of traveling abroad and an equally exceptional apartment whose square footage was commensurate with his talent. If Spassky was very far from being a new Soviet man, he was still in many ways a representative of his country's intellectual elite.
 The 29-year-old Bobby Fischer, on the other hand, was representative of nothing but himself. Edmonds and Eidinow characterize him accurately as ''a volatile genius, enthralling and shocking, appealing yet repellent.'' Although he was not an instant prodigy, Fischer's gifts were unmistakable from an early age. By his teens, his ascent to the pinnacle of the chess world was widely regarded as inevitable -- assuming, of course, that his personal peculiarities did not get in the way. 
 One such peculiarity involved religion. Though his mother was Jewish, already as a teenager he had turned virulently anti-Semitic, could be heard expressing admiration for Hitler and had become involved with a Christian fundamentalist faith that prohibited, of all things, playing board games. Another peculiarity was his tendency to disappear from active competition for years on end. 
 His reputation was such that the Nixon White House was afraid to invite him as a guest: ''From a source I consider reliable,'' wrote the president's special counsel, Leonard Garment, ''I have a description of Fischer as 'incredibly eccentric, possessing strange religious attachments, having a very colorful private life, can be both incredibly rude and charming, unpredictable.' ''
 Edmonds and Eidinow tell the story of the Spassky-Fischer collision blow by blow, recounting the moves both on and off the board. At the last moment, Fischer refused to travel to Iceland, which produced a famous telephone intervention by Henry Kissinger: ''This is the worst player in the world calling the best player in the world.'' Then, after relenting, Fischer arrived late, casting the future of the competition in doubt. 
 Once under way, the match became the scene of more wrangling. Objecting to the presence of television cameras, Fischer refused to play. Then he was troubled by noise, and again refused to play. The Russians, for their part, were baffled by the fact that Spassky was not playing in top form. 
 Was the Soviet champion's fruit juice being drugged by the American imperialists? The K.G.B. duly sent specimens to Moscow for analysis. Nothing suspicious was found. Had Fischer's chair been fitted with a hidden device that enabled him to cheat? X-rays were performed. Again, nothing suspicious was found.
 As for the chess itself, notwithstanding all the shenanigans, some of it was quite brilliant. Which takes us to the strengths and shortcomings of ''Bobby Fischer Goes to War.'' The authors have certainly done their homework; this is a well-researched book that brings to light many hitherto unknown facts, including quite a few drawn from F.B.I. files on the surveillance of Fischer's Communist-leaning mother. Soviet archives have also been combed, and they yield considerable insight into the highly politicized nature of chess in Communist society.
 But there are glaring weaknesses, too. Reading a book about a chess match that discusses the games at length without providing the actual sequence of moves is like attending a banquet where the most delicious recipes are discussed yet not a bite of food is served. There is also the padding in which Edmonds and Eidinow unaccountably wrap their subject. This includes boring excursions into Idi Amin's reign of terror in Uganda, the Wimbledon women's tennis final, Allende's Chile and the Watergate break-in, all of which are presented as context but slow things down to a snail's pace.
 That's a pity. Chess is a wonderful subject. The cold war is a fascinating subject. The intersection of the two should be wonderfully fascinating.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (91%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (79%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (78%); COLD WAR (78%); LITERATURE (77%); PETITIONS (60%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); INTERNATIONAL TOURISM (50%); SEXUALLY TRANSMITTED DISEASE (50%); POLITICAL PARTIES (50%) Books and Literature; Reviews

COMPANY: HARPERCOLLINS PUBLISHERS INC (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS451211 BOOK STORES (58%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%)

PERSON: Gabriel Schoenfeld; David Edmonds; John Eidinow; Bobby Fischer; Boris Spassky

GEOGRAPHIC: REYKJAVIK, ICELAND (69%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); ICELAND (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



627 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; ECONOMIC VIEW

LENGTH: 898 words

HEADLINE: What Unions Can Gain From Immigration

BYLINE: By EDUARDO PORTER

 BODY:
IN February 2000, leaders of the A.F.L.-C.I.O. agreed on a major shift in immigration strategy. After decades of mistrust of immigration, its executive council was now calling for an amnesty for the millions of illegal immigrants living and working in the United States. 
 ''Throughout our country's history, immigrants have played an important role in building democratic institutions and vibrant new communities that enrich our lives,'' Linda Chavez-Thompson, the labor federation's executive vice president, said at the time. 
 In the four years since the union resolution, the labor market has lost about 1.2 million jobs. Moreover, data suggest that immigrants seem to have fared better than natives. A February study by the Pew Hispanic Center, based on the Bureau of Labor Statistics' monthly survey of households, concluded that Hispanic immigrants found more jobs last year than native workers did. 
 Terrorism has combined with a weak economy to harden attitudes against immigration in many parts of the country. But the A.F.L.-C.I.O., which represents 13 million American workers, remains steadfast in its immigration-friendly stance. Its commitment illustrates a shrewd understanding of the dynamics of the American economy: immigrant workers aren't going away, so it may as well try to organize them. 
 ''The old way of thinking was immigrants are the enemy of the American worker; the new way of thinking is immigrants are the American worker,'' said Cecilia Munoz, a vice president for policy at the National Council of La Raza, a Latino advocacy group. 
 At the A.F.L.-C.I.O. executive council meeting in Bal Harbour, Fla., this month, the immigration committee -- composed of leaders from more than a dozen affiliated unions -- emphasized anew their commitment to an immigrant amnesty bill. ''There was no 'wait a minute, let's go back on the resolution,''' said Maria Elena Durazo, president of the Hotel Employees and Restaurant Employees Local 11 in Los Angeles.
 ''Today, very few people will say that the loss of jobs is due to immigrants,'' she said.
 At least in part, immigrants have been shielded from this accusation because there are few of them in the hardest-hit sectors of the labor market, like manufacturing. Industries with a big immigrant presence -- like construction -- have done relatively well. 
 Nonetheless, strong demographic forces also support the A.F.L.-C.I.O.'s current position. Ana Avendano, a lawyer at the federation who deals with immigration issues, noted that there is an understanding among union leaders that immigrants are driven to the United States by forces beyond their control. The collapse of Mexican agriculture, she noted, brought millions of Mexicans streaming over the border in the last 10 years.
 Moreover, the sanctions against employers who hire undocumented workers -- which became law in 1986 with union support -- have done nothing to stop this flow. By some estimates, nine million illegal immigrants live and work in the United States. And demographers like Jeffrey S. Passel of the Urban Institute estimate that the illegal immigrant population is growing by 500,000 a year. In some parts of the country, illegal immigrants dominate entire occupations, like janitorial services and construction. 
 Unions cannot afford to have such a big chunk of the labor force operating under the radar screen, unprotected by labor laws. ''There's a perverse incentive for employers to recruit undocumented immigrants to avoid labor laws,'' Ms. Avendano said. 
 Perhaps more important, if unions stuck to their positions against illegal immigrants in the work force, they would be shutting themselves off from a growing swath of the economy. ''What would it mean to organize service workers and not organize immigrants?'' asked Ruth Milkman, director of the Institute for Labor and Employment at the University of California, Los Angeles. 
 Indeed, even as union membership has dwindled nationwide, immigrant-heavy unions have added new members. Last year, overall membership of A.F.L.-C.I.O. unions fell by 40,000. But the Service Employees International Union added 75,000 members and the Laborers International Union of North America added 32,000. 
 There are potential pitfalls to the labor movement's new immigration stance. Frank D. Bean, a sociologist at the University of California at Irvine, noted that union attitudes could harden against immigrants if the labor market does not pick up in coming months. 
 UNION support for immigration is not a blank check, either. Ms. Avendano underscored that while the A.F.L.-C.I.O. supported an amnesty bill that would grant legal status for illegal immigrants who are already here, it did not want more immigration. The union federation still views immigrant workers as a potential threat. ''Employers shouldn't be able to use these workers to make wages stagnant,'' she said. 
 Despite the weak labor market, unions' commitment to immigrants has not been truly tested. Roberto Suro, director of the Pew Hispanic Center, argued that it was easy for unions to maintain their support for an immigrant amnesty because there is virtually no chance that an amnesty bill will advance in Congress this year to the point that unions have to go to battle for it. 
 ''They haven't been obliged to make the hard choice between their new constituencies and their old constituencies,'' Mr. Suro said. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (96%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); AMNESTY (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); REFUGEES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); FOREIGN LABOR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (73%); HISTORY (71%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (70%); STATISTICS (69%); HOTEL STAFF (68%); LEGISLATION (67%); RESTAURANTS (61%); TERRORISM (53%) Labor; Organized Labor; Illegal Aliens; Immigration and Refugees; Amnesties and Pardons; Law and Legislation

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (56%) American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial Organizations

PERSON: Eduardo Porter

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



628 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 11; Column 1; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 4; In the Region/Connecticut

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: No Parking Worries At Norwalk Condos

BYLINE: By ELEANOR CHARLES

DATELINE: NORWALK 

 BODY:
EARLIER this month a new five-story, 750-car public garage owned by the City of Norwalk opened in South Norwalk opposite the Maritime Aquarium on North Water Street. The structure, which also holds 10 condominium apartments and three commercial condominium spaces, was financed with $11.5 million of city bonds and $3 million of private funds. 
 Around the corner on Ann Street, SoNo Lofts, a new 34-unit privately financed condominium is to be ready for occupancy in mid-April. The two projects represent another step in the transformation of a formerly depressed area ridden with crime and drugs that stood for decades as an embarrassment to the city.
 In the early 90's, the city earmarked three sites for development. This has resulted in the conversion in 2001 of the huge defunct Lock Company factory opposite the Maritime Aquarium into offices and restaurants; the newly opened garage a block north, which will accommodate visitors to the aquarium and other sites in the area; and a 197-unit rental-condo complex just north of the aquarium, which still awaits site plan review and approval but expects to begin construction later this year. 
 The Spinnaker Companies of Stamford was designated by the city as developer of the three projects, and its president, Clay Fowler, formed a development partnership with Summit Development L.L.C., the marketing agent, and Greenfield Partners, a development firm formerly in Westport that is now located in the renovated Lock building. The architect Bruce Beinfield, head of Beinfield Architects of South Norwalk, is the designer of all three projects and maintains an ownership interest through his own earlier partnership with Spinnaker. 
 In a marked departure from conventional garage construction, the new building incorporates residential and commercial space, as well as design strategies to make it look less utilitarian. The cars are hidden behind 10 residential condominiums on the second and third floors, behind two commercial condominiums on the ground floor and one more on the second floor, and behind a brick facade on the upper floors. The two vehicle entrances, which are on Marshall Street and North Water Street, are some distance from front entrance of the building. 
 The front of the building includes a tower that rises above the fifth floor and houses a light that is reminiscent at night of a maritime beacon. In another nod to Norwalk's waterfront history, a United States Coast Guard buoy was installed in a plaza at the front of the building.
 Residents will be able to enter on foot on North Water Street or by car, using their entry cards into the garage, where they will be assigned spaces near their apartments. The apartments are expected to be completed by mid-April, and six of the 10 are already reserved. The garage is open for business now, and it will soon be equipped to sell tickets to the aquarium. 
 Condo prices are $279,000 to $409,000 for units of 720 to 1,380 square feet for studios and one-bedroom units. Residents may reserve parking spaces in the garage for $83 a month. A 2,286-square-foot retail condo on Marshall Street is being marketed at $675,000, and a restaurant condo facing the aquarium covers 3,000 square feet and is priced at $985,000. Directly over the restaurant space is an office condo of the same size and price.
 SONO LOFTS, the residential project at 10 Ann Street, is capitalized at $8 million, privately financed, and developed by the same partnership. The units are 550 to 1,350 square feet, priced from $200,000 to $513,000 for studios and one- and two-bedroom units, including one parking space per unit. Parking for a second car may be purchased for $15,000 outdoors or $25,000 indoors. Of the 34 units to be ready for occupancy in May, 22 are reserved. 
 The building has a second entrance facing the parking lot of the New England Brewing Company, a popular restaurant and brewery on Marshall Street designed by Mr. Beinfield. Entrance by car up a ramp from Marshall Street ends in a concrete parking deck with access to additional parking inside the SoNo Lofts building. Interior spaces will be assigned near residents' apartments. 
 The residential units at the garage and SoNo Lofts are very similar, and they are distinctive. Rooms are very large and angular, never square nor rectangular. Ceilings are 10 feet high, windows are oversized and numerous, kitchens are installed railroad-style along one wall, with a glazed concrete floor. Fine-grained blond maple cabinets in kitchens and oversized bathrooms are fronted with panels of semiopaque glass, and small white subway tiles installed vertically cover areas of the bathroom walls. 
 Each kitchen has a compact washer-dryer, a single unit under the stainless steel counter that runs the length of the kitchen. An unusual refrigerator-freezer has large frosted glass-fronted drawers in the lower section.
 SoNo Lofts' exterior has decorative inserts of contrasting-colored brick and small metal stars imbedded in the brick at intervals, a method once used to secure bricks in place. Interior floors of concrete throughout the buildings are glazed in subtle shades of gray and gray-green with stains from construction work and even workmen's footprints left visible.
 Door frames are steel; rolled steel walls painted black form passageways between the lobby and hallways; and lighting fixtures are modified versions of industrial bulbs protected by steel cages. These elements are similar to the industrial-inspired touches in the Lock Building that are indicative of Mr. Beinfield's mission to commemorate Norwalk's past. 
 Mr. Beinfield was an early advocate of revitalizing South Norwalk as an urban enclave of shops, offices, the arts, restaurants and attractive places to live. ''I wanted to see if our small architectural firm could have an impact on a depressed area,'' he said. South Norwalk's faded urban flavor, its waterfront, the massive 19th-century brick factories, dilapidated as they were, and low property values were incentives for reinterpreting its industrial and maritime history in modern terms.
 Since 1991 his firm has won five awards from the Connecticut Chapter of the American Institute of Architects, including a special one for commitment to South Norwalk's revitalization. 
 Spinnaker's final obligation under its agreement with the city is a residential complex north of the aquarium, which is expected to be completed in the spring of 2006. Its cost is estimated at $55 million, to be privately financed by the Spinnaker-Summit-Greenfield partnership. Three buildings and a plaza will occupy about 25 percent of the 3.5-acre site with views of the river. The rest will be dedicated to landscaping and surface parking for 200 cars. Another 165 parking spaces are to be available under the buildings. 
 Sixty condominium units will be in one eight-story building, and two four- or five-story buildings will have a total of 137 rental apartments. About 40,000 square feet of ground floor restaurant, retail and office space will be spread among the buildings. 
 While the condominiums and rental units will be market rate, ''we expect to comply with regulations the city is drawing up on affordable housing,'' said Mr. Fowler of Spinnaker. ''Ten percent of the units would probably be affordable. Whether we would assign them within the complex or take the alternative of doing them off site has not been determined.'' Norwalk's regulations are expected to be similar to those in Stamford. Each city is well over the 10 percent affordable-housing minimum set by the state, but sees a need for more. 
 Before construction begins, the partnership will buy three acres that the city owns, based on a market value appraisal. ''We only own a half-acre,'' said Mr. Fowler. ''The city will use the proceeds from the sale to pay down the bonds for the garage.'' 
 Norwalk has taken the first step toward realizing a goal of connecting South Norwalk with the downtown business district by completing a walkway-bikeway from the aquarium along the Norwalk River, under Interstate 95 to Mathews Park on West Avenue. The path has an overlook deck for viewing boats and birds. 
 But the major element for West Avenue development is a 13-acre site owned by the Fred F. French Company adjacent to I-95, but not moving forward while demand for office space is negligible and two years' worth of infrastructure work on roads, turn lanes and an I-95 ramp loom ahead. 
 The French company has committed to building a $250 million office complex of four buildings with 1.15 million square feet of office space, some ground floor retail space and parking for 4,500 cars. But, Timon Malloy, president of Fred F. French Investing L.L.C. of Stamford, cautioned, ''I don't think anything will be happening on the site for at least a year.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: The newly opened condominiums and parking garage on North Water Street in South Norwalk near the Maritime Aquarium. A Coast Guard buoy stands in the plaza in front of the building. (Photo by George Ruhe for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (91%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (78%); ZOOS & AQUARIUMS (78%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); BUILDING RENOVATION (77%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); HOME PRICES (72%); TRENDS (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%) Parking Garages and Lots; Economic Conditions and Trends

PERSON: Eleanor Charles

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%) Norwalk (Conn)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



629 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 4; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 215 words

HEADLINE: Creating Balance With Outsourcing

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''An Outsourcing Giant Fights Back'' (March 21), which discussed how Wipro, an outsourcing company in India, has felt the pressure of protectionist sentiment in the United States: 
 Over the last 50 years, first-world nations have struggled with the question of third-world poverty. Often, the answers have included low-interest loans, subsidies and infrastructure development. In many cases, these answers provided temporary relief with no lasting benefit.
 With the maturation of information technology outsourcing, certain third-world nations finally have a real, sustainable opportunity to escape the crushing cycle of poverty and attain first-world status.
 The new, larger question is how do we make outsourcing sustainable for the host nations? The pain that we feel from outsourcing must be similar to the pain that a farmer in a third-world country feels when her agricultural goods cannot compete with imported ones. On a side note, perhaps that is why the daughter of such a farmer might pursue a career in I.T. rather than agriculture. 
 I propose that the first world greatly reduce government subsidies on its agricultural exports and add a modest tariff on outsourced labor -- thus giving some balance to the global economy.

Todd Faulls
Pine Bush, N.Y., March 23

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OUTSOURCING (92%); PROTECTIONISM (90%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (90%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (77%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (77%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (76%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (76%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORTS & IMPORTS (72%); TECHNOLOGY MATURITY (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); TRENDS (69%); AGRICULTURE (67%) Labor; Foreign Labor; International Trade and World Market; Economic Conditions and Trends; Customs (Tariff); Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Agriculture

ORGANIZATION: Wipro Ltd

PERSON: todd faulls

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



630 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 6; Column 3; Magazine Desk; Pg. 13; THE WAY WE LIVE NOW: 3-28-04

LENGTH: 967 words

HEADLINE: The Human Factor 

BYLINE: By Jim Holt. 
Jim Holt writes for The New Yorker, Slate and other publications.

 BODY:
How much is your life worth to you? On the face of it, that's an idiotic question. No amount of money could compensate you for the loss of your life, for the simple reason that the money would be no good to you if you were dead. And you might feel, for different reasons, that the dollar value of the lives of your spouse or children -- or even a stranger living on the other side of the country -- is also infinite. No one should be knowingly sacrificed for a sum of money: that's what we mean when we say that human life is priceless. 
 But the government set a price for it four years ago: $6.1 million. That's the figure the Environmental Protection Agency came up with when it was trying to decide how far to go in removing arsenic from drinking water. Arsenic can cause diseases, like bladder cancer, that will predictably kill a certain number of people. But reducing the arsenic in water gets more and more expensive as the poison levels approach zero. How many dollars should be spent to save one ''statistical life''? The answer, reasoned the people at the E.P.A., depends on how much that life is worth. And they're not the only ones doing such calculations. The Department of Transportation also puts a price tag on a human life when deciding which road improvements are worth making, although it's the rather more modest one of $3 million. 
 Presumably, losing your life in a highway smashup is less unpleasant than slowly dying of bladder cancer.
 The advantage of this kind of cost-benefit analysis, its proponents declare, is that it promises to make our public policies more rational. But critics find the idea of putting a dollar value on human life preposterous. Part of their case is ethical: it is simply wrong, they say, to count death as a ''cost''; no public action that involves lost lives should be evaluated in monetary terms. But they also object to the ways in which the price of life is calculated.
 How, exactly, did the E.P.A. arrive at its figure of $6.1 million?
 Economists looked at the salaries paid to workers in riskier jobs like mining. They figured out that such workers received, on average, an additional $61 a year for facing an extra 1-in-100,000 risk of accidental death. Evidently, these workers valued their own lives at 100,000 times $61, or $6.1 million. (In 2002, the E.P.A. revised the price of a life downward, to $3.7 million -- or if you're older than 70, $2.3 million.)
 Ingeniously simple, no? But on closer inspection, you begin to have misgivings about this methodology. In the first place, it is not at all obvious that workers really understand the risks they face in the workplace. Women seem to be much less willing to accept such risks than men. Does that mean their lives should be priced higher? Blacks and nonunionized workers demand little or no risk premium for taking dangerous jobs. Does that mean their lives should be priced lower? Poorer people, for whom an extra dollar is highly valuable, will take less compensation for facing danger. Thus, cost-benefit analysis tells us it is more efficient to locate toxic waste dumps near poorer neighborhoods.
 Perhaps the strangest thing about the life-pricing business is the way the lives of future generations become discounted -- quite literally. Regulators begin with the assumption that it's better to have $200 in your pocket today -- when you can earn interest on it -- than a promise of $200 in the future. Equating money with human life, they conclude that a life saved today should count twice as much, in dollar terms, as a life saved 10 years from now; a life saved a century from now scarcely counts at all. That is why cost-benefit analysis might sanction, say, nuclear reactors that provide you and me with cheap energy at the expense of lives lost to cancer decades down the road. But as Frank Ackerman and Lisa Heinzerling point out in their recent book, ''Priceless: On Knowing the Price of Everything and the Value of Nothing,'' it is hardly clear why the same logic should apply to the value of our great-grandchildren. (On the other hand, those future generations may well have developed a cure for cancer, so perhaps we are justified in worrying about them less.)
 Champions of cost-benefit analysis -- from the controversial Bush administration regulatory guru John D. Graham to the more circumspect liberal law professor Cass Sunstein -- maintain that the government is always valuing human life implicitly anyway, so we might as well be forthright about it. Only then, they say, will we be able stop spending excessively large sums to protect against small risks and vice versa. Most of us, after all, are deficient in rationality: we are excessively fearful of unlikely hazards when those hazards are shockingly unfamiliar or disturbingly involuntary (like dying in a terrorist attack or from something in the drinking water). And we are far too cavalier about much more immediate risks like dying on the highway (which we do at a rate of 117 fatalities per day).
 But are ordinary people really being irrational when they seem to ''price'' their lives differently at different times? Some people even put a negative price on their lives -- when, for instance, they pay money to engage in a risky activity like mountain climbing. The economist E.J. Mishan, an early authority on cost-benefit analysis, has argued that the value of a human life has no meaning apart from the nature of the risk that is being measured. To say that a human life is ''priceless'' does not necessarily mean that it is worth more than any amount of money. It may just mean that money is the wrong yardstick to use when our decisions involve the loss of life. Even the most ardent cost-benefit analyst would spend more money to rescue a single actual child than to save 10 ''statistical lives.'' 


GRAPHIC: Photo (Photograph by H. Armstrong Roberts)Chart: ''PAY TO BREATHE''How much Americans will spend to avoid one day of each symptom, as estimated for the E.P.A. (in 1990 dollars).Coughing: $4.98Chest tightness: $6.29Head congestion/sinus: $8.20Shortness of breath: $10.57Allergy (chronic): $15.72Eye irritation: $15.72Throat congestion: $16.35Drowsiness: $18.87Nausea: $22.01Headache: $25.16Asthma attack: $32.48Bronchitis and emphysema (chronic): $84.28

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); ETHICS (76%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (74%); PUBLIC POLICY (74%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (72%); ACCIDENTAL FATALITIES (72%); URINARY TRACT DISORDERS (72%); ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (70%); BLADDER CANCER (67%); CANCER (67%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (64%) United States Economy

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF TRANSPORTATION (54%) Environmental Protection Agency

PERSON: Jim Holt

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



631 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 1; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3; Business

LENGTH: 1538 words

HEADLINE: Now, a Man's World Is at the Spa or Salon

BYLINE: By JIM RENDON

 BODY:
JOHN GALIOTO says he is no metrosexual. He did go to a Utah spa not long ago, but he was lured there by the prospect of hiking and rock climbing more than by the promise of massages and pedicures. Although he did indulge in a few massages when he was there, Mr. Galioto says he has not made the leap to lotions and facial peels. He is willing, though, to spend a few extra dollars on quality hair products. 
 ''Just because I'm sensitive and get massages doesn't mean I'm a metrosexual,'' said Mr. Galioto, who took the spa trip last fall during some time off after leaving his job as a vice president at a consulting firm. 
 The lines are blurring between the men who work with their hands and the men who have their hands worked on. Mr. Galioto, who is 39 and lives in Manhattan, displays many of the traits that market researchers find more prevalent in men today. 
 Although women are often the focus of intense market research, men have rarely received such scrutiny of their buying habits, researchers say. Now businesses from brewers to cable television stations to skin-care companies are taking closer looks and are finding that the fashion-obsessed metrosexual man with a library of lotions is just part of the equation in men's consumer behavior. Today, men increasingly blend traditional macho attitudes with a heightened focus on their appearance, market researchers say. They are more in touch with their emotions but still want to be addressed as men. They are breaking new ground and need some direction.
 Mary Meehan, executive vice president and co-founder of Iconoculture, a trend tracking agency, said that those born after the mid-1960's were changing the definition of what it means to be a man. Men who came of age starting in the 1980's, after the feminist movement, have more opportunity to define themselves as they see fit, and their identities range across a broad spectrum, from the metrosexual to the beer-swilling football fan. 
 ''There is more freedom today for men to be whoever they want to be,'' Ms. Meehan said.
 Many companies have been rethinking their approach to men. Even beer companies, long the standard-bearers of traditional male attitudes, have noticed something different in the brew. The Miller Brewing Company said that its research found that men were not content with the bikini-babe frat-party image of much beer advertising. 
 ''Men are tired of being depicted as Neanderthals, as if they have no mental capacity and can't make choices,'' said Tom Bick, senior brand manager for the Miller trademark. 
 In his research, Mr. Bick has found that men are more able to express their feelings, and are more willing to see women as people -- not just party accessories. 
 As a result of this research, Miller has reworked its new television commercials, which focus on Miller's beer as an intelligent alternative to other beers and portray its drinkers as people who stand apart from the crowd. In one ad for Miller Lite that started during the winter, people in a long line fall into one another like dominoes until one person steps out of the line and orders a Miller. It was an effort to align the brand with a sense of individuality.
 That approach resonates with the market research done by Lowe & Partners Worldwide, an advertising agency that is part of the Interpublic Group of Companies. Joan Dufresne, executive vice president for strategic services at Lowe, said that many men were moving away from a party-boy vision of maleness put out by magazines like Maxim and FHM. 
 But Ms. Dufresne also plays down the metrosexual vision of maleness at the opposite end of the spectrum. Men are more complicated than that, and more mature, she said. 
 Standing out from the crowd is important for young men, as is being self-assured and accountable, Ms. Dufresne said. Those qualities are displayed in an ad the firm did for Johnson & Johnson that shows a young father at home with his infant son, having a more meaningful kind of guys' night than the one in a typical beer ad. The female voiceover says, ''Who would've thought that boys' night out wouldn't hold a candle to boys' night in?''
 Although metrosexuals are an important trend-setting group, some marketers say, their impact has been limited to niche markets. Men's bath and shower products like body wash grew to a $19.3 million market in 2003 from $2 million in 1999, according to Packaged Facts. Similarly, men's skin care products grew to $13.8 million in 2003 from $3.9 million in 2001. 
 Overall, however, the men's grooming market has remained stagnant over the last two years, according to Don Montouri, editor of Packaged Facts, a consumer market research firm and a division of MarketResearch.com. 
 Dieter Guillard, international marketing director at Nivea for Men, a division of Beiersdorf A.G. that makes men's skin care products, says men care more today about how they are perceived. He traces that in part to a service economy in which fewer men do physical labor. But, he said, Nivea has been careful to speak to men using a male language and images. 
 Nivea for Men's ad campaign tells men that because they work hard to stay fit, their skin should be fit, too. ''If you are too aggressive with what you offer, you can turn men off,'' Mr. Guillard said. 
 Other companies with niche products have learned a similar lesson. Macho images and names can help sell products that are less than macho. Skin care products named Bullie and Brave Soldier hit the market. Axe, a ruggedly named body spray from Unilever, became the market-leading men's body spray in just one year. 
 If approached with the right message, Mr. Guillard said, men are willing to take risks and try products that have long been associated with women. Spas, for example, are no longer a women-only venture. Some have incorporated traditionally male outdoor activities to try to draw more men. 
 Red Mountain Spa in St. George, Utah, opened five and half years ago with the goal of attracting a client base that was 40 percent men. Today that total is 35 percent, according to Deborah Evans, the spa's general manager. Red Mountain offers kayaking, snowshoeing, hiking, rock climbing, mountain biking and other outdoor activities. But it also offers things that some men find more challenging than any set of rapids: facials, pedicures and massages.
 To her surprise, Ms. Evans found that men were not outdoing the women on the rock face, but on the massage table. Men, on average, had one to two more spa treatments during their stay than women did. She has even seen a growing interest in bachelor parties.
 ''Generation X and Y men have opened the door,'' Ms. Evans said. ''They have given men permission to indulge in self-care and grooming without being considered feminine or gay.'' 
 Jim Nelson, editor of GQ magazine, has seen a similar complexity among his readers. ''This is a trend that we've been covering for a long time,'' he said. ''GQ is for the man who cares about hair products and the way he looks and dresses, but who also wants to read about sports and great profiles.''
 The magazine still pursues in-depth articles on topics like the war in Iraq, but it has also beefed up its fashion coverage, Mr. Nelson said, with lengthy fashion features like one in February on the designer Hedi Slimane. Mr. Nelson said that some of the most appreciative feedback he had received was in response to simple fashion tips like how to match ties and shirts. 
 Men also have their own television network, Spike TV, which started last summer after a round of research. Albie Hecht, president of Spike TV, a division of Viacom, said men's roles had changed drastically. Men are looking for more information about how to be the best fathers they can be, he said, and are finding that women are requiring more emotional honesty from them. And the growing presence of women in the workplace makes men want to be better dressed and groomed. In all of these areas, he said, men are looking for answers, but not without some entertainment.
 Spike now offers such fare as a cartoon called ''Stripperella'' and reruns of ''Blind Date,'' Mr. Hecht said, but it plans to expand to documentaries and other programs that address some of the current male issues.
 MR. NELSON, Mr. Hecht and others have tapped into a growing male desire for advice. After decades of getting lost on their own, men are now willing to ask for directions in a rapidly changing world, said Colin Mitchell, head of the New York planning department for Ogilvy & Mather, part of the WPP Group. 
 Fashions go from the runway to stores in six months rather than three years, Mr. Mitchell said, and men are struggling to keep up. 
 Even on a personal level, men can be increasingly curious. Mr. Galioto said that when he told his male friends about his trip to the Red Mountain Spa, he got a lot of puzzled looks. But, he said, once he explained about the hiking and rock climbing, many of those friends were much more interested. It wasn't the spa treatments, or even the activities, that really hooked them, Mr. Galioto said; it was the fact that the spa served beer. 
 ''There are a lot of guys who are ready to embrace this stuff,'' Mr. Galioto said. ''But we're not all the way there yet.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: John Galioto, above, went to Red Mountain Spa, where he could indulge in massages but also go rock climbing.
A hot rock treatment is offered at Red Mountain Spa in Utah. The spa said that men, on average, had more spa treatments than women during their stays. (Photo by Red Mountain Spa)
Miller beer is moving beyond images of men as beer-guzzling party animals. In one commercial, above, people fall like dominoes until one steps aside and orders a Miller.
 Men's skin-care products often emphasize the masculine with names like Brave Shave, Axe (for a deodorant body spray) and Nivea for Men.Chart: ''Growing Interest''Mass-market sales of men's bath and shower products.Graph tracks mass-market sales from 1999 to 2003.(Source by Packaged Facts)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SKIN CARE PRODUCTS (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (90%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (90%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (90%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES (90%); MEN (89%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (88%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (88%); BEER & ALE (87%); HAIR CARE PRODUCTS (76%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (76%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (73%); CLIMBING (72%); BREWERIES (71%); EXECUTIVES (69%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (67%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (66%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (65%); BRANDING (60%) Men; Advertising and Marketing; Consumer Behavior; Research

COMPANY: MILLER BREWING CO (81%)

ORGANIZATION: Iconoculture

INDUSTRY: NAICS312120 BREWERIES (81%); SIC2082 MALT BEVERAGES (81%)

PERSON: Jim Rendon; Mary Meehan

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (71%) UTAH, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



632 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 6; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1393 words

HEADLINE: PLAN TO BATTLE AIDS WORLDWIDE IS FALLING SHORT

BYLINE: By DONALD G. McNEIL Jr.

 BODY:
Three years after the United Nations declared a worldwide offensive against AIDS and 14 months after President Bush promised $15 billion for AIDS treatment in poor countries, shortages of money and battles over patents have kept antiretroviral drugs from reaching more than 90 percent of the poor people who need them. 
 Progress in distributing the drugs, which have sharply cut the death rate in the United States and other Western countries, has been excruciatingly slow despite steep drops in their prices. 
 As a result, only about 300,000 people in the world's poorest nations are getting the drugs, of six million who need them, according to the World Health Organization. 
 Experts, advocacy groups and health officials agree that the delays, compounded by inadequate medical facilities and training in very poor countries, are likely to persist unless spending is stepped up sharply. 
 Early this month, Stephen Lewis, the special United Nations envoy for AIDS in Africa, conceded that the W.H.O.'s ambitious plan to have three million people in treatment by 2005 -- announced on Dec. 1, World AIDS Day -- was already collapsing from a lack of money. Donations to the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria are now about $1.6 billion a year, barely 20 percent of what Secretary General Kofi Annan said was needed when he created the fund in 2001. 
 Saying that global contributions come to a tiny fraction of what is being spent on military operations and building civilian institutions in Iraq and Afghanistan, Mr. Lewis added that if the W.H.O. program failed, ''there are no excuses left, no rationalizations to hide behind, no murky slanders to justify indifference -- there will only be the mass graves of the betrayed.'' 
 While Mr. Bush promised in his 2003 State of the Union address to spend $15 billion over five years on AIDS in Africa and the Caribbean, his budget requests have fallen far short of that goal. For the most recent donation to the Global Fund, he requested only $200 million, although Congress authorized $550 million. 
 Nor have Europe and Asia been as generous as the fund had hoped. 
 Dr. Richard G. A. Feachem, a Briton who is the fund's executive director, put a brave face on the situation, describing current donations as ''a steep upward flight path to our cruising altitude, which we anticipate to be $8 billion.'' To get there in the fund's first two years would be ''inconceivable,'' he added. He is lobbying Congress for $1.2 billion for 2005. 
 At the same time, few people in poor countries have been able to get lower-priced generic antiretroviral drugs. While the generic drugs have been approved by the W.H.O., endorsed by the World Bank and used in several African countries, the Bush administration has so far paid only for medicines that are still under patent and cost much more. 
 For example, Daniel Berman, co-director of the Doctors Without Borders campaign for low-cost drugs, said that in Zimbabwe his organization planned to treat 1,000 patients with drugs from two approved Indian generic makers, Cipla Ltd. and Ranbaxy Laboratories Ltd. 
 Both companies combine three antiretrovirals so that a day's dose is just two pills and the cost is $244 to $292 per patient per year. Meanwhile, Mr. Berman said, the Centers for Disease Control in Atlanta plans to pay for the treatment of 1,000 Zimbabweans, buying the same three drugs separately from GlaxoSmithKline, Bristol-Myers Squibb and Boehringer-Ingelheim. The best prices available in Africa from those companies, he said, add up to $562 a year, and a daily dose is six pills. 
 Advocates of cheap drugs say the Bush administration has yielded to pressure from the pharmaceutical lobby to find ways to reject the generics. 
 On Friday, Senators Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, and John McCain, Republican of Arizona, wrote a joint letter to the White House urging it to accept W.H.O.-approved generics. 
 In a separate letter, Representative Henry A. Waxman, Democrat of California, accused the administration of trying to set standards for Indian generics higher than those for American ones. 
 A spokesman for Randall L. Tobias, the administration's AIDS coordinator, said any suggestion that he was snubbing generics was ''utter nonsense.'' 
 ''We will buy whatever drug is safe and effective at the lowest possible price,'' said the spokesman, Dr. Mark R. Dybul. ''We don't care if it's made by Cipla or Ranbaxy, in South Africa or Brazil or Nigeria.''
 Mr. Tobias has scheduled a meeting in Botswana for Monday to ascertain whether the W.H.O.'s approval process is rigorous enough.
 Dr. Lembit Rago, who leads the W.H.O. assessments, said he used ''absolutely the same principles'' as the Food and Drug Administration, and borrowed his inspectors from regulatory agencies in Canada, France, Germany, Sweden and Switzerland. As soon as his office approved the Indian pills, he said, ''a very cold wind began to blow from the U.S.'' 
 ''It is no secret that Pharma is lobbying against us in a big way,'' he said. 
 A spokesman for the Pharmaceutical Research and Manufacturers Association of America, the industry's American lobbying group, said his association was ''not involved in any way in this.'' But he called the Indian drugs ''new combinations that have not been appropriately treated.'' 
 Dr. Dybul said Mr. Tobias wanted to see all the data the Indian companies gave the W.H.O. 
 A W.H.O. spokeswoman said the agency signed confidentiality agreements, but she said the Bush administration could ask the Indian companies for the data. 
 Against that backdrop, prices for both branded and generic medicines have plunged in the last two years. Last October, a foundation organized by former President Bill Clinton announced an agreement with Indian and South African generic makers to sell the drugs for $140 per patient per year if large orders were guaranteed, payment was in cash and the drug maker did not have to pay the legal and lobbying costs of getting each drug licensed in each country. 
 In January, Mr. Clinton announced that he had brokered another price-cut deal with five companies making AIDS tests. One of the companies, Becton, Dickinson & Company, dropped the cost of its CD-4 count, which measures immune cells, to as little as $3, from a high of $10. 
 On Dec. 9, with little fanfare, an important step took place in South Africa. Two pharmaceutical giants, Glaxo and Boehringer-Ingelheim, agreed to grant licenses to produce AIDS drugs to four generic companies from India and South Africa. 
 The companies will be allowed to sell the drugs anywhere in sub-Saharan Africa. In return, Glaxo and Boehringer will get royalties of 5 percent of sales. Under the threat of heavy fines, the companies had backed down from their original plan: a license for one small generic maker supplying only South Africa's public hospitals and royalties of 15 percent to 30 percent. 
 The Canadian government has proposed a law encouraging its drug makers to make cheap copies of drugs to treat AIDS and malaria for export to poor countries. The bill is bogged down in Parliament. 
 Treatment plans have varied wildly in different countries. South Africa, with the world's largest number of AIDS patients, was slow to roll out nationwide treatment because of years of opposition by President Thabo Mbeki. India, which has the second largest number, has been slow to negotiate low prices with its own generic companies. Brazil makes its own generic drugs. Romania buys only brand-name drugs, but its epidemic is confined to about 10,000 people. 
 Nigeria, Africa's most populous country, has had trouble running even so much as a pilot program for 15,000 of an estimated 3.5 million infected people. Many of the country's 25 treatment centers, which were selling the drugs at a subsidized price of $85 a year, ran dry in September and did not get new supplies until February. 
 Malaysia is the only country to exercise a ''compulsory license'' right under trade treaties to ignore a patent and import generics, said James P. Love, director of the Consumer Project on Technology, a group that is pushing for cheaper drugs. Uganda, Mozambique and Zambia may soon do the same, he said, but China backed away from doing so for fear of American trade retaliation. ''They're using older drugs that are already off patent in China,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: March 31, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, a front-page article on Sunday about the difficulty of distributing drugs to AIDS patients in poor countries referred incorrectly to President Bush's January 2003 plan to spend $15 billion over five years to fight AIDS in the third world. While United States spending thus far has not kept pace with the plan, the president has issued a five-year budget plan that foresees reaching it; his requests have not fallen short of the goal.


GRAPHIC: Photos: The Doctors Without Borders clinic in Khayelitsha, South Africa, has used generic drugs successfully in treating AIDS. Above left, drugs are prepared at the clinic. At right, Carlos Cordero, left, a counselor at the clinic, tells an AIDS patient, AimZ, seated, to take two pills daily. (Photo by Francesco Zizola/Magnum, for Doctors Without Borders)
 (Photo by Pep Bonet/Doctors Without Borders)(pg. 22)Chart: ''AIDS Treatment Needs Unmet''In much of the world, few people with conditions requiring antiretroviral drugs actually get the medicines.Chart shows percentage of people needing AIDS treatment who receive it in the world.A comparison of drug therapy needs of the Americas and Africa:AMERICAS84% of 250,000 people needing treatment get it.AFRICA2% of 4,400,000 people needing treatment get it.(Source by World Health Organization report as of November 2003)(pg. 22)Map of the world highlights countries with people needing AIDS treatment who receive it. (pg. 22)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIDS & HIV (97%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (92%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (91%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (90%); AIDS & HIV TREATMENT (90%); AIDS POLICY (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); ANTIVIRALS (89%); GENERIC DRUGS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); MALARIA (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); DRUG PRICES (77%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (77%); LOBBYING (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); TUBERCULOSIS (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (72%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (72%); GENERIC PRODUCTS (70%); HEALTH CARE (69%); APPROVALS (69%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (68%) Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Finances; Foreign Aid; Inventions and Patents; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Acquired Immune Deficiency Syndrome; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (93%); WORLD HEALTH ORGANIZATION (91%); DOCTORS WITHOUT BORDERS (91%) United Nations; World Health Organization

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (91%) Donald G Jr Mcneil; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); AFRICA (94%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); ASIA (79%); IRAQ (79%); AFGHANISTAN (69%); NORTH & SOUTH AMERICAS (57%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



633 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1231 words

HEADLINE: China Moves Toward Another West: Central Asia

BYLINE: By HOWARD W. FRENCH

DATELINE: ALASHANKOU, China 

 BODY:
With its dozen blue-roofed villas, a brand-new sauna house, casino and three-star hotel constituting the heart of what this frigid outpost at the border of Central Asia fancies as downtown, this would seem an unlikely spot for the economic and political reordering of an entire region.
 An agreement this month to build a oil pipeline through this tiny hamlet makes it the center of an explosion of economic activity in what only recently was one of the most backward corners of China. The pipeline will traverse Alashankou as it snakes its way past the snowbound mountain ranges of Central Asia, still filled with tribal horsemen driving herds of goats and camels, on its way to China's industrialized east.
 China's western ambitions do not end with the purchase of huge amounts of energy, the main products that Central Asia has to offer, international political analysts, Chinese and regional officials agree. Beijing's bid to secure vital fuel supplies is part of a bold but little noticed push to increase its influence vastly in a part of the world long dominated by its historic rival in the region, Russia. 
 China's thrust into Central Asia comes as an almost natural extension of its ambitious efforts to populate and develop Xinjiang, a far-western region the size of Texas with 18 million people, which seems underpopulated compared with much of China. In doing so, China hopes to neutralize a threat of separatism by the region's Uighur minority, whose Turkik language and Islamic faith draw them toward kinsmen in Kazakhstan and other former Soviet republics of the region.
 With Russia in sharp relative decline, a booming China looms as the economic locomotive, and even the model, for the entire region. That means China finds itself in a position to call the tune in a way that it has scarcely felt confident about in the past. Most immediately, this means being able to hold China's neighbors to pledges not to support Islamic militancy or Uighur separatism.
 Increasingly, there are signs that Chinese influence is spreading. In November, at an international conference on Kazakhstan's financial reforms, representatives of the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank found that the governor of the People's Bank of China was the most sought-out guest.
 Recently, analysts say, Uzbekistan and Turkmenistan have followed the Kazakh example in looking toward China, rather than to Western-dominated international financial institutions, for new economic thinking. China's authoritarian politics and central planning also have a strong appeal for many of the former Soviet republics of the region.
 Meanwhile, China has been busily building new security relationships in Central Asia to match its growing economic ties in that region, an area of increasing strategic competition involving China, Russia, India, Pakistan, Iran and Turkey. The United States has not been absent from this competition, having acquired a military base, known as Camp Stronghold Freedom, in Uzbekistan, as well as a presence in Afghanistan.
 ''Everybody is trying to secure access to this region's oil,'' said Stephen J. Blank, a professor of national security studies at the Strategic Studies Institute of the United States Army War College, in Carlisle, Pa. ''The Chinese are very nervous about American bases in the region. The Russians are trying to set up an OPEC-like cartel to tie down gas in Central Asia, and the Indians have acquired a base in Tajikistan.
 ''It is not Kipling's 'Great Game' yet,'' Dr. Blank said, ''but it is a hell of a contest in its own right: military and economic and everything else.''
 China has increased its security ties through the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, a six-member group founded in 2001 that includes Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. China has committed itself for the first time to a regional collective security agreement focused on enforcement of borders. Beijing has followed up with joint military maneuvers with Kyrgyzstan, and with the continued development of rapid deployment forces based in western China, which could be used to put down trouble in Tibet or Xinjiang, or to help enforce border security along with other members of the Shanghai group.
 Beijing's growing security involvement to its west is something of a change for a nation that has tended to look inward. China has tried to allay the suspicions about its intentions, among far weaker neighbors, by focusing on antiterrorism as a common goal, and it has worked hard in official rhetoric and in diplomacy to promote a view of itself as a new kind of superpower, one supposedly lacking aggressive intent.
 ''There is a big difference in the size of our economies,'' said Zhang Deguang, secretary general of the Shanghai group, in an interview at his Beijing headquarters. ''Tajikistan, for example, is a very small country, but even Russia's economy is only a third the size of ours.''
 The difference in gross domestic products ''shouldn't be reflected in relations between us, however,'' he added.
 Elaborating on a theme that has become a mantra among China's leaders, Mr. Zhang spoke of his country's ''peaceful rise,'' which he said would create ''benefits and opportunities for China's neighbors.''
 Bates Gill, a China specialist at the Center for Strategic and International Studies in Washington, said of China's push into the region, ''The Chinese are sending people all the time to meet prime ministers and presidents and generals and all the way down the diplomatic ladder.''
 ''This is all about soft power, and strategic and diplomatic relationships,'' Mr. Gill said. ''Central Asia is a fantastic lens, or model for what China is trying to do all over its periphery: reaching out and settling old scores, and trying to establish a benign kind of hegemony.''
 Other experts say China's approach is as much dictated by realism as any idealistic notions of a new-style superpower. ''Many Central Asians still feel a visceral hatred for China fed by old Soviet propaganda about Mongol and Chinese hordes and about Chinese 'intentions' toward the region,'' said Dru C. Gladney, an expert on China at the University of Hawaii. ''The Central Asians are poor and weak. They are very sensitive to China elbowing them around on issues like borders, terrorism or water.''
 Acknowledging a bitter past, which included a fierce, if brief, border conflict between China and the Soviet Union that intruded on Kazakh soil in 1969, a diplomat at the Kazakh Embassy in Beijing said bad feelings toward China were mostly forgotten, eased in part by fast growth in bilateral trade.
 ''China is now regarded as a friendly country in Kazakhstan,'' said the diplomat. ''You have concerns when you don't know the other party, but in the case of China, we have more and more shopping tourists, who come here to buy goods and sell them back home.'' Along with the pipeline, Kazakhstan agreed this month to build a $3.5 billion, 1,900-mile rail project linking China to Western Europe.
 ''We are destined to become a very important region,'' said Hua Dingchuan, a trade official in Bole, a city that 10 years ago had virtually no private cars, and now is as densely developed and busy as any American suburb. ''Our neighbors have the same kind of opening-up policies that we do. They love Chinese money, Chinese products, Chinese expertise and Chinese technology.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 15, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A front-page article on March 28 about China's expanding economic ties to Central Asia misstated the size of the Xinjiang region of far western China. At 700,000 square miles, it is more than twice the area of Texas (267,339), not the same size.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ethnic Kazakhs driving livestock past a cellphone antenna in Xinjiang Province, near the Kazakhstan border. (Photo by Stuart Isett/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 1)
 Bole, a city in Xinjiang Province, is now densely developed and has the conveniences of modern Chinese life. (Photographs by Stuart Isett/Polaris, for The New York Times)(pg. 8)Chart: ''A Shifting Trade Balance''Trade between China and former Soviet republics like Kazakhstan has increased substantially as China's economy has become more dominant regionally, but Russia generally remains a more significant trading partner.KAZAKH TRADE, IN BILLIONS OF DOLLARSGraph tracks exports to China, imports from China, imports from Russia and exports to Russia since 1996 through 2002.(Source by International Monetary Fund)(pg. 8)Map of China highlighting Alashankou, and Bole. (pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RELIGION (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (88%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (86%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (76%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (76%); OIL & GAS PIPELINE CONSTRUCTION (76%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (76%); TRENDS (73%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (70%); ETHNICITY (69%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (69%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); BANKING IN CHINA (65%); CENTRAL BANKS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (59%); MOUNTAINS (55%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Islam; Uighurs (Chinese Ethnic Group); Economic Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; International Relations; International Trade and World Market

COMPANY: PEOPLE'S BANK OF CHINA (84%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (59%)

PERSON: Howard W French

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (79%) NORTHWEST CHINA (94%); XINJIANG, CHINA (90%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); KAZAKHSTAN (96%); ASIA (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (94%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); IRAN, ISLAMIC REPUBLIC OF (79%); TURKEY (79%); TURKMENISTAN (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%); PAKISTAN (79%) Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China; Russia; Xinjiang Province (China); Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



634 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 28, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 3; Column 2; Money and Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1911 words

HEADLINE: A Kerry Team, A Clinton Touch

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

 BODY:
THEY are a motley team, the four members of John Kerry's war room for economic policy.
 Remember Roger C. Altman, the high-ranking Treasury official in the early Clinton years, forced out for being too loyal to his boss in the Whitewater investigation? He is one of them. Gene Sperling, a White House insider in all eight Clinton years, is another. Then there are two less-known 30-somethings: Jason Furman, a Harvard-trained economist, hired so recently that he is still working out of his Greenwich Village apartment, and Sarah Bianchi, who was Al Gore's policy adviser in 2000 and is now Mr. Kerry's. Both got their start in the Clinton White House, as young aides barely out of college. 
 The four are rapidly developing specific proposals to flesh out Mr. Kerry's still-general thrusts into economics. They are also constructing a galaxy of advisers -- one that stretches from Wall Street to the A.F.L.-C.I.O. -- who vet the proposals and often contribute to them. 
 The war room's handiwork is evident in Mr. Kerry's first big economic plank: his pledge in a speech on Friday to no longer allow American companies to defer income tax payments on profits earned abroad. The goal is to eliminate an incentive to send jobs overseas.
 What is striking about the candidate's economics team is that all of its members -- not to mention nearly every adviser they are reaching out to -- served the Clinton administration in one way or another. Does that mean Kerry economics will be Clinton redux? 
 Ask the four team members that question and they hesitate. The challenges are different, they say. Job creation is a much more crucial issue than it was in Clinton's day, particularly the big decline in manufacturing jobs during the Bush years and the growing tendency to send sophisticated work abroad. 
 ''Differing economic circumstances rightly bring out different priorities,'' Mr. Sperling said. 
 Even so, the fixes that Mr. Kerry and his core economic advisers are beginning to offer are clearly rooted in Clinton economics, which is resolutely centrist. Fiscal responsibility and deficit reduction, hallmarks of the Clinton years, are bedrock orthodoxy in the Kerry camp, too.
 So is faith in the private sector's powers to generate prosperity. Job creation will come from corporate America, not government, once the right incentives and subsidies are in place, the war room says. In fact, the Clinton-era god of deficit reduction and private-sector supremacy is also worshiped in the Kerry camp. ''This group is consulting literally daily with Bob Rubin,'' Mr. Altman said. ''He was the best secretary of the Treasury since Alexander Hamilton and he is the single most influential figure in business and finance.''
 In a Kerry administration, Mr. Altman, 58, would be a candidate for Robert Rubin's old role, going to Washington from Wall Street, as Mr. Rubin did in 1993. As chairman of the National Economic Council and then as secretary of the Treasury, Mr. Rubin presided over an economy that seemed -- and, in fact, was -- too good to be true. Through a combination of luck and design, the economy boomed as interest rates fell and the budget went from deficit to surplus.
 By the end of Mr. Clinton's first term, nearly 10 million jobs had been added to the nation's work force. That is Mr. Kerry's job creation goal, too. But in debt-ridden, post-bubble America, the miracle that made Mr. Rubin such an icon might not happen again, even with the incentives and subsidies that the Kerry war room is concocting. 
 MORE than in Mr. Clinton's day, employers are fixated on cutting labor costs. Sending work abroad has become a popular way to do that, so Mr. Kerry's proposals aim to make offshore outsourcing less attractive. His proposal to end the deferral of taxes owed on profits earned abroad would throw up an obstacle to this exodus. At the very least, the government would neutralize the tax code, said Mr. Furman, who at 33 is two years older than Ms. Bianchi, to whom he reports. 
 Mr. Furman, who worked in the Clinton White House under Mr. Sperling, is the only Ph.D. economist on the Kerry campaign's core economics team, so he did the technical work of determining what might happen if Congress canceled tax deferral. Mr. Sperling, a veteran tactician who has spent most of the years since Mr. Clinton left office counseling Democrats, argued to his war-room colleagues that the Friday speech would be a good way to put some eye-catching flesh on Mr. Kerry's campaign job rhetoric. The message would be that ''the right tax code will spark job creation at home,'' Mr. Sperling said. 
 Federal income taxes on profits earned within the United States must be paid when they are earned, while taxes earned abroad by American-owned subsidiaries can be deferred indefinitely, until the money is finally brought home. While the money is abroad, it can be invested, adding to a company's overall earnings, and then repatriated during a money-losing year, so that no tax at all is paid, or very little. The bottom line, Mr. Furman says, is that companies pay a higher tax rate from their American operations than they do on earnings from abroad. The cost to the federal government is about $12 billion a year. 
 Would ending deferral keep jobs at home? Or would other cost savings from going abroad -- in particular, lower wages -- override the loss of the tax advantage? Mr. Furman argues that absent the tax advantage, many more jobs would stay in America, but he does not brim over with conviction on that score.
 ''There is a conceit among people in the business community that you don't make decisions for tax reasons,'' he said. ''You make them because of the underlying fundamentals and then you ask the accountant to figure out, given the choice you've made, how to lower the tax. I don't think that is a rational explanation of the thinking of executives who are trying to maximize profits.''
 THE Clinton administration never challenged the tax code in such a fundamental way, but true to Clintonomics, the cancellation of tax deferral would be made ''revenue neutral.'' The additional revenue raised by taxing overseas profits in the year they are earned would be offset by lowering the tax rate on profits earned at home -- a gift to the companies that never went abroad, and a means of winning support from corporate America for the cancellation of tax deferral. 
 ''We are not raising or lowering tax revenue, only changing the incentive,'' Mr. Furman said. 
 Spending, too, would be revenue neutral, a principle initially adopted by the first President Bush and then embraced by Mr. Clinton, his successor. New spending must be offset by cuts in existing spending, or by increases in tax revenue. A Kerry administration would return to this standard while also restoring tax rates to their Clinton-era levels for households earning $200,000 a year or more. 
 By the war room's reckoning, that would produce enough new revenue to finance other incentives to keep jobs at home: federal subsidies for some aspects of corporate health insurance, for example, and payroll tax rebates to manufacturers that add jobs in the United States. Above all, the restored tax rates would finance Mr. Kerry's pledge to cut the budget deficit to $250 billion by the end of his first term from roughly $500 billion now, most of it a result of the Bush tax cuts.
 ''It is a credible, enforceable pledge that will position Kerry to the right of Bush on fiscal policy,'' Mr. Altman declared.
 THAT sort of thinking does not appear to sit so well with Senator Edward M. Kennedy, Democrat of Massachusetts, who played a central role in Mr. Kerry's primary victories. The two senators are political allies and speak often to each other, although Mr. Kennedy is not officially on the Kerry economic team. Still, he is arguing in his speeches for what amounts to a bigger role for the government in job creation, a position clearly to the left of the Kerry team.
 Mr. Kerry may or may not respond to Mr. Kennedy's pressure, says Robert Kuttner, co-editor of The American Prospect magazine, which often represents the liberal wing of the Democratic Party. ''He'll listen to all the economists and then he'll listen to the strategists and pollsters and he'll realize that he has to run on something more imaginative than deficit cutting and revenue neutrality. Franklin Roosevelt realized this. He listened to everyone and then made up his own mind, and we can only hope that Kerry is in that mode.'' 
 For now, Kerry is in the Clinton, not the Roosevelt, mode. And the person who has his ear on economic policy is Roger Altman. The road back to politics has been long for him. He was deputy Treasury secretary in the early Clinton years, a candidate to succeed the secretary, Lloyd Bentsen. Mr. Altman had also agreed to run the Resolution Trust Corporation temporarily, and that led to his undoing. Resolution Trust administered insolvent savings and loan associations, among them the failed Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan, which had played a role in Mr. Clinton's investment in the Whitewater real estate development. 
 The Resolution Trust Corporation planned an inquiry. Mr. Altman made some mention of this to the White House, and that indiscretion resulted in his resignation from the Treasury Department in 1994.
 He returned to Wall Street, which had already made him wealthy, and over the next 10 years he became even wealthier, most recently as chairman of Evercore Partners, an investment and merchant banking firm. He reached out to Senator Kerry early last year, when the odds of a Kerry victory seemed long. 
 The two had worked together when Mr. Altman was at the Treasury Department and Mr. Kerry was on the Senate Banking Committee. They shared a common background, having grown up in Boston at roughly the same time. And Mr. Altman concluded that Mr. Kerry's Vietnam War record would give him a leg up in a race against George Bush.
 The galaxy forming around Mr. Altman is particularly important. Mr. Rubin is there, of course. Lawrence H. Summers, Mr. Rubin's successor as Treasury secretary, is consulted -- although now, as president of Harvard, Mr. Summers takes no active role in the campaign. Also important are the luminaries in the galaxy who act as fund-raisers in addition to advising on economic policy. 
 That list includes Felix G. Rohatyn, the former investment banker and ambassador to France in the Clinton era; Blair Effron, an investment banker at UBS Warburg; Thomas F. Steyer, a California investment banker; and Steven V. Rattner, a founder and managing principal of the Quadrangle Group, a private investment firm.
 SARAH BIANCHI'S name does not stand out in this company, but she has Mr. Kerry's confidence as she had Al Gore's four years ago. She went to the White House as an intern in 1995, the year she graduated from Harvard with a bachelor's degree. Her focus was health care, an interest passed along from her mother, a developmental psychologist at an inner-city hospital in Atlanta, where Ms. Bianchi grew up.
 As vice president, Mr. Gore added her to his staff in 1998 as his health care specialist and, in the 2000 campaign she became his policy adviser on many issues. From Clinton to Gore to Kerry. Ms. Bianchi likes that synopsis of her political career. ''The Clinton-Gore administration had a fantastic record on the economy, and John Kerry supported their plan,'' she said. ''It is a logical place for him to be philosophically.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: The top economic advisers for Senator John Kerry's presidential campaign all come out of the Clinton administration, and they have drawn from that experience in fleshing out Mr. Kerry's plans. They are, clockwise from upper left, Roger C. Altman, Gene Sperling, Jason Furman and Sarah Bianchi. (pg. 1)
Roger C. Altman returned to Wall Street after stepping down as deputy Treasury secretary in 1994. He reached out to John Kerry last year. (Photo by Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)
Jason Furman, a Harvard Ph.D., did the technical analysis on a Kerry plan to end deferral of taxes owed on corporate profits earned abroad. (Photo by Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times)
Sarah Bianchi started as a White House intern in 1995 and was Al Gore's policy adviser in 2000. She advises Mr. Kerry on policy as well. (Photo by Linda Spillers for The New York Times)
 Gene Sperling, with President Bill Clinton in 1998, spent eight years as a White House aide and is now on the Kerry economic policy team. (Photo by Associated Press)(pg. 9) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); INCOME TAX (65%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (50%) Presidential Election of 2004; United States Economy; Election Issues; Biographical Information; Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: AFL-CIO (55%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (94%); ROGER ALTMAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (79%); AL GORE (73%) Louis Uchitelle; John (Sen) Kerry; Bill Clinton; Roger C Altman; Gene Sperling; Jason Furman; Sarah Bianchi

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2004



635 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 2; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 902 words

HEADLINE: Benji the Dog Has His Day, Free From Hollywood's Leash

BYLINE: By SARAH C. CAMPBELL

DATELINE: JACKSON, Miss., March 28 

 BODY:
Though the world premiere on Thursday of ''Benji Returns: Rags to Riches'' had some of the trappings of an opening in Los Angeles or New York -- stretch limousines, tuxedo-clad actors and a red carpet -- the opening here was decidedly suburban.
 Actors, executive producers and Joe Camp, the mastermind behind all four movies about Benji, a mutt with a heart of gold, got out of the limos and strode about three paces into a 10-screen multiplex. Benji (the fourth to play the role) trotted ahead of Mr. Camp, tethered to a red leash. 
 ''It's not about creating a big splash, like in Hollywood,'' Mr. Camp later explained. ''It's about making it fun for the community. We do everything backward, out of the box, from Hollywood.''
 For 30 years Mr. Camp has been making movies at arms' length from Hollywood. He has danced with the studios -- Disney distributed the third Benji movie, ''Benji the Hunted'' -- and he nearly signed on with three studios to help produce and distribute his latest Benji feature.
 He has a small farm in Southern California and contacts that led him to enlist Margaret Loesch, a longtime children's television executive with whom he had collaborated on a Benji television series, as co-producer on ''Benji Returns.''
 But Mr. Camp, a 64-year-old former advertising executive, dislikes the Hollywood studios. He says studio executives want total control over content, which he is unwilling to relinquish, and have little patience when it comes to letting a movie build its audience.
 Mr. Camp, who wrote, directed and produced ''Benji Returns,'' refuses to go along with what he terms the studio executives' lowering of the bar in family movies.
 He said: ''I had a conversation with one of them, and he said: 'This is what you have to put into kids' entertainment: violence, sexual innuendo and potty jokes. It's the economic bottom line.' I got angry. What we're about is not only doing the right thing and being responsible, but showing them.''
 The first three Benji films collected a total of $80 million at the box office. Even so, Ms. Loesch said, a $5.7 million film like ''Benji Returns'' falls beneath the radar of Hollywood studios.
 ''A small picture with a big name needs lots of attention, care and feeding,'' said Ms. Loesch. ''It could get lost at a major studio.'' 
 So Mr. Camp and Ms. Loesch hit the road in 2003 to raise the money. Along the way Mr. Camp spoke with Jim Ritchie, a friend and fraternity brother from his days at the University of Mississippi.
 Mr. Ritchie said that he told Mr. Camp: ''Look, you've got Mississippi ties, the dog is from Mississippi, why don't you raise the money in Mississippi? Our money spends like everybody else's.''
 He said that Mr. Camp replied, ''Set it up.'' In about two weeks the money was raised, Mr. Ritchie said. 
 He brought in his friend Sandra Burns, a Jackson business executive.
 ''The business people always say the worst investment is a film. 'There will be nothing in it for you except ego,' '' said Ms. Burns, who invested $287,000 in ''Benji Returns.'' But she said that she considered Ms. Loesch the significant factor: ''I knew she had the business background to help Joe with his creation.''
 ''Benji Returns'' opened to general audiences in Jackson on Friday and is to go next to Charleston, S.C., then Dallas and then Salt Lake City. The premieres in those cities, like the one here, will be benefits for animal shelters and children's hospitals. The promotional strategy -- billboards, radio, television, newspapers and lots of appearances by Benji -- will be similar as well. The film is scheduled to reach Los Angeles and New York in late summer. The reception in those cities is unlikely to be as warm as the one that Benji received in his native state, where Gov. Haley Barbour greeted him in his office at the State Capitol and proclaimed him this year's state pet.
 Benji is actually a 3 1/2-year-old female mixed-breed terrier. She was picked up on the streets of Pass Christian, Miss., and taken to a shelter, whose director responded to Mr. Camp's contest seeking a new Benji. 
 Joe Camp III, who was a co-producer of his father's latest film and has worked on 20 studio-produced films, remembers the road show for the first Benji movie.
 ''The landscape's changed,'' he said. ''Everybody's getting squeezed. Hollywood is in business to squeeze out people like him. It's a risk. The exhibitors will give you a week and they want the seats filled.''
 In the new movie Benji helps rescue his mother from a grim puppy mill run by a man who is abusive to his wife and son. This theme earned the film a PG rating (parental guidance suggested) from the Motion Picture Association of America, which the producers are appealing. ''If they don't give us a G, we'll go unrated,'' Mr. Camp said. ''We'll let the parents rate this movie.'' (In Jackson the film was advertised without a rating.) 
 Michelle Ley, 10, of Jackson, said, ''Oh, he's sooo cute,'' as the camera settled on a tight shot of little Benji with his chin on his paws.
 Michelle's mother, Stancie Ley, said she brought her daughter to see ''Benji Returns'' because she had fond memories of the first Benji movie. 
 For all the animus between Mr. Camp and the studios, the ''Benji'' producers are not above learning from Hollywood. Ms. Loesch is handling Benji merchandising and tie-ins, which include a book deal with HarperCollins and talks with a toy company.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Best friends: Jim Ritchie, far left, an executive producer of ''Benji Returns''
the latest Benji
and Joe Camp, director of the ''Benji'' films. (Photo by Far left and far right, photographs by Hubert Worley Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. E5)
 A chew toy in the limo? ''Benji Returns'' opened in Jackson, Miss., last week before moving to bigger cities. (Photo by Hubert Worley Jr. for The New York Times)(pg. E1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ACTORS & ACTRESSES (90%); MOVIE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (89%); FILM (89%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (89%); DOGS (89%); EXECUTIVES (77%); FILM DIRECTORS (76%); CHILDREN (75%); FILM GENRES (71%); CHILDREN'S PROGRAMMING (70%); MOVIE THEATERS (70%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (65%); TICKET SALES (63%) Motion Pictures

PERSON: Joe Camp; Sarah C Campbell

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); JACKSON, MS, USA (87%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); MISSISSIPPI, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%) Jackson (Miss)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



636 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; E-Commerce Report

LENGTH: 1136 words

HEADLINE: No longer a niche marketing outlet, the Internet is now attracting shoppers from almost all walks of life.

BYLINE: By Bob Tedeschi

 BODY:
REMEMBER the concern that e-commerce would destroy traditional retailing, leaving malls empty? That never happened, but something perhaps equally noteworthy has been taking place instead. Online shopping is coming to resemble store shopping.
 Two-thirds of Internet users are now online shoppers, according to a new study by the Pew Internet and American Life Project, a research organization in Washington. 
 ''It's a milestone in the norming of e-commerce,'' said Lee Rainie, director of the Pew project, which is releasing its latest online shopping data this week. 
 ''What's striking about this is that the percentage of Internet users who do shopping has been growing, even as the Internet population continues to grow,'' Mr. Rainie said. ''So the increase is doubly important because it's a bigger slice of a bigger pie.''
 The data provide context for the maturation of the online retail industry, which is expected to sell roughly $120 billion worth of goods this year, according to Forrester Research. The data also indicate that lofty expectations of broad e-commerce by the late 1990's were not unrealistic, just premature. Four years ago, 47 percent of online users at the time, or 36 million people, had bought something online. The new Pew research puts the current number at 83 million people.
 The Pew data also suggest that the mainstreaming of Internet commerce is nearly complete. Statistics on gender and ethnicity among online shoppers mirror those of off-line shoppers, Mr. Rainie said. 
 Meanwhile, the gaps in income and education between those who shop in cyberspace and those who need a parking space are narrowing. Half of those who live in households with incomes of $50,000 or less have shopped online, he noted, and 54 percent of Internet users with high school degrees have shopped online. 
 This is obviously welcome news for all online retail managers, but it bodes particularly well for retailers trying to generate business from a wide swath of the buying public.
 Consider Home Depot, which has long targeted the do-it-yourself segment and which Shelley Nandkeolyar, vice president for interactive marketing at the company, says is ''pretty demographically representative of the U.S. marketplace.''
 ''Now that the online population is more mainstream,'' Mr. Nandkeolyar said, ''it better reflects our traditional customer base, and it gives us more opportunity to bring a lot of our traditional strategies online.''
 Last week, HomeDepot.com introduced an online gift registry, improving on a service offered in stores that has fallen short of company expectations. The original service limited gift buyers to the single store chosen by registrants, making the registry difficult for out-of-town consumers to use. 
 The online version allows registrants and buyers to select from 9,000 products, which are shipped directly to the gift recipient. As of Friday, the site had already logged more than 3,000 registrants, which shows, Mr. Nandkeolyar said, that ''there's a huge level of interest.''
 Mr. Nandkeolyar, who previously held executive positions with the online divisions of Williams-Sonoma and Martha Stewart Living Omnimedia, said Internet shopping had ''become more mainstream than I'd have ever anticipated even two years ago.''
 But according to Mr. Rainie, that is not so surprising. Shoppers typically make their first purchases online between their third and fourth year of Internet use; 80 percent of adult Internet users now have at least three years of experience.
 Mr. Rainie said Internet experience also helps explain the evaporation of some notable ethnic differences that used to exist between online and off-line shoppers. Today, Hispanics and African-Americans generally shop online in the same proportions as non-Hispanic whites, a sharp increase from a year or two ago.
 Companies catering to blacks, like Fashion Fair, a seller of cosmetics, are starting to notice. FashionFair.com, which does not yet sell anything through its Web site, has seen steady growth in visitors in recent months, according to J. Lance Clarke, its senior vice president and general manager.
 Given the increased traffic, the company, which is owned by Johnson Publishing, the publisher of Ebony and Jet magazines, ''is looking to sell online, hopefully soon,'' Mr. Clarke said.
 The site currently provides beauty advice and a guide to retail stores that sell its products. But with more African-Americans and women in general purchasing online, Mr. Clarke said ''the timing is good'' for a transactional Web site to help the company capture a greater share of the estimated $1.2 billion a year that black women spend on health and beauty goods.
 Further encouraging a move to online shopping is the additional effort online retailers have put into making the virtual shopping experience a lot more like the real world one. Lauren Freedman, president of the E-Tailing Group, an Internet consulting firm in Chicago, said online retailers had improved their services considerably in recent years, reducing some shopper resistance.
 Ms. Freedman said, for example, that more than 70 percent of 400 online retailers her firm recently surveyed now allow consumers to return at a store items they bought online.
 ''Three years ago, just a small percentage allowed it,'' Ms. Freedman said. ''For a lot of people, the ability to do that changes the experience.''
 Of course, some remain resistant to online shopping. According to the latest Pew data, Internet users age 65 and older are less likely to shop online than younger consumers. The percentage of seniors on the Internet who were also shopping online in 2000 was 38 percent; as of February it had reached just 49 percent.
 A separate Pew study released last week showed that even though Internet use by Americans 65 and older had increased 47 percent since 2000, 22 percent of this group was online.
 Online retailers say they expect to get business from at least part of that group. ''The classic problem with the seniors market is that it's very segmented,'' said Alan Beychok, chief executive of Benchmark Brands, a catalog and online seller of foot care products.
 The median age of his off-line customers is 65, Mr. Beychok said, while online, it is 53.
 ''For people 75 and older, I don't think online buying is really going to happen,'' he said. ''They're much more likely to pay by check and send in their order by mail, and there's a correlation between someone's propensity to use a credit card and their willingness to shop online. These people just aren't comfortable changing their payment method.''
 Mr. Beychok has nonetheless increased his Internet business by more than 50 percent in the last year. ''There are so many people in the younger senior market and the older boomer market that it makes sense to focus our efforts there.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''For E-Shoppers, Wider Aisles''Some groups of people who use the Internet have been slow to take to online shopping, but their reticence seems to be fading.African-AmericansINTERNET USERS WHO SHOP ONLINEDEC. 2000: 47%FEB. 2004: 59%HispanicsINTERNET USERS WHO SHOP ONLINEDEC. 2000: 41FEB. 2004: 63%Senior citizensINTERNET USERS WHO SHOP ONLINEDEC. 2000: 38FEB. 2004: 49%(Source by Pew Internet and American Life Project) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (92%); INTERNET & WWW (91%); INTERNET RETAILING (90%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (90%); RETAILERS (90%); MARKET DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); HOME CENTERS (89%); MARKET SEGMENTATION (85%); INTERACTIVE MARKETING & ADVERTISING (77%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (77%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (74%); POPULATION GROWTH (74%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); ETHNICITY (70%); DO IT YOURSELF HOME IMPROVEMENT (68%) Retail Stores and Trade; Research; Computers and the Internet; Retail Stores and Trade

COMPANY: FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (55%)

ORGANIZATION: Pew Internet and American Life Project; Forrester Research Inc

TICKER: FORR (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (55%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (55%)

PERSON: Bob Tedeschi; Lee Rainie

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



637 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 9; MediaTalk

LENGTH: 408 words

HEADLINE: Prince Becomes Online Retailer, Selling His Songs From His Site

BYLINE: By CHRIS NELSON

 BODY:
Prince's love-hate relationship with the mainstream music industry takes another turn today as he opens his online Musicology Download Store (www.npgmusicclub.com), turning his back on download services like Napster, Rhapsody and Apple's iTunes. 
 The move comes a week after Prince appeared to be cottoning to an industry he once compared to a form of slavery, announcing that he would team with Sony Music Entertainment's Columbia Records to release his new album, ''Musicology.'' 
 Prince's lawyer and business partner, L. Londell McMillan, said the store was intended to increase membership in Prince's NPG Music Club. Ideally, customers ''come there, buy songs, see the experience and go, 'Wow, I want to stay.''' 
 ''We want to drive traffic to the club,'' he said. A lifetime membership to the club is $25 and offers exclusive songs, early access to concert tickets and other benefits. Sam Jennings, who helped start the club for Prince, declined to reveal the number of members, but a news release put it in the ''hundreds of thousands. 
 Prince's download store will sell music for which he owns the master recordings. It opens with seven albums of studio and live material, some of which were previously available only to members of the NPG Music Club. Full albums will sell for $9.99 and individual songs for 99 cents; club members will 77 cents per song. 
 The Musicology Download Store will not sell Prince's best-known albums, like ''Purple Rain,'' ''1999'' and ''Sign 'O' the Times.'' Those albums are owned by Warner Brothers and available through iTunes, Rhapsody and other services. 
 Most artists receive a part of the 65 or 70 cents that their labels receive from a 99-cent download sale at online stores, said Josh Bernoff, a vice president at Forrester Research. He said Prince could sell half as many songs through store and still make more money than through sales at a store like iTunes. 
 Bands like Phish, Pearl Jam and Metallica have also established download stores, although those Web sites primarily offer live music.
 Since he left Warner Brothers Records in 1996, Prince has taken several unorthodox tacks for releasing music, most albums through his own labels and one, ''Rave Un2 the Joy Fantastic,'' through Arista. 
 Tonight, fans will be able to watch a simulcast of his concert in Los Angeles at movie theaters across the country. The $15 admission fee at the theaters includes a copy of ''Musicology.'' CHRIS NELSON


GRAPHIC: Photo: Prince is opening a online store that will sell music for which he owns the master recordings. Some of his best-known albums, like ''Purple Rain'' and ''Sign 'O' the Times,'' will not be available. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSIC (91%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); RETAILERS (90%); RECORD PRODUCTION & DISTRIBUTION (89%); INTERNET RETAILING (89%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (89%); RECORD RELEASES (78%); INTERNET & WWW (78%); SLAVERY (71%); FILM (67%) Music; Computers and the Internet; Recordings (Audio)

COMPANY: SONY BMG MUSIC ENTERTAINMENT (72%); APPLE INC (58%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: NPG Music Club

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (58%); FORR (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334614 SOFTWARE & OTHER PRERECORDED COMPACT DISC, TAPE & RECORD REPRODUCING (72%); SIC3652 PHONOGRAPH RECORDS & PRERECORDED AUDIO TAPES & DISKS (72%); NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (58%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (58%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (58%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (52%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (52%)

PERSON: Chris Nelson; Prince (Artist Formerly Known As)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



638 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Takes a Tough Stance On Funds for Lincoln Center

BYLINE: By ROBIN POGREBIN

 BODY:
In 2001 Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani committed $24 million a year to Lincoln Center's redevelopment over the next decade. But since taking office in 2002, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has delayed fully granting these annual payments, giving priority to projects that are under way. 
 For the next fiscal year Mr. Bloomberg's preliminary budget has reduced Lincoln Center's $24 million allotment to $5 million. 
 Testifying about the budget before the City Council this month, Kate D. Levin, the city's cultural affairs commissioner, said, ''All projects currently under construction were spared.'' 
 Ms. Levin also recently told Lincoln Center that the city would start to enforce the contractual obligations of its 34 cultural properties -- including the New York State Theater at Lincoln Center -- to pay for their own structural improvements, known as capital maintenance. The city has contributed $7.7 million to the State Theater's capital maintenance during the last 14 years, according to the Cultural Affairs Department. 
 Ms. Levin made clear to Lincoln Center that such renovations -- in this case replacing the State Theater's travertine exterior and upgrading its fire-alarm system for a total of about $3.5 million -- should be covered by the larger redevelopment project, rather than being financed as separate expenses.
 In the past the State Theater applied for city money to cover its capital maintenance needs, requests that were usually granted. ''The city is increasingly concerned about seeing that its properties are appropriately maintained,'' Ms. Levin said. In general, however, she has encouraged the redevelopment project.
 The city's enforcement of the capital maintenance obligations comes just months after the Cultural Affairs Department told Lincoln Center that it wanted the remaining funds from its first $24 million installment spent on building; about $13 million has been spent on planning.
 City officials acknowledge that these measures indicate an increasingly hard-line approach toward cultural organizations, the largest of which is Lincoln Center. The redevelopment was announced in 1999 as an ambitious $1.5 billion overhaul of the complex, to which Mr. Bloomberg donated $15 million before becoming mayor. The project has since been scaled back, and construction has not begun, although Lincoln Center's redesign of West 65th Street is expected to be approved on Wednesday.
 ''For the redevelopment, the city put up more money than it ever put up in capital dollars,'' said a city official who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to antagonize Lincoln Center. ''It is simply not possible to continue to allocate money outside the redevelopment.''
 Besides the State Theater, the other areas at Lincoln Center owned by the city are the public plazas, the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts and Damrosch Park.
 Reynold Levy, Lincoln Center's president, said that he was sympathetic to the city's position and that he viewed it as a healthy wake-up call: ''The redevelopment project does this all the time, forces people to face up to things.'' 
 But the companies that share the State Theater -- the New York City Ballet and the New York City Opera -- are concerned that having to pay for capital maintenance with redevelopment funds will add a financial burden. 
 Under the terms of the city's commitment, Lincoln Center must contribute 84 cents for every city dollar spent on redevelopment. If the State Theater's maintenance is paid for out of these redevelopment funds and becomes subject to that match, the ballet and City Opera would have to raise the money. 
 Martin J. Oppenheimer, chairman of the board that oversees the State Theater, said: ''We're very hopeful that, as in the past, we will not have to match our capital maintenance funds. As a city-owned building, there is no logic in having to match.''
 The ballet also worries whether City Opera will be around to share such costs in the long term, because the opera company wants to leave Lincoln Center for its own home at the World Trade Center site or elsewhere.
 Barry S. Friedberg, the new chairman of the ballet, declined to comment.
 Susan L. Baker, the new chairwoman of the New York City Opera, said, ''We are in the midst of rather sensitive discussions with the city right now on this,'' and declined to elaborate. 
 To make time for these discussions, Lincoln Center called off an important meeting last month that was meant to kick off fund-raising for the redevelopment, which has been stymied by infighting and the slow economy. That meeting was rescheduled for Wednesday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CULTURE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CITIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (76%); APPROVALS (76%); PUBLIC LIBRARIES (71%); CITY LIFE (71%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (51%) Culture; Restoration and Rehabilitation; Finances; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

ORGANIZATION: LINCOLN CENTER FOR THE PERFORMING ARTS (59%) Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts (NYC)

PERSON: MICHAEL BLOOMBERG (90%); RUDY GIULIANI (73%) Michael R (Mayor) Bloomberg; Robin Pogrebin

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



639 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1083 words

HEADLINE: In Setback for Chirac, French Veer Left in Regional Vote

BYLINE: By CRAIG S. SMITH

DATELINE: PARIS, March 28 

 BODY:
France's political left swept regional elections on Sunday in a surprisingly strong rebuke to President Jacques Chirac's conservative government, delivering the French equivalent of a Bronx cheer to his restructured social welfare policies.
 The searing message that the nation is dissatisfied with the two-year-old government, which has fought to strip expensive entitlements from workers, is likely to be answered with a cabinet shuffle and a slower pace of economic changes.
 While many French voters support Mr. Chirac's foreign policies -- particularly his opposition to the United States over the invasion of Iraq -- the unpopularity of Mr. Chirac's domestic economic program has become a dominant issue here and was the major theme in the elections, which were effectively a midterm referendum on his administration. 
 Teachers, hospital workers, scientists and firefighters have all taken to the streets in recent months to protest changes that are meant to make the French work harder and get less in retirement.
 A cabinet shake-up could replace unpopular politicians like Education Minister Luc Ferry and Finance Minister Francis Mer, and it might even threaten the tenure of Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin.
 ''It's an outstanding blow,'' said Roland Cayrol, a political scientist at the Institute of Political Studies in Paris. He added that Mr. Chirac ''has to say he has heard the French, he has to change a few ministers.''
 According to voter surveys taken at polling places late on Sunday, the Socialist Party and allied leftist parties won half of the votes, while center-right parties that include Mr. Chirac's Union for a Popular Movement party, or the UMP, won 37.5 percent. The far right won 12.5 percent, according to the polls.
 The elections will give the Socialists control of a large majority of the country's 26 regional councils, which set regional development plans and administer billions of dollars in regional budgets.
 Regional councils do not take part in national policy making, but the strong Socialist showing represents a repudiation of Mr. Chirac's retirement and pension overhauls and other unpopular money-saving measures meant to trim France's budget deficit back to within European Union limits and to improve the future finances of the nation's overburdened welfare system.
 ''The reforms must continue simply because they are necessary,'' Mr. Raffarin said late Sunday on national television. He added, though, that some policies ''must be more efficient and fair, and it is certain that some changes must be made.''
 The next step in the government's planned economic overhaul is to push through difficult changes in the country's costly health care system.
 The Sunday voting was the second round in a two-ballot system put in place for the first time in regional elections since electoral changes were passed in 2003. The system was revised to ensure that a clear majority emerges from the elections and to avoid coalition building after the voting. In regional elections in 1998, such coalition building strengthened the influence of the extreme right's National Front, which opposes increased immigration and promotes policies that favor French citizens. 
 Thanks in part to the new rules and to the new national mood, the Socialists toppled center-right coalitions in many regions and even won the conservative rural region of Brittany for the first time. 
 A particularly symbolic blow to the government was the loss of the Poitou-Charentes region, former stronghold of Mr. Raffarin, who had to give up his presidency of the region's council when he took his current job two years ago.
 Despite heavy campaigning in the southwestern region by Mr. Raffarin and Interior Minister Nicolas Sarkozy, Mr. Raffarin's protegee, Elisabeth Morin, suffered a crushing defeat by the Socialist candidate Segolene Royal, the longtime companion of the Socialist Party leader, Francois Hollande.
 Mr. Sarkozy, the most popular member of the government, has crisscrossed the country during the past week, lending support to flagging UMP candidates. His failure to strengthen his party's showing could dampen his influence in the government and hurt his ambition to be the party's candidate in the next presidential elections in 2007.
 The Socialists' gains had less to do with their party's message than with popular frustration over unemployment and anger at the government's economic policies. A Socialist Party elder, Jack Lang, was caught on camera by a television station during the campaigns making that point to a party spokesman, Julien Dray, when he thought his microphone had been turned off. ''The government is going to get beat,'' he told Mr. Dray. ''Tomorrow we govern; what do we do?''
 ''We don't know what to do,'' Mr. Dray replied, suggesting that the Socialists had no clear platform in place. ''For now, you say nothing except 'Down with Raffarin.' ''
 Participation in the regional elections increased for the first time since 1986, with more than 60 percent of eligible voters casting ballots. Analysts say the increased voting reflects fears of the far right's resurgence in recent elections, most notably the presidential elections of 2002 in which Jean-Marie Le Pen of the National Front beat the Socialist candidate, Prime Minister Lionel Jospin, in the first round of elections and qualified for the runoff election against Mr. Chirac.
 Mr. Le Pen tried to run in the current elections but was prevented from doing so because he had not paid taxes in the district in which he wanted to run. He has vowed to appeal the election result in that district. 
 In the 1998 elections, Mr. Chirac's party was obliged in several regions to form coalitions with the National Front in order to have a majority control of the councils. Under the revised election rules, if there is no majority in the first round of voting, parties with more than 10 percent of the vote go on to compete in a second ballot. A bonus of 25 percent of the available council seats is awarded to the winner to ensure that one party emerges with a clear majority.
 The new election rules also required that half of the candidates be women, forcing many sitting council members to give up their seats in order for their parties to field female candidates. According to local news reports, 43 percent of the 552 incumbent council members affiliated with Mr. Chirac's party had to give up their seats. Half of the Socialist Party's incumbent council members could not run for the same reason.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Socialist supporters, right, in Montpellier celebrated the party's victory yesterday. Among the Socialist winners was Segolene Royal, above, in Poitou-Charentes, a former stronghold of Prime Minister Jean-Pierre Raffarin. (Photographs by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); POLITICS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); REFERENDUMS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (76%); HEALTH CARE (73%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (72%); FOREIGN POLICY (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); HOSPITALS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (67%); BUDGET DEFICITS (61%) Elections; Politics and Government; Public Opinion; Labor; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Fringe Benefits; Government Employees; Election Issues

PERSON: JACQUES CHIRAC (92%); SEGOLENE ROYAL (59%) Craig S Smith; Jacques (Pres) Chirac

GEOGRAPHIC: PARIS, FRANCE (92%) POITOU-CHARENTES, FRANCE (79%) FRANCE (96%); EUROPE (79%); IRAQ (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%) France; France

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



640 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 19; White House Letter

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking the Glamour Gap in Texas, One Celebrity at a Time

BYLINE: By ELISABETH BUMILLER

DATELINE: CRAWFORD, Tex. 

 BODY:
Senator John Kerry finished a Sun Valley ski vacation in such breathtaking surroundings last week that it inevitably invited comparisons to this Central Texas blast furnace, where President Bush spends his holiday time.
 At first glance, the presidential and would-be presidential retreats are yin and yang, like the candidates themselves. 
 Mr. Kerry lives in Ketchum, Idaho, a 19th-century mining town turned celebrity playground, population 3,000, that borders the Sun Valley Resort, founded by W. Averell Harriman. Mr. Bush lives seven miles down a country road from Crawford, a 19th-century farming town that snoozed undisturbed until a 21st-century president arrived. The town, population 700, sits at the lonely crossroads of State Highway 317 and Farm Road 185. 
 Ketchum has homes that sell for up to $10 million; Crawford has ranch houses that sell for $89,000. Ketchum (and Sun Valley) have celebrities like Clint Eastwood and, in the old days, Clark Gable and Ernest Hemingway. Crawford's only celebrity other than the president is Ted Nugent, the 1970's rocker famous for ''Cat Scratch Fever,'' with whom we will visit in a moment.
 Ketchum has many fabulous restaurants; Crawford has only one restaurant, the Coffee Station, and whether it is fabulous or not, you can at least buy gas while you wait for your cheeseburger.
 At second glance, Crawford is not entirely the barnyard that its now-worldwide press suggests. Or at least it is not wholly as it appears on television, which is as background to the network and cable news correspondents who spent this past weekend reporting on the president's two days at his ranch.
 The reporters always appear in front of the same bale of hay, creaky farm equipment and dilapidated shed, making it look as if a cow might wander by any moment. In fact, the scene is right behind the Crawford Middle School gym, which the White House press corps uses as a filing center when the president is in town.
 ''Looking at that, you'd think, gee, there's an old barn falling down,'' said Kenneth Judy, the Crawford schools superintendent. ''We're a rural area, but it's not like you're 100 miles from a pizza restaurant or a movie theater.''
 The reality is that Crawford, which is right now temperate and covered with bluebonnets, is fast becoming a bedroom community of Waco, 18 miles away, where more and more Crawford residents work. By Mr. Judy's estimate, only a quarter of Crawford students live on farms. The rest are the children of firefighters, police officers, teachers, college professors and accountants who commute to Waco. 
 There is also a sprinkling, he said, of doctors, lawyers and business people who have moved to Crawford for its schools, which have exemplary reading scores and are considered among the best in the state. The schools have an average elementary class size of 18 to 20 students. Mr. Nugent, who lives on a 270-acre ranch in the neighboring town of China Spring, sends his 13-year-old son, Rocco, to Crawford Middle School.
 Mr. Nugent's spread, where he keeps deer and the exotic game he likes to hunt with bow and arrow -- ''the black buck antelope are delicious,'' he says -- cost him $1.4 million last August, a local record. But a mile from the center of Crawford, in the new River Oaks section, 4,000-square-foot houses are selling for up to $600,000.
 Crawford residents say the rising real estate prices predate Mr. Bush, who bought his ranch in 1999. But they say he has contributed to the upward creep, and that his presence, along with the Secret Service, the news media and the tourists, remains a mixed blessing.
 ''There are a lot of die-hard Democrats who think it's awful that he's here,'' said Debbie Holmes, a local real estate agent. ''But there are a lot of us who realize it's been good for our economy, and we'd better not knock it.''
 Mr. Nugent, a conservative Republican who works for gun and hunting rights, said he did not move to Crawford because of Mr. Bush, who he called ''too liberal'' for his tastes. Instead he was drawn by friends, the local deer and his expanse of land.
 ''We like a long driveway between our gate and our living room,'' he said over a fried chicken dinner on Saturday night at his Spirit Wild Ranch, where he recently taped the second installment in his VH1 series, ''Surviving Nugent: The Ted Commandments.''
 In the series, Mr. Nugent tries to turn city folk into outdoorsmen by making them live off his land. In the first installment, shot at his retreat in Michigan, the contestants were made to build an outhouse and skin a boar.
 In that way, Crawford did seem a long way from Ketchum, where the city administrator, Ron LeBlanc, said in a telephone interview last week that he was trying to find out from his counterparts in Crawford ''what the impact of a presidential home is on the local economy.'' 
 Mr. LeBlanc added that even though it was premature, he could not help wondering whether a helicopter landing pad would have to be built for Mr. Kerry, as one was for Mr. Bush at his ranch. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); RESTAURANTS (87%); CHILDREN (76%); MAMMALS (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (75%); RESORTS (73%); CITY LIFE (71%); CITIES (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); NEWS REPORTING (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (67%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (67%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (64%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (62%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (62%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (62%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%) Presidential Election of 2004; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (92%); CLINT EASTWOOD (56%) Elisabeth Bumiller; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Ted Nugent

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (94%); IDAHO, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%) Crawford (Tex); Ketchum (Idaho)

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



641 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 782 words

HEADLINE: Northbound Traffic Resumes on I-95; Southbound May Follow Soon

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN and AVI SALZMAN; Robert D. McFadden reported for this article from New York, and Avi Salzman from Bridgeport, Conn.

 BODY:
Three days after a blazing tanker crash buckled half an overpass and severed Interstate 95 in Bridgeport, Conn., traffic rolled again yesterday over reinforced northbound lanes, and state officials said a temporary bridge for the destroyed southbound lanes would be in place by Wednesday or Thursday.
 Shortly after 5 p.m., and amid the cheers of construction workers, a procession of cars and trucks, escorted by police cars with flashing lights, began creeping across the three northbound lanes of the shored-up overpass. 
 It was good news for many motorists, but not for New York- or Stamford-bound commuters heading into the work week today with a gap in their roadway.
 With work proceeding well ahead of schedule, however, Gov. John G. Rowland and transportation officials said they were optimistic that traffic would be moving in both directions only a week after the spectacular crash last Thursday night cut the main highway between New York and Boston, creating havoc for commuters, truckers and other travelers. About 120,000 vehicles a day pass the site. 
 ''I'm pleased to announce today that the northbound lanes should be up and running, probably in the next two to four hours,'' the governor said at a 2 p.m. news conference at the site. ''And I'll go out on a limb and say that Wednesday or Thursday we'll have southbound up and running with the temporary bridge.'' 
 Three hours later, as if on cue, northbound traffic resumed. Just out of sight of the rubberneckers, behind concrete barriers, was the cause of it all -- the burned-out hulk of the tanker, still perched on the deserted southbound side, where 12,000 gallons of fuel oil had burst into flames, melting the steel beams of the overpass and sending chunks of concrete raining down onto an avenue below.
 Given the extent of the damage, it was a remarkable turnaround in what many officials, including the governor, had regarded as a shutdown that would last weeks, with long-term disruptions for commuters and truckers, lengthy delays in the delivery of goods and a major ripple effect on the region's economy. 
 But a combination of factors -- a quick $11.2 million grant from Washington, good weather, aggressive round-the-clock repair work, the availability of a temporary bridge and tests showing less severe damage to northbound lanes than feared -- was credited with shortening the disruption to days from weeks.
 The state commissioner of transportation, James Byrnes, said tests had found no damage to the steel underpinnings of the northbound overpass, despite the intense heat. But because of damage to steel bearings, 20 steel support columns were erected under the northbound lanes. He noted that repair work had cost $250,000 a day in the first three days.
 The chief engineer of the State Department of Transportation, Arthur Gruhn, offered his personal assurances for the safety of the salvaged part of the overpass. ''I stood under that bridge while we had four dump trucks going over it this morning,'' he said. ''It is structurally sound.''
 The heavily damaged southbound overpass, which had to be demolished by crews on Friday and Saturday, is being replaced by a bridge rented from Acrow Bridges of Carlstadt, N.J. 
 Consisting of steel girders and looking like a giant Erector set, the span was already taking shape, with some sections welded and bolted into place.
 Mr. Gruhn noted that the work amounted to a quick fix, and estimated that permanent repairs would take a year to 18 months. He expressed no concern for the durability of the temporary span. ''A temporary bridge like this can probably last with normal maintenance for years and years,'' he said.
 The governor and Mayor John Fabrizi of Bridgeport praised the cooperation among engineers, officials and others. For the governor, who has faced barrages of questions at news conferences over allegations of corruption, it was a rare day of good news, and there were no questions about his personal affairs. He looked relaxed, even jaunty, in a dark blue windbreaker.
 Mayor Fabrizi noted that Bridgeport schools would open 90 minutes later today to help ease congestion on local streets serving as detour routes. Traffic continued to be heavy, though not bumper to bumper, on those streets over the weekend. 
 Pending the reopening of the southbound lanes, transportation officials said that southbound traffic would continue to be diverted at Exit 27A to Routes 25 and 8, leading north to alternate routes, the Merritt Parkway for cars and Interstate 84 for trucks and cars. Metro-North and Amtrak express trains were prepared to make extra local stops for commuters, and Shore Line East planned to run extra trains from Old Saybrook to Stamford.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Crews assembling a temporary bridge yesterday to carry southbound traffic on I-95, perhaps by Wednesday. (Photo by Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); TRUCK DRIVERS (89%); SPECIAL FREIGHT TRUCKING (78%); FIRES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); WORK WEEK (76%); MOTOR VEHICLES (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (75%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (59%) Roads and Traffic; Accidents and Safety; Bridges and Tunnels; Trucks and Trucking; Fires and Firefighters; Roads and Traffic

PERSON: Robert D Mcfadden; Avi Salzman

GEOGRAPHIC: BRIDGEPORT, CT, USA (88%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Bridgeport (Conn); Connecticut

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



642 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 670 words

HEADLINE: Bars and Restaurants Thrive Amid Smoking Ban, Study Says

BYLINE: By ANDREA ELLIOTT

 BODY:
The city's restaurants and bars have prospered despite the smoking ban, with increases in jobs, liquor licenses and business tax payments since the law took effect a year ago, according to a study to be released by the city today. 
 The study also found that air pollution levels had decreased sixfold in bars and restaurants after the ban went into effect, and that New Yorkers had reported less secondhand smoke in the workplace.
 ''It really confirms that New York City is now a healthier place to work, eat and drink,'' said Dr. Thomas R. Frieden, commissioner of the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, which produced the report along with two other city departments and the New York City Economic Development Corporation. 
 Critics say the report is flawed because it does not separate bar and restaurant statistics, whereas bars have suffered more from the ban, critics contend. The increase in tax payments and jobs must be weighed against the restaurant industry's emergence from the post-9/11 recession, said David Rabin, president of the New York Nightlife Association.
 ''There's no separation between Starbucks and McDonald's and the nightclub and bar industry,'' Mr. Rabin said. ''Many restaurant and bar workers have had to take second jobs to make up for lost tip income.''
 Data from the city's Department of Finance shows that the money spent in New York bars and restaurants has increased, the report states: from April 2003 to January, the city collected about $17.3 million in tax payments from bars and restaurants, a rise of about $1.4 million over the same period a year earlier.
 The payments were for the general corporation tax and the unincorporated business tax, and are usually collected quarterly from restaurants and bars. The rates have not changed since before April 2003.
 An average of 164,000 people were employed in restaurants and bars in 2003, the highest number in at least a decade. Since the smoking ban took effect last March 30, employment in bars and restaurants has risen by 10,600 jobs, taking into account seasonal fluctuations, according to the report. 
 The number of the city's bars and restaurants -- roughly 20,000 -- remained about the same in the third quarter of 2002 as in the third quarter of 2003. Last year, the New York State Liquor Authority issued 1,416 new liquor licenses to New York City businesses, compared with 1,361 the previous year, the study reports.
 But the report does not reflect the harsh realities faced by the city's bars, which catered to a smoking-heavy crowd before the ban, said bar merchants, who questioned why bar data was not separate in the report. The city's answer is that data that separates bars from restaurants is not reliable, said Sam Miller, a spokesman for the Department of Finance. 
 ''We'd be guessing, and we probably wouldn't be as accurate,'' Mr. Miller said.
 To try to demonstrate where the report fell short, David McWater offered his own experience: he owns five taverns in Manhattan, including Nice Guy Eddie's and Julep in the East Village. Last year, he said, his businesses experienced, on average, a 1 percent increase in sales, compared with the usual 8 to 15 percent sales increase enjoyed by the bars in previous years.
 ''In the old days a smoker might spend six hours in my bar drinking and talking to friends,'' said Mr. McWater, 38. ''Now he's spending four hours in the bar and two hours outside smoking. I can't serve people outside. Every time a smoker goes outside, that's lost revenue.''
 The study also found that 97 percent of the more than 22,000 establishments inspected by the city from April 2003 through February were found in compliance with the new law and that 150,000 New Yorkers reported less exposure to secondhand smoke in their workplaces since the ban took effect.
 The Health Department conducted an air quality survey of a sampling of bars and restaurants in August 2002 and returned to the locations in May 2003, after the ban took effect, and noted substantial improvement. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SMOKING (92%); DRINKING PLACES (92%); SMOKING BANS (91%); RESTAURANTS (91%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); LIQUOR LAWS & LICENSING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); RESEARCH REPORTS (90%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (89%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); RESTAURANTS & FOOD SERVICE (78%); TOBACCO & HEALTH (78%); RECESSION (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (75%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); AIR POLLUTION (57%) Smoking and Tobacco; Restaurants ; Bars; Air Pollution; Restaurants; Nightclubs and Cabarets ; Labor; Industrial and Occupational Hazards; Smoking and Tobacco

PERSON: Andrea Elliott

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



643 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 29, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; Editorial Desk; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 152 words

HEADLINE: A Threat to Broadway

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 The proposed New York Jets stadium on Manhattan's West Side (''The Rush to a Stadium,'' editorial, March 25) would not support local businesses or galvanize development. It would have self-contained concessions when the stadium was used, and be an empty arena when not used. 
 After construction, stadium-related jobs would probably be low-wage and temporary, except for management and players, who rarely live or spend money in the stadium area. 
 As a Broadway producer, I worry that our theaters, the economic engine for our restaurants and hotels, would be endangered by the Jets' home games. Game-related traffic and competition for overcrowded garages threaten to chase theatergoers away and hurt our important, though financially fragile, industry.
 Why undermine a unique New York attraction, especially at a cost of $600 million to New York's taxpayers? 

ANNETTE NIEMTZOW
New York, March 25, 2004

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); THEATER (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (86%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (70%); THEATER & DRAMA (69%); RESTAURANTS (68%) Football; Stadiums and Arenas; Theater

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK JETS (93%) New York Jets

PERSON: Annette Niemtzow

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2004



644 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 574 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Judge in Tyco Case Rejects Defense Motion for Mistrial
In an effort to keep the six-month-long corporate theft trial of two former top executives of Tyco International from ending without a verdict, the judge in the case rejected a motion for a mistrial by defense lawyers, who said that the naming of a juror by the news media had compromised the deliberations.
 Justice Michael J. Obus of State Supreme Court in Manhattan, who has had to contend with increasing evidence of infighting in the jury room, instructed the jury to continue its deliberations, noting that ''while we certainly cannot pretend to operate in a vacuum, we cannot let what is published in the newspaper determine what happens here.'' [Page A1.]

Tax Evasion Growing, Report Says
Tax evasion is growing, but the Internal Revenue Service cannot reverse the trend and protect the interests of honest taxpayers because its ability to enforce the law is declining, the citizen Oversight Board, created by Congress five years ago, concludes in a report. Mark W. Everson, the I.R.S. commissioner, above, said he disagreed with the Oversight Board. ''We have arrested the enforcement decline that began in the 90's,'' he said. [C2.]

The Supreme Court agreed to settle a dispute over how monetary judgments in discrimination cases should be taxed. [C2.]

Testimony by Ex-Rigas Accountant
The former accountant of John J. Rigas, the founder of Adelphia Communications, testified that Mr. Rigas pressured him into charging personal costs to the company and pushed him into taking out a fraudulent $20,000 loan. [C2.]

S.E.C. Investigating Tyson Foods
Tyson Foods said that the Securities and Exchange Commission was investigating benefits provided to company officers. [C2.]

American Express Expands in China
American Express announced that one of China's largest banks will begin issuing its credit cards later this year, significantly expanding Chinese consumers' access to United States credit cards. [C4.]

Seinfeld in Web-Only Ad Campaign
Jerry Seinfeld is joining with Superman in a Web-only advertising campaign for American Express. Stuart Elliott: Advertising. [C5.]

Time Inc. Plans New Magazine
Time Inc. is starting a women's magazine called All You, which will initially be sold only in Wal-Mart. [C4.]

Wal-Mart Reports Increasing Sales
Wal-Mart Stores said sales in the United States were rising close to 6 percent this month as shoppers buy more Easter decorations and spring clothing. [C9.]

Profits for Big Board Brokers
The New York Stock Exchange said profit at its 234 member brokerage firms that do business with the public more than tripled to $3.1 billion in the last quarter of 2003. [C9.]

Stocks, and Interest Rates, Rise
Stocks rallied but interest rates rose, which may not be a plus for equity investors. The Dow Jones industrial average rose 116.66 points, or 1.1 percent, to 10,329.63, while the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index climbed 14.41 points, or 1.3 percent, to 1,122.47. The Nasdaq composite index gained 32.55 points, or 1.7 percent, to 1,992.57. The three major market gauges are still below recent highs. [C9.]

Norilsk Nickel Makes Acquisition
Norilsk Nickel of Russia said that it had acquired 20 percent of Gold Fields for $1.16 billion in cash. [World Business, Section W.]

Two Words: Sleep and Water
A global traveler who has flown the mileage equivalent of a trip to the moon in a six-month period offers recommendations and insight. Joe Sharkey: On the Road. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,329.63 up 116.66Nasdaq composite -- 1,992.57 up 32.5510-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.89% up 0.06The euro -- $1.2143 up 0.0020The dollar -- 105.46 yen down 0.44Graph tracks stocks according to the S.&P. 500 over the past week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (92%); MISTRIAL (91%); TAX LAW (91%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); VERDICTS (90%); TAX FRAUD (90%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); ACCOUNTING (86%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (79%); SUPREME COURTS (79%); JUDGES (79%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); LAWYERS (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE (75%); TRENDS (75%); TAX AUTHORITIES (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (71%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (68%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (68%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (66%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: TIME INC (82%); AMERICAN EXPRESS CO (82%); TYCO INTERNATIONAL LTD (58%); TIME WARNER INC (54%); TYSON FOODS INC (53%); WAL-MART STORES INC (51%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (56%)

TICKER: AXP (NYSE) (82%); TYC (NYSE) (58%); TWX (NYSE) (54%); TSN (NYSE) (53%); WMT (NYSE) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (82%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (82%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (82%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (82%); NAICS561621 SECURITY SYSTEMS SERVICES (EXCEPT LOCKSMITHS) (58%); NAICS339113 SURGICAL APPLIANCE & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS335931 CURRENT-CARRYING WIRING DEVICE MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3669 COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT, NEC (58%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (54%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (54%); NAICS311615 POULTRY PROCESSING (53%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (53%); SIC2048 PREPARED FEEDS & FEED INGREDIENTS FOR ANIMALS & FOWLS, EXCEPT DOGS & CATS (53%); SIC2015 POULTRY SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (53%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (51%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (51%)

PERSON: MARK W EVERSON (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



645 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section W; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1185 words

HEADLINE: Russia Catches China Fever

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE

DATELINE: POGRANICHNYY, Russia 

 BODY:
Backs to a biting Siberian wind, Russian welders toiled recently, their bright blue flames securing a new kind of fence on this spare landscape where Russia meets China.
 Inside the steel mesh enclosure will be a 75-acre free trade zone, where Russians and Chinese can mingle freely without visas, make purchases at a huge department store, be treated at an ''eastern medicine'' clinic, produce duty-free goods in factories and stay at a five-star hotel.
 ''There will be nothing like this in Russia, very few in the world,'' said Sergei Darkin, governor of the region, back in Vladivostok. He was speaking enthusiastically of this road crossing and the border town of the same name, which literally means ''on the border.'' 
 For decades in Russia, ''on the border'' meant military duty. But now, in the Russian Far East, it means making money. Held back by decades of mistrust, the region is catching up with the rest of Asia. It is catching China fever.
 Russian governors are tumbling over themselves to create free trade zones, to improve rail ties, to build highway bridges, and to set up banking services in rubles and yuan. Quietly, without a shot fired in a tariff war, Russia's eastern third has followed the rest of Asia into China's economic orbit.
 China is now the region's top trading partner. The shelves have few goods from European Russia, which always sold here for a premium because of the expense of shipping on the trans-Siberian railroad.
 ''Our joint ventures with China now exceed those with Japan, South Korea and the United States combined, mostly in trade, timber and wood processing,'' said Vladimir V. Kuchuk, international affairs adviser in Khabarovsk, a border region province that is planning free trade zones with China at two border crossings.
 In the big picture, Russian-Chinese trade is expected to hit $22 billion in 2004, which would be a fourfold jump in five years.
 In February, two multibillion-dollar deals were announced. 
 The Yukos Oil Company, Russia's largest oil company, agreed to sell China 300,000 barrels of oil a day starting in 2006, almost triple the level of China's oil imports from Russia in 2003. And in 2003 
 China's oil imports from Russia were almost double the level of 2002. In the most recent deal, with the China National Petroleum Corporation and the China Petrochemical Corporation, almost all the oil is to go to China by rail, either through here or through Zabaykalsk, a border town about 500 miles southeast of Lake Baikal. 
 In a separate deal, China announced in February that it would embark soon on a 15-year project to build a railroad that would run 870 miles southwest from here to Dalian, Manchuria's seaport. This railroad would also increase Chinese traffic through here to the port of Vladivostok, 125 miles to the southeast. At the same time, China announced plans for investments totaling $7 billion to jump-start development in its long-neglected northeastern provinces.
 Gradually, Russia's thinly populated eastern section is starting to follow the economic model that proved successful in Canada: exporting resources to a southern industrial neighbor. Most Canadian provinces conduct more trade north-south, with the United States, than east-west, with the rest of Canada.
 China now looks north to the Russian Far East for oil, gas, timber, and electricity from dams. With China's grain shortage growing fast, the nation may soon regard the Russian borderlands as a bread basket. With only seven million inhabitants, the Russian Far East can provide the land and resources. With 140 million people in its three northern provinces, China can provide the labor. 
 ''China, with its rapidly growing natural resources deficits, is the region's largest trading partner, and will have a huge impact on the development patterns'' of the region, Josh Newell writes in his new book, ''The Russian Far East: A Reference Guide for Conservation and Development.'' ''The Chinese, Japanese and South Korean markets now eclipse the region's economic ties to European Russia.''
 For Russia and China, which fought bloody border skirmishes near here only 35 years ago, the growing fluidity of cross-border transportation is striking.
 ''Our passenger traffic through here increased 22 percent in 2003, to around 175,000,'' Vladimir A. Pirogov, stationmaster at the nearby rail crossing of Gradekovo, said as hundreds of Russian and Chinese passengers from Harbin passed through a customs check below his office, dragging their allotted 110 pounds of duty-free goods.
 Freight traffic through here grew by 27 percent in 2003, despite the headache of coping with rail systems built with two different gauges, an attempt to impede any military invasion. Russia is investing $90 million in a five-year program to double its freight-handling capacity here and at Zabaykalsk.
 As often as once a month, Russian and Chinese rail officials meet to discuss new projects, most recently the laying of fiber optic cable along a 2,000-mile international loop of track that passes through here. Another proposal gaining favor is to build two new cross-border spur lines to feed more Chinese cargo into the trans-Siberian railroad. One such line, which opened south of here in December, is now marketed as the ''Golden Link.''
 With these rail ties, Russia hopes to develop a role transshipping Chinese cargo out of the five major Russian ports on the Sea of Japan. 
 In February, an international bus route started between Vladivostok and Harbin, the traditional capital of Manchuria. Throughout the region, the smoothest asphalt now leads to Chinese border crossings as Russian governors channel their scarce paving rubles to routes that will have an economic payback. In 2003, the value of goods exported by road and rail from Suifenhe, the Chinese sister city here, hit $220 million, a sixfold increase over 2002. Amur region officials have announced that a Russian-Chinese joint venture will build a cross-border road and rail bridge at Blagoveshchensk over the Amur River, the region's equivalent of the Mississippi. 
 On Jan. 16 at this crossing site, Heihe, the Chinese sister city, became a model for the new kind of economic freedom that seems to be infecting the Russian side of the border. Chinese authorities declared the entire city a free trade area, allowing Russians to enter and stay without visas for 30 days, to drive their own cars, and to buy real estate. 
 In the first three weeks, the number of Russians visiting jumped by 50 percent, and three Russians bought apartments, Zhang Junpeng, director of the city's trade bureau, told Agence France-Presse. To enhance ties with Russia, this city plans to build on two industrial zones and an international airport. 
 It is a big change for the Russian Far East. Here, China was seen as a threat, not as an opportunity. 
 Times have changed, Mr. Darkin, the governor of Russia's maritime region, said in his office in Vladivostok. On taking office, he recalls, his predecessor, Yevgeny I. Nazdratenko, warned him: ''The Chinese: get them out, get them out.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: Russian and Chinese passengers pass through a rail station near Pogranichnyy, Russia, dragging their allotment of duty-free goods. A rail official said traffic in the area increased 22 percent last year.
 Russian workers build a border checkpoint in Pogranichnyy, near the border with China. Officials are trying to improve ties. (Photographs by Peter Blakely/Redux, for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (88%); BORDER CONTROL (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (77%); WOOD PRODUCTS MFG (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (74%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); RAILROAD CONSTRUCTION (71%); MASS TRANSIT CONSTRUCTION (71%); RETAILERS (71%); BRIDGES & TUNNELS (66%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (65%); JOINT VENTURES (64%); LAKES (64%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (62%); PETROCHEMICALS (60%); PETROCHEMICALS INDUSTRY (60%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (51%) International Trade and World Market; Railroads; Bridges and Tunnels; Roads and Traffic; Banks and Banking; Currency

COMPANY: OAO NK YUKOS (63%); CHINA NATIONAL PETROLEUM CORP (61%); CHINA PETROCHEMICAL CORP (61%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (63%); NAICS213112 SUPPORT ACTIVITIES FOR OIL & GAS OPERATIONS (61%); SIC1389 OIL & GAS FIELD SERVICES, NEC (61%); NAICS551112 OFFICES OF OTHER HOLDING COMPANIES (61%); NAICS325110 PETROCHEMICAL MANUFACTURING (61%); SIC2869 INDUSTRIAL ORGANIC CHEMICALS, NEC (61%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (61%)

PERSON: James Brooke

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); ASIA (93%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (79%); JAPAN (79%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Russia; Far East, South and Southeast Asia and Pacific Areas; China

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



646 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 1; Science Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 93 words

HEADLINE: Out in the Cold

 BODY:

To the Editor:
 Re ''Cold and Poor, a Double Peril'' (March 23): The study described in the article found that babies born in cold weather were more likely to develop heart disease later in life, though the effect applied only to women from lower economic classes. 
 I wonder if the researchers examined whether the lower-income women grew up in homes that were colder than those of the more well-off subjects because of a lack of money for heat. 
 People from lower socioeconomic backgrounds are often deprived in more ways than one.

JOAN FISCH
Palo Alto, Calif.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (85%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (84%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (50%) CALIFORNIA, USA (50%) UNITED STATES (50%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



647 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 4; Foreign Desk; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 102 words

HEADLINE: World Briefing Europe: Poland: Economist Picked As Next Premier

BYLINE: By Ian Fisher (NYT)

 BODY:
President Aleksander Kwasniewski nominated a new prime minister -- Marek Belka, a former finance minister who is finishing his tenure as a top economic official in the American-led civilian authority in Iraq. The current prime minister, Leszek Miller, who has become unpopular because of high unemployment and corruption scandals, agreed last week to step down the day after Poland joins the European Union on May 1. Mr. Belka, 51, who is known more as an economist than a politician, is considered a strong backer of the United States. A parliamentary vote on his nomination is expected on May 16. Ian Fisher (NYT)


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (88%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (88%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (85%); CORRUPTION (54%); SCANDALS (54%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (94%); POLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); IRAQ (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



648 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Film Helps Stung Town Revisit Book

BYLINE: By BARBARA NOVOVITCH

DATELINE: ODESSA, Tex. 

 BODY:
When ''Friday Night Lights'' was published in 1990, many people in this scruffy West Texas oil town were so outraged by its portrayal of their outsized enthusiasm for high school football -- like chartered jets to fly the team to games while the English teacher scrounged for books -- that, on the advice of his publisher, the author opted out of a local book-signing.
 ''The bookstore said, 'We're getting death threats and we're taking them seriously,' '' recalled the author, H. G. Bissinger.
 But ''Friday Night Lights'' was an enormous success elsewhere: it has sold more than 700,000 copies and is in its 11th printing. Last year, Sports Illustrated called it the best book ever written about football. Sociology professors use it as an examination of an obsessed town. And now that it is being turned into a $35 million film, many Odessa residents have rethought their antipathy toward the book. 
 In his book, Mr. Bissinger looked at the 1988 season of the Permian High Panthers, with stories of a half-dozen star players and the community's and school's tunnel vision about high school football. By the time Mr. Bissinger's book came out, the Permian Panthers had won five state championships and had built up a zealous fan base.
 Rayeanne Hawley, a Panthers booster, said in an interview that the residents of Odessa, a city of about 90,000 people, supported the team ''with every fiber of their being because it was something to be involved in.''
 ''Some of the biggest fights that went on in Odessa divorces were over who got the Permian football tickets,'' Ms. Hawley added.
 And then Mr. Bissinger's book landed. It not only examined a high school season of football but also dug much deeper into sociological issues, describing race relations after federal court-ordered desegregation in 1982; Odessa's boom-and-bust oil economy; weak academic standards; and a university official's statement that girls were ''dumbed down,'' or taught not to pursue high goals.
 Jo Ann Davenport, a City Council member from 1990 to 1998, said she never read the book. ''I don't have time for negativism,'' Ms. Davenport said. 
 ''Friday Night Lights'' was released in fall 1990, and then the Panthers, the state champions a year earlier, were disqualified from the district playoffs for exceeding permitted workout hours.
 ''Everyone blamed the book,'' Mr. Bissinger, now a contributing editor at Vanity Fair, said by telephone from his home in Philadelphia.
 Trapper O'Connell, the longtime athletic trainer at Permian High, said, ''I don't think the book was to blame, I just think it was the notoriety.'' 
 Mr. O'Connell said, ''Mr. Bissinger got his information right, but the book ''didn't mention enough of the positive things.'' The movie, coming 14 years after the book, will be a ''positive spin'' for the community, he added.
 The film's director, Peter Berg, has promised a ''softer, gentler'' portrayal of Odessa, focusing on football rather than sociology.
 Dale Jenkins, who owns the Proteus beauty salon in town, said he agreed with the book's portrayal of the people: ''It's not a pretty thing sometimes to look in the mirror.''
 But Mr. Jenkins added that Odessa had grown ''a little bit more sophisticated, a more equal place.''
 The movie will focus on four main players and remain true to the book's description of them: James Miles (played by Derek Luke), the black running back known as Boobie who dreamed of a professional football career but quit the team after knee surgery; Mike Winchell (Lucas Black), the insecure white quarterback haunted by the death of his father; Brian Chavez (Jay Hernandez), the Mexican-American tight end who went from Odessa to Harvard; and Don Billingsley (Garrett Hedlund), the brash, hard-drinking white tailback who could not live up to his father's football exploits.
 Tim McGraw, the country singer, appears as Mr. Billingsley's father, Charlie, a Panthers football legend, and Billy Bob Thornton is cast as the Panthers' coach, Gary Gaines, who insisted that there be no cursing by his on-screen character.
 Mr. Thornton said he had a sense of the passion that high school football stirred in Odessa: His father was a high school basketball coach in Arkansas. ''These people take it very seriously, as seriously as politics,'' Mr. Thornton said. ''And it can be pretty political.''
 The real Boobie Miles appears in the film as an assistant coach on the sidelines. During the 15 days of filming in Odessa, he was wearing Permian Panther black again.
 Asked how his injury changed his life, Mr. Miles said: ''That's the sad part. Football was my way out. When you're the star, a lot of things don't go the way exactly you plan it to go. I had to grow up and learn that.''
 Mr. Miles, classified as learning disabled, failed his high school courses after quitting the team. He now works in construction. ''I fix up houses for HUD,'' he said. ''That keeps me and the kids fed.''
 He will let his sons play football if they want, he said, ''but education always comes first.''
 Mr. Chavez, now a criminal defense lawyer in Odessa, describes ''Friday Night Lights'' as ''a great book'' and defends its accuracy.
 ''I'm in 50 to 60 percent of the book and every part that I had direct knowledge of, it was 100 percent accurate,'' he said.
 Marca Washburn, who as a Pepette in the 1988 season danced during games and baked cookies for players, said: ''You just had a lot of pride going to Permian. You grow up wanting to play the game or cheer the game. My daughter can't wait to get to Permian.''
 ''I hope we're not being naive again, gullible like we were with the book,'' Mrs. Washburn said. ''People were angry so long, they felt betrayed.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: For filming of ''Friday Night Lights,'' crew members use dummies, top, in the Odessa, Tex., stands. Billy Bob Thornton, above right, who plays the coach, speaks to Permian High's athletic trainer, Trapper O'Connell. (Photographs by Cindeka Nealy for The New York Times)Map of Texas highlighting Odessa.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HIGH SCHOOL SPORTS (91%); WRITERS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (89%); SOCIOLOGY (88%); LITERATURE (78%); PUBLISHING (78%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (77%); BOOK REVIEWS (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (77%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (77%); SPORTS (77%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION (77%); BOOKSTORES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); CITIES (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (73%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (72%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (68%); RACE & RACISM (61%) Motion Pictures; Books and Literature; Football

ORGANIZATION: CAROLINA PANTHERS (83%)

PERSON: Barbara Novovitch; Billy Bob Thornton; H G Bissinger

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%) Odessa (Tex)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



649 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: NEWS SUMMARY

 BODY:

INTERNATIONAL A3-12

U.S. Changes Tactics On the Afghan Front
The United States military is shifting tactics in the hope that a better relationship with local Afghans will produce better intelligence as the effort intensifies to find Osama bin Laden and uproot the Taliban. A mission once limited to policing and hunting has become an exercise in nation building. A1

Attacks Rock Uzbekistan
Nineteen people were killed and at least 26 wounded in a series of terrorist attacks in Uzbekistan, the country's prosecutor general said. A3

New Iraq Weapons Report
Charles A. Duelfer, the new chief American weapons inspector in Iraq, has prepared a report on the hunt for illicit weapons there and will brief two Senate committees in closed sessions today about his interim findings, congressional officials said. A12

American authorities accepted responsibility for the shooting deaths of two Iraqi journalists at an army roadblock but said the soldiers had fired in self-defense. A12

U.N. Shake-Up Over Security
Secretary General Kofi Annan, acting on a damning report of United Nations security failures in the bombing last August of its Baghdad headquarters, fired his chief of global security, demoted a second senior official and received -- but did not accept -- the resignation of his own deputy, his spokesman said. A12

No ETA Link to Spain Bombings
Madrid has conceded for the first time that there is no evidence linking the Basque separatist group ETA to the March 11 terrorist bombings of commuter trains in Madrid. A6

Latest Setback for Sharon
Israel's Supreme Court ordered Prime Minister Ariel Sharon's son to hand over documents in two separate corruption investigations that involve the prime minister. A9

Vote May Stand in Taiwan
Taiwan's opposition party publicly dropped its demand that the military be allowed to vote again after a disputed presidential election, making it nearly certain that President Chen Shui-bian will be sworn in again. A7

NATIONAL A14-19

9/11 Panel Wants Rice To Give Sworn Testimony
Leaders of the commission investigating the Sept. 11 attacks said they would ask Condoleezza Rice, national security adviser, to testify under oath in any future questioning because of discrepancies between her statements and those made in sworn testimony by President Bush's former counterterrorism chief. A1

Top Soldiers Hired Away
Senior American commanders and Pentagon officials are warning of an exodus of the military's most seasoned Special Operations members to higher paying civilian jobs. A1

Gay Marriage Ban Advances
The Massachusetts Legislature approved a state constitutional amendment that would ban gay marriage and create same-sex civil unions instead. A1

Kerry Healthy, Doctor Attests
Senator John Kerry's campaign released a letter from his physician attesting to his ''excellent health'' in an effort to present concern over his planned shoulder surgery. A19

Vice President Dick Cheney stepped up the Bush campaign's assault on John Kerry's economic record. Mr. Kerry shot back with criticism of job losses and rising gasoline prices. A19

Abortion Measure Challenged
A lawyer argued in federal court that the law banning a procedure the government calls partial-birth abortion compromises reproductive choice and is vague and unconstitutional. A14

Education Law Altered
Schools can exempt students with grave injuries or medical conditions from the standardized exams used to rank schools under the No Child Left Behind law, federal officials said. A14

Court to Examine Age Bias
The Supreme Court agreed to resolve whether the federal law against age discrimination covers policies that do not relate directly to age but that have a disparate impact on older workers. A16

NEW YORK/REGION B1-8

Reporter's Widow Appeals Denial From 9/11 Fund
A claim that was filed on behalf of Daniel Pearl, The Wall Street Journal reporter whose kidnapping and murder in Pakistan has been linked to to Al Qaeda, was rejected by the administrator for the September 11th Victim Compensation Fund. So now, Mr. Pearl's widow and her legal advisers have filed a formal appeal. A1

Nurse Charged With Homicide
Charles Cullen, the nurse who has confessed to killing 30 to 40 patients during his 16-year career in New Jersey and Pennsylvania, was charged with criminal homicide in the 1998 death of an elderly man in his care, the authorities said. B8

SCIENCE TIMES F1-8

Health & Fitness F5

FASHION B9

SPORTSTUESDAY D1-7

ARTS E1-8

Changing Climate at N.P.R.
National Public Radio's decision to remove Bob Edwards as host of ''Morning Edition'' is part of a broader push by the network, at the urging of many of its local partners, to remain competitive in an increasingly demanding and crowded news marketplace, several public radio managers across the country say. E1

OBITUARIES C14-15

Peter Ustinov
The actor, playwright, novelist, director and raconteur with a hair-trigger wit and avuncular charm, he was 82. C14

BUSINESS DAY C1-14

Mistrial Denied in Tyco Case
The judge in the corporate theft trial of two former top executives of Tyco International rejected a motion for a mistrial by defense lawyers, who said that the naming of a juror by the news media had compromised the deliberations. A1

Leno Gets New Contract
NBC has rewarded Jay Leno, the ratings leader in late-night television, with a five-year contract extension that will continue his run as host of the network's ''Tonight'' show until the end of the decade. C1

Internet Phone Service in N.J.
A.T.& T. said it had begun making Internet-based phone service, known as voice over Internet protocol, available to residential customers in 11 New Jersey counties. C1

Amgen Buys a Drug Developer
Amgen, the biotechnology company, said it would pay $1.3 billion in stock to acquire Tularik in a bid to bolster its expertise in drug discovery. C1

Business Digest C1

World Business W1

EDITORIAL A20-21

Editorials: Hearts, minds and padlocks; oiling the revolving door; legal action over foreign misdeeds; Carol E. Lee on the evolution of women's roles as chronicled in the life of a doll.

Columns: Paul Krugman, David Brooks.

Crossword E8
TV Listings E9
Public Lives B2
Weather D8


GRAPHIC: Photo 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BASQUE HOMELAND & FREEDOM (90%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (89%); WITNESSES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TERRORISM (89%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BOMBINGS (89%); TESTIMONY (88%); PRIME MINISTERS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); ARMIES (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (78%); TALIBAN (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (77%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (77%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); JOURNALISM (75%); ILLEGAL WEAPONS (75%); POLITICS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (72%); WEAPONS INSPECTIONS (70%); SELF DEFENSE (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (68%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (64%); SUPREME COURTS (64%); CORRUPTION (63%); MARRIAGE LAW (62%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (62%); MARRIAGE (60%); DOMESTIC PARTNERSHIPS (60%); TRAINS (50%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (83%); EUZKADI TA ASKATASUNA (ETA) (54%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (79%); OSAMA BIN LADEN (72%); CONDOLEEZZA RICE (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (72%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); SPAIN (93%); UZBEKISTAN (93%); IRAQ (93%); TAIWAN (92%); AFGHANISTAN (92%); ISRAEL (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



650 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 958 words

HEADLINE: Tax Enforcement Seen as Underfinanced

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
Tax evasion is growing, but the Internal Revenue Service cannot reverse the trend and protect the interests of honest taxpayers because its ability to enforce the law is declining, the citizen Oversight Board that Congress created five years ago concludes in a report to be made public today. 
 The report notes that President Bush's proposed budget for the 2005 fiscal year represents ''the fourth year in a row in which the administration has called for I.R.S. staff increases while not covering pay raises or required expenses.'' 
 ''As a result,'' it said, ''the administration's proposed increase'' for next year ''will erode before new employees can be hired, more taxpayer phone calls answered or new audits of possible tax cheats can be conducted.'' 
 On average each year, 1,450 tax-law enforcement jobs were proposed but not created, the Oversight Board said, because of what it characterized as unrealistic budget proposals. It estimated that the I.R.S. would have slightly fewer employees in 2005 than in 2002 despite growing numbers of taxpayers. 
 ''Now is a critical time for our tax system to be strengthened, not merely maintained at current levels,'' it said, adding that its research had found that growing numbers of Americans ''believe it is acceptable to cheat on their taxes.'' 
 The Oversight Board -- which is made up of accounting and tax experts who are not connected to the I.R.S. -- said that money proposed for hiring more auditors, tax collectors, lawyers and others to enforce the law had been diverted to cover routine increases in operating expenses. 
 It is ''highly unlikely,'' the report said, that the additional 1,963 employees proposed in the president's budget would be hired because the money will instead be spent on pay raises, rent increases and other costs.
 Mark W. Everson, the I.R.S. commissioner, said he disagreed with the Oversight Board. ''We have arrested the enforcement decline that began in the 90's,'' he said. ''Taxpayer audits, criminal investigations and monies collected are all up. Audits of taxpayers making more than $100,000 are up more than 50 percent, and I think the president's 2005 budget request demonstrates a strong commitment.''
 The administration's proposal would bring in $5 billion more the first year, a small dent in the estimated $311 billion of taxes that the government says it is owed but fails to collect each year.
 The board said that while the proposed 4.6 percent I.R.S. budget increase was far more than what departments other than the Pentagon and Homeland Security would receive, it was not enough because tax cheating continued to rise even faster.
 A 10 percent increase urged by the Oversight Board would bring the I.R.S. budget to $11.2 billion. That level of funds would allow the I.R.S. to pursue 700,000 people who owe back taxes, instead of the 500,000 in the administration's proposal, as well as pursue 1,000 more promoters of tax-evasion schemes, though the board said that the I.R.S. would still fall far short of fully enforcing the law.
 The board's report will be taken up today when the I.R.S. oversight subcommittee of the House Ways and Means Committee holds a hearing, first promised a year and a half ago but canceled, into the adequacy of the agency's budget.
 Representative Amo Houghton, Republican of New York and chairman of the subcommittee, praised the Bush administration in announcing the hearing. ''For most, rather than gaming the system on April 15, they try to uphold it,'' Mr. Houghton said. ''Maybe this is one of the sacred strengths of our country. I applaud the efforts of I.R.S. Commissioner Everson and the Bush administration in upholding our standards.''
 In an interview when the 2002 hearing was canceled, Mr. Houghton, the wealthiest member of Congress and its point man on tax administration, said he was unaware of any significant problems with tax cheating other than the use of credit cards at offshore banks. 
 His comments came despite a series of I.R.S. reports to Congress reported growing tax cheating and after the last Treasury secretary in President Bill Clinton's administration, Lawrence H. Summers, and the first in the Bush administration, Paul H. O'Neill, had each declared that tax evasion was spreading rapidly, especially among wealthy Americans and major corporations, and the issue had been thoroughly examined in news reports.
 Today's hearing is scheduled a week after the former tax commissioner, Charles O. Rossotti, warned the Senate Finance Committee in a letter of a continuing decline of tax- law enforcement as the economy and the tax system both grow while I.R.S. resources do not.
 Two years ago, Mr. Rossotti recommended hiring nearly 30,000 more auditors, collectors and other tax law enforcers, saying it was unfair to let tax cheats get away without prosecution or even having to pay. 
 It also comes two weeks after a report showed that convicted tax evaders often fail to pay either the old taxes they owed or those owed after they are freed from prison.
 That report, by the inspector general for tax administration at the Treasury Department, irritated Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa and chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, who often talks about taxes in moral terms. 
 ''The old saying is if you can't do the time, don't do the crime,'' Senator Grassley said after reading the inspector general's report. ''Now it seems you don't have to do the time or even pay a dime'' because the I.R.S. ''appears to be ignoring its greatest weapon to stop tax cheating -- that's making the cheaters pay.''
 ''The message seems to be that crime pays,'' Mr. Grassley said. ''The I.R.S. needs to use its resources to enforce these penalties.''


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Short-Changed''The amount by which Congressional budget appropriations for the I.R.S. exceeded or fell short of presidential budget requests.Graph tracks budgets from 1994 through 2004Figures are for fiscal years ended September.(Source by Internal Revenue Service) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (96%); TAX LAW (93%); TAX FRAUD (92%); TAX ENFORCEMENT (91%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); TAX AUTHORITIES (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); AUDITS (89%); TAX AUDITS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); TAX CONSULTING (74%); LAWYERS (74%); ACCOUNTING (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (61%); NATIONAL SECURITY (60%) Taxation; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting; Tax Evasion; Labor; Wages and Salaries; Taxation

ORGANIZATION: INTERNAL REVENUE SERVICE (93%) Internal Revenue Service

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (79%); MARK W EVERSON (58%) George W (Pres) Bush; David Cay Johnston

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%) United States

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



651 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 4; THE MEDIA BUSINESS

LENGTH: 505 words

HEADLINE: Time Plans A Magazine To Be Sold At Wal-Marts

BYLINE: By DAVID CARR

 BODY:
Time Inc., which became the largest publisher in the world with a formula of well-financed, lushly produced magazines sold primarily through subscriptions, is trying another, more frugal approach with its newest magazine, All You. 
 The magazine, which will initially be sold only at Wal-Mart beginning in September, will eschew celebrities and focus on the everyday concerns of American homemakers. It will be filled with recipes -- some borrowed from other Time Inc. magazines like Cooking Light and Southern Living -- and how-to articles on topics like crafts, all delivered in a generally positive outlook. Time is a unit of Time Warner. 
 With a cover price that could be somewhere between $1 and $2 -- the company declined to reveal a specific price -- All You will be competing directly with Woman's World and First for Women, two magazines produced by Bauer Publishing USA that fall in that price range. Time Inc. is promising advertisers that it will sell 500,000 copies; Woman's World sells 1.5 million copies and First for Women 1.2 million. 
 The magazine will also compete with Woman's Day, from Hachette Filipacchi Media, and Family Circle, published by Gruner & Jahr USA Publishing. ''This is a market we have not traditionally gone after,'' said Ann S. Moore, chief executive of Time Inc. ''This is a new business model for us, and I think we are going to be coming at it efficiently and economically.''
 With the focus on newsstand sales and a much leaner staff than the average Time Inc. magazine, All You represents a much more European approach to corralling readers. The editorial staff of All You will total 25, while Time Inc.'s InStyle, the company's successful blend of celebrity and entertainment, has 84 people on its editorial staff. 
 Isobel Bella Price, an editor from IPC Media, the British subsidiary of Time Inc., will serve as editor. In Britain, she served as the editorial directory of IPC's five shelter magazines.
 ''We want to be a realistic and down to earth magazine,'' Ms. Bella Price said, ''but we also want it to be very fresh and compelling to look at.''
 For the time being, the people doing the looking will be Wal-Mart customers.
 ''It will be a quality magazine with a low cover price that will appeal to a variety of women,'' a spokeswoman for Wal-Mart, Karen Burk, said. ''We think it will be a perfect fit for Wal-Mart customers.'' 
 Time Inc. executives said they decided to limit sales at first to Wal-Mart for many of the same reasons, but will roll out the magazine to other retailers and offer it by subscription. They added that the retailer has no editorial input in All You. 
 Hubert Boehle, president and chief operating officer of Bauer Publishing USA, offered some diplomatic words to his new competitors. 
 ''We have had this consumer-oriented approach for more than 20 years and we have had great success with it,'' Mr. Boehle said. ''We will see whether Time Inc., which has used a much different approach in the past, will be successful with it.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PUBLISHING (91%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (90%); WOMEN (90%); RETAILERS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); NEWSSTANDS (78%); EXECUTIVES (65%) Magazines; Appointments and Executive Changes; Biographical Information

COMPANY: TIME INC (95%); WAL-MART STORES INC (94%); GRUNER & JAHR USA PUBLISHING (68%); WOMAN'S WORLD SHOPS INC (56%); BAUER PUBLISHING USA (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Time Inc; All You (Magazine); Wal-Mart Stores Inc

TICKER: WMT (NYSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (95%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (95%); NAICS452910 WAREHOUSE CLUBS & SUPERCENTERS (94%); NAICS452112 DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES (94%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (56%)

PERSON: ANN MOORE (79%) David Carr; Isobel Bella Price

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



652 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 6; National Desk; Pg. 19; THE 2004 CAMPAIGN: THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL

LENGTH: 747 words

HEADLINE: Cheney Jabs On Tax Issues And Kerry Fights Back

BYLINE: By MICHAEL JANOFSKY; Jodi Wilgoren contributed reporting from Sacramento and San Francisco for this article.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 29 

 BODY:
Vice President Dick Cheney stepped up the Bush campaign's assault on John Kerry's economic record on Monday, asserting that Mr. Kerry would turn the country back to recession by raising taxes on all Americans. Mr. Kerry shot back that the administration had sprung Mr. Cheney from ''an undisclosed location and brought him out to attack me.''
 The day's jousting also focused on the nation's rising gasoline prices, with both camps pointing fingers of blame at each other for prices approaching $2 a gallon on average. 
 ''If it keeps going up, Dick Cheney and George Bush are going to have to car-pool to work together,'' Mr. Kerry said Monday evening at a fund-raiser in San Francisco. ''Those are not Exxon prices, those are Halliburton prices. Their solution to these high gas prices is just to make sure nobody has a job to drive to.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign said he would propose a plan on Tuesday to drive down fuel costs by suspending replenishment of the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve and by urging oil-producing countries to increase production.
 The day's broadsides put the economy and fiscal issues at the center of the campaign. The vice president began the attack at the United States Chamber of Commerce in Washington, saying that a review of Mr. Kerry's record would show him to be a candidate who claims to oppose taxes even though he voted for them, including three times to increase federal gasoline taxes.
 ''All in all, this is the record of a senator who will speak out against higher taxes when it suits the political moment but is one of the most reliable pro-tax votes in the United States Senate,'' Mr. Cheney said. ''Add it all up, and it turns out John Kerry has voted in the Senate at least 350 times for higher taxes. That averages to one vote for higher taxes every three weeks for almost two decades. At least the folks in Massachusetts knew he was on the job.''
 The Bush campaign also featured Jay Moccia, who describes himself as ''a law enforcement officer in the greater Boston area,'' saying of Mr. Kerry in a new radio advertisement: ''You might want to know him the way some of us in Massachusetts do. Take his record on taxes. John Kerry likes to raise taxes. So much so, he's voted for higher taxes 350 times.''
 Mr. Kerry's campaign wasted little time responding. Even before Mr. Cheney's speech ended, the campaign released a statement accusing the vice president of distorting Mr. Kerry's voting record in the Senate, asserting that Mr. Cheney ''cherry-picked a handful of votes'' against Bush tax cuts to carry his point.
 Mr. Kerry said he cast those votes because the proposals benefited only the wealthy and drove the federal deficit higher.
 ''So let's say it once loudly and clearly, and I hope the vice president and the president hear it, and I hope they will for once stop misleading Americans; to tell Americans the truth,'' Mr. Kerry said on Monday in Sacramento.
 ''Here's the truth: Under my plan, 98 percent of Americans will get a tax cut at the federal level,'' he said, alluding to his proposals to roll back the president's tax cuts for those earning more than $200,000 a year.
 Mr. Kerry's jab at Mr. Cheney's ''undisclosed location'' recalled the days when Mr. Cheney remained out of public view and separate from Mr. Bush after Sept. 11, 2001.
 Late in the day, the Kerry campaign produced Chief Ed Davis of the Lowell, Mass., Police Department, who promised in a statement released by the campaign that Mr. Kerry ''has a plan that will cut taxes for middle-class families.''
 The Kerry campaign also produced a 1999 Fortune magazine article by N. Gregory Mankiw, now the chairman of the president's Council of Economic Advisors, in which Mr. Mankiw supported raising federal gasoline taxes by 50 cents a gallon to offset cuts in income taxes.
 Mr. Mankiw, then an economics professor at Harvard, wrote that raising the gas tax would help the country, encouraging people to car pool, use public transportation and buy smaller cars.
 ''Yes, I know this may sound like one of those pantywaist ideas only a pointy-headed Cambridge academic can love,'' Mr. Mankiw wrote. ''But hear me out: by marrying the tax-cutting logic of the Republican right with the environmental concerns of the Democratic left, this might be a package that works for both.''
 That was a different time economically, with low unemployment and a big surplus, and a senior administration official said Mr. Mankiw did not now support a gas tax increase. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); FUEL TAX (77%); GASOLINE (76%); FUNDRAISING (73%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (73%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (73%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (71%); GASOLINE MARKETS (71%) Presidential Election of 2004; Taxation; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Election Issues; Strategic Petroleum Reserve; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Presidential Election of 2004

ORGANIZATION: UNITED STATES CHAMBER OF COMMERCE (54%)

PERSON: DICK CHENEY (93%); JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Jodi Wilgoren; Michael Janofsky; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; Dick (Vice Pres) Cheney

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



653 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; Brooklyn's Mile-Long Makeover

LENGTH: 1386 words

HEADLINE: Atlantic Avenue Is at the Heart of Plans for a Pier, Arena and Park 

BYLINE: By JOSEPH BERGER

 BODY:
Like Wall Street and Delancey Street, Atlantic Avenue is one of those New York thoroughfares whose names conjure up distinctive worlds, in its case an incongruous mix of a Middle Eastern bazaar where you can actually buy frankincense and myrrh and a row of Victorian antique shops. 
 A livelier Atlantic Avenue has been shaking off that stereotype for some time now, keeping most of the signature stores but gaining boutiques that sell idiosyncratic furniture and clothes and voguish restaurants where the food is as likely to be fusion as falafel. 
 With the gentry ensconced in the straddling brownstone neighborhoods of Brooklyn Heights, Cobble Hill and Boerum Hill and crime down near Flatbush Avenue, the one-and-a-quarter-mile western stretch of Atlantic Avenue -- its most widely known section -- has blossomed from a sometimes desolate boulevard into a quite smart stretch of pavement.
 Now its identity is up for grabs once more. Atlantic Avenue finds itself the spine between several of the city's most provocative development schemes, including a 19,000-seat basketball arena for the New York Nets designed by the architect Frank Gehry, a pier for behemoth cruise ships, like the Queen Mary II, the southern extension of the new 67-acre Brooklyn Bridge Park, the rebuilding of downtown Brooklyn, and the shuttering of Brooklyn's jail. 
 These prospects, whose realization is by no means certain, have jangled nerves on the avenue, with residents and merchants anxious about coagulating traffic, the thunder of more trucks, a dearth of parking places, and a potential upheaval in the avenue's character from one-of-a-kind stores to chain emporiums and souvenir shops. But the possible changes have also whetted entrepreneurial appetites among those very same worriers. 
 Many people like Charlie Sahadi are of two minds. Mr. Sahadi's Lebanese immigrant family has owned Sahadi's, a Middle Eastern Zabar's, since 1948. Customers drive from Connecticut and Pennsylvania for its 28 varieties of olives as well as dried apricots in glass jars, home-roasted pistachio nuts and 200 European and American varieties of cheeses aimed at the neighborhood's new homesteaders. 
 Mr. Sahadi, 60 years old and American born, welcomes the idea of foot traffic stirred by the thousands of basketball fans and debarking passengers -- ''Anything that brings people to my street, I'm happy,'' he says. But he worries that customers enchanted by his cornucopia of foods will grow dyspeptic at the lack of parking by his store, near Clinton Street. ''You come here, buy a bag of pistachios for $15 and you get a $35 ticket,'' he said. ''You spent $50 on a bag of pistachios! The next time you say, 'Why do I have to come to Atlantic Avenue?'''
 He understands some of the changes are organic. The largely Christian Arab quarter between Court and Clinton Streets has shrunk -- there are three groceries, one bakery and a half-dozen Middle Eastern restaurants left -- not because of rising rents but because the shopkeepers' sons and daughters are spurning the long hours of a grocery for the longer hours of corporate law. (His son and daughter, though, stayed in the business.) 
 Still, he worries about national chains pouncing on an increasingly bustling avenue, with an Eckerd pharmacy and a Radio Shack already gaining footholds and talk of a Pottery Barn coming. 
 ''Atlantic Avenue has always been a mom-and-pop street,'' he said. 
 As a native and current Brooklynite, Joshua Sirefman, the chief operating officer of the city's Economic Development Corporation, which is shepherding several of the projects, has thought about Atlantic Avenue as a ''quintessential Brooklyn street'' and sees nothing but good coming from the changes. 
 A cruise ship pier and a park will bring the bustle of Atlantic Avenue down to the waterfront. An arena will start pumping new life into the remainder of the avenue, which stretches beyond Flatbush Avenue for another largely homely nine miles of gas stations and industrial buildings into Queens.
 And Candace P. Damon, president of the Atlantic Avenue Local Development Corporation, noted that Atlantic Avenue has safeguards against too radical a transformation. The low-rise buildings along Cobble Hill and Boerum Hill are protected in scale either as landmarks or as a special city district and have storefronts too narrow to appeal to larger merchandisers. Many of the 200 businesses own their buildings and do not have to fear soaring rents. 
 Ms. Damon's group drew up a master plan last September that focused on small details -- more trees, better lighting, safer crosswalks around the ramps of the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway.
 ''I have neighbors that are concerned we are being Manhattanized,'' she said. ''My feeling is that there certainly will be changes but that the Brooklyn feeling will be maintained.'' 
 Residents and merchants are already pleased at the doubling in property values in a decade -- brownstones sell between $1 million and $2 million -- and an arena and pier may make the neighborhood even pricier. Still, Heloise Gruneberg, a resident of Boerum Hill and a leader of arena opposition, fears the arena in particular will be too much for the street to handle, turning Atlantic Avenue ''into a parking lot'' and attracting bars and prostitutes.
 Sam I. Schwartz, a former city traffic commissioner and a consultant for the master plan, said he thought avenue traffic -- now at 35,000 vehicles a day -- could be rerouted along Schermerhorn Street should more traffic prove intolerable. ''I'm old enough to be hurting from the loss of the Brooklyn Dodgers,'' he said, ''so I'm happy a team is coming to Brooklyn, and I believe the traffic problems are solvable.''
 Whatever life there has been on the street, one of the most dismal stretches has always been two blocks between Court and Smith Streets. It has two gas stations, the Brooklyn House of Detention, and until recently a five-story municipal garage. In a way, they are remnants of the industrial Atlantic Avenue that in the 19th century included the predecessors of Benjamin Moore paints and Corning Glass Works. 
 ''Historically this street has always been a working man's street, and that's changing,'' said Dennis Holt, a columnist for The Brooklyn Eagle. 
 The most prominent example of change arriving even there is a 12-story apartment house rising at the corner of Court Street that will include 321 apartments, a YMCA athletic club, 700 parking spaces, and 20,000 square feet of space for two large retailers. Two smaller apartment houses are going up toward the east, and Brooklyn Law School is building a 360-student dormitory just to the north. 
 Still, Atlantic Avenue's prosperous makeover does not bode well for one of its longtime fixtures -- its bail-bond industry. The five remaining bail offices settled there to be near the Brooklyn courts and the 600-inmate jail. With crime plummeting, the jail was temporarily closed last year and prisoners transferred to Rikers Island.
 ''They'll push us out, and there aren't many places where we can put our office,'' said Jack Robbins, who has been lending accused criminals bail for 46 years. 
 Near Flatbush Avenue, there is a second cluster of Middle Eastern merchants, 25 of them, most of whom are Muslim. Ahsan Habib and Hamed Nabawy can not wait for an arena to be built around the corner and are already thinking of keeping later hours and broadening the variety of their products. Mr. Habib, a Bangladeshi immigrant, runs Madina Industrial Corp. which ships body oils and incense across the country. 
 Mr. Nabawy, an Egyptian immigrant, is the owner of the Fertile Crescent grocery, a teeming banquet of a store that sells Islamic books, halal meats, dresses, as well as shea butter skin treatment by the cake. He opened the shop 24 years ago, when drug dealers prowled the avenue, but business thrived until the 9/11 attacks caused some New Yorkers to become wary of Muslims. The shops flank the Masjid Al-Farooq, the mosque used by the Egyptian sheik convicted in the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. 
 Now that business has revived, Mr. Nabawy is not worried that he is an ideal candidate for a souvenir shop. He has a 12-year lease and, in resilient Atlantic Avenue fashion, he may also transform his store.
 ''I'll make it a more American look,'' he said.


CORRECTION-DATE: April 3, 2004

 CORRECTION:
A map on Tuesday with an article about redevelopment plans for Atlantic Avenue in Brooklyn referred imprecisely to a proposed arena for the New York Nets. It would indeed be built over train yards, but also on land now occupied by residences and businesses.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Hamed Nabawy, left, an Egyptian immigrant, is the owner of the Fertile Crescent grocery on Atlantic Avenue. He and some other shop owners welcome plans for the construction of an arena nearby. Above, a shopping center being built at Court Street and Atlantic Avenue is among the several projects going up in the area.
Joseph Rosenfeld, who works at Classic Fine Furniture on Atlantic Avenue. The street has long been known for its stretch of antique shops. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Mela Kanatous, top, an Atlantic Avenue resident, putting up an Easter display. Property values, which have doubled in the past decade, could rise because of rebuilding. Above, chairs for sale are displayed along the avenue. Some merchants are hopeful that foot traffic will pick up if an arena is built. (Photographs by Ruth Fremson/The New York Times)(pg. B8)Map of Brooklyn highlighting Atlantic Avenue: Atlantic Avenue has been characterized by a mix of antique shops and Middle Eastern stores. (pg. B8)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STADIUMS & ARENAS (91%); RETAILERS (90%); GOURMET FOOD STORES (77%); BASKETBALL (72%); RESTAURANTS (72%); ANTIQUE DEALERS (72%); MARINE PASSENGER TRANSPORT (71%); CHEESE (70%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (70%); PRISONS (70%); SPORTS FANS (67%); MARINE VESSELS (66%); CRUISES (66%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (63%); CRIME RATES (55%) Basketball; Piers; Roads and Traffic; Stadiums and Arenas; Parks and Other Recreation Areas; Retail Stores and Trade; Area Planning and Renewal; Prisons and Prisoners; Ships and Shipping; Ports; Cruises ; Noise; Parking

PERSON: Joseph Berger

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%) New York City; Atlantic Avenue (Brooklyn); New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



654 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 30, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 608 words

HEADLINE: Counterfeit Printer Cartridges Seized at a Warehouse in New Jersey

BYLINE: By RONALD SMOTHERS

DATELINE: NEWARK, March 29 

 BODY:
For years the smuggling of Chinese-manufactured goods into this country has brought in cheap fakes of products with brand names like Rolex and Louis Vuitton. But that trade took a decidedly more mundane turn on Monday when investigators said they had uncovered a pipeline that led to a warehouse in Edison, N.J., that held counterfeit computer printer cartridges.
 A sting operation run by the Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor resulted in an arrest and netted $500,000 in bogus cartridges and other boxed office supplies. Law enforcement officials were poring over these supplies on Monday to determine if they, too, were counterfeit. 
 Stuart Whitehead, 51, of Wall, N.J., was arrested, and in a 2 p.m. raid, authorities seized a 100- by 200-foot Edison warehouse full of pallets of electronic office equipment and supplies piled 20 feet high. Mr. Whitehead, whose company, Colony Trading, is also based in Edison, faces state charges of theft by deception and counterfeit trademarking, said J. Kevin McGowan, assistant chief of the Waterfront Commission's police force.
 In a yearlong investigation, Chief McGowan said, the agency was increasingly coming up with shipments of things like counterfeit office equipment, batteries, pharmaceuticals and even Evian water.
 As recently as last week, he said, one of the commission's undercover officers, posing as a port official, was offered a $250,000 bribe to ease the movement of such a shipment of everyday items that were counterfeit.
 ''We don't know how long they have been in business,'' said Chief McGowan, referring to the operation that he said sold the bogus Canon printer cartridges. ''Most of the stuff comes from Guangdong Province, in China, and we are getting about 6,000 containers a day coming in from the region.''
 Guangdong, a sprawling province of 67 million people between coastal Macao and Hong Kong and the rest of mainland China, is home to three of the first four special economic regions where China allowed and encouraged capitalist reforms. As a result, in the 90's the province accounted for two-thirds of China's exports.
 Chief McGowan said that the agency's investigation into the sale of the counterfeit office products was continuing. 
 The focus on the Canon printer cartridges, he said, began with a tip from Canon, the Japanese manufacturer, whose officials approached law enforcement officials with information that fake copies of their products were floating around.
 An undercover agent from the commission went in search of the items, he said, and, affecting a British accent, contacted Mr. Whitehead. In the sting, Chief McGowan said, the buyer had just arranged to wire the equivalent of $220,000 in pounds sterling for cartridges that would have sold for $500,000 wholesale had they been genuine Canon cartridges.
 ''They look authentic,'' Chief McGowan said. ''But the product is inferior, it won't last as long and it could damage the equipment.''
 He said there were few ways for consumers to detect such items from the packaging, since the bar coding and other aspects look authentic. However, he said, there is occasionally a misspelling, even of the product name, in the small print.
 The commission, a federally chartered agency, was created 51 years ago to fight organized crime on the New York and New Jersey waterfront.
 In the last two years, Chief McGowan said, the agency has uncovered counterfeiting distribution networks involving Russians, Chinese and Middle Easterners. But all, he said, have a supply pipeline that originates in China.
 ''What we have seen is that this is organized crime, but not your traditional organized crime,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COUNTERFEITING (91%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); COMPUTER PRINTERS (90%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); OFFICE SUPPLIES & EQUIPMENT (89%); WHOLESALERS (78%); SMUGGLING (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (78%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (77%); HARBORS & PORTS (76%); ARRESTS (76%); POLICE FORCES (75%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (72%); LARCENY & THEFT (71%); BRIBERY (67%); BRITISH POUND (50%) Computers and the Internet; Counterfeit Merchandise; Organized Crime; Computer Printers

COMPANY: LVMH MOET HENNESSY LOUIS VUITTON SA (91%); CANON INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor

TICKER: MC (PAR) (91%); LVMH (BIT) (91%); CAJ (NYSE) (85%); 7751 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS316992 WOMEN'S HANDBAG & PURSE MANUFACTURING (91%); NAICS312140 DISTILLERIES (91%); NAICS312130 WINERIES (91%); NAICS333316 PHOTOGRAPHIC & PHOTOCOPYING EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3861 PHOTOGRAPHIC EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (85%)

PERSON: Ronald Smothers; Stuart Whitehead

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWARK, NJ, USA (77%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CHINA (91%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (88%) CHINA (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); MACAO (79%); HONG KONG (79%) Edison (NJ); Guangdong Province (China); China

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2004



655 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 545 words

HEADLINE: Land of the Free?

BYLINE: By Steven C. Clemons. 
Steven C. Clemons is executive vice president of the New America Foundation.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON 

 BODY:
Even if their applications are rejected, citizens of developing nations must pay $100 for a non-immigrant visa to the United States. Not only is this policy unfair and counterproductive, but it is also unpatriotic.
 The unfairness is obvious: people should not be charged for something -- in this case, a visa to the United States -- that they do not receive. And $100 is a huge sum in nations like India, with an annual per capita income estimated at $2,600 in 2002, or even Poland, where it is $9,700. 
 The State Department says these higher fees -- increased from $65 in November 2002 -- help pay for the cost of running America's consular service around the world. It's true that heightened security measures adopted in the wake of 9/11 cost more money. But rejected visa applicants should not have to pay for them. It's also true that the higher fees have produced more revenue. But they have discouraged visitors.
 From October 2000 to September 2001, 6.3 million people applied to travel to the United States for business, pleasure or medical treatment from developing nations. (These include any nations that do not have a reciprocal visa waiver agreement with the United States.) That number dropped to 3.7 million for the 2003 fiscal year. Applications for student visas fell by almost 100,000 over the same two years.
 Despite the decline in applications, visa rejection rates have risen. The rate for ''cultural exchange'' visas, for example -- used by many medical students -- was 5.1 percent for the 2001 fiscal year; two years later it was 7.8 percent.
 The combination of these factors -- an increase in the visa fee and the greater likelihood of rejection -- has only strengthened the perception that America has become less hospitable to foreigners in the aftermath of 9/11. So it is not surprising that fewer foreigners aspire to train at American universities and become part of the United States network of talent and innovation.
 Here is where it becomes clear the policy is counterproductive: the gap in perspective and perception of the world between Americans and citizens of other nations is only becoming wider. To narrow it, America should allow more people to come here, not fewer. Winning the war of ideas against those who fear or hate American society cannot be won by keeping the world out.
 America should encourage more educational, scientific and cultural exchange with the developing world and support business and leisure travel here. Of course it is costly to monitor the borders and to screen each person who would like to come to this country. But by reducing its visa fee and more efficiently screening the few bad guys from the many good guys, applications may increase -- and so will revenue. At the very least, the federal government should institute a policy -- mandated by Congress if necessary -- of returning the $100 fee to all applicants refused entry into the United States.
 America should not penalize ambition. This country has thrived in large part because smart, curious and determined people from all parts of the globe want to study or work here. When they become citizens, as they often do, their productivity and innovation help the United States maintain its position as one of the most dynamic economies in history.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Natasha Tibbott)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PASSPORTS & VISAS (92%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); IMMIGRATION (89%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (87%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (75%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (73%); LEISURE TRAVEL (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (70%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (70%) Travel and Vacations; Visas; Third World and Developing Countries; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Travel and Vacations

ORGANIZATION: New America Foundation

PERSON: Steven C Clemons

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%) India; Poland

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



656 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 219 words

HEADLINE: Confidence In Economy Shows a Dip

BYLINE: By Reuters

 BODY:
Consumer confidence edged lower this month, with Americans expressing concern about slow job creation, according to a report released yesterday.
 The Conference Board, a private research firm, said its index of consumer confidence slipped to 88.3 in March from an upwardly revised 88.5 in February. 
Economists surveyed by Reuters had forecast a drop to 86.5.
 But revisions to February's data put consumer confidence levels above expectations for March, diminishing the negative impact of the reported slight decline in confidence.
 ''Consumer confidence has improved but remains fragile due primarily to a soft jobs market and the recent rise in gasoline prices,'' said Mark Zandi, chief economist at Economy.com in West Chester, Pa. ''The volatility in the stock market is also weighing on consumers' psyche.''
 The Conference Board said an error in calculating seasonal adjustments had also required it to revise higher its December 2003 and January 2004 data.
 ''While consumers claimed that business conditions were more favorable in March than last month, they also claimed jobs were less readily available,'' said Lynn Franco, director of research at the company's Consumer Research Center. The number of consumers saying jobs were hard to get rose in March to 30 percent from 28.9 percent in February.


GRAPHIC: Chart: ''Consumer Confidence''Index measuring attitudes toward the economy, based on 1985 = 100.Mar.: 88.3Feb.: 88.5Jan.: 97.7Graph tracks index since October 2002.(Source by The Conference Board) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (95%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (95%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (79%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (79%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (79%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (77%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); GASOLINE MARKETS (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%); OIL & GAS PRICES (54%); GASOLINE PRICES (54%) United States Economy; Consumer Confidence (Economic Indicator); Labor; Hiring and Promotion

ORGANIZATION: Conference Board

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



657 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 4; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Non-Equity Tours the Issue for Actors

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
The last time Broadway producers faced off with a major labor union -- the musicians union in March 2003 -- the results were disastrous. Talks broke down at the 11th hour, resulting in a four-day strike on Broadway that shut down 17 musicals and cost the industry $5 million.
 Starting tomorrow Actors' Equity, the actors' and stage managers' union, will sit down opposite the League of American Theaters and Producers. Both sides agree that to avoid another strike they will have to come to terms with the knotty problem of non-Equity tours of Broadway shows. 
 Last year's central issue was clear: the producers wanted fewer musicians in the orchestra pits. But the issue of non-Equity tours is a murky one with the potential to strain unity on both sides. Will New York actors strike to protect Equity jobs on the road? And will some New York producers, whose main concern is a Broadway contract, risk shutting down theaters to protect the interests of companies that make their money on national tours in other cities?
 Both sides of course say they are solidly unified. Equity enters the talks confident that its support of the musicians union in last year's strike assures it of an ally. Both Equity and the stagehands' union, Local 1, honored the musicians' picket lines, causing an industrywide shutdown, and officials with the musicians' union said they will support the actors. 
 A majority of touring versions of Broadway shows are still Equity productions. But cheaper, non-Equity tours, most of which are produced by a handful of New York-based companies, have become increasingly popular over the last decade, a disturbing development for Equity officials.
 ''The big picture is that this is about the Broadway brand, and these are not actors from Broadway,'' said Patrick Quinn, the president of Equity, which has a membership of 45,000 nationwide. The union's current deal expires in late June.
 For their part theater league officials say they, too, want to minimize the number of non-Equity tours; league members, after all, are bound to produce union shows. ''Our goal is maximize the number of tours produced by our membership,'' said Seth Popper, the league's director of labor relations.
 But league members have also watched in recent years as Equity officials have made special contracts with some nonleague producers, allowing shows to go on the road -- including a recent tour of ''42nd Street'' -- with union actors performing at less than union rates. Now the league wants similar deals considered for its members' tours. 
 ''We would like the same level of consideration that Equity has provided for certain nonunion producers,'' Mr. Popper said. ''Equity has made arrangements with nonunion and nonleague producers for touring shows for actor compensation far below what our contract calls for. It's impossible for our producers to compete with those shows.''
 Equity officials have allowed the concessions under a simple assumption: it is better to get some work for union actors -- even for less money -- than none at all, which would be the case with completely non-Equity tours. (Actors on Equity tours earn a basic road salary of $1,354 a week, plus $100 per diem, as well as benefits and pension payments. Housing and food costs are not covered.)
 But the special contracts have never been completely embraced by Equity's membership, and the prospect of formalizing them with the league is likely to meet some grass-roots resistance. 
 Equity officials are also upset that non-Equity tours have been moving into major cities for longer runs.
 At one time non-Equity tours were generally of less popular, older shows -- for example the Broadway war horse ''Cats'' -- that drew smaller crowds as they rolled around the country year after year. But in the last three years Equity members have watched in anger as tours of Broadway revivals -- including ''The Music Man'' and ''Oklahoma'' -- went on the road as non-Equity jobs, settling in for runs in bigger cities. 
 The road is a lucrative market, grossing some $642 million last year, compared to Broadway's $721 million, according to the league. Most of that road money came from full Equity tours, but now non-Equity tours have begun to charge ticket prices equivalent to Equity tours, which also irks the actors' union. 
 The non-Equity tours also play a part in the other major issue of the forthcoming talks: health care. Recent years have been hard on Equity, in part because of a steady decline in work weeks on the road, and last year its health plan was $16 million in the red. So Equity stiffened eligibility standards, requiring more weeks of work for full coverage, a hardship for many in a union in which a large majority of members are unemployed at any moment.
 Also on the agenda are less contentious issues about safety and pension funds. But both sides agree that without a deal on non-Equity tours it could be a long summer on Broadway. ''There's a great deal of concern out there,'' said Mr. Quinn, who is an actor himself and has performed in many road shows. ''People do this for the love, but they also do it to make a living.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LABOR UNIONS (92%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (92%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (91%); THEATER (90%); STRIKES (90%); MUSIC (90%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (73%) Theater; Labor

ORGANIZATION: Actors' Equity; League of American Theaters and Producers

PERSON: Jesse Mckinley

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



658 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 745 words

HEADLINE: A White Elephant for the West Side

BYLINE: By Steven Malanga. 
Steven Malanga is a contributing editor at City Journal.

 BODY:
As New York rushes to expand the Jacob Javits Convention Center and build a new football stadium on the Hudson River, we might want to take a look up and down the Eastern Seaboard. Boston's gleaming new $800 million convention center will open in a few months, yet it has booked only a handful of conventions and will need at least a $12 million annual operating subsidy in its first few years. Baltimore officials are trying to increase flagging business at the convention center they expanded in 1997, and are considering spending millions more in public money to build a subsidized hotel next door.
 These cities are hardly alone: for a decade local governments around the country have been rushing, at enormous public cost, to build new convention centers or enlarge old ones. The increase in space has outpaced the growth of the convention industry, and the centers have often failed to generate the economic rewards predicted by supporters. The situation is only likely to get worse: some 40 more projects, with another 8 million to 10 million square feet of exhibition space, are scheduled to open within five years. 
 In this climate, how can New York City officials justify spending $1.4 billion to nearly double the size of the Javits center? Actually, they are using the same argument that officials everywhere else have made to justify their white elephants: claiming that their convention project will somehow work better than those of other cities. For example, they say that because New York is already a major trade-show destination, it won't suffer from new competition as severely as other cities. 
 To back up such claims, supporters put forward government-sponsored economic studies predicting an expanded center would create thousands of temporary construction jobs and permanent new jobs. But these studies, produced by an industry of consultants who specialize in helping governments justify gargantuan investments, tend to be unrealistically optimistic. One major New York study failed to take into account that the Javits center doesn't generate nearly as much hotel business as other centers because many convention attendees come from the New York area. The most recent report, by PriceWaterhouseCoopers, did not consider the nationwide overbuilding and excess capacity in the industry. 
 Let's face it: virtually every convention center around the country now having financial trouble was built on the strength of similar studies, which gives the consultants who produce them a pretty lousy track record.
 Yet these centers get the green light anyway. Residents get swayed by the studies or promises of civic glory; the projects offer opportunities for politicians to burnish their images (and perhaps reward potential supporters with plum contracts). The original construction of the Javits center was perhaps the quintessential New York boondoggle: an effort rife with mafia influence and bid rigging that came in 30 percent over budget.
 Unsurprisingly, the new Javits project also has the support of private-sector interests who would benefit from it yet risk nothing: the construction industry, the bankers who would underwrite the financing, and the hospitality industry. The hotel lobby has even signed on to a per-room tax increase to pay for the expansion -- even though a decade ago the hoteliers vociferously protested raising that tax and even produced studies showing that doing so would hurt the local economy. 
 The proposed football stadium, with a $600 million taxpayer contribution, would be an even worse investment. Publicly financed sports facilities almost never return anywhere near their investment. For instance, an examination by economists from Stanford University and Smith College found that Baltimore was receiving only $3 million a year in additional tax revenues or new job benefits from its $200 million investment in the Camden Yards sports complex, which opened in 1992.
 Developing Manhattan's West Side is a good idea, but the proper role for the city and state is limited: to extend public transportation into the area and to change zoning codes to allow privately financed, mixed-use construction there as the need develops. Doing any more would place far too much taxpayer money at risk and would put the government in the role of trying to predict what the market wants. The problem is, private investment isn't likely to appear as long as developers think they can wait for the government to pay for their dreams.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (91%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); TRADE SHOWS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CONSULTING SERVICES (87%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (76%); CITY GOVERNMENT (76%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (75%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); HOTELS & MOTELS (70%); CARTELS (69%); CITIES (69%) Javits, Jacob K, Convention Center (NYC); Area Planning and Renewal; Trade Shows and Fairs; Conventions and Conferences; Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

COMPANY: PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (53%); SIC8721 ACCOUNTING, AUDITING, & BOOKKEEPING SERVICES (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (98%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (93%); MARYLAND, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (98%) New York City; West Side (NYC); Boston (Mass); Baltimore (Md); New York City; New York City

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



659 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 19; INTERNET

LENGTH: 899 words

HEADLINE: Surprise! Education Sites Are Cool

BYLINE: By MATTHEW MIRAPAUL

 BODY:
AFTER viewing an online reproduction of the van Gogh painting ''Starry Night,'' George Tamburino was inspired to write a poem. He clicked on a twitching pencil, then chose words from lists and pulled them together on his computer screen. When his free verse was done, he studied a cartoon tutorial on how sculptures are made.
 George, who lives in Verona, N.J., was touring Destination Modern Art, a Web site for children developed by the Museum of Modern Art in Manhattan. ''It's cool,'' he decreed. At age 5, he does not have an extensive vocabulary, but he knows his intergalactic characters. Asked about the green figure who guides visitors through the Modern's site, he replied, ''It's an alien.'' 
 Many museums had a similar reaction when they first encountered the World Wide Web. Even the stodgiest administrators knew it was cool, but they also sensed there were aliens at the helm. Now, after a decade of experiments with online exhibitions, e-commerce ventures and Internet-based artworks, museums are focusing on a mission that is much closer to home: building educational Web sites for young audiences.
 For instance, this month, the Modern put two educational sites online: Destination Modern Art (Moma.org/destination), intended to appeal to 4- to 8-year-olds, has bold graphics, simple activities and that friendly alien; and Red Studio (Moma.org/redstudio), for 13- to 19-year-olds, has video clips of teenagers interviewing the artist Vito Acconci and an online architectural design competition. 
 The Whitney Museum of American Art in New York has opened Learning@Whitney (Whitney.org/learning), a site for teachers and families. One future activity will allow visitors to hang works from the museum's collection in a virtual three-dimensional art gallery. The American Museum of Natural History in New York recently installed an archaeology section, including an animated tour of the ancient city of Petra, on its children's site, OLogy (Olo gy.amnh.org). In San Francisco, the Exploratorium science museum added an online exhibition about the science of music to its Web site last month (www.exploratorium.edu/music/index.html); its noisy games are certain to torment parents.
 Through text, graphics and interactive features like games, the sites try to provide history, encourage analytical thinking and teach a bit about the artistic or scientific process. Of course, museums aspire to educate all of their constituencies, but by developing sites for young people, they hope to reach an eager audience. 
 ''This is an audience that can make incredibly interesting use -- creatively and intellectually -- of what we have in our collections,'' said Deborah Schwartz, the Modern's deputy director of education. 
 Museums have hardly abandoned other areas of the Internet. Many are diligently digitizing their collections and putting them online. The Smithsonian Institution and other museums continue to create online versions of physical exhibitions. And a handful, including the Museum of Contemporary Art in Los Angeles, are still commissioning the occasional work of Internet-based art.
 But after the dot-com bubble burst, few technology companies could afford to subsidize online museum projects as a showcase for their products. Museums, still scaling back in response to a sluggish economy, are reluctant to experiment again with the Internet.
 ''It's hard to develop a new program with a new audience at a time when the traditional programs are under threat,'' said Jennifer Trant, co-chairwoman of Museums and the Web, an annual conference that opens today in Arlington, Va. ''But you can do a lot of things with the new technology to support the traditional programs. That's why education is doing as well as it is now.''
 Museums may also be filling a curricular void at a time when schools are more intent on raising test scores than cultivating new art and science lessons. And if a school district cannot afford the bus for a field trip, the Internet can still deliver materials to the classroom. 
 But Holly Witchey, director of new media initiatives at the Cleveland Museum of Art, who has studied museum sites for children, said museums are still ''in the birth stages of figuring out how we're going to use our sites.'' Even the basics can be overlooked, she said. For instance, museum home pages often do not provide a clear link to the children's areas.
 Whether these educational sites are achieving their goals remains a question. Bill Tally, a senior researcher and designer at the Center for Children and Technology, a nonprofit research organization in New York, said there was no broad data on how children and teachers use such sites.
 Even if there were data, Ms. Schwartz of the Modern said the information would be hard to assess. ''How do you figure out what kind of long-term effect the work you're doing is having on kids when you don't necessarily have access to them for 15 years?'' she said.
 Donna Mann, a senior publications manager at the National Gallery of Art, who works on the museum's children's site, NGA Kids (Nga.gov/kids), has discovered that the site is also visited frequently by adults. Ms. Mann theorized that, because the site does not overload youngsters with text, its interactive features were able to connect with a wider audience. ''Not being restricted by the vocabulary,'' she said, ''you're actually letting adults learn, too.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: HELPFUL ALIEN -- On the Museum of Modern Art's Web site for children, the tour guide is a green figure. (Photo by MOMA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); PAINTING (90%); CHILDREN (89%); WEB SITES (89%); EXHIBITIONS (78%); POETRY (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); HISTORY (77%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (76%); ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); ANTHROPOLOGY & ARCHAEOLOGY (76%); SCULPTURE (76%); ELECTRONIC COMMERCE (73%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (73%); ADOLESCENTS (71%); VIRTUAL REALITY (67%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (64%) Terms not available from NYTimes

ORGANIZATION: YOUNG AUDIENCES (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (77%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (77%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



660 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 11; DIGITAL

LENGTH: 1241 words

HEADLINE: Internet Art Survives, But the Boom Is Over

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
IT'S dead. It's thriving. It's everywhere and nowhere.
 Like most things in the online world, the state of Internet art is subject to no small amount of exaggeration. During boom times, as art made with ones and zeroes entered Chelsea galleries and blue-chip museums, the new form was seen as the wave of the future. But now, ask an artist or a gallery owner or a blogger about it and you are likely to get a groan.
 ''Internet art's golden age pretty much seems to be dead,'' said Cory Arcangel, a 25-year-old artist in Brooklyn whose reprogrammed Nintendo game cartridges are included in the current biennial at the Whitney Museum of American Art in New York. 
 There is no shortage of anecdotal evidence of a fall from grace. There is the declining presence of Net art in the new biennial -- this year there are several ''new media'' projects, like Mr. Arcangel's, but no defined section for Internet art, as there was in 2002. Another indication was last year's layoffs at the Walker Art Center in Minneapolis, which had been one of the mainstream art world's big boosters of digital art. 
 Then there is simple fatigue. Internet art may have little direct connection to the dot-com financial bubble, but its reputation has suffered as the Internet itself has lost cachet. Many who work in the Internet art world report a sense of digital exhaustion.
 ''It can be really tedious to still be staring at a computer and trying to nurture these e-mail-based communities after seven years,'' said Rachel Greene, the executive director of the Net art hub site Rhizome.org, and the author of a book on the history of Internet art, to be published in June by Thames & Hudson.
 But nothing on the Internet is quite so simple, and reports of Net art's death may be greatly exaggerated. Get past the groan and the bad news and you may hear about an astonishing quantity and variety of art on the Net, and about projects that reach vast audiences. 
 One artist, a 30-year-old New Yorker named Jonah Peretti, has reached millions of people with a series of subversive online projects he calls contagious media that spread, viruslike, by quick linking and electronic word-of-mouth. His 2001 e-mail exchange with Nike over an attempt to order a sneaker customized with the word ''sweatshop,'' for example, has been seen by more than 10 million people, he said, and a Web site he created with his sister Chelsea in 2002 called ''Black People Love Us,'' which satirizes a white couple who consider themselves enlightened on race relations, had three million page views in one month.
 Web sites that track Internet art projects, like Rhizome.org, Turbu lence.org and the Whitney's own ''Artport'' at Whitney.org, are overflowing with new work, from pulsating Flash programs to software parodies, from full-blown museum exhibitions to esoteric hacks. 
 Though the mainstream art world now has less money to commission Net artists, its support has not dried up. The Walker Art Center laid off its popular and influential new-media curator, Steve Dietz, but it still has a five-member new-media staff, according to its director, Kathy Halbreich, and has four major interactive projects lined up.
 Mr. Peretti, who works for Eyebeam, a center for new media art in Chelsea, is bullish on Internet art because, as he sees it, the pressure of being the next big thing is off. '' 'Net art' is over as a movement, but there are more creative projects happening online now than ever before,'' he said. ''Most people making this new work do not self-consciously call themselves Net artists.''
 Internet art, in other words, has become more integrated into the art world; artists who create work out of ones and zeroes are more likely to simply call themselves artists, period. And as the field has evolved, the Internet has become more of a tool for art rather than the primary subject, as it was for the many in the first generation of Net artists like Vuk Cosic, who parodied famous Web sites and created ASCII animations, and Jodi.org, the team that sometimes buried designs deep in a site's source code.
 Mr. Arcangel said that part of his motivation behind the Nintendo hack was not just completing it, but creating a Web site that showed how he did it. The project itself -- his ''Super Mario Clouds v2k3'' from 2003, at the biennial, erases everything from the game display but the puffy white clouds floating in a pixellated blue sky -- may have been physical, but it was designed partly for an online audience. ''While it's not really Net art like Net art used to be defined,'' he said, ''it is Net art because half the reason I made it was so I could put it on the Internet and have it participate in Internet culture.''
 Even as Internet art has grown and the Internet has become a fixture of everyday life, Net artists have come to face a new problem: do they have any relevance to a larger culture that is no longer very curious or afraid of the technology? There may be lots of Internet art out there, so it cannot be dead. But if it has lost its sense of novelty and excitement, is it really alive?
 ''It's undead,'' said Mark Tribe, the founder of Rhizome.org who is now the director of art and technology at Columbia University School of the Arts. ''Although more artists around the world are creating art that happens online, it does seem to be less relevant to the culture at large.'' Privacy and surveillance are the new hot topics, Mr. Tribe said.
 But is it fair to hold a new art form up to such demanding standards of broad mainstream resonance? Many curators and online arts workers are still waiting to see where it goes. 
 ''It takes a long time for artists to understand a new medium and understand what it can do,'' said Lawrence Rinder, the curator of contemporary art at the Whitney and the chief curator of the 2002 biennial. ''If people thought the Internet was suddenly going to replace painting as the default medium of contemporary practice, that isn't the case.''
 Mr. Rinder and others draw a parallel to the development of video art in the 1970's. First ignored by the art establishment, video artists concentrated on proving themselves with work that was focused on the formal possibilities of the medium itself. After finally gaining mainstream acceptance, video art has become integrated into contemporary art.
 ''Increasingly, artists using both video and the Internet are blurring the boundaries of these media,'' Mr. Rinder said. ''Now you have artists including video and videolike effects in their installations and in their sculptures, and they're not necessarily identified as 'video' artists anymore. Similarly, in some of the most compelling works, the Internet is simply one component of a larger, multimedia work.''
 Net art has recapitulated the history of video art, in other words, only faster. Which means that for curators, gallery owners and historians of the form, the flux is making it ever harder to separate the wheat from the chaff. Ms. Greene of Rhizome.org described the difficulty in taking the temperature of Internet art as a matter of understanding a constantly changing community.
 ''The ranks have expanded,'' she said. ''It's a very different landscape from the scene Net art was in the late 90's -- then it felt like an intimate, avant-garde movement. The challenge now is to deal with the numbers and the diversity, to seek out artists who are melding art and mass media in ways that are provocative and intriguing.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: CASTING A WIDER NET -- Artist Cory Arcangel at his home in Brooklyn. (Photo by William C. Lopez for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); INTERNET & WWW (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); WRITERS (76%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (73%); ART HISTORY (73%); LAYOFFS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (63%); RACE & RACISM (60%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: NINTENDO CO LTD (56%)

TICKER: 7974 (TSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3944 GAMES, TOYS, & CHILDREN'S VEHICLES, EXCEPT DOLLS & BICYCLES (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); MINNESOTA, USA (78%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



661 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 1; Museums; Pg. 1; THE MAN IN CHARGE

LENGTH: 1947 words

HEADLINE: His Job Is Making Over The Modern

BYLINE: By GRACE GLUECK

 BODY:
BELLS and whistles did not go off in the New York art world when Glenn D. Lowry arrived in 1995 as director of the Museum of Modern Art. A scholar of Islamic art, with only a few years of experience as a museum director, called on to run a great and complex institution? And what's more, to preside over its massive reconstruction? It did not feel like a perfect match.
 But that was nine years ago. Today, at least in his mission of rebuilding the Modern, Mr. Lowry, 49, seems to have come through with flying colors. Even his critics -- and there are those -- have praised his tough-minded approach to the formidable challenges posed by the project: the raising of hundreds of millions of dollars, assembling the site, securing temporary quarters for the museum's varied functions, acquiring auxiliary buildings, finding other places to keep the collections on view and preparing for a grand reopening next winter.
 All this, along with the job of puzzling out the future direction of the museum. 
 ''We are very lucky to have him,'' said David Rockefeller, the 89-year-old chairman emeritus of the Modern, who has played the chief role in raising money for the expansion. ''The job requires a very strong knowledge of the arts, as well as enormous sensitivity and human skills to deal with all the people and the factors involved. I can't imagine anyone else who would have combined as many of the qualities as he has for this very delicate and difficult role.'' 
 The Modern's new ''campus'' on West 53rd Street will house a museum more than double in size and greatly expanded in its exhibition, research and educational capacities. Currently put at $858 million (including financing for endowment), the makeover is certainly one of the most expensive in museum history. And to date, the capital campaign is less than $200 million short of its goal.
 Credit for much of the financing success goes to Mr. Rockefeller, who is one of the major contributors along with other officers and well-milked board members, but also to Mr. Lowry for helping to loosen purse strings -- among them New York City's, to the tune of $65 million, and New York State, in for $10 million.
 ''David is an accomplished arm-twister, and knows lots of doors to open,'' said a former staff member close to the board. ''But Glenn had a unique ability to spark David and others to push some of those sources further. They raised an extraordinary amount, more money from some individuals than they thought possible.''
 Saying that the museum, rather than he, should be the focus of this article, Mr. Lowry was reluctant to be interviewed. He finally agreed, though sometimes spoke off the record. 
 He stated his directorial philosophy cogently in 1998 in a letter published in The New York Times. In it he characterized as the most important qualities for a director ''an understanding of art and an ability to envision the institution in new ways.''
 Successful museum directors, he said, are ''rarely specialists but rather generalists . . . with the kind of broad background that allows them to deal with the issues,'' ranging from acquisitions to balancing a budget and organizing a staff. ''But it is precisely the challenge of dealing with these kinds of issues that make the job so fascinating,'' he said.
 Mr. Lowry started out as a specialist, earning a Ph.D. -- with a thesis on the Mogul architecture of India -- from Harvard after having gone through the much-lauded undergraduate art history program at Williams College in Massachusetts.
 As director, from 1990 to 1995, of the Art Gallery of Ontario, one of the largest museums in Canada, with strength in 20th-century and contemporary art, he took on a $58 million expansion project already under way when he arrived.
 Though the project threatened to break down when it ran over budget and the recession-squeezed provincial government did not increase the yearly subsidy, Mr. Lowry brought it to fruition by means of a fund-raising drive and drastic recovery measures that included the temporary closing of the gallery and the layoff of more than half its staff. 
 Before that, he achieved a coup as curator of Near Eastern art at the National Museum of Asian Art in Washington. At a dinner party in Paris, Mr. Lowry's French-born mother, Laure, overheard that a celebrated but long unaccounted-for collection of Persian and Indian painting assembled by the jeweler Henri Vever around 1900 was in the possession of his grandson. Mr. Lowry tracked down the grandson and not only landed the collection for his museum but also produced two catalogs devoted to it. 
 ''His work at the museum was much admired,'' said Marianna Simpson, a fellow-Islamicist and former colleague of Mr. Lowry there, who also studied at Harvard with him. ''He was an extremely energetic and productive curator.''
 Asked why she thought he had left his narrow but rewarding field for a broader, more general one, she said: ''Glenn likes to run things. And it's a testimony to his energy, ambition and savvy that he's done so well.''
 Of course, those who like to run things inevitably ruffle feathers, and Mr. Lowry is no exception. His assertive personality and mandate to bring change to a powerful cultural institution about to undertake an ambitious physical overhaul made it almost a given that he would not be universally loved at the Modern.
 Staff, trustee and art world gripes range from accusations that he has interfered unduly with curatorial functions to complaints that the Modern is still not interested enough in truly current art to a suspicion that a longtime curator in the film stills department was laid off because of her outspoken support of the staff members' union when it went on strike in 2000. (The curator, Mary Corliss, was laid off, Mr. Lowry said, because her job was abolished after the film stills were sent to storage in Pennsylvania.)
 Compounding the feeling of uneasiness on the part of some lovers of the Modern has been the loss of two curators widely admired for their knowledge and drive. The charismatic Kirk Varnedoe, chief curator of painting and sculpture and idolized in his field, died of cancer in 2003, but he left the Modern in 2001 to join the Institute for Advanced Study in Princeton, N.J. There, he prepared his Mellon Lectures, an annual series of talks on art history topics by scholars, which he delivered at the National Gallery of Art in Washington. Robert Storr, senior curator of contemporary art, who was considered its chief proponent at the museum, resigned in 2002. 
 Mr. Varnedoe, who to many was the representative spirit of the museum, was already seriously ill when he departed. But friends of his, who would not speak for attribution, insist that he still wanted to have a say in how the core collection would be reconfigured in the new building.
 ''He wanted to stay and continue what he was doing, to be a strong influence,'' one significant donor to the museum said. 
 To this, Mr. Lowry responded: ''Kirk was a very close friend, a terrific colleague, with strong opinions and ideas. We pushed each other or our ideas in a most constructive way. When he became ill the second time, he and I discussed it. He realized that the single most important thing to him were the Mellon Lectures, and if he were enmeshed in preparations for the new building, it would sap his time and energies.''
 He added, ''Until the week he died, he was talking to me about potential acquisitions that he wanted, including Jasper Johns's 'Diver,' which we succeeded in getting.''
 Asked if the new building would include a gallery named for Mr. Varnedoe, as some have urged, Mr. Lowry said, ''We want to do something to honor him, but whether it will be a gallery, a series of lectures, an acquisitions fund or what, I don't know. That will have to be discussed with the capital campaign committee, which deals with endowment and other monies.''
 Mr. Storr, who organized the Modern's Gerhardt Richter show in 2002, resigned for a professorship at New York University's Institute of Fine Arts. He did not respond to telephone messages seeking comment.
 To succeed Mr. Varnedoe, Mr. Lowry appointed John Elderfield, who has held several important curatorial posts at the museum, since 1993 that of curator at large. A laid-back but accomplished scholar who specializes in art of the first half of the 20th century, the museum's traditional focus, Mr. Elderfield put together the much-praised Matisse retrospective in 1992.
 Mr. Elderfield is seen as a conciliator rather than a firebrand, who gets along with Mr. Lowry and whose views are perceived as a viable bridge between the classic Modernism that is the museum's base -- its magnificent core collection of Modernist art -- and the work produced by current artists that ties it to the present and future.
 He has named two new curators, Ann Temkin and Joachim Pissarro, to his department. Both are well-respected, with experience in contemporary art at major museums, but neither can be characterized as cutting-edge radical, adding to complaints that the Modern is too conservative.
 But since its inception, the Modern has created a continuing debate on just how ''modern'' -- meaning devoted to the great art of the early 20th century -- it can remain while trying to keep up with the art of the present day. 
 Mr. Lowry maintains that the museum's firm commitment is to the idea of contemporary art. ''MOMA is not now and won't be in the future a museum of 20th-century art,'' he has said. As evidence that much of its energy will be focused on the present, he points to the Modern's recent alliance with the very much here-and-now exhibition center, P.S. 1 in Queens, and the establishment of a substantial acquisitions pot called the Fund for the 21st Century to support art made only since 2000.
 ''We are now evolving into the 21st century,'' he said. 
 Ronald S. Lauder, the museum's chairman, pointed out that Mr. Lowry himself was well-versed in current art. ''He keeps up with what young artists are doing,'' Mr. Lauder said, ''and he knows the field. He goes out visiting studios of those who don't even have galleries yet.'' 
 Mr. Elderfield said that of the three floors to be devoted to the permanent collection in the new museum, one will be entirely given over to presenting art since 1970. ''Contemporary art benefits from being viewed in the context of early modern art, and vice versa,'' he said. ''More established and newer art both gain energy from the friction.'' 
 Everything happening at the Modern now ''has to be seen in the context of how much the new building permeates all our thinking,'' said Terry Riley, chief curator of the Modern's department of art and architecture.
 ''Someone's got to make the decisions,'' he said, ''things have to happen and happen now. There's nothing that really compares in scale and sheer importance to the expansion. Glenn will be judged first and foremost by this; there's not even a second issue. He's assumed a lot of responsibility that would have crushed other people.''
 The priorities now, as Mr. Lowry sees them, ''are to finish our exhibition program in Queens and move back. Then open the new museum and get it under control. Then we'll resolve all the pieces of the equation still open.''
 His drive and energy having been likened by some of his colleagues to that of Philippe de Montebello, director of the Metropolitan since 1977, Mr. Lowry was asked if that post would interest him. ''I think he's one of the greatest museum directors this country has ever produced,'' he said of Mr. de Montebello. ''What's great is that he's deeply and passionately committed to art. Would I want that job? I do what I do and love it.''


GRAPHIC: Photos: BOLD MOVE -- Glenn D. Lowry, top, has overseen the Museum of Modern Art's expansion, which included moving to temporary quarters in Queens, where ''Matisse Picasso,'' above, was the first show. (Photo by Associated Press)
 (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. G18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); FUNDRAISING (89%); THIS DAY IN HISTORY (76%); RELIGION (72%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



662 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 3; Classified; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 912 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths
HERMAN, HOWARD R.

 BODY:
 HERMAN--Howard R. Most beloved and loving husband of Arline. Devoted father of Joshua and Melissa Herman, and Rachel and Andrew Scheff. Adored grandfather of Matthew and Lauren Scheff, and Dylan and Olivia Herman. Beloved brother of Lovey and Murray Beer, Paul and Malka Herman, and Alan and Sandra Rubin. Devoted son-in-law of Pauline Rubin. Loved by his nephews, nieces and their children. Devoted son of the late Murry and Mickey Herman, and devoted son-in-law of the late Judge Charles Rubin. Funeral services will take place Wednesday, March 31st, 10AM at the Fair Lawn Jewish Center, Fair Lawn, New Jersey. Shiva will be observed at home. Contributions in Howard's name can be made to the Fair Lawn Jewish Center or to Hackensack University Medical Center. 
 HERMAN--Howard R. Daddy, Grandpa, your joyful life was a gift to us. We will forever treasure every moment we laughed with delight together. We will carry your love with us always. Rachel, Andy, Matthew, Lauren, Josh, Melissa, Dylan & Olivia 
 HERMAN--Howard R. The staff and tenants of the Fifth Avenue Jewelers Exchange express their sincere sympathy to the family of Howard R. Herman, a real ''gem'' of a man. We will miss him forever. 
 HERMAN--Howard R. We are deeply saddened by the loss of our friend and employer. He was a pillar of 47th Street and he will be sorely missed. Midtown Vault Corp. 
 HERMAN--Howard R. My dearest love, I have been in heaven with you for 42 years. Always, Your Love 
 HERMAN--Howard R. Howard R. Herman, a well known and respected jeweler in New York's Diamond District passed away on Monday, March 29, 2004. He will be deeply missed. His integrity, charisma and fairness in the world of jewelry and diamonds are attributes very few men possessed. Howard served as the president of the 47th Street Business Improvement District since its inception in 1997. Under his leadership, the organization successfully worked to positively publicize the Diamond District and improve the economic climate. Howard worked tirelessly in his role as president and helped bring together various parts of the diamond and jewelry industry to the common goal of making the Diamond District the best place to shop for jewelry in the world. His love of the Diamond District serves as an inspiration to the members of the 47th Street Business Improvement District, and the jewelry industry. We will profoundly miss his presence, guidance and leadership. The 47th Street Business Improvement District expresses its deepest sympathy to the Herman family. 
 HERMAN--Howard R. ''Now cracks a noble heart. Goodnight, sweet prince, And flights of angels sing thee to thy rest.'' We are deeply shaken and saddened by the passing of this vibrant, sweet and honest mensch, the twin brother of Paul, our very wonderful and beloved partner for over 30 years. Howard's joie de vivre, deeds of derring-do, positive outlook on life, lovingkindness towards all and ''maaseem tovim'' will always live on in the hearts and minds of all who were fortunate enough to come to know the quality of this fine man, most particularly, Howard's children and grandchildren. We grieve along with Arline, Joshua and Melissa, Rachel and Andrew, their children and the entire Herman family and send to each our heartfelt and sincere condolences. Herrick, Feinstein LLP 
 HERMAN--Howard. Our heartfelt sympathy to the family of Howard Herman OBM. Radio City Synagogue pays tribute to our devoted President and friend Howard Herman OBM for his dedication, devotion and zealous concern for the welfare of our Congregation. He was a man for all seasons. Howard's tireless efforts on behalf of worthy causes, our people, Yidishkeit and Torah values, assures him an honorable place in his heavenly abode. He graced our lives with pride and delight and will be missed by family, friends and all who knew him. Rabbi Jonah Weinberg Rabbi Moshe Weinberg and the entire Congregation 
 HERMAN--Howard. JBI International, formerly the Jewish Braille Institute, is saddened by the passing of the brother of our esteemed Trustee and Officer, Paul Herman. Our heartfelt thoughts and condolences are with the family during this time of sorrow. We pray that his memory will endure as a continuing blessing and inspiration to the entire family. Barbara B. Friedman, President Dr. Ellen Isler, Executive Vice President 
 HERMAN--Howard R. We will miss the smile, the jokes and, most of all, the warmth and love that Howard gave with a full heart. Our love and friendship will last forever. Our deepest sympathies to Arline, Josh and Melissa, Rachel and Andy, grandchildren and family. He will be missed by all who knew him. Leslie and Barbara Dubs and family 
 HERMAN--Howard R. To our Uncle Howard, you will always live in our hearts. It has been our great fortune to have your humor, generous spirit, love of family, heartfulness, and unmatched character in our lives. We love you forever. All your nieces and nephews 
 HERMAN--Howard R. Our beloved Uncle Howard always spiced up life with jokes and Tabasco sauce. Uncle Howard's animated stories of family lore wove together five generations. His memory inspires us to make every day full of fireworks. Murry & Tali 
 HERMAN--Howard. Warm and wonderful, his enthusiasm for life was unparalleled. We will miss his sparkle. Lucille and Mike, Aimee and Marvin, Melissa and Greg 
 HERMAN--Howard R. A most loving, kind and generous human being. We will miss our dear friend enormously. Carol and Bob Berliner 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (93%); GRANDPARENTS (90%); JEWELRY (89%); FINE JEWELRY (87%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); DIAMOND MARKETS (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



663 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; Editorial Desk; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: International Relations 101

BYLINE: By Robert M. Gates. 
Robert M. Gates, the director of central intelligence from 1991 to 1993, is president of Texas A&M University.

DATELINE: COLLEGE STATION, Tex. 

 BODY:
Osama bin Laden and other terrorists are on the brink of achieving an unanticipated victory, one that could have long-term consequences for the United States.
 Over the decades, millions of young people from other countries have come to America to study at our colleges and universities. Many have remained here to start companies, to keep us at the forefront of scientific and technological discovery, to teach in our schools and to enrich our culture. Many others have returned home to help build market economies and to lead political reform. 
 After 9/11, for perfectly understandable reasons, the federal government made it much tougher to get a visa to come to the United States. Sadly, the unpredictability and delays that characterize the new system -- and, too often, the indifference or hostility of those doing the processing -- have resulted over the last year or so in a growing number of the world's brightest young people deciding to remain at home or go to other countries for their college or graduate education. Thousands of legitimate international students are being denied entry into the United States or are giving up in frustration and anger.
 At 90 percent of American colleges and universities, applications from international students for fall 2004 are down, according to a survey by the Council of Graduate Schools that was released earlier this month. According to a recent article in The Chronicle of Higher Education, applications from China have fallen by 76 percent, while those from India have dropped by 58 percent. Applications to research universities from prospective international graduate students are down by at least 25 percent overall; here at Texas A&M, international student applications have fallen by 38 percent from last year.
 Not surprisingly, universities in Australia, Britain, France and elsewhere are taking advantage of our barriers and are aggressively recruiting these students. According to the Chronicle, foreign student enrollment in Australia is up 16.5 percent over last year; Chinese enrollment there has risen by 20 percent.
 Why should we be concerned? For starters, it is a sad reality that relatively small numbers of American students pursue graduate degrees in engineering and science. As a result, the research efforts at many American universities depend on international graduate students. They do much of the laboratory work that leads to new discoveries.
 More troubling is the impact that declining foreign enrollments could have in the war on terrorism. To defeat terrorism, our global military, law enforcement and intelligence capacities must be complemented with positive initiatives and programs aimed at the young people in developing nations who will guide their countries in the future. No policy has proved more successful in making friends for the United States, during the cold war and since, than educating students from abroad at our colleges and universities.
 I take a back seat to no one in concern about our security at home in an age of terrorism. I am now the president of Texas A&M, but I spent nearly 30 years at the Central Intelligence Agency, ultimately serving as director under President George H. W. Bush. I learned during that time that protecting our security requires more than defensive measures; we have to win the war of ideas, too. For this reason, we simply cannot tolerate a visa process that fails to differentiate quickly and accurately between legitimate scholars and students -- and individuals who may pose genuine security risks.
 Senior officials in the White House and in the Departments of State and Homeland Security understand the importance of solving the visa processing problem. But carrying out post-9/11 visa policies and procedures has been badly hamstrung by a lack of resources, unrealistic deadlines and shortcomings in scanning technologies and background checks. American universities have had a difficult time tracking foreign student applicants as they move through the screening process -- and there are just too many people in visa offices who are indifferent to the importance of these students to America.
 Universities are willing partners in strengthening homeland security. This is not the 1960's. We are working with the government to keep track of international students. But averting a serious defeat for the United States -- and serious problems for all its research universities -- will require urgent action by Congress and the administration. Beyond the risk to economic, scientific and political interests, we risk something more: alienating our allies of the future.


LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (90%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); WAR ON TERROR (79%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (79%); COLD WAR (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MATH & SCIENCE EDUCATION (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY ADMISSIONS (77%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (76%); EMERGING MARKETS (75%); IMMIGRATION (74%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (68%); REFUGEES (66%); WAR & CONFLICT (61%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (60%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (60%) Terrorism; Colleges and Universities; Immigration and Refugees; Foreign Students; Science and Technology; Colleges and Universities; Teachers and School Employees; United States Economy; Terrorism

COMPANY: CHRONICLE OF HIGHER EDUCATION (54%)

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (59%) Central Intelligence Agency

PERSON: OSAMA BIN LADEN (89%); ROBERT M GATES (54%) Robert M Gates; Osama Bin Laden

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (98%); AUSTRALIA (92%); CHINA (79%); INDIA (79%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



664 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6; COMMERCIAL REAL ESTATE: REGIONAL MARKET -- New Jersey

LENGTH: 812 words

HEADLINE: Going Several Extra MilesIn a Depressed Office Market

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE

 BODY:
In the largest deal in recent years in Franklin Township, one of the weakest office markets in New Jersey, a big benefit-services provider will relocate to 147,000 square feet of space under a seven-and-a-half-year lease worth more than $25 million.
 The new tenant, CitiStreet, based in Quincy, Mass., will move its Retirement Services Division, with 625 employees, from East Brunswick, N.J., to 400 Atrium Drive in Franklin Township, a 354,000-square-foot structure about an hour's drive from Manhattan. It is part of a four-building office complex with a separate conference and exhibition center near Interstate 287, all owned by the Archon Group of Dallas. CitiStreet, a joint venture of Citigroup and State Street of Boston, provides administrative services for retirement, health and other benefit plans. 
 To secure the tenant, the owner is keeping the space open until 2005, when CitiStreet's current lease expires, and has agreed to pay half the cost of relocation and renovation.
 The deal, some brokers said, illustrates how far a landlord must go to get a large creditworthy tenant in Franklin Township, a Somerset County community with a 40.4 percent office vacancy rate, much of it prime space. That is the highest vacancy rate of any major office market in New Jersey, according to preliminary figures from Cushman & Wakefield, the real estate services firm.
 Average asking rents of $25.20 a square foot annually for prime space in Franklin Township are among the state's lowest, Cushman & Wakefield said. The township has been one of the first markets to wither in bad economic times and one of the last to rebound in good ones, brokers say.
 As for concessions, ''landlords have to pull out the stops,'' said Douglas Haynes, managing principal of Cresa Partners, a real estate services firm in Paramus, N.J., that specializes in representing tenants. 
 ''Any deal,'' he said, ''is like selling ice to Eskimos.'' 
 Most of the empty space in Franklin Township can be traced to the consolidation, relocation and restructuring of Merrill Lynch and AT&T, which released some 1.2 million square feet of offices onto the market amid the general economic decline from late 2001 to the middle of 2002. Some of that was in the Atrium Corporate Center, leaving it half-empty as of the end of 2003, said Fred Arena, corporate director of commercial real estate at Archon's office in Chatham, N.J.
 He said his company also lost AT&T as the tenant in a two-building complex it owns elsewhere in the township.
 Mr. Arena said Archon was investing $3 million to upgrade the Atrium buildings, adding, ''We have to work harder, smarter and more aggressively in such a tough market and do creative deals.'' 
 Paul H. Coller, senior vice president for human resources at Citi-Street's Retirement Services Division, said that under the deal his company would save more than $2 million a year in rent it now pays in East Brunswick. He said the landlord would also share about half the cost of relocating to Franklin Township and renovating the new space. He would not disclose the figure.
 A minimal office renovation including furniture and equipment typically costs $60 to $75 a square foot, said Joseph J. Sarno, a senior director at Cushman & Wakefield, which represented CitiStreet in the deal. He said he was encouraged that CitiStreet would be spending money to relocate. The New Jersey office market has been so lethargic that most tenants are renewing leases to keep costs down. The CitiStreet move suggests that ''the worst of the market may be behind us,'' he said. 
 By relocating, Mr. Coller added, CitiStreet will ''regroup in a more efficient manner'' into less space. The company now occupies 184,000 square feet on seven floors at 2 Tower Center in East Brunswick, and will take slightly more than four floors at 400 Atrium Drive. 
 Neither party would disclose the effective rent. 
 Mr. Coller said it was not only the deal's economics but also the year's lead time that ''tipped the scale in its favor.'' Mr. Arena said securing a solid tenant now rather than waiting for one ''that might not come'' was worth giving up a year's rent. He hopes that attracting CitiStreet ''gives us credibility'' and may entice others to look at the office park.
 Mr. Sarno of Cushman & Wakefield, which is the leasing agent for the park, said four prospective tenants there were seeking a total of 200,000 square feet.
 Elsewhere in the market, David E. Knee, an executive vice president at Binswanger/Klatskin, a corporate real estate services firm in Teterboro, N.J., said he was working with two companies that were attracted to space that telecommunications companies had left behind in Franklin Township. 
 There is ''a breath of life in the market,'' he said, adding that ''it will take a significant amount of activity to make a dent in the supply.''


GRAPHIC: Photo: Future site of CitiStreet's retirement unit in Franklin Township, N.J. (Photo by Carl Mink)Map of New Jersey highlighting Franklin Township: Franklin Township in Somerset County, N.J., has heavy vacancies.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (91%); RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (90%); RELOCATIONS (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (87%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (77%); CONSTRUCTION (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (74%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); JOINT VENTURES (69%); EXECUTIVES (68%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (55%) Office Buildings and Commercial Properties; Relocation of Business; Renting and Leasing

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); ARCHON GROUP LP (71%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CUSHMAN & WAKEFIELD INC (54%); CRESA PARTNERS (53%)

ORGANIZATION: CitiStreet

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (71%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); NAICS531390 OTHER ACTIVITIES RELATED TO REAL ESTATE (54%); NAICS531210 OFFICES OF REAL ESTATE AGENTS & BROKERS (54%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (54%)

PERSON: Rachelle Garbarine

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) Franklin Township (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



665 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 525 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Administration Defends Worldwide Free Trade
The Bush administration, still sparring with Senator John Kerry over the issue of trade, said the practice of exporting work overseas had little to do with the loss of jobs in the United States. John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, said that the practice of moving American jobs to low-cost countries ''is part of trade'' and that ''there can't be any doubt about the fact that trade makes the economy stronger.''
 Mr. Snow's comments reflect a growing willingness by the Bush administration to defend global free trade even in hard-hit industrial states like Ohio. [Page C7.]

White House Rejected I.R.S. Plan
The Bush administration has scuttled a plan to increase the number of criminal financial investigators working to disrupt the finances of terrorist groups because it would save $12 million, a Congressional hearing was told. [C2.]

Trujillo Quits France Telecom Unit
Solomon D. Trujillo, the former chief executive of US West, is stepping down as head of Orange, the wireless arm of France Telecom after a little more than a year. France Telecom said the departure was part of a larger reorganization that meant that Orange, the biggest wireless operator in Britain and France and once a stand-alone company, would be reintegrated into its parent. [C6.]

File Sharing Suits Move Overseas
The music industry announced legal action against 247 people accused of illegal file sharing outside the United States, taking its piracy fight abroad. [World Business, Section W.]

Liberal Radio Network Makes Debut
The liberal radio network Air America makes its debut today, with the satirist Al Franken at the microphone. [E1.]

Market Specialists Settle Charges
Five New York Stock Exchange specialist firms will pay $241.8 million to settle charges that they profited from illegal trading practices on the floor of the exchange. [C5.]

Rigas Accountant Cross-Examined
A lawyer for the founder of Adelphia, John Rigas, tried to counter damaging testimony given by his client's personal accountant. [C6.]

Stocks Rise in Quiet Trading
The Dow Jones industrial average ended up 52.07 points, to 10,381.70. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 4.53 points, to 1,127.00. The Nasdaq composite index gained 8.06 points, to 2,000.63. [C7.]

Intel Settles Claims Over Chips
Intel agreed to pay $225 million to the Intergraph Corporation to settle remaining claims that its Itanium chip infringed on Intergraph's patents. The settlement brings the total amount Intel has paid or will pay to Intergraph, a graphics software and systems company based in Huntsville, Ala., to $675 million. [C6.]

Planned Nielsen Changes Criticized
The N.A.A.C.P. and lawmakers from both parties are complaining that proposed changes in how Nielsen gathers local television ratings will drastically undercount the number of black and Hispanic viewers. Advertising. [C4.]

Nuclear Power Plant Planned
Seven companies plan to announce that they will apply for a license to build a new commercial nuclear power plant. [A14.]

Consumer Confidence Dips
Consumer confidence edged lower in March, with Americans surveyed expressing concern about slow job creation. [C7.]


GRAPHIC: PhotoChart: ''YESTERDAY''Dow industrials -- 10,381.70 up 52.07Nasdaq composite -- 2,000.63 up 8.0610-yr. Treasury yield -- 3.89% unch.The euro -- $1,2191 up 0.0048The dollar -- 105.58 yen up 0.12Graph: ''TODAY'' shows factory orders from August 2003 to January 2004.Factory OrdersFebruary figures due at 10 a.m. Eastern time.Expected: +1.5%Graph tracks the daily closing price of Intel shares for the week.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Summary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); TESTIMONY (89%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LIBERAL MEDIA (86%); LAYOFFS (77%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (77%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); WITNESSES (73%); LITIGATION (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); CROSS EXAMINATIONS (73%); WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (72%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); LAWYERS (70%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (69%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (68%); SUITS & CLAIMS (66%); PATENT INFRINGEMENT (65%); COMPUTER CHIPS (64%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (64%); LOCAL TELEVISION STATIONS (61%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (60%); PATENTS (60%); TERRORISM (53%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (53%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Terms not available from NYTimes

COMPANY: FRANCE TELECOM SA (95%); INTERGRAPH CORP (81%); INTEL CORP (81%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (53%)

TICKER: FTE (PAR) (95%); FTE (NYSE) (95%); FTE (BIT) (95%); INTC (NASDAQ) (81%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (81%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (81%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (81%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (81%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (81%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (81%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); AL FRANKEN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (50%) ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); FRANCE (90%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



666 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section G; Column 3; Museums; Pg. 20; SURFING

LENGTH: 955 words

HEADLINE: Nixon's Tax Return, A Cyberspace Treasure

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
DAWN MACHACEK became a taxpayer last year when she worked as a lifeguard between her sophomore and junior years at Kittatinny Regional High School in Newton, N.J. Even though $238 was withheld from her paychecks, Dawn had little idea what taxes were for until a teacher, Bob Magnuson, took the class to an unusual new museum, the Tax History Museum.
 Instead of riding a school bus for a long trek, however, Dawn and her classmates opened up browsers in the school's computer lab, because the Tax History Museum exists only in cyberspace at Tax.org/museum.
 It is one of a small number of museums that have no physical presence but can still open minds young and old to new insights about the world. Among these virtual-only museums are collections of text and images devoted to the history of money and the art of Diego Rivera, the Mexican muralist. 
 ''Initially I thought this is going to be a drag because taxes are never fun,'' Dawn said. ''My mom sits there for three days, doing mom's and dad's taxes, and now mine, and you have to get everything just right. And so I was sure a tax museum was not going to be fun and yet I ended up learning a lot.''
 ''I was surprised,'' she said, ''at how much taxes are, how many people revolted against them because they did not think it was fair and how the poor had to pay more and richer people got to pay less'' before the income tax was enacted.
 Dawn, 16, was especially intrigued with the museum's political cartoons, like one from 1913, when the income tax began. It shows a working man running on a treadmill labeled ''government expenses.'' He looks over his shoulder and declares, ''Look who's here,'' as a fat man in a top hat representing the ''idle rich'' climbs aboard the treadmill. Around the rich man's neck is a clamp marked ''income tax'' that is chained to the treadmill, making sure he cannot escape the burden of financing government. 
 Dawn's friend, Nicole Amorosino, 16, who also works part time, said she was struck by a political cartoon that used an image of the Liberty Bell to promote the sale of war bonds more than 80 years ago. ''It was propaganda,'' she said.
 Joseph J. Thorndike, a historian who created the Tax History Museum for Tax Analysts, a nonprofit organization in Arlington, Va., said his primary audience is professors, but he also hopes to attract students so that they learn accurate history.
 Few students, he said, understand that the Boston Tea Party was not a protest against a tax, as taught in schools, but was a protest against a tax exemption for one tea company favored by King George III.
 The museum's home page has what looks like a floor plan, the kind printed on pamphlets handed out at the door to guide visitors through a collection. At this museum you click to enter a room, each covering an era from 1660 to the present.
 Most of the collection is not on display in the main rooms, however. Clicking on ''tax history home'' beneath the virtual floor plan opens other pages, including those with copies of tax returns filed by Jimmy Carter and each of his successors, including one return filed by Richard M. Nixon and four by Franklin D. Roosevelt, as well as Treasury Department studies in the 1930's that examined what were then, and remain now, major issues in taxation.
 The Museum of Money and Financial Institutions (Museumofmon ey.org) is the cyberspace invention of Martin Shubik, a professor of economics at Yale University, who sees it as an interim step toward the physical museum he wants to create on Wall Street.
 ''The basic idea here is a total hybrid,'' he said. ''Suppose you wanted to bring a museum to a large high school. How can you bring a museum to a large high school? For half a million bucks?''
 And unlike physical museums that keep as much as 98 percent of their collection in the basement, virtual museums ''don't have to raise money for a new wing, you just add pages,'' Professor Shubik said.
 One of the most intriguing pages at the Museum of Money is an image of the first known loan contract, a cuneiform tablet from ancient Sumeria, in which the lender kept the borrower's son as collateral.
 It is the inability to see objects in a virtual museum that troubles David Gelernter, one of Professor Shubick's colleagues who helped create the museum. Professor Gelernter, a computer science theorist at Yale who is also the art critic for The Weekly Standard magazine, takes a traditionalist stance that virtual museums are not really museums at all.
 Unless the viewer can see actual objects ''that sense of authority and authenticity is not conveyed,'' Professor Gelernter said.
 The idea of looking at images of the tax returns filed by presidents, like those on the tax history museum site, comes closest to justifying a purely cyberspace presence, he said. Even so, Professor Gelernter said, ''in the final analysis, that is what a museum has to be and whatever you call a collection of stuff online, it is a database and not a museum.''
 Still, he said, ''there is an intermediate point that will be explored and hasn't been explored sufficiently'' of providing online access to objects to teach and to reinforce ties between visitors and museums.
 Javier Rivera, a Web designer from Miami who created DiegoRivera.com, an online museum to honor his distant cousin, the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera, thinks an online presence is an effective and inexpensive way to spread knowledge efficiently. He said students are among those who contact him most often. He also gets many questions about the location of various Rivera murals and how to obtain rights to reproduce images. 
 ''I help students, but I also tell them they should do their own research and not just take what I tell them,'' Mr. Rivera said.


GRAPHIC: Photos: W-2's Rock! Joseph J. Thorndike, above, who created the virtual-only Tax History Museum, whose home page, top, features a tax ''timeline.'' (Photo by Jamie Rose for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); TAXES & TAXATION (91%); HISTORY (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); VISUAL ARTISTS (76%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL TRANSPORTATION (73%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (68%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); SALES & SELLING (50%) Terms not available from NYTimes

PERSON: RICHARD NIXON (61%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%) VIRGINIA, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



667 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1411 words

HEADLINE: Saudis Push Plan for Cut In Production By OPEC

BYLINE: By SIMON ROMERO; Steven R. Weisman, in Washington, and Richard W. Stevenson, in Wisconsin, contributed reporting for this article.

DATELINE: VIENNA, March 30 

 BODY:
Saudi Arabia, the pivotal member of OPEC, signaled on Tuesday that it was pushing forward with a plan to lower the cartel's target for crude oil production by a million barrels a day, a move that would keep oil prices high.
 In practical terms, the development meant that despite the misgivings of some member nations, OPEC officials gathering for a meeting here on Wednesday are not likely to increase oil production to relieve prices, as desired by the United States, where energy costs have become a political issue.
 ''Throwing more oil on the market would be destructive for everybody,'' said Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister. 
 Mr. Naimi brushed aside criticism that his nation was seeking higher financial returns from its oil exports. He said the recent run-up in prices had been caused by a spate of speculative activity in the commodity markets, not by inadequate supply. 
 As if cued by Mr. Naimi's remarks, the price of light crude for delivery in a month's time climbed 80 cents, to $36.25 a barrel, in New York trading on Tuesday, approaching the 13-year high it reached earlier this month. 
 Growing concern in Washington over rising prices seems to be having little effect on OPEC's decisions. The average retail price for gasoline rose on Tuesday to $1.753 a gallon, a record high, according to AAA, formerly the American Automobile Association; the average was $1.69 a gallon a month ago. Still, the United States is placing ''very little'' pressure on Saudi Arabia and other OPEC countries to keep production up, a senior official from an OPEC country said Tuesday.
 ''The U.S. doesn't really get involved,'' the official asserted, noting that everyone remembered how little success the former energy secretary, Bill Richardson, had several years ago when he tried to use overt diplomatic pressure on the group. 
 This official even asserted that OPEC had recently been leaning toward increasing production, but then put off the idea to avoid any appearance of doing Washington's bidding. ''The administration knows this history,'' this official said. ''We are telling them, keep your mouth shut.''
 The Bush administration is under increasing pressure to explain its approach to higher oil and gasoline costs. Twenty-five Democratic senators urged President Bush in a letter Tuesday to press OPEC to increase production. And at a campaign rally in San Diego, Senator John Kerry said the Bush administration had not done enough to hold down energy costs. ''We should be putting pressure on OPEC to increase the supplies and not allow those countries to undermine the economies of the world,'' Senator Kerry said.
 Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, dismissed the criticism. ''We continue to engage in ongoing discussions with major producers around the world about the importance of letting the market determine the prices,'' Mr. McClellan told reporters while traveling with President Bush in Wisconsin. 
 But he said the administration had ruled out a step urged by Senator Kerry and many members of both parties in Congress: temporarily suspending government purchases of oil for the Strategic Petroleum Reserve. Such a step ''would have a negligible impact'' on prices, he said.
 Other members of the administration have also been trying to explain their policy toward OPEC. Spencer Abraham, the energy secretary, told the Senate Armed Services Committee last week that while the administration was concerned about prices, ''we've also made it clear that we're not going to beg for oil.''
 But Andrew H. Card Jr., the president's chief of staff, appearing on MSNBC two days later, said that the United States was consulting with its ''allies'' in OPEC and asking for more production.
 A senior administration official said that ''there has been a commonality of views across administrations on the issue of energy security'' that includes informal, nonpublic discussions with OPEC oil ministers. 
 ''We have active informal contacts with oil ministers from most OPEC countries,'' the official said, and the message is ''we want to see oil production levels that are consistent with the needs of a growing world economy'' -- a code phrase for more production.
 The Saudi oil minister, Mr. Naimi, said that the political pressures developing in the United States were understandable but misdirected. ''People in power know that crude supplies have nothing to do with the current gasoline prices in the U.S.,'' Mr. Naimi said in Vienna. ''A lot of things will be said in an election year.''
 The 11 members of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries now produce about one-third of the world's oil supply, or about 26 million barrels a day, almost 11 percent more than the group's official target of 23.5 million barrels a day for April. 
 Pushed up in part by strong demand from China and the United States, prices for West Texas intermediate crude oil, the benchmark American grade, averaged $35.25 a barrel in the first quarter, the highest in 20 years, according to Cambridge Energy Research Associates. Though American gasoline prices are rising for a number of reasons, including the switch to cleaner-burning blends and increases in demand, the price of crude is still considered the most important factor.
 There appears to be strong sentiment within OPEC to keep prices high. Several delegates here spoke in support of Saudi Arabia's stance, including those from Algeria, Libya and Venezuela. ''I feel we should go with the cut,'' Fathi bin Shatwan, the Libyan oil minister, told reporters after arriving in Vienna. ''Maybe there's a bit of oversupply, even.''
 Some producers in the Persian Gulf, notably the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, appeared hesitant about going ahead with the plan to lower production targets, which was adopted at a meeting in Algiers last month. But Saudi Arabia alone has the ability to increase or decrease output rapidly, so its views are expected to prevail. Helped by robust oil sales, the Saudi economy is growing at its fastest pace since the early 1980's. 
 The alluring economic benefits of high prices are hard for producers to resist, and few analysts believe that any OPEC member other than, perhaps, Saudi Arabia will actually start producing much less oil, even if the organization decides to go ahead with the lowered targets. It would be almost impossible, for instance, for the group to reduce its production for April at this point, because member nations have already committed themselves to shipping oil to customers around the world next month.
 Data collected by analysts that track tanker movement also hold few signs that crude shipments will slow. Vela, the tanker arm of Saudi Arabia's national oil company, is believed to be sending more shipments to American ports in the Gulf of Mexico in April than in any month since last October, said Katherine Spector, an energy strategist at Deutsche Bank.
 ''We might get cuts from a smaller OPEC member like the U.A.E, but more for reasons of maintenance than anything else,'' Ms. Spector said. ''It's hard to see any significant cuts taking place.''
 Two leading oil producers that are not part of OPEC -- Russia and Mexico -- have signaled their view that prices have risen too high and may start damping global economic activity. Russia, which is attending Wednesday's meeting as an observer, said it was issuing a formal warning on prices.
 ''We cannot seek financial benefits at the expense of consumers, as it would spark inflation and destabilize the world's economy,'' Alexander Voronin, Russia's deputy energy minister, said in a statement. 
 One of OPEC's normally quiet members, Iraq, is said to have suggested convening an emergency meeting of the organization next month to reassess prices and demand -- another indication, analysts said, that OPEC is trying more actively than in the past to influence world oil prices. 
 Still, Iraq is not expected to play a major role in OPEC decisions for some time, analysts said. The country now produces roughly 2.5 million to 2.6 million barrels of crude a day, compared with 3.5 million barrels a day in the 1980's, the last time it was affected by OPEC quota obligations.
 Jim Burkhard, director of oil market analysis at Cambridge Energy Research Associates, said it was unlikely that Iraq would become an important member of OPEC until it was able to increase production steadily without a threat of sabotage to its oil operations.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Ali al-Naimi, the Saudi oil minister, said, ''Throwing more oil on the market would be destructive for everybody,'' (Photo by Agence France-Presse)(pg. C1)
 Kuwait's energy minister, Sheik Ahmad al-Fahd al-Sabah, left, and Ibrahim Bahr al-Uloum, Iraq's oil minister, right, leaving for Vienna yesterday. (Photo by European Pressphotos Agency)(pg. C2)Chart: ''Exceeding Their Quotas''Most of the countries in OPEC have been producing more oil than they are allotted under their quotas.Chart shows February figures in millions of barrels a daySaudi ArabiaDAILY QUOTA: 7.96DAILY PRODUCTION: 8.45IranDAILY QUOTA: 3.56DAILY PRODUCTION: 3.92VenezuelaDAILY QUOTA: 2.82DAILY PRODUCTION: 2.54NigeriaDAILY QUOTA: 2.02DAILY PRODUCTION: 2.34United Arab EmiratesDAILY QUOTA: 2.14DAILY PRODUCTION: 2.22KuwaitDAILY QUOTA: 1.97DAILY PRODUCTION: 2.21IraqDAILY QUOTA: *DAILY PRODUCTION: 1.90LibyaDAILY QUOTA: 1.31DAILY PRODUCTION: 1.46AlgeriaDAILY QUOTA: 0.78DAILY PRODUCTION: 1.15IndonesiaDAILY QUOTA: 1.27DAILY PRODUCTION: 0.99QatarDAILY QUOTA: 0.64DAILY PRODUCTION: 0.75*Iraq's quota is not currently set by OPEC(Source by Platts)(pg. C1) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (92%); CARTELS (90%); CRUDE OIL & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); OIL EXTRACTION (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); FUTURES (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); GASOLINE (78%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (78%); FUEL MARKETS (77%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (77%); COMMODITIES TRADING (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); ELECTIONS (75%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (67%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Production; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); International Trade and World Market; Futures and Options Trading; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Election Issues ; Presidential Election of 2004; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline

COMPANY: AMERICAN AUTOMOBILE ASSOCIATION (82%)

ORGANIZATION: ORGANIZATION OF THE PETROLEUM EXPORTING COUNTRIES (94%) Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries

INDUSTRY: NAICS561599 ALL OTHER TRAVEL ARRANGEMENT & RESERVATION SERVICES (82%); NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (82%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (82%); SIC4729 ARRANGEMENT OF PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION, NEC (82%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (76%); BILL RICHARDSON (58%) Ali Al- (Min) Naimi; George W (Pres) Bush; John (Sen) Kerry; Scott Mcclellan; Steven R Weisman; Richard W Stevenson

GEOGRAPHIC: VIENNA, AUSTRIA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (96%); IRAQ (92%); AUSTRIA (88%); KUWAIT (79%) Saudi Arabia

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



668 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 780 words

HEADLINE: Treasury Chief Defends Outsourcing of U.S. Work

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30 

 BODY:
The Bush administration, still sparring with Senator John Kerry over the issue of trade, said the practice of exporting work overseas had little to do with the loss of jobs in the United States.
 John W. Snow, the Treasury secretary, said in an interview with The Cincinnati Enquirer that the practice of moving American jobs to low-cost countries ''is part of trade'' and that ''there can't be any doubt about the fact that trade makes the economy stronger.''
 Mr. Snow's comments, published on Tuesday, reflect a growing willingness by the Bush administration to defend global free trade even in hard-hit industrial states like Ohio that have lost tens of thousands of factory jobs and where many voters blame competition from countries like China and India for the loss. Mr. Snow was visiting Ohio to promote the White House's economic policies. 
 Mr. Kerry, the presumptive Democratic nominee, proposed a sweeping overhaul of corporate tax law aimed at eliminating incentives for American companies to expand their foreign operations at the expense of those in the United States.
 Mr. Kerry called for eliminating the ability of corporations to defer the taxes on foreign profits as long as companies keep those profits outside the United States. In exchange, he proposed that Congress would use the additional tax revenue to reduce the corporate tax rate for all companies by about 5 percent.
 Mr. Snow, though not attacking the Kerry proposal directly, said foreign trade played ''a modest role at best'' in the nation's anemic rate of job creation over the last year.
 Mr. Snow's description of the role played by ''outsourcing'' was reminiscent of remarks last month by N. Gregory Mankiw, chairman of the White House Council of Economic Advisers.
 Mr. Mankiw provoked an outpouring of angry protest, some of it from Republican lawmakers, when he also defended outsourcing as merely another form of international trade that was ultimately a ''plus'' for the United States.
 At the time, administration officials gave only tepid support to Mr. Mankiw, who was forced to apologize for his remarks in a letter to the Republican speaker of the House, J. Dennis Hastert.
 But Mr. Bush and other top officials have become less apologetic about their support for free trade and their reluctance to attack companies that obtain their products or their components from Asia or Latin America.
 Mr. Bush, speaking to business executives in Appleton, Wis., said on Tuesday that Mr. Kerry ''would build walls around America'' by re-examining the North American Free Trade Agreement and other trade treaties.
 Stephanie Cutter, Mr. Kerry's spokeswoman, immediately pounced on Mr. Snow for tacitly encouraging companies that shift work overseas.
 ''George Bush again today blamed everybody but himself for the nation's poor economy,'' Ms. Cutter said. ''Too bad he didn't know that at the same time his Treasury secretary was talking about Bush's secret plan to send more American jobs overseas.''
 Top officials at the Federal Reserve, though independent of the Bush administration, have sided with the White House in defending free trade.
 Ben S. Bernanke, one of the central bank's most visible and outspoken board members, said on Tuesday that foreign trade accounted for only a tiny fraction of the 2.2 million jobs that have been lost over the last three years.
 Mr. Bernanke, citing estimates by outside economists that foreign trade may have led to the loss of as many as 167,000 jobs a year since 2001, said the numbers were small in comparison with the nation's overall pace of both job creation and job destruction. During the 1990's, Mr. Bernanke said, the United States lost about 15 million jobs a year but gained about 17 million jobs.
 ''Quantitatively, outsourcing abroad simply cannot account for much of the recent weakness in the U.S. labor market,'' he told an audience at Duke University's Fuqua School of Business. 
 Mr. Bernanke argued that the biggest reason for the weak job market was the rapid rise in domestic productivity, which has allowed companies to make more goods without hiring additional workers. American productivity has grown by about 5 percent a year for the last two years, twice its normal pace. 
 William Poole, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, told a college audience in Indiana that foreign trade and outsourcing would ultimately benefit the United States by reducing prices at home and expanding export markets. 
 ''This process has been going on in the course of economic development for hundreds of years,'' Mr. Poole said. ''So this is a fact of life. It's not something that we're going to reverse.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LAYOFFS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); OUTSOURCING (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (89%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (83%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); OFFSHORING (78%); NIGHT & SHIFT WORK (77%); RELOCATIONS (77%); CORPORATE TAX (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); JOB CREATION (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); FACTORY WORKERS (74%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); TAX LAW (72%); VOTERS & VOTING (69%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (69%); EXECUTIVES (67%) International Trade and World Market; Election Issues; United States Economy; Relocation of Business; Treaties; North American Free Trade Agreement; International Trade and World Market; Presidential Election of 2004; Labor; Layoffs and Job Reductions; Unemployment; Hiring and Promotion

ORGANIZATION: NORTH AMERICAN FREE TRADE AGREEMENT (59%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (92%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%) Edmund L Andrews; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush; John W (Sec) Snow; Stephanie Cutter

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%); WISCONSIN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CHINA (79%); ASIA (79%); INDIA (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



669 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 2; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1005 words

HEADLINE: Defying Bush, Senate Increases Child Care Funds for the Poor

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30 

 BODY:
Over strenuous objections from the White House, the Senate voted on Tuesday for a significant increase in money to provide child care to welfare recipients and other low-income families. 
 The vote, 78 to 20, expressed broad bipartisan support for a proposal to add $6 billion to child care programs over the next five years, on top of a $1 billion increase that was already included in a sweeping welfare bill. The federal government now earmarks $4.8 billion a year for such child care assistance.
 The Bush administration objected to the increase in child care money, saying it was not needed. 
 But President Bush and Republican leaders in Congress favor the overall bill, which would renew the 1996 welfare law and impose stricter work requirements on welfare recipients.
 The bill still faces political and procedural hurdles in the Senate, where Democrats want to add amendments on the minimum wage, overtime pay, unemployment benefits and other topics.
 Despite the White House objections, 31 Republicans, including the Senate majority leader, Bill Frist of Tennessee, joined 46 Democrats and one independent in voting for the child care proposal, offered by Senators Olympia J. Snowe, Republican of Maine, and Christopher J. Dodd, Democrat of Connecticut, as part of a bill to update the 1996 law.
 Members of both parties said they voted for the increase because Congress could not require welfare recipients to work longer hours without more child care.
 ''If the aim of welfare reform is to move people off the welfare rolls and onto payrolls, if we want families to leave welfare and to stay off welfare, we have to provide them with affordable child care,'' Ms. Snowe said. ''Only one in 7, or 15 percent, of eligible children are now receiving assistance with the cost of day care.''
 Mr. Dodd said, ''You can't get from welfare to work without child care.'' 
 Senator Orrin G. Hatch, Republican of Utah, said the extra money for child care ''goes hand in hand with an increase in the work requirements.''
 The House passed its version of the welfare bill in February 2003, with a $1 billion increase in automatic, or mandatory, spending for child care over five years. House Republicans are keen to update the 1996 welfare law, which they and some Democrats see as one of their most significant achievements. Some lawmakers have suggested that the two chambers might split the difference on child care.
 Senate Republican leaders said they hoped to finish work on the welfare legislation this week, so they could begin trying to work out differences with the House. Senator Dodd said that day care for a child could cost $4,000 to $10,000 a year and that more than 600,000 eligible children were on waiting lists for such care. States can use the federal money to subsidize child care for welfare recipients and for people who have left welfare for low-wage jobs.
 But Mr. Dodd said that states, which are still facing severe fiscal problems, were cutting child care subsidies and ''shutting off assistance to the working poor.''
 Senator Charles E. Grassley, the Iowa Republican who is chairman of the Finance Committee, also voted to provide extra money for child care. ''You invest a little bit of taxpayers' money, or even a lot of taxpayers' money in this case, but you get tremendous good for it,'' he said.
 The White House told Congress that it strongly opposed the increase. Substantial amounts of welfare money will be freed up for child care because the welfare rolls have fallen by more than half in the last eight years, while the federal grant for the basic welfare program, Temporary Assistance for Needy Families, will continue ''at its current high level'' of $16.5 billion a year, the White House said. Administration officials say some of the money can be used for child care. 
 Considering all sources of money, the administration said, states are spending three times as much on child care as they did in 1996, so further increases ''are not needed.''
 The 1996 law ended the individual entitlement to cash assistance, gave each state a lump sum of federal money and set a five-year limit on federal welfare payments to any family. ''The great disasters predicted by opponents of the bill in 1996 never occurred,'' said Senator Rick Santorum, Republican of Pennsylvania.
 The Department of Health and Human Services reported on Tuesday that the nation's welfare rolls continued to shrink last year. In September 2003, it said, 2,006,597 families were receiving cash benefits, down 0.9 percent from the prior year and down 54 percent from August 1996, when President Bill Clinton signed the current welfare law. The number of individual welfare recipients, 4,880,037, was 2.3 percent lower than in September 2002 and 60 percent lower than in August 1996.
 Major provisions of the 1996 law expired on Sept. 30, 2002, but Congress has repeatedly approved short-term extensions. The sixth extension, through June 30, cleared Congress on Tuesday.
 Senator Snowe said she hoped the vote on child care would galvanize action and set a bipartisan tone for work on the welfare bill, which provides up to $200 million a year for ''healthy marriage'' programs. To get the full amount of federal money, states would have to spend $100 million a year of their own money for the same purpose.
 Mr. Santorum said the increase in child care money far exceeded what was needed to comply with the work requirements. ''The idea that there isn't enough money out there for day care is a ruse,'' Mr. Santorum said. He asserted that advocates of the child care proposal wanted welfare recipients and low-wage workers to be ''dependent on the state, married to the state.''
 Senator Jeff Sessions, Republican of Alabama, said that at a time of large budget deficits, the federal government could not afford to spend $6 billion more on child care. But Senator Snowe said the cost would be covered by extending the statutory authority for the customs commissioner to charge fees for cargo and passengers arriving in the United States. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); CHILD CARE (90%); FAMILY (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); POOR POPULATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); BUDGETS (78%); OVERTIME (73%); MINIMUM WAGE (68%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (53%) Welfare (US); Child Care; Workfare and Employment of Welfare Recipients; Law and Legislation; Welfare (US); Finances; Budgets and Budgeting

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (89%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); ORRIN HATCH (58%) Bill (Sen) Frist; Charles E (Sen) Grassley; Christopher J (Sen) Dodd; Olympia J (Sen) Snowe; George W (Pres) Bush; Robert Pear

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States; United States

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



670 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 660 words

HEADLINE: Bush Plans For Tax Cuts Barely Avert House Setback

BYLINE: By RICHARD A. OPPEL Jr.

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, March 30 

 BODY:
House Republican leaders avoided an embarrassing setback on Tuesday, barely defeating a nonbinding resolution favoring new restrictions on future tax cuts that are the centerpiece of President Bush's economic program.
 The major budget fight between the House and Senate this year is not over provisions of the budget itself, as both Republican-controlled chambers have passed $2.4 trillion spending blueprints for next year that largely track Mr. Bush's proposal. Instead, it is over rules that would make it more difficult for Congress to pass new tax cuts that are not paid for by increases in other taxes or spending cuts. The Senate has approved such a ''pay as you go'' measure that covers taxes, but Mr. Bush and Republican Congressional leaders strenuously oppose it. 
 In a vote reflecting the apprehension of many lawmakers that the $478 billion budget deficit is becoming a major election-year concern for voters, the House split 209 to 209 on Tuesday on a measure urging members negotiating a budget deal with the Senate to accept Senate tax-cut restrictions. At one point, 212 members had voted for the measure, but House leaders kept the vote open for more than 20 extra minutes to pressure a handful of members to change their votes. The tie meant that the measure was defeated.
 With House leaders able to maintain their chamber's opposition to the ''pay as you go'' rule, attention is turning to two senators who may hold the budget's fate in their hands: Olympia J. Snowe and Susan Collins, both Republicans from Maine.
 Earlier this month, both women joined with two other Republican senators, John McCain of Arizona and Lincoln Chafee of Rhode Island, and all but one Democrat to approve, 51 to 48, an amendment to require 60 votes for the Senate to approve any new tax cuts in the next five years that are not offset by spending cuts or increases in other taxes. White House officials acknowledge that the provision could make it difficult for Mr. Bush, if he is re-elected, to win extensions of tax cuts passed in the last three years that expire by the end of the decade.
 Mr. McCain and Mr. Chafee say they will vote for a final budget only if it includes the provision. On Tuesday, Ms. Collins said she was open to a compromise, perhaps a provision of shorter duration.
 ''It might be possible to have something that was more limited in time,'' she said. ''I am open to discussing any reasonable alternative.''
 Ms. Snowe indicated she was less inclined to compromise. ''I'm not likely to vote for a conference report without pay-go that treats tax cuts and spending equally,'' Ms. Snowe said Tuesday, referring to the legislative shorthand for ''pay as you go.''
 If the provision is stripped in House-Senate negotiations, and the budget fails to win Senate approval as a result, Congress would be forced to operate without a budget, making it more difficult to control spending. 
 Reflecting the high stakes of this debate, the White House has been leaning on both Ms. Snowe and Ms. Collins. After the vote in the Senate earlier this month, Ms. Collins said a White House official called ''to protest my vote.'' And Ms. Snowe said that she recently talked to Mr. Bush about the issue.
 ''The president wants to make sure that these tax cuts are extended,'' Ms. Snowe said.
 House Republican leaders say they still oppose applying ''pay as you go'' to taxes. On Tuesday, the majority leader, Representative Tom DeLay of Texas, restated a view that has been cited by other Republican House leaders: tax cuts pay for themselves by generating economic growth that more than makes up for lost revenue.
 ''We, as a matter of philosophy, understand that when you cut taxes the economy grows, and revenues to the government grow,'' Mr. DeLay said. ''The whole notion that you have to cut spending in order to cut taxes negates that philosophy, and so I'm not interested in something that would negate our philosophy.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (92%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); TAX LAW (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); APPROVALS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); BUDGET DEFICITS (77%) Taxation; United States Economy

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); OLYMPIA SNOWE (78%); LINCOLN CHAFEE (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%) Richard A Jr Oppel; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



671 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 1; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 420 words

HEADLINE: In Wisconsin, Bush Offers a Hopeful Assessment of the Economy

BYLINE: By RICHARD W. STEVENSON

DATELINE: APPLETON, Wis., March 30 

 BODY:
President Bush campaigned in Wisconsin on Tuesday, saying he was optimistic about the economy and urging Americans to have faith in their ability to compete with the rest of the world rather than taking refuge behind what he called ''economic isolationism.''
 Visiting a state he lost by fewer than 6,000 votes in 2000, Mr. Bush, in a speech sponsored by the local chamber of commerce, ticked off statistics that he said showed how the tax cuts he championed had helped the economy overcome the recession, the terrorist attacks, two wars and corporate scandals. 
 ''Wisconsin is helping lead the growth of this nation,'' he said, noting that the state's unemployment rate had fallen substantially over the past year, to 5 percent from 5.8 percent. ''Farms, factories and offices are shipping high-quality goods all across America, and all throughout the world.''
 Mr. Bush did not mention some of the state's grimmer statistics. Nonfarm employment in Wisconsin has fallen by 42,000 jobs, to 2.79 million, since he took office, and the state has lost 84,000 manufacturing jobs.
 Wisconsin is one of 17 states that both parties say could go either way in November. In his visit here, deemed by the White House to be official business and therefore financed by taxpayers, Mr. Bush did not mention the name of his Democratic rival, Senator John Kerry. But he acknowledged the economic anxiety felt by many voters, saying that the intense pressure on businesses and workers to produce more for less, while good for the economy in the long run, had held down the creation of jobs.
 ''This is called a period of transition,'' Mr. Bush said. ''That's an economist's word for things aren't going too well for you. And I understand that. I understand people are worried about the job they have.''
 Saying the nation had to ''deal with the economy the way it is,'' Mr. Bush made a thinly veiled attack on Mr. Kerry, asserting that ''some in our nation's capital'' want to increase federal spending and raise taxes. ''Tax and spend is the enemy of job creation,'' Mr. Bush said. Similarly, he suggested that Mr. Kerry would put the nation on a course toward trade protectionism.
 ''When you hear people talk about, let us reconsider free-trade agreements, what they're really saying is, is that perhaps we ought to wall ourself off from the rest of the world,'' he said. ''See, I think that would be absolutely wrong for America to be so pessimistic about our ability to compete that we become economic isolationists.'' 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (89%); JOB CREATION (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (79%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (79%); ELECTIONS (79%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PROTECTIONISM (78%); NON FARM PAYROLLS (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); TAX INCENTIVES (76%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (73%); TAX LAW (71%); TERRORISM (70%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (70%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (70%); PUBLIC FINANCE (68%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (64%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (60%); SCANDALS (55%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%) United States Economy; Election Issues; Presidential Election of 2004

PERSON: GEORGE W BUSH (92%); JOHN KERRY (79%) Richard W Stevenson; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: WISCONSIN, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%) Wisconsin

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



672 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 5; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 824 words

HEADLINE: Kerry and Bush Campaigns Trade Charges on Gas Price

BYLINE: By JODI WILGOREN; Richard W. Stevenson contributed reporting from Washington for this article.

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, March 30 

 BODY:
Pointing to California gasoline prices as high as $2.37 a gallon for premium, Senator John Kerry blamed the Bush administration's energy policies Tuesday for the nation's rising fuel costs, while the president's campaign introduced a television commercial attacking Mr. Kerry's past support of gas taxes.
 Mr. Kerry seized on the rising gas prices, which have roused voters' ire, to begin a broad assault on areas where he believes President Bush is vulnerable, including Iraq and the environment. 
 ''Instead of reviewing a new set of attack ads, I think Dick Cheney ought to reveal who the oil executives are that he met in secret with to set the oil policy of the United States of America,'' Mr. Kerry told several hundred students at the University of California campus in San Diego.
 Offering his plan to expand renewable energy as an alternate to Mr. Bush's proposal for oil drilling in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge, Mr. Kerry added: ''The United States of America can't drill its way out of this predicament; we have to invent our way out of it.''
 As Mr. Kerry worked this theme for a second day, the White House responded with the commercial and by blaming Congress's rejection of the Bush energy plan in 2001 for the rise in oil and gas prices. Administration officials suggested they would use the interest in bringing down gasoline prices to press the Senate to act on the legislation, which the House passed last year.
 ''What we need are comprehensive solutions, not patchwork crisis management,'' Scott McClellan, the White House spokesman, said. 
 Mr. Kerry has proposed temporarily suspending purchases of oil for the nation's Strategic Petroleum Reserve, an idea his Senate colleagues supported in a vote earlier this month. But Mr. McClellan rejected the notion, saying it ''would have a negligible impact'' on prices and that it was ''important that we have the necessary resources in the event of a severe disruption of supply.''
 As for Mr. Kerry's vow to press the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries to increase supply, Mr. McClellan said: ''We continue to engage in ongoing discussions with major producers around the world about the importance of letting the market determine the prices.'' On Tuesday, 28 senators wrote to Mr. Bush asking him to urge OPEC to expand production.
 Mr. Kerry's offensive on gasoline prices came on a day of fund-raisers at the Beverly Hills and San Diego homes of Ron Burkle, an investment banker, marking the infusion of Hollywood cash and cachet to a campaign that had been largely shunned by this important Democratic money source during the primaries. At the evening fund-raiser in Beverly Hills, which the campaign estimated took in $2 million to $2.5 million, the singer James Taylor entertained stars including the actors Barbra Streisand, Leonardo DiCaprio, Jennifer Aniston and Ben Affleck. 
 The back-and-forth on gas prices marked the candidates' efforts to translate their larger economic debate into a daily pocketbook issue for voters. Mr. Bush focused on taxes as the villain, while Mr. Kerry framed the high gas prices as a sign of weak economic stewardship.
 The Bush commercial, to run on cable stations starting Wednesday, says a 50-cent increase in the gasoline tax that Mr. Kerry supported a decade ago as part of a deficit-reduction package -- but never actually voted for -- would have cost families $657 a year. It says Mr. Kerry voted 11 times for the ''wacky idea'' of raising federal taxes on gasoline.
 The Kerry campaign responded with statistics showing that gas prices have risen 12 percent since Mr. Bush took office, costing Americans $24 billion, or $245 a family. Aides said that Mr. Kerry's votes for several small increases in gas taxes came as part of larger budget bills and that he had also voted at times to repeal such taxes. As for the 50-cent increase, they noted that a top Bush economic adviser had also expressed support for the idea in 1999.
 ''This is the biggest say-one-thing-and-do-another administration in the modern history of our country,'' Mr. Kerry said at the rally, where banners resembling gas station signs listed prices as high as $2.55 a gallon. 
Making the most of his visit to a region whose gas prices are among the nation's highest, Mr. Kerry's 13-vehicle motorcade pulled over at a Shell station, where unleaded premium was selling for $2.37 a gallon. 
 There was only one voter for Mr. Kerry to greet: Kevin Burlingame, who does marketing for a roofing company. ''What do you think of the gas prices?'' the candidate from Massachusetts asked.
 ''Boy, they are pretty high,'' Mr. Burlingame, 38, said. ''We ship a lot of stuff, so it affects every aspect of our business.''
 But Mr. Burlingame told Mr. Kerry, ''I'm very positive about the economy,'' and, when asked by a reporter how much a president had to do with pump prices, said: ''He can introduce policy, but over all, I don't think he can affect gas prices.''


CORRECTION-DATE: April 2, 2004

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article on Wednesday about Senator John Kerry's criticism of the administration's energy policies over rising fuel costs referred incorrectly in some copies to California prices as high as $2.37 a gallon. They apply to premium gasoline, not regular.


GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator John Kerry spoke of gas prices yesterday at a San Diego rally. (Photo by Getty Images) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL ADVERTISING (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (89%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (74%); OIL EXTRACTION (74%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (73%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (72%); LEGISLATION (72%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); WILDLIFE (67%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); FUEL TAX (58%); WILDLIFE CONSERVATION (53%) Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Prices (Fares, Fees and Rates); Election Issues; Energy and Power; Taxation; Presidential Election of 2004; Political Advertising

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA (56%)

PERSON: JOHN KERRY (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (79%); DICK CHENEY (58%); RON BURKLE (50%) Jodi Wilgoren; John (Sen) Kerry; George W (Pres) Bush

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN DIEGO, CA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); ALASKA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); IRAQ (79%); ARCTIC (70%) California

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



673 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 3; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4; LETTER FROM EUROPE

LENGTH: 1060 words

HEADLINE: A New Future for Spain: Call It Social Socialism

BYLINE: By Elaine Sciolino

DATELINE: MADRID 

 BODY:
In the aftermath of the terror attacks here, it seemed that the advent of a new prime minister, Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, and his Socialist Party would have its greatest effect in foreign policy -- the possible withdrawal of Spanish troops from Iraq, the repair of damaged relations with France and Germany. But the realization is dawning that the greatest effects may ultimately be felt in Spain itself. 
 Mr. Zapatero, it seems, thinks that his country should have a sexual and social revolution. 
 The 43-year-old lawyer wants to legalize some form of gay marriage, rid public schools and medical research of Catholic dogma, create nonpartisan state television and enact laws eradicating sexism in Spanish society.
 These are not just idle campaign promises. In a speech to Socialist leaders last Friday, he said, ''The time has come for extreme respect for the sexual opinions of every individual, a time for a secular vision.'' His administration, he added, will mark ''the beginning of complete equality of the sexes, of the unceasing fight against criminal machismo.'' 
 Mr. Zapatero wants nothing less than a brave new Spain, one that he said in the speech would be ''modern, cultured, tolerant.''
 At first, this sounds strange. As the world's eighth largest economy, growing faster than most others in the European Union, Spain is certainly modern. And of all the countries in Europe, Spain is already among the most cultured, tolerant and socially liberal. This is, after all, the country that produced the anything-goes filmmaker Pedro Almodovar. 
 One of the most enduring features of the post-Franco era has been the celebration and protection of individual choice and freedom of expression, even when it clashes with traditional Catholic doctrine. 
 That may explain why prostitution (but not pimping) is legal, and the classified ads for the services are so explicit in both liberal and conservative newspapers.
 Or why Barcelona is one of Europe's leaders in the pornography industry, with Private Media Group, a leading adult entertainment company, trading on Nasdaq. Every year the city plays host to an erotic film festival.
 Spain's gay community is vibrant, flamboyant and politically active. Drug use by individuals in the privacy of their homes is tolerated.
 Spaniards of all political colorations scoff at the puritan streak in American politics that made the Monica Lewinsky affair such a big deal. 
 So why the need for radical change? 
 Most immediately, Mr. Zapatero wants to purge the country of the residue of conservatism that marked Jose Maria Aznar's eight-year administration. Although 94 percent of Spaniards are Catholics, a recent survey indicated that only 12 percent of young people between the ages of 13 and 24 go to Mass every week, and most Spaniards favor the strict separation of church and state.
 Some changes will be easier than others. Last year, Spain passed a highly unpopular law that would make religious instruction a required part of the curriculum in public schools. Under the Zapatero administration, the law will not go into effect. 
 As for gay marriage, some form of civil unions is already in force in most of Spain's 17 autonomous regions, but there is no countrywide protection under the law. Mr. Zapatero pledged in a television interview after the election to introduce legislation to put gay unions ''on the same footing as marriage,'' even if he waffled a bit, adding, ''Marriage is perhaps not the best word.'' 
 It helps that 68 percent of Spaniards favor gay marriage, according to a Gallup poll in 2003 (compared with 58 percent in France and 47 percent in Italy). But on the more delicate and contentious issue of adoptions by gay couples, Mr. Zapatero has promised only to find ''broad consensus.'' 
 Abortion is illegal except in cases of rape, a deformed fetus or the endangering of the woman's mental or physical health. Although clinics routinely employ psychologists who attest to the mental fragility of the patients, there were efforts under the Aznar administration to prosecute doctors for flouting the law. The Socialist Party electoral platform includes a proposal to change the abortion law to allow women to terminate their pregnancies in the first 12 weeks for any reason. 
 On another level, Mr. Zapatero wants to spread Spain's wealth around. For example, he has announced the creation of a Ministry of Housing to provide more low- and middle-income housing for young people and new immigrants. 
 This undertaking coincides with an economic boom not seen in Spain since the discovery of the Americas, and ridiculously low mortgage rates that have helped produce one of the highest home ownership rates in Europe.
 But Mr. Zapatero's most sweeping vision in domestic policy by far is to transform the role of women. 
 Spain is still a country of gender inequality -- in the family, in the workplace and in the public imagination. During his campaign, Mr. Zapatero emphasized the fact that Spanish women earn 25 percent less than men do for the same work, that Spain has one of the highest female unemployment rates in Europe and that only 10 percent of its business executives are women. He said that each year there were 50,000 reports of spousal abuse and that 500 women had died as ''victims of gender violence'' in the last eight years.
 His government, he has said, will make women respected in Spain, guarantee equality between men and women, force men to contribute more to family duties and even ''eradicate machismo.'' Education, he added, is the key to changing attitudes.
 But it will not be easy to alter the fact that women in 84 percent of Spanish households always or usually do the laundry, or that in 73 percent of the households they always or usually prepare the next day's meals, according to a 2002 survey by Spain's Center for Sociological Research. And what about help-wanted ads that routinely specify that only attractive women under the age of 35 need apply? Or divorce laws that still favor men?
 Asked in an interview in El Pais last week whether the sheer scope of his domestic and foreign policy agenda made him dizzy, Mr. Zapatero replied, ''I have the advantage that I usually sleep well.'' A political cartoon published since his election showed him sitting up in bed next to his wife, Sonsoles Espinosa, reading a book on how to become a leader in three days.


GRAPHIC: Photos: Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero, the prime minister-elect. He is promising more than just an about-face in Spain's foreign policy. (Photo by Reuters)
 Left, a demonstration in Madrid last October by prostitutes. Center, a gay pride march in the same city that drew tens of thousands. Right, a Spanish soldier stationed south of Baghdad. The new government may send him home soon. (Photo by Agence France-Presse--Getty Images)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (92%); DECRIMINALIZATION (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (89%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); GAYS & LESBIANS (89%); FREEDOM OF SPEECH (88%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); TERRORISM (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (77%); FOREIGN POLICY (77%); MEDICAL RESEARCH (76%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (75%); OBSCENITY (75%); SAME SEX MARRIAGE & UNIONS (75%); FREEDOM OF EXPRESSION (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (74%); FREEDOM OF RELIGION (74%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); GENDER EQUALITY (74%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (73%); LAWYERS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (71%); PORNOGRAPHY (70%); MARRIAGE (70%); TRENDS (70%); FESTIVALS (68%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (64%); FILM (64%); VISUAL ARTISTS (64%); CHURCH & STATE (61%); SUBSTANCE ABUSE (60%) Social Conditions and Trends; Politics and Government; United States International Relations; Women; Church-State Relations; News and News Media; Television; Law and Legislation; Homosexuality; Pornography and Obscenity; Drug Abuse and Traffic; Freedom of Speech and Expression; Geographic Profiles; United States Armament and Defense; Marriages; Education and Schools; Medicine and Health; Research; Discrimination

COMPANY: PRIVATE MEDIA GROUP INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (54%) Roman Catholic Church

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (52%); NAICS512120 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO DISTRIBUTION (52%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC8999 SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC7822 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO TAPE DISTRIBUTION (52%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (52%); SIC3634 ELECTRIC HOUSEWARES & FANS (52%); SIC2741 MISC. PUBLISHING (52%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (52%)

PERSON: JOSE LUIS RODRIGUEZ ZAPATERO (92%) Jose Luis Rodriguez Zapatero; Elaine Sciolino; Jose Maria (Prime Min) Aznar

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%); BARCELONA, SPAIN (79%); BAGHDAD, IRAQ (58%) SPAIN (97%); EUROPE (93%); IRAQ (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (92%); FRANCE (92%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (78%) Spain; Iraq; Spain; Spain

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



674 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1; Testing the Boundary Lines of Eminent Domain

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Long Branch Wants to Seize Old Homes to Make Room for New Ones

BYLINE: By JASON GEORGE

DATELINE: LONG BRANCH, N.J. 

 BODY:
The government's power to seize private land for public use has historically been justified as benefiting the greater good. In Colonial America, that meant taking private land to build roads or government buildings. In the late 20th century, as cities cleared houses for shopping malls and factories, the ''greater good'' came to mean job creation and economic revitalization. 
 But in this small coastal community, eminent domain, as the legal doctrine is known, is expanding in a way unseen before in the nation on such a large scale, according to those who track its use. As Long Branch undergoes a comprehensive redevelopment project, it is prepared to seize and destroy houses not for a school or even a supermarket, but to make room for new condominiums and town houses.
 ''I mean, to build another highway, O.K.,'' said Rose LaRosa, 77, who lives in a seaside cottage her father bought in 1944. ''But another home?'' 
 Long Branch has bought some of the houses, but Mrs. LaRosa's cottage is one of 39 oceanfront properties standing in the way of the city's plans. Most owners say they will not sell, no matter how much the city or a developer is willing to pay, and they have cast themselves as the wronged working-class heroes, as in a Steinbeck novel. The city's mayor points out that they have known of the redevelopment plans for more than a decade, and that they refuse to go through the proper legal channels to challenge the seizures.
 Either way, the fight has become a public-relations disaster for the city as it tries to reclaim its glory days, when seven United States presidents vacationed here and New York's business barons traveled by stagecoach to fill the gambling halls. The 30 or so holdout homeowners have planted signs saying ''NOT For Sale'' in their sandy yards, and they have filled the windows of their pastel bungalows with posters declaring ''Eminent Domain Abuse,'' signed petitions, shouted at public meetings and written vitriolic letters to the local newspaper questioning the mayor's and the City Council's motives.
 They even have a protest song -- ''I ask you, mayor, what community are you living in?/You kick out the poor, move the Restoration Hardwares in'' -- that would have made Woody Guthrie proud. 
 The use of eminent domain laws to replace existing homes with more expensive ones has been happening since the 1950's, but on a far more limited scale than in Long Branch, said Scott G. Bullock, a senior lawyer at the Institute for Justice, a firm based in Washington that has represented residents in eminent domain cases across the country. 
 ''What makes this one particularly outrageous is that the city is deciding they don't want these residents in this area,'' Mr. Bullock said. ''That takes it to a new level of outrage.''
 Gideon Kanner, a professor emeritus at Loyola Law School in Los Angeles and the editor of Just Compensation, a monthly periodical that criticizes the expanding use of eminent domain in urban redevelopment, said he was troubled but not surprised by Long Branch's strategy.
 ''Somewhere along the line cities started losing inhibitions,'' Mr. Kanner said. ''But this kind of open economic rape is outrageous.''
 Long Branch officials argue that their definition of ''public purpose'' is on solid ground. ''The redevelopment of an urban area is a public purpose,'' Adam Schneider, the mayor, said at a City Council meeting on March 23 where eight people spoke against the seizure of homes.
 ''Change is very difficult for anyone,'' said David G. Brown, the Council's president. ''It makes sense when you analyze the whole plan.''
 The $500 million plan to revamp Long Branch with new houses, roads, parks and businesses is sorely needed, city officials say. Like several towns on New Jersey's coastline, Long Branch has attempted revitalization a number of times, starting in the 1960's, all to no avail, said Mr. Schneider, who became mayor in 1990. Decades of decay had blighted the beachfront before the final blow in 1987, when the fishing pier burned down. ''That was the end of any business community on the waterfront,'' Mr. Schneider said.
 The city reacted to the blight with an ambitious assault, having the crumbling buildings, a rusting water park and more than 200 other properties deemed a zone in need of improvement in 1996 -- a required step under New Jersey's Eminent Domain Act of 1971.
 Already, the city has removed the park and begun replacing it and more than 100 other properties with condos and town houses, and the beachfront is abuzz with bulldozers and backhoes on most days. 
 Mayor Schneider said that although he was sympathetic to the affected homeowners, the next phase of the project would probably go ahead if the City Council approved the developers' plans; a vote is expected within two months. The city has set no start date for construction.
 Most of the protesting homeowners became involved in the fight only recently, he said. They have failed to offer a plan of their own and have refused to hire a lawyer to look into their case -- two moves the mayor has repeatedly urged. 
 Residents say they are still considering their legal options, but see no reason they should have to come up with a plan to save homes they already own. They did offer to spruce up their neighborhood to keep it from being leveled, but with the city asking them to sign disclaimers saying they might not be compensated for any improvements if their houses were later seized, several residents said any remodeling projects would be a waste of time and money.
 ''Do you think I want to improve my house when I know they are going to demolish it?'' said Anna DeFaria, who bought her cottage in 1960.
 Most residents admit, however, that they were too slow to respond to the plan -- saying either that they did not understand it until recently or did not think the redevelopment would get this far. 
 Property rights lawyers and scholars maintain that redevelopment plans are usually based more on budgets than on blight. ''It's the allure of tax dollars,'' said Mr. Bullock, the Institute for Justice lawyer. 
 Steven J. Eagle, a professor at the George Mason University School of Law in Virginia who specializes in property law, said, ''The problem is that government doesn't have the power to take away people's lands to fine-tune areas for revenue of taxes.''
 Neighborhood residents argue that their streets and homes should not have been included with the adjacent abandoned buildings and the water park in the improvement study. The residents also point out that some newer, pricier condos in their neighborhood that are within the improvement zone and could be seized are not slated for demolishment. 
 ''What are we, chopped liver?'' Mrs. DeFaria said.
 Howard H. Woolley Jr., the city's business administrator, said the developer chose not to include the condos in its plan because of the cost of buying them.
 Those condos, and those now being built where many run-down homes had stood, are worth considerably more than the other homes in the threatened neighborhood, according to tax and developer records. The new condos and town houses, which are being built next to the neighborhood, are priced from the $600,000's to more than $1.5 million, according to promotional material from the developer, Matzel & Mumford. 
 Denise Hoagland's house, which is about the size of the smaller condos being built, was assessed last year for $201,000, a value similar to those of surrounding homes. Mrs. Hoagland, who shares the cottage with her husband, Lee, three daughters and an Irish setter, said her family planned to stay there until they were forcibly removed. ''I'm fighting all the way,'' said Mrs. Hoagland, 37. ''They're taking what I have to lose.''
 Two doors down on Marine Terrace, Mrs. DeFaria said that if her house is seized, she will not consider moving into a condo where her cottage once stood. She has memories of remodeling the house with her husband, and summertime cookouts with their children and friends.
 ''We worked hard for our little house,'' she said, starting to cry. ''Where am I going to go at 78 years old?''


GRAPHIC: Photos: An aerial view of 39 oceanfront properties next to the redevelopment in Long Branch, N.J., where city officials want to buy and tear down the older existing homes.
Anna DeFaria, 78, bought her seaside cottage in 1960. She said she had no intention of moving elsewhere now -- even to a new, more expensive condo in the same place -- to cooperate with the redevelopment planners in Long Branch. (Photographs by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B1)
 Denise Hoagland, with her daughters, from left, Daisy, 9, Jasmine, 5, and Violet, 7, said she won't leave. (Photo by Keith Meyers/The New York Times)(pg. B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ROAD & BRIDGE CONSTRUCTION (90%); PROPERTY LAW (89%); EMINENT DOMAIN (89%); CITIES (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); MAYORS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC HEARINGS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); LAND USE PLANNING (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (77%); CONDOMINIUMS (77%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (77%); RETAIL PROPERTY (77%); COASTAL AREAS (76%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (72%); RETAILERS (72%); LAWYERS (72%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (71%); JOB CREATION (71%); PETITIONS (67%); TALKS & MEETINGS (66%); US PRESIDENTS (50%) Housing; Eminent Domain; Area Planning and Renewal; Aged

PERSON: Jason George

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%) Long Branch (NJ)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



675 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 462 words

HEADLINE: Ruling Leaves Nassau Facing $100 Million Tax Repayment

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT

DATELINE: GARDEN CITY, N.Y., March 30 

 BODY:
Nassau County's fiscal recovery is facing another potential hurdle: a new State Court of Appeals ruling that could result in $100 million or more of property tax refunds to utilities.
 Nassau officials said that if they eventually lose the case, the county will be forced to borrow to pay the refunds, adding to its already high debt.
 The case involves challenges to the assessments from 1998 through 2000 on property owned by Verizon, the Long Island Water Corporation and the New York Water Service Corporation. A State Supreme Court justice initially decided that the assessments were illegal, but the Appellate Division blocked the refunds, saying they would disrupt local government. 
 On Tuesday, the Court of Appeals, the state's highest court, ruled unanimously that since the exact amount of the refunds had not been calculated, it was premature to conclude that they would be disruptive. So the case was sent back to Supreme Court for a trial to determine the refund amount and consider the potential effect. ''I would hope that the courts will realize that we don't have a spare $100 million,'' said the county attorney, Lorna B. Goodman.
 Four years ago the State Legislature imposed a fiscal monitoring board to oversee Nassau's finances after the county ran up large deficits and appealed for bailout aid. Since County Executive Thomas R. Suozzi took over two years ago, his administration has cut the work force, balanced the budget, acquired surpluses and won several bond-rating upgrades.
 ''Having to pay $100 million clearly presents a hardship for a county that's just emerging from its financial crisis,'' said the deputy county executive, Arthur A. Gianelli. ''The county will continue to litigate this vigorously.''
 What the final cost will be is unclear. Earlier in the proceedings, the county itself estimated that the refunds, plus interest, could reach $200 million. Verizon estimates its refund at about $40 million, not counting interest, and the water utilities estimate theirs at $8 million, plus interest.
 Verizon has contended that its claim would have ''nominal impact'' on county finances. ''All we're seeking, on behalf of our shareowners and customers, is to pay what is fair,'' said a company spokesman, Mark A. Marchand. The dispute involved Nassau assessment provisions under which utilities are one of four categories of property. The utilities objected that while state law allows that system for county, town, village and school taxes, it is not permitted for so-called special tax districts like fire protection and libraries. As a result, the utilities said, they were overtaxed in the special districts. Later the law was changed, so there were no more claims against the system. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: APPEALS COURTS (91%); APPEALS (91%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (91%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); SUPREME COURTS (90%); COUNTIES (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); LITIGATION (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); WATER SUPPLY UTILITIES (89%); WATER & WASTEWATER MANAGEMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); VERDICTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (76%); BAILOUTS (76%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (65%) Taxation; Property Taxes; Decisions and Verdicts; Suits and Litigation

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND WATER CORP (72%); WATER SERVICES CORP (71%); VERIZON COMMUNICATIONS INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Verizon Communications Inc; Long Island Water Corp; New York Water Service Corp 

TICKER: VZC (LSE) (57%); VZ (NYSE) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS221310 WATER SUPPLY & IRRIGATION SYSTEMS (71%); SIC4941 WATER SUPPLY (71%); NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (57%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (57%)

PERSON: Bruce Lambert

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%) Nassau County (NY); New York State

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004



676 of 676 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2004 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: March 31, 2004
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section F; Column 3; Dining In, Dining Out/Style Desk; Pg. 8; WINES OF THE TIMES

LENGTH: 1322 words

HEADLINE: Vineyards Take the Kosher Challenge

BYLINE: By ERIC ASIMOV

 BODY:
EVEN under ordinary circumstances, good wine is hard to make. Add in the difficulties of satisfying the religious criteria for calling wine kosher, and you've really got a challenge.
 Making kosher wine requires much more than hiring a rabbi to say a few prayers in the cellar. Under the strictest interpretation of kosher rules, only observant Jews may participate in the production and bottling of wine. If this is not possible, the wine must be subjected to flash pasteurization, that is, raising its temperature swiftly and then lowering it again, a process that regardless of its religious benefits cannot help the wine. After being pasteurized, these wines are termed mevushal, permitting them to be handled by the ordinary public.
 There's more. In Israel, kosher laws require vineyards to be left fallow every seven years, a severe economic strain for almost any winery. Of course, not even the most critical winemaking chore can be performed on the Sabbath. And for wines to be called kosher for Passover, additional stringent standards must be met. Only certain strains of yeast can be used in the fermentation, and the wine cannot come into contact with any leavened product. 
 It's enough to make any Jew who plans to observe Passover next week long for the good old days, when heavy, sweet Concord grape wine was the seder beverage of choice. In fact, the sentimentally inclined will still be drinking Manischewitz, regardless of what they like to drink the rest of the year. For those unwilling to settle for nostalgia, the good news is that the selection of kosher wines made from the usual fine-wine grapes has vastly expanded in the last 10 years. The bad news is that many of those are not very good.
 In an effort to find some kosher wines worth recommending, the Dining section's wine panel recently tasted 25 bottles from six countries: the United States, Israel, France, Chile, Spain and Australia. The range of kosher wines these days is astounding. It includes a fine Champagne, from Laurent-Perrier, and an excellent, inexpensive California chenin blanc from Baron Herzog. But we decided to focus on red wines, which many people will prefer with their seder meal.
 The panel, which included my colleagues Amanda Hesser and Howard G. Goldberg, and a guest, Jose de Meirelles, the owner of Le Marais, a kosher steakhouse in Midtown, was in broad agreement that most of the wines were disappointing. We could not even come up with a top 10, finding only nine bottles worth recommending. Most of them lacked complexity or intensity. The flavors died off too soon or were too rustic or insipid. And yet, the tasting also produced a feeling of optimism.
 ''It's amazing how much they've grown in quality,'' said Mr. de Meirelles, who has been selecting kosher wines for Le Marais for eight years. While Mr. Goldberg was critical of many of the wines, he was also heartened by the ambition he detected in the winemaking, and he predicted that kosher wines will dramatically improve in the next decade as wineries increased their investment in production. Mr. de Meirelles agreed with this assessment, and said that the younger kosher clientele, the people he sees at his restaurant, would insist on it.
 ''Many of them weren't raised kosher, so they have the same standards as everybody else,'' he said. ''They've returned to kosher to raise their children, but they haven't changed their standards.''
 My own feeling was that the 25 bottles we tasted were a microcosm of the larger world of wine. The vast majority of wine sold in this country, and in the world, is mediocre. It is a commercial assembly-line product, as was much of what we tasted. Only a small percentage of the world's wine, kosher or not, is intended to meet exacting standards. 
 Certainly our top bottle, a '99 syrah from Hagafen in the Napa Valley, was one of them. The wine was rich and intense -- Mr. de Meirelles and I both guessed it was Australian -- and I would be happy to have it on my dinner table anytime. Our best value, a $13 bottle of California cabernet from Baron Herzog, while not complex, was nonetheless a harmonious, pleasing wine.
 Hagafen also produced our No. 3 wine, a 2000 cabernet that, had we not known it was kosher, would have been indistinguishable from any other good California cabernet. It was also, at $37, the most expensive of our top bottles, but not the most expensive wine in the tasting. That bottle, a $45 2001 Capcanes Flor de Primavera from Spain, did not make the cut. Other wines that did not make the cut included an 2000 Hautes Cotes de Nuits from Roberto Cohen that I felt was a respectable, pleasant light Burgundy, though it was $30. Alas I was voted down. And Mr. Goldberg very much liked a 2001 Gigondas from Domaine de Boissan, but he, too, was in the minority.
 While our top three bottles were from California, three of the remaining six were from Israel, which has a growing and improving wine industry. Both the Galil Mountain, which had the very ripe flavors of a California wine, and the Dalton Estate, less flamboyant and more Bordeaux-like, were among the best Israeli wines I can remember. 
 Each of the Israeli wines we liked came from the Upper Galilee in the northern part of the country. Israel being Israel, even winemaking must factor in the political situation. The Galil Mountain Winery, which produced our No. 4 wine, is a joint venture of the Golan Heights Winery, which produces the Yarden wines, and Kibbutz Yiron. The Galil Mountain facility is also safely outside of the Golan Heights, a good fallback position should the Golan facility ever be lost in a deal to return the Heights to Syria. Not a situation normally encountered in California.

Tasting Report: Globe-Trotting Wines High in Balance and Fruitiness

Hagafen Syrah Napa Valley 1999: $28 *** [Rating: three stars]
Dense and concentrated yet harmonious, with the intense fruitiness and persistent flavors of an Australian shiraz.

BEST VALUE

Baron Herzog Cabernet Sauvignon California 2001: $13 ** 1/2 [Rating: two and a half stars]
Pleasant, straightforward and well put-together with a light body and soft tannins.

Hagafen Cabernet Sauvignon Napa Valley 2000: $37 ** 1/2 [Rating: two and a half stars]
Well-made wine with lots of lush fruit flavors and the aroma of new oak, typical of California cabernet.

Galil Mountain Cabernet Sauvignon Israel (Galilee) 2002: $18 ** 1/2 [Rating: two and a half stars]
Earthy and concentrated with the sweet flavors of cherry and tea; perhaps too sweet for some.

Dalton Estate Cabernet Sauvignon Israel (Galilee) 2002: $24 ** [Rating: two stars]
Medium-bodied with Bordeaux-like cedar and tobacco flavors.

Tierra Salvaje Tempranillo Spain (Yecla) 2001: $9 ** [Rating: two stars]
A buoyant, fruity wine with cherry and licorice aromas that is lightly likable.

Teal Lake Shiraz Australia 2002: $12 ** [Rating: two stars]
Grapy and sweet, but balanced and not unpleasant.

Segal's Cabernet Sauvignon Special Reserve Israel (Galilee Heights) 2000: $15 * 1/2 [Rating: one and a half stars]
Very tannic but balanced by underlying fruit and slight sweetness. This is a routine wine.

Barons Edmund Benjamin de Rothschild Bordeaux (Haut-Medoc) 2000: $30 * 1/2 [Rating: one a half stars]
Decent and drinkable, but not a $30 wine.

WHAT THE STARS MEAN
(None) Pass it by
* Passable
** Good
*** Excellent
**** Extraordinary

Ratings reflect the panel's reaction to wines, which were tasted with names and vintages concealed. The panelists this week are Eric Asimov, Amanda Hesser, Howard G. Goldberg and Jose de Meirelles, who owns Le Marais, a kosher steakhouse in New York. The tasted wines represent a selection generally available in good retail shops and restaurants. Prices are those paid in liquor shops in the New York region.

Tasting Coordinator: Bernard Kirsch

nytimes.com
Recent wine columns from The New York Times are online: nytimes.com/wine. This week, members of the panel discuss their favorite kosher red wines.


GRAPHIC: Drawing (Drawing by Daniel Pelavin) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RELIGION (91%); PASSOVER (90%); WINERIES (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (90%); WINE (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); GRAPE VINEYARDS (88%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE INDUSTRY (78%); BEVERAGE PACKAGING (78%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (76%); ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (76%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (73%); RESTAURANTS (73%) Alcoholic Beverages; Kosher Food ; Wines

COMPANY: LAURENT-PERRIER SA (52%)

TICKER: LPE (PAR) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (52%)

PERSON: Eric Asimov

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (90%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (67%); FRANCE (56%)

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2004

 
