

201 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1203 words

HEADLINE: Schools Seeking to Arm Employees Hit Hurdle on Insurance

BYLINE: By STEVEN YACCINO

 BODY:
As more schools consider arming their employees, some districts are encountering a daunting economic hurdle: insurance carriers threatening to raise their premiums or revoke coverage entirely.
During legislative sessions this year, seven states enacted laws permitting teachers or administrators to carry guns in schools. Three of the measures -- in Kansas, South Dakota and Tennessee -- took effect last week.
But already, EMC Insurance Companies, the liability insurance provider for about 90 percent of Kansas school districts, has sent a letter to its agents saying that schools permitting employees to carry concealed handguns would be declined coverage.
''We are making this underwriting decision simply to protect the financial security of our company,'' the letter said. 
In northeast Indiana, Douglas A. Harp, the sheriff of Noble County, offered to deputize teachers to carry handguns in their classrooms less than a week after 26 children and educators were killed in a school shooting in Newtown, Conn. A community member donated $27,000 in firearms to the effort. School officials from three districts seemed ready to sign off. But the plan fell apart after an insurer refused to provide workers' compensation to schools with gun-carrying staff members.
The Oregon School Boards Association, which manages liability coverage for all but a handful of the state's school districts, recently announced a new pricing structure that would make districts pay an extra $2,500 annual premium for every staff member carrying a weapon on the job.
Scott Whitman, an administrator at the Jackson County school district in southern Oregon, where a committee is looking at arming school staff members next year, said costs would be a factor in the decision. With 10 buildings, the expense of arming and training more than one staff member at each school would easily exceed $50,000 a year.
''Pretty much every last bit of our money is budgeted,'' he said, adding, ''To me, that could be quite an impediment to putting this forward.''
Increasing the number of firearms in classrooms across the country has been the cornerstone of the National Rifle Association's response to the Newtown massacre and the legislative fights over proposed gun laws that followed it. In April, the gun-rights group released a report that called for armed police officers, security guards or staff members in every American school.
More than 30 state legislatures introduced bills that permit staff members to carry guns in public or private schools this year, according to the National Conference of State Legislatures.
Supporters say training teachers to carry guns would better protect students and, if anything, should put insurance companies more at ease. But worries remain about who could be sued if a gun-related accident occurred on school property, giving way to business realities for some insurance providers, which include both commercial carriers and nonprofit cooperatives.
''Some are saying this is so high risk we're not going to touch it,'' said Kenneth S. Trump, the president of National School Safety and Security Services, which discourages districts from implementing concealed carry policies. ''Others may say this is so high risk that you're going to pay through the nose.''
Few districts in the nation currently allow teachers to carry firearms in K-12 schools; those that do are often in rural areas where it could take a while for first responders to arrive. It is still too soon to tell whether that number will rise as more states consider laws, as many administrators have started discussing the matter with parents and school lawyers only in the past six months.
Jenny Emery, head of the Association of Governmental Risk Pools, said none of her members plan to withhold coverage like EMC. But many are strongly recommending other security alternatives, she said, noting that cooperatives provide some form of risk financing to about 80 percent of public entities across the country.
''I haven't seen evidence yet that suggests people are determining that arming teachers is a recommended way to manage risk,'' she said. ''Far from it.''
Still, insurers in some states said they were unsure how to approach the subject when the time comes.
Days after the new law took effect in Tennessee last week, the state's largest K-12 insurance provider, Tennessee Risk Management Trust, had not reached a conclusion about whether the price of its coverage would increase if employees carried guns.
Firearm training rules for teachers in South Dakota, which passed its law in March, have not yet been approved, in part delaying serious talks between districts and their underwriters. ''Because it's not something the schools are considering, the issue really hasn't become full blown yet,'' said Wade Pogany, the executive director of the Associated School Boards of South Dakota. ''I think it will eventually.''
After the Kansas law passed in April, more than a dozen school administrators across the state were mulling a move to arm their staffs, according to David Shriver, who oversees insurance programs at the Kansas Association of School Boards. He stopped getting calls about it as soon as EMC made its policy clear, he said.
''If there's no insurance available,'' he added, ''it's difficult to do anything.''
In an e-mail statement, Mick Lovell, vice president for business development at EMC, said the company, which is based in Des Moines, was upholding its long-held guidelines that school security should be provided only by qualified law enforcement officers
For three Kansas community colleges, which were insured by EMC but decided to allow concealed carry on their campuses under the new law, the search for another insurance provider was easier than expected.
Dan Barwick, the president of Independence Community College, said his college and two others recently signed a joint insurance plan with another company at a rate that he expected would save the group about $2 million over the next decade. Advocates for arming teachers point to the colleges as evidence that some insurance providers are willing to stomach the risk, should K-12 schools in Kansas decide to shop around
''What will happen is the market will take care of this,'' said Forrest Knox, a Kansas state senator who helped pass the concealed carry legislation. ''Other companies are going to do the dollars and cents.''
That theory is certainly true in states like Texas, where strong tort protections have made it easier for about 30 districts to arm their employees this year. Dubravka Romano, who oversees a cooperative that insures about half of the state's 1,035 districts, said schools there were not charged extra for having guns on campus.
One such district, Harrold Independent, has switched insurance providers twice since it started arming employees in 2007, saving around $5,000 a year with each move.
David Thweatt, the superintendent, would not disclose how many armed employees patrol school hallways, but he said fears of increased liability were overblown. There have been no gun-related accidents or injuries at Harrold schools since the policy started, he said.
''The only time we've had to use a firearm,'' he said, ''was to shoot at a wild pig.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: David Thweatt, a Texas school superindendent, said his district had no gun-related accidents since starting to arm employees. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY GUTIERREZ/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSURANCE (92%); FIREARMS (91%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); GUN CONTROL (89%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); LIABILITY INSURANCE (78%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (78%); SCHOOL SAFETY & SECURITY (78%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (78%); SCHOOL VIOLENCE (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (77%); TEACHER EDUCATION (77%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); SANDY HOOK ELEMENTARY SCHOOL SHOOTINGS (77%); SCHOOL BOARDS (76%); SHERIFFS (74%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); PRICE CHANGES (73%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); SHOOTINGS (72%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (72%)

COMPANY: EMC INSURANCE COS (72%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OREGON, USA (92%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



202 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1960 words

HEADLINE: Liberals vs. Immigration Reform

BYLINE: By BILL KELLER

 BODY:
As a flaming liberal ... and strong supporter of immigration and its reforms, I would have voted against the bill [the Senate] just passed.
This bill stinks: it takes far too long to grant citizenship and does little or nothing to protect American jobs ... The Dems always get rolled.
With its costly sop to xenophobes in the form of useless border control overkill, this bill is already a joke.
[There will be] a huge political backlash once it becomes obvious to Americans that a broad swath of our citizenry is being sold out in favor of vote-hungry politicians, corporations eager to cut labor costs even further and military contractors trolling for still more pork.
I never thought I'd see the day when I'd be grateful for the knee-jerk opposition of Republicans in the House, but that day has arrived ... It's a slap in the face of the American working class and the millions of unemployed Americans... 
The Democrats lost my vote w/this. They no longer represent anyone but billionaires and Big Business.
And so on.
If the immigration bill that passed the Senate on June 27 dies the death of previous reforms, it will not be because of the angry Democrats quoted above. It will be the familiar obstructionism of House Republicans, and particularly Speaker John Boehner, who may refuse to let the measure even come to a vote. That is why the news coverage has focused on the hostility of Republicans.
But if you scroll down from The Times's news article to the 522 reader comments, you will find plenty of unhappy Democrats as well -- not on Capitol Hill, but Out There. The howls of betrayal sampled above reflect the main complaints from those on the left: The bill, they worry, will steal jobs from American workers by admitting new streams of both low-skilled and high-skilled competitors. It wastes more than $40 billion to militarize the Southern border. It makes the 11 million unauthorized immigrants already here wait 13 years for full equality. And, by the way, how can any self-respecting liberal be for something that enjoys the support of Grover Norquist, the Koch brothers, the Chamber of Commerce and the Fox News commentariat?
There is a strong conservative case for the elaborate contraption called the Border Security, Economic Opportunity, and Immigration Modernization Act of 2013. And no, it is not just about neutralizing the hostility of Latino voters. For the conservative brief, I refer you to David Brooks (here and here) or Douglas Holtz-Eakin (here).
My aim here is to address some of the liberal misgivings. Like virtually every milestone in the history of Congress, the Senate bill choreographed by the tireless liberal legislator from New York, Charles Schumer, is a package of compromises, enticements, marketing (see the title), electoral calculation, micromanaging and kitchen sinks (such as SEC. 4503. ENCOURAGING CANADIAN TOURISM TO THE UNITED STATES). The question that troubles liberals is, did Schumer give away too much in the quest for Republican votes? After slogging and scrolling through the 1,198 pages of devilish details, I think the answer is no.
Specifically, the aims of comprehensive reform are three: to impose some regulatory order on a legal immigration system that is dysfunctional and illogical; to assert greater control over our borders, for reasons of economics and security; and to deal humanely with the 11 million who came here outside the legal channels. Despite imperfections, the Senate bill accomplishes all three.
OVERHAULING LEGAL IMMIGRATION The Senate bill replaces a system that was based mainly on family reunification, country-by-country quotas and something resembling indentured servitude to one based mainly on the job market. Reuniting nuclear families -- spouses and minor children -- is still a priority, and is actually increased and accelerated. But beyond that, the bill adopts an approach that has proved successful in Canada and other developed countries, favoring immigrants who bring skills the country needs to replenish our aging work force and build new businesses.
When the new law is fully implemented, the best guess is that it will increase the number of new green cards issued every year from about 1 million to at least 1.5 million, probably more, mostly for specific categories of workers.
This issue -- admitting new workers -- is a perennial conundrum. How do you balance the need for fresh energy against the interests of those already here? But the battle is being waged this time in a context that makes liberals especially uneasy. For one thing, we are contemplating an extraordinary opening of our country at a time when 22 million Americans are unemployed or underemployed. For another, the balance of power in Washington has shifted against the working class. In past battles over immigration, American workers counted on organized labor to defend against an influx of cheap foreign workers. But in the past 30 years labor has lost much of its clout. And some unions have recalculated their interests: now they see new legal immigrants (and legalization of those already here illegally) not so much as a threat to their incumbent members but as potential recruits, a way of reversing union decline. Meanwhile business, which has always tended to favor more open borders, has gained influence the old-fashioned way, with campaign money and a legion of lobbyists. And the tech industries, which have mobilized especially aggressively on this issue, have the added cachet of being the cool kids at the party.
So, yes, the bill contains major concessions to businesses that claim they have trouble filling some jobs even at a decent wage. The bill would create new channels of permanent immigration and temporary visas for low-skilled labor, especially in agriculture, and for more highly skilled workers in technical fields.
But the bill makes employers jump through a lot of hoops to take advantage of this new labor pool. To hire a foreign temporary worker you have to pay a $2,500 fee, offer the worker the prevailing wage and (at the low-skilled end) show that you've tried to fill the job domestically. In many cases, that foreign worker will end up costing you more than an American citizen.
And, as Ana Avendaño, who handles immigration issues for the A.F.L.-C.I.O., points out, the bill introduces new safeguards against worker exploitation. Workers here on temporary visas are no longer captives of their sponsoring employer; they can change jobs. Workers cannot be deported for blowing the whistle on an abusive or unsafe workplace. There are new protections against human trafficking. The labor federation, with some misgivings, supports the bill.
The bill is especially -- perhaps overly -- generous to employers at the high end. Any foreigner who gets a graduate degree from an American university in science, technology, engineering or mathematics (STEM in the vernacular) and has a job offer can apply for a green card -- even if he or she studied for a field that is already crowded with native job applicants. The bill would award permanent residence to anyone with a Ph.D. in any subject from any university in the world, if he or she has a job offer in that field. (''We want the smartest people here,'' Schumer explains.) As the demographer Michael Teitelbaum points out, you can find shortages of skilled labor at some times, in some fields, and in some places, but over all there is plenty of domestic STEM talent looking for work. Teitelbaum suggests the bill would be improved by establishing an independent and authoritative panel, like the one in Britain that advises the government on adjusting the annual visa limits in different skilled specialties based on credible evidence about these labor markets. Schumer's people say what works in Britain would be too cumbersome in a job market of 150 million workers. ''By the time you gather the data, it's old,'' said Schumer's immigration guru, Leon Fresco.
The nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office estimates that over the first decade the bill will have a negative but minuscule effect on employment and average wages. And then the influx of new workers will improve growth, create jobs and reduce the deficit. Other studies, from the Center for American Progress on the left to the Cato Institute on the libertarian right, have also concluded that the long-term economic effect is positive and substantial. All of these estimates are more than a little speculative, depending on human behavior and government enforcement. But most experts agree that the country will ultimately benefit, as it has in the past, from being the preferred destination of the ambitious, the industrious, the brave, the new.
And as the bill supplies new streams of legal labor, it attempts to restrict the flow of illegal labor. As Doris Meissner of the pro-reform Migration Policy Institute notes, ''It replaces a laissez-faire illegal system with a regulated legal system.'' Which brings us to ...
CONTROLLING THE BORDERS The $46.3 billion earmarked to double the size of the border patrol, raise fences and install monitoring technology on our Southern flank is a nice stimulus package for border states and a windfall for a few favored technology companies, but it is mostly for show. Forty-percent of those here illegally didn't jump a fence; they simply overstayed a student or tourist visa.
By far the most promising control measure in the bill is one business hates, one that has been overshadowed by the border fortification boondoggle: mandatory employer verification. Employers will now be held accountable for verifying that anyone they hire has a legal right to work here. It replaces the current voluntary system, which is almost universally ignored, with real penalties and real enforcement. Foreign workers will be required to have a tamper-proof ID, including a photo and a fingerprint. Citizens can use a driver's license or a voter ID. The bill also launches a project to design a fraud-proof Social Security card. Some inventive employers will find loopholes. But there are plenty of teeth in those 1,198 pages.
THE 11 MILLION For most liberals I suspect this is the heart of the bill -- and not just because Democrats crave the approval of the country's surging Latino constituency. (Although, come to think of it, isn't responding to the electorate what democracies are supposed to do?) The status quo is an undocumented underclass of families living in fear, subject to exploitation and scapegoating, depressing wages by working off the books, denied any say in how they are governed. Unless you think it is realistic to forcibly deport a population the size of New York City plus Chicago (and 21 percent of Americans subscribe to that heartless notion, according to the latest Pew poll), you have to let them out of the shadows.
Most of the debate focuses on the path to citizenship -- 13 years for adults, a shorter time for those brought here as children. Citizenship is important, and 13 years is a long time to wait. That is the concession advocates of full equality made in fairness to others who played by the rules, and as a disincentive to future illegal immigrants.
But while they are on that long path, they are legal residents of America. Soon after the bill becomes law, undocumented workers who have not been convicted of a serious crime can apply for legal status as ''registered provisional immigrants'' -- not voters, and not eligible for welfare or food stamps or insurance subsidies under Obamacare, but free to work, study, travel (including out of the country) without the fear of being snatched from their families and deported.
To me, and I think most residents of the undocumented netherworld, the long path to citizenship is a fair price to pay for the short path out of hiding.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (92%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); BORDER CONTROL (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (78%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (78%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (77%); CITIZENSHIP (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%)

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (63%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (63%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (63%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); CHARLES SCHUMER (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



203 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Defining Prosperity Down

BYLINE: By PAUL KRUGMAN

 BODY:
Friday's employment report wasn't bad. But given how depressed our economy remains, we really should be adding more than 300,000 jobs a month, not fewer than 200,000. As the Economic Policy Institute points out, we would need more than five years of job growth at this rate to get back to the level of unemployment that prevailed before the Great Recession. Full recovery still looks a very long way off. And I'm beginning to worry that it may never happen.
Ask yourself the hard question: What, exactly, will bring us back to full employment? 
We certainly can't count on fiscal policy. The austerity gang may have experienced a stunning defeat in the intellectual debate, but stimulus is still a dirty word, and no deliberate job-creation program is likely soon, or ever.
Aggressive monetary action by the Federal Reserve, something like what the Bank of Japan is now trying, might do the trick. But far from becoming more aggressive, the Fed is talking about ''tapering'' its efforts. This talk has already done real damage; more on that in a minute.
Still, even if we don't and won't have a job-creation policy, can't we count on the natural recuperative powers of the private sector? Maybe not.
It's true that after a protracted slump, the private sector usually does find reasons to start spending again. Investment in equipment and software is already well above pre-recession levels, basically because technology marches on, and businesses must spend to keep up. After six years during which hardly any new homes were built in America, housing is trying to stage a comeback. So yes, the economy is showing some signs of healing itself.
But that healing process won't go very far if policy makers stomp on it, in particular by raising interest rates. That's not an idle worry. A Fed chairman famously declared that his job was to take away the punch bowl just as the party was really warming up; unfortunately, history offers many examples of central bankers pulling away the punch bowl before the party even starts.
And financial markets are, in effect, betting that the Fed is going to offer another such example. Long-term interest rates, which mainly reflect expectations about future short-term rates, shot up after Friday's job report -- a report that, to repeat, was at best just O.K. Housing may be trying to bounce back, but that bounce now has to contend with sharply rising financing costs: 30-year mortgage rates have risen by a third since the Fed started talking about relaxing its efforts about two months ago.
Why is this happening? Part of the reason is that the Fed is constantly under pressure from monetary hawks, who always want to see tighter money and higher interest rates. These hawks spent years warning that soaring inflation was just around the corner. They were wrong, of course, but rather than change their position they have simply invented new reasons -- financial stability, whatever -- to advocate higher rates. At this point it's clear that monetary hawkery is mainly a form of Puritanism in H. L. Mencken's sense -- ''the haunting fear that someone, somewhere may be happy.'' But it remains dangerously influential.
Unfortunately, there's also a technical issue that plays into the prejudices of the monetary hawks. The statistical techniques policy makers often use to estimate the economy's ''potential'' -- the maximum level of output and employment it can achieve without inflationary overheating -- turn out to be badly flawed: they interpret any sustained economic slump as a decline in potential, so that the hawks can point to charts and spreadsheets supposedly showing that there's not much room for growth.
In short, there's a real risk that bad policy will choke off our already inadequate recovery.
But won't voters eventually demand more? Well, that's where I get especially pessimistic.
You might think that a persistently poor economy -- an economy in which millions of people who could and should be productively employed are jobless, and in many cases have been without work for a very long time -- would eventually spark public outrage. But the political science evidence on economics and elections is unambiguous: what matters is the rate of change, not the level.
Put it this way: If unemployment rises from 6 to 7 percent during an election year, the incumbent will probably lose. But if it stays flat at 8 percent through the incumbent's whole term, he or she will probably be returned to power. And this means that there's remarkably little political pressure to end our continuing, if low-grade, depression.
Someday, I suppose, something will turn up that finally gets us back to full employment. But I can't help recalling that the last time we were in this kind of situation, the thing that eventually turned up was World War II.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); JOB CREATION (90%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); FULL EMPLOYMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (73%); MORTGAGE RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (56%)

ORGANIZATION: ECONOMIC POLICY INSTITUTE (84%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



204 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Immigration in the House

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The Republican caucus of the United States House of Representatives is holding a private meeting on Wednesday. The subject will be immigration. Perhaps it will be a showdown or a summit that will reset the party's direction on this issue. Maybe party leaders and moderates will push back against Tea Party no-dealers and hard-core members, like Steve King of Iowa, who want to kill any bill that allows undocumented immigrants to become Americans. Maybe Republicans will decide to accept bipartisan immigration reform as a step toward becoming a party with something to offer Latino and Asian voters besides hostility and fear.
Or maybe not. Now that the Senate has passed its version of reform -- a comprehensive bill with a long but real citizenship path -- the ball is in the House. It might be stuck there: the speaker, John Boehner, has ruled out voting on the Senate bill, or on any immigration bill not supported by the majority of his caucus. That is a recipe for failure, but the House has nothing else to offer right now, no other solutions to match the scale of the problem. 
Four immigration bills have passed the House Judiciary Committee, each with its own nonanswers. The SAFE Act doubles down on the failed strategy of trying to force millions of immigrants to self-deport. It would free states to write their own immigration laws, give state and local law enforcement more power to make immigration arrests, and remove the discretion for the Homeland Security Department to defer the deportations of harmless immigrants in favor of all-out, indiscriminate enforcement. The Ag Act would make it easier to exploit cheap temporary workers, who would be deported when their jobs were done. The Legal Workforce Act would vastly expand the use of federal electronic databases to screen job applicants, an invitation to discrimination. And the Skills Visa Act would create an immigration path for thousands of entrepreneurs and workers in science, technology, engineering and math fields -- a worthwhile goal but a very narrow one.
A bipartisan gang of House members has been working on a broader bill, but nobody has seen it yet and it may go nowhere because it is said to include a path to citizenship. About all that can be safely predicted is that we are in for a summer of heat and pressure, with immigrant advocates loudly demanding a bill and defiant Republicans digging in to make sure that reform collapses.
If only enough House Republicans could see that the bill is one that embraces many of their own priorities. It shrinks the deficit and satisfies big-business interests with more visas for agricultural and information-technology workers. It ushers millions of shadow workers into the higher-earning, taxpaying, aboveground economy, a sure recipe for jobs and growth. And it heaps billions on defense contractors to supply the surveillance tools and weaponry to fortify the border.
The coalition behind comprehensive reform is large. It includes evangelicals and Catholics, law-enforcement and business groups, and Republicans like Jeb Bush and former President George W. Bush. Immigrant-rights advocates and Democrats are solidly lined up, too, even those who want a shorter path to citizenship and less money thrown at the border buildup.
Mr. Boehner has a choice. He can let reform go forward with bipartisan support -- House Republicans and Democrats together could pass a good bill. This would infuriate the hotheads in his caucus but save the Republican Party from itself. Or he can stand back and let his party kill reform. As the issue festers, a nation is watching to see whether the Republicans can work out their Steve King problem and do something difficult for their own good, and the country's.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEPORTATION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (78%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (78%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (78%); DISCRIMINATION (76%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); LABOR FORCE (68%); NATIONAL SECURITY (64%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (63%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (63%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (61%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (60%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: US HOUSE OF REPRESENTATIVES (84%); US DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY (54%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (58%); STEVE KING (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



205 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1460 words

HEADLINE: Many Paths Remain for a Case Against SAC

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN and BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Of the multiple threads the government has pursued in its long-running insider trading investigation of Steven A. Cohen and his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, the case against Mathew Martoma had been seen as the most promising.
Federal authorities repeatedly sought the cooperation of Mr. Martoma, a former employee at SAC, in helping to build a case against Mr. Cohen related to suspicious trading in two drug stocks in July 2008.
Yet Mr. Martoma has persistently rebuffed the government's overtures, including as recently as this spring, when the authorities met with his lawyers at the United States attorney's office in Manhattan, a person briefed on the meeting said.
After Mr. Martoma declined to implicate his onetime boss, authorities concluded that they lacked sufficient evidence to file a criminal case against Mr. Cohen related to the drug-stock trades before a five-year legal deadline expires in mid-July, according to people with direct knowledge of the investigation. 
Mr. Cohen and SAC are hardly out of the woods, however. People close to Mr. Cohen, reluctant to declare victory, note that criminal and civil authorities are still weighing several possibilities as they continue to press their case.
For one, federal prosecutors are considering criminal charges against SAC related to the drug-stock trades and other activity, the people with direct knowledge of the inquiry said. The Securities and Exchange Commission is contemplating a civil lawsuit against Mr. Cohen. And the Federal Bureau of Investigation -- which has agents in New York, Connecticut and Boston scrutinizing SAC -- continues to examine more recent trading at the fund.
The authorities, for example, have looked at SAC trading in the shares of Gymboree, the children's clothing store, the people said. They also face an August deadline to file charges related to trading in Dell shares, a case that produced two indictments of onetime SAC employees, one of whom pleaded guilty.
Prosecutors could even try to get around the five-year legal deadline in the drug-stock trades by including them as part of a broader criminal conspiracy case against Mr. Cohen. Including Mr. Martoma, nine former SAC employees have been tied to insider trading while at the firm; four have pleaded guilty to criminal charges.
Mr. Cohen, 57, has not been accused of any wrongdoing and has told his investors that he has behaved appropriately at all times.
The protracted investigation has angered Mr. Cohen, who has come to believe that the government is obsessed with trying to lock him up and shut down his business, say people close to him.
Based in Stamford, Conn., SAC is one of the world's largest and most influential hedge funds, with about 1,000 employees and $15 billion in assets at the beginning of the year. It has one of the best investment track records on Wall Street, posting nearly 30 percent annual returns, on average, over two decades.
While many consider Mr. Cohen a preternaturally gifted trader, skeptics have long questioned the legitimacy of his returns. Persistent whispers of insider trading inside SAC have dogged the fund, and in recent years, as numerous employees and alumni have become ensnared in the government's insider trading crackdown, those whispers have grown louder.
Mr. Cohen, a native of Great Neck, N.Y., on Long Island, has also become a subject of fascination for his mammoth spending habits. He lives with his family in a 35,000-square-foot home in Greenwich, Conn. Last fall, he bought Picasso's ''Le Rêve'' for $155 million, adding to an art collection that has included works by Andy Warhol and Van Gogh.
He also collects real estate. In March, Mr. Cohen reached a deal to pay $60 million for an oceanfront property in East Hampton, down the road from one that he already owns. He recently closed on a $23.4 million apartment in the West Village in Manhattan, near a building for which he paid $38.8 million last year. And he recently put up for sale his duplex apartment in the Bloomberg Tower on the East Side, asking $115 million.
Amid the swirl of personal spending and the intensifying government investigation, Mr. Cohen's investors have pulled billions of dollars from his fund in recent months. SAC, however, is better insulated from the ill effects of investor withdrawals than rivals because Mr. Cohen's fortune accounts for roughly $8 billion, or more than half the fund.
At the same time, federal prosecutors have not slowed down. In May, they issued subpoenas to Mr. Cohen and five of his senior executives.
Mr. Cohen declined to testify, exercising his constitutional right against self-incrimination, according to the people with direct knowledge of the inquiry. But the five executives, including Thomas J. Conheeney, the firm's president, and Steven Kessler, its chief compliance officer, met with prosecutors in recent weeks and answered questions about the firm's compliance procedures and trading practices.
If prosecutors continue to seek their cooperation, the executives are expected to testify before a grand jury, one of the people said.
In interviewing Mr. Cohen's senior executives, prosecutors are gathering evidence for a possible indictment against SAC under the theory of corporate criminal liability, a move that would effectively destroy the fund.
Under that theory, the government can impute criminal liability to a company based on the benefit it received from an employee's acts that the authorities say are criminal. The government is loath to bring criminal charges against a corporate entity, fearing job losses and economic damage, but will pursue a case if it believes that the wrongdoing at the company is pervasive or condoned by management.
Representatives for the F.B.I. in New York and the United States attorney's office in Manhattan declined to comment. An SAC spokesman also declined to comment.
Mr. Cohen had thought that he had put the most serious of his legal problems behind him in March when SAC agreed to pay a record $616 million penalty to the commission to resolve two insider-trading civil actions, the people close to him said.
The larger of the two settlements, for $602 million, related to Mr. Martoma's trades. The government said Mr. Martoma had caused SAC to sell nearly $1 billion in shares of the drug makers Elan and Wyeth after obtaining secret data from a doctor about clinical trials for a drug being developed by the companies. Those trades allowed SAC to gain profits and avoid losses totaling $276 million, the authorities said.
When the government arrested Mr. Martoma last November, they appeared to be closing in on Mr. Cohen. The complaint highlighted a 20-minute phone call that Mr. Martoma had with Mr. Cohen the day before SAC began dumping its holdings. Prosecutors did not claim that Mr. Martoma told Mr. Cohen about the confidential information.
But what did the two men discuss? Because there is no recording of the call, only Mr. Martoma and Mr. Cohen know the conversation's contents.
Last year, when Mr. Cohen sat for a civil deposition in the S.E.C. case, he told investigators that Mr. Martoma said he was no longer comfortable with the position.
Prosecutors possess powerful evidence against Mr. Martoma, having secured the testimony of the doctor who is said to have leaked the drug-trial data to SAC. But there appears to be no direct evidence that Mr. Cohen knew of the secret information when he directed the Elan and Wyeth sales.
Additional evidence could yet surface in the Martoma case. Prosecutors have indicated that they would file an amended indictment in the case by the end of July, which could add new details, charges or defendants.
And even without Mr. Cohen's facing criminal charges tied to Mr. Martoma, he has drawn scrutiny from the S.E.C. The commission is aiming to build a civil insider trading lawsuit against Mr. Cohen, and would have a lower burden for proving its case than criminal authorities.
It could also bring an action against Mr. Cohen for failing to supervise his employees, something akin to the civil lawsuit that regulators brought last month against Jon S. Corzine related to his control of the collapsed brokerage firm MF Global.
The commission could seek to impose additional financial penalties on Mr. Cohen, as well as a ban from the securities industry.An S.E.C. spokesman declined to comment. But earlier this year, a senior S.E.C. official expressly noted the possibility of a case against Mr. Cohen.
When the commission announced the record civil penalties paid by SAC, George S. Canellos, now its co-head of enforcement, said that the settlement did not ''preclude the future filing of additional charges against any person, including Steve Cohen.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Steven A. Cohen, head of SAC Capital. (PHOTOGRAPH BY STEVE MARCUS/REUTERS) (B1)
 Nine former employees of SAC Capital Advisors in Stamford, Conn., have been tied to insider trading while at the firm. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); INSIDER TRADING (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (89%); GUILTY PLEAS (88%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (88%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (78%); INDICTMENTS (78%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (78%); CONSPIRACY (78%); LAWYERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); LITIGATION (75%); EVIDENCE (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (70%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (63%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (63%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%)

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (58%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (54%); SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) CONNECTICUT, USA (93%); NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



206 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1009 words

HEADLINE: For Chinese Families, a Journey Cut Short, and With It Their Dreams

BYLINE: By VIVIAN YEE; Reporting was contributed by David Barboza, Jens Erik Gould, Richard Pérez-Peña, Kyle Spencer and Mei-Yu Liu.

 BODY:
For three weeks, they would have seen America through the sunny lens of a Southern California summer camp: learning about American customs and English idioms in the mornings, visiting local theme parks in the afternoons and touring Stanford University and the Google campus on the weekends.
To see it all, the Chinese teenagers from Zhejiang Province had to fly through Seoul, South Korea, and into San Francisco International Airport, where their plane clipped the edge of the runway, skidded and burst into flames. Two of the students were left dead on the tarmac -- the only fatalities -- as their classmates fled the burning aircraft. 
The two 16-year-old victims were identified on Sunday as Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, both girls from the town of Jiangshan, who were among 34 10th-grade students and chaperones bound for the camp at West Valley Christian School outside Los Angeles.
Online, Wang Linjia had posted that she hoped time could dilute ''the thick coffee in her cup,'' perhaps easing some sadness about separating from her classmates for the coming school term back home. Ye Mengyuan had written just days ago that she was ''gloomy,'' but other posts hinted at a brighter side: a love of dogs, of animation and of Japanese, Korean and American television.
The girls and their classmates were part of a wave of thousands of affluent Chinese children who come to the United States each summer for language study and cultural immersion, many passing through California on their way to tour Ivy League campuses, go swimming, eat chili dogs and practice their English.
''Those two could've easily been girls coming to my camp,'' said Steve Haines, who runs Horizons USA, an immersion camp for international students near Philadelphia. ''I have plenty of girls just like them.''
He said he had already fielded several calls from worried parents in China, where about three-quarters of his international campers come from, some as young as 8.
Chinese students have been enrolling in American universities and even private high schools in droves for years, with almost 200,000 coming to the United States on student visas in the 2011-12 academic year. But it has become more and more common for well-off families in China to send children to summer camps throughout America, which many Chinese parents see as preparation for studying at American universities or, increasingly, private high schools.
Directors of these summer programs say it has become a competitive industry, buoyed by China's economic ascent, a favorable exchange rate and parents willing to pay to give their children an edge in admission at American high schools and colleges.
The programs can cost as much as $12,000 for a few weeks at a prestigious campus, though prices in the range of $2,000 to $7,000 are more common. Many parents also pay extra fees to agencies that place their children with the American programs.
''Many of them are thinking about university,'' said David Lin, the director of the Chinese Culture Association, whose camp is in San Bernardino, Calif. ''But their parents also want them to experience American life.''
Mr. Lin's program hosts as many as 500 Chinese students a year, who come for two weeks at a time. Most are the children of real estate moguls, engineers and doctors. Between English classes and sports at the Y.M.C.A., they explore local landmarks and go on to visit Washington, Disneyland and the campuses of Harvard, Yale and M.I.T.
Some camps include SAT preparation and consultations on applying to selective high schools and colleges. Others offer specialized classes in science, journalism or American etiquette. Still others promise full immersion, like Horizons USA, where students stay with host families and spend their days playing sports and games alongside American children.
West Valley Christian School, where the Zhejiang group was scheduled to start on Monday, has hosted groups from Korea every year for the past 12 years. The group from Zhejiang was to be the school's first Chinese group, and several church members who had signed up to host the schoolchildren were shocked and ''devastated,'' said Derek Swales, the school's administrator.
The students' school, Jiangshan Middle School in eastern China, was locally renowned for sending students to China's top universities -- and some of America's finest, including Harvard and Yale. It had arranged similar summer programs for its students in previous years, local Chinese news media reported, with each student paying about $5,000 to attend.
''They're trying to learn the English language and understand America,'' Mr. Swales said. ''They want to learn how quickly people speak here and listen to all the idioms, like what does it mean to say 'off the wall.' ''
He said the students' motivation was simple: to gain an advantage in American college admissions. ''Their No. 1 reason is to be prepared for college,'' he said. ''Their parents are putting down a lot of money for them to see it and taste it.''
Mr. Swales said he believed that the Zhejiang group would now return to China instead of coming to West Valley, adding that the church would hold a vigil on Thursday evening for the victims. He held up an envelope of donations collected during Sunday services for the girls' families.
The students are still in San Francisco, where the Chinese Consulate is coordinating their care, said Wang Chuan, a consulate spokesman. He said the consulate was arranging for the parents of the victims to fly to San Francisco.
In China, it was reported that parents gathered at the school to await news of their children, and state-run news media showed a pair of parents slumped over desks and crying after speaking to officials in San Francisco.
Neither family could be reached on Sunday. But because of China's one-child policy, both girls were likely to have been their parents' only children, just like a vast majority of those whose families send them to the United States every year. The Ye family had named their daughter Mengyuan, which in Chinese means ''a dream becomes true.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The library at West Valley Christian School outside Los Angeles, where the two Chinese teenagers who died in Asiana Flight 214, Ye Mengyuan and Wang Linjia, were scheduled to attend summer camp. Below right, Derek Swales, the school's administrator. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PATRICK T. FALLON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (89%); FOREIGN STUDENTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); CHILDREN (88%); FAMILY (86%); FOREIGN LANGUAGE EDUCATION (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); AIRPORTS (78%); ADOLESCENTS (77%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (77%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (76%); FIRES (75%); PASSPORTS & VISAS (71%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (69%); DOGS (65%); EXCHANGE RATES (50%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: STANFORD UNIVERSITY (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%) CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); EAST CHINA (92%) UNITED STATES (96%); CHINA (94%); KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



207 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Opposition In Syria Continues To Fracture

BYLINE: By ANNE BARNARD and HANIA MOURTADA; Hwaida Saad contributed reporting from Beirut, and an employee of The New York Times from Raqqa, Syria.

 BODY:
BEIRUT, Lebanon -- The deadly clashes that raged between rival rebel factions in Syria over the weekend accentuated the divisions hampering opponents of President Bashar al-Assad as they try to halt his forces' recent gains on the battlefield and persuade the West to supply the insurgency with weapons.
The fighting flared between members of a mainstream rebel group and a radical faction affiliated with Al Qaeda, according to local residents and an antigovernment watchdog group. The presence of the radicals and the failure to bring rebel forces under a unified military leadership have made the United States and its allies reluctant to arm the opposition. 
As foreign fighters continued to spill into Syria across the country's porous borders -- committing atrocities against both supporters and opponents of the government and clashing with more moderate rebel groups -- the prospects for unity among the rebels have seemed to grow more remote.
Islamist fighters said recently that they had driven a rival rebel brigade out of Raqqa, a rebel-held provincial capital in northeastern Syria, because they had found some of its fighters drinking wine and consorting with women, and because they considered brigade reluctant to fight.
And in the most recent confrontation, in Dana, a rebel-held town in Idlib Province near the Turkish border, members of an extremist Islamist group were accused of beheading two rival fighters and leaving their severed heads beside a garbage can in a town square.
That grim discovery on Sunday followed a protest and clashes in the town, highlighting the antagonism that some Syrian fighters and civilians are beginning to feel toward some of the radical factions.
Simmering tensions within the insurgency have intensified lately, especially between rebels affiliated with the Free Syrian Army, the loose-knit umbrella group backed by the West, and members of the Islamic State of Iraq and Al Sham, the new Syria-based affiliate of Al Qaeda, which includes the well-armed fighters of the Nusra Front.
The disputes that have erupted in provinces like Raqqa, Idlib and Aleppo are often centered as much on individual egos and economic resources as on ideology. Still, the frictions inhibit the insurgency from functioning as a single fighting force, and as government forces have appeared to retake control of some rebel-held territory, they are threatening to deepen into a new conflict that would further weaken the rebels on the battlefield.
According to residents, activists and fighters, popular resentment toward radical factions including foreign fighters began sweeping into villages that had been under the control of the Free Syrian Army and trying to impose their strict conception of Islamic law, sometimes even carrying out summary public executions.
The Nusra and Free Syrian Army fighters have accused each other of profiting from the war, demanding bribes at checkpoints and selling oil from captured wells. The Qaeda-affiliated units are said to be buying up land in Aleppo and Idlib Provinces and trying to monopolize supplies of wheat and fuel, Reuters reported.
The complaints run in both directions. In Raqqa, Abu Abdullah, a fighter with the Islamist brigade of Ahrar al-Sham, said his men, along with Nusra fighters, had ejected the Farouq brigade from the city for both military and moral reasons.
He said the Farouq brigade was hoarding arms and had failed to go to the aid of allies in Qusayr, a city that government forces retook last month.
''We want real fighters,'' he said in an interview, ''not lazy people who raise the revolution flag but spend time relaxing and getting money.''
In Idlib Province, residents of Dana staged a demonstration on Friday to demand that Qaeda militants leave their town, because the Qaeda fighters had been detaining, beating and in some cases executing teenage boys for trivial offenses, according to a published statement by Syrian activists who identified themselves with the phrase ''Al Nusra Front does not represent me.''
It was not clear who had instigated the clashes, which claimed a number of lives, according to the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights, an antigovernment watchdog group that tracks violence in the country from a base in Britain.
According to a local Free Syrian Army commander and the Observatory, the Qaeda fighters opened fire at the protesters, prompting return fire from more moderate fighters. The civilian demonstrators were caught in the middle, the Observatory said, and several civilians were killed, some of them children.
But a local group calling itself the Union of Free Youths of Idlib said that the Qaeda fighters had blamed others for shooting first, and that the clashes had been between disreputable members of battalions whose more serious fighters were busy on the front lines.
Those who fought in Dana ''have nothing to do with jihad, except they like showing off,'' the group said on its Facebook page. ''We wouldn't say one side is Islamic and the other is secular. Both sides are only fighting for personal gains and glory, while martyr after martyr is falling on the front lines.''
The local Free Syrian Army commander said that after the clashes in Dana, members of the Qaeda group had begun seizing people in the town, including Fadi al-Qesh, the leader of the Hamza Assad Allah brigade, a Free Syrian Army affiliate. The bodies and severed heads of Mr. Qesh and his brother were found later.
In a video circulated by the Observatory, a man with his face obscured, identified as another Free Syrian Army commander, is heard to say ruefully that when the radical fighters first arrived in the town, ''we warmly welcomed them -- we opened our homes and even participated in battles with them.'' Now that camaraderie has apparently frayed.

GRAPHIC: MAP: Extremists were accused of beheading two rivals in Dana. (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REBELLIONS & INSURGENCIES (96%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); TERRORISM (89%); 2011 SYRIAN UPRISING (89%); ARMIES (89%); AL-QAEDA (89%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HOMICIDE (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (76%); BORDER CONTROL (74%); ARMED FORCES (70%); RELIGION (62%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (57%)

PERSON: BASHAR AL-ASSAD (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIRUT, LEBANON (92%) SYRIA (95%); LEBANON (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); IRAQ (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



208 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1156 words

HEADLINE: Reuters To Suspend Early Peeks At Key Index

BYLINE: By PETER LATTMAN

 BODY:
Over the last several years, an exclusive group of investors has paid a steep premium to receive the results of a closely watched economic survey a full two seconds before its broader release. Those two seconds can mean millions of dollars in profits for the investors, who practice a computer-driven strategy called high-frequency trading.
On Monday, the company providing these investors with that lucrative edge, Thomson Reuters, is expected to announce that it will suspend the practice, yielding to pressure from the New York attorney general, according to a person with direct knowledge of the matter. 
Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general, and his staff have been investigating the unusual arrangement that Thomson Reuters has with the University of Michigan. On two Fridays a month at 10 a.m. Eastern time, the widely cited and often market-moving economic survey known as the consumer confidence index is posted by the university on a Web site.
Thomson Reuters pays the university at least $1 million a year to distribute that data early to its money management customers on an exclusive basis. The company offers clients of its news service the opportunity to pay to receive the information on a conference call at 9:55 a.m.
But an elite group of about a dozen clients, which includes some of the world's most powerful money managers, pays Thomson Reuters an additional fee to receive it at 9:54:58 -- two seconds before everyone else. Some of the clients pay the company more than $6,000 a month for this early release.
The company packages the information for these clients in a format that allows their high-speed, computer-driven trading systems to exploit the data, making rapid-fire trades in stocks and futures before others gain access to it.
Mr. Schneiderman's investigation began in April after a former Thomson Reuters employee filed a whistle-blower complaint about the practice, according to a person briefed on the inquiry. The attorney general's investor protection bureau is specifically examining the 9:54:58 disclosure and, more broadly, whether preferential disclosure of data is a fair and appropriate business practice.
A spokesman for Thomson Reuters defended the practice and said the company was fully cooperating with the attorney general's review.
''Thomson Reuters strongly believes that news and information companies can legally distribute nongovernmental data and exclusive news through services provided to fee-paying subscribers,'' said the spokesman, Lemuel Brewster. ''It is widely understood that news and information companies compete for exclusive news and differentiated content to help their customers make better informed trading and investment decisions.''
Legal experts have said the tiered pricing arrangement Thomson Reuters has with its customers does not violate federal insider trading laws. As a nongovernment entity, the company can disseminate the information as it pleases, as long as it fully discloses the practice, they say. And trading on the early data release is also legal because no one is breaching any duty in leaking the information, as is the case in a classic insider trading crime when a company executive divulges corporate secrets.
But Mr. Schneiderman's office is exploring whether the advanced look at the consumer data is a violation of the Martin Act, a state securities-fraud law that gives the attorney general broad powers to pursue either criminal or civil actions against companies. The nearly century-old law does not require the government to show proof that a company intended to defraud anyone. It also allows investigators to seek an enormous amount of information from businesses.
Regardless of the legality of the practice, it has raised questions among state officials about fairness in the financial markets. Regulators are concerned that elite investors are being provided privileged access to important data, according to a person briefed on the matter. A mission of the attorney general's investor protection bureau, which is overseeing the investigation, is to help create a level playing field on Wall Street.
The controversy over the Thomson Reuters practice highlights the prevalence of high-speed trading in the nation's financial markets. More than half of all American stock trades are now executed by firms that rely on computer algorithms to execute thousands of orders a second. These traders can get an edge by obtaining market data even milliseconds before their rivals.
Most market data providers, including the major exchanges, now charge premiums for faster delivery of information. Regulators have been criticized for being slow to address this seismic change in the market, and are just now examining the issues surrounding the selective disclosure of data to people who pay a premium for it.
One piece of coveted data is the University of Michigan consumer confidence number, a survey that measures the country's opinion about the state of the economy. Investors consider it a bellwether of economic sentiment and a possible indicator of the direction of the stock market.
Mr. Schneiderman's investigation of Thomson Reuters evokes the investor-protection campaign waged a decade ago by a former attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, who aggressively wielded the Martin Act to change Wall Street practices that smacked of unfairness. He used the law, for example, to expose Merrill Lynch's hyping of Internet stocks, and then secured a global settlement involving 10 banks and $1.4 billion in fines.
It appears Mr. Schneiderman is using similar hardball tactics.
In response to the attorney general's inquiry, Thomson Reuters took the position that its tiered pricing system was legal, said the person briefed on the investigation. But Mr. Schneiderman's office demanded that Thomson Reuters suspend the selective disclosure of the survey at 9:54:58 to its highest-paying customers.
After Thomson Reuters resisted making the change, the attorney general's office threatened to seek a court order to stop it from prereleasing the data, this person said. Rather than wage a court battle, Thomson Reuters capitulated and agreed to temporarily suspend the practice for the duration of the investigation.
When Thomson Reuters releases the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey this Friday morning, no one will receive the information before 9:55.
Thomson Reuters has recently had other problems with its release of market-moving data. Last month, the company accidentally released a manufacturing survey from the Institute of Supply Management to a small group of traders milliseconds before others received it. Those traders used computer models to process and trade on the data.
A Thomson Reuters spokesman blamed the problem on a ''clock synchronization issue.'' The Securities and Exchange Commission has opened an inquiry into the premature release.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general of New York. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (90%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); INSIDER TRADING (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); FUTURES (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); PRICE MANAGEMENT (72%); PRODUCT PRICING (68%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (67%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (62%); CONFERENCE CALLS (51%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



209 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 730 words

HEADLINE: What's On Monday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
9 P.M. (NBC) GET OUT ALIVE WITH BEAR GRYLLS In his broadcast network debut, Mr. Grylls, left, the survivalist star of Discovery's ''Man vs. Wild,'' tests 10 teams of two contestants in challenges of increasing difficulty amid the dense forests, rocky summits and glacier crevasses of New Zealand's South Island. Their mission: to withstand the wilderness, travel as a group and avoid elimination while each team is assigned a task -- including taking charge of food, fire, shelter or obstacles -- throughout the various legs of the journey. One team will be sent home each week. The team that Mr. Grylls says has shown the most survival spirit, resourceful skill and determination in its quest to ''get out alive'' will win $500,000. 
9 P.M. (HBO) GASLAND PART II (2013) Josh Fox continues his exploration of hydraulic fracturing, or fracking, in this sequel to ''Gasland'' (2010), which chronicled a company's efforts to pay Mr. Fox, above, for exploration rights to his family's land above the Marcellus Shale formation in Pennsylvania. This follow-up recaps his personal history and revisits communities featured in the first film while tracing the legal and political fights in the years between. ''As with 'Gasland,' there are questions, large and small, that can nag at you,'' Mike Hale wrote in The New York Times. ''Would it have been a bad idea to include at least one interview with a homeowner who professes to support drilling? Did the dog with the missing leg somehow lose the limb because of fracking, as a dramatic cut would have us believe?'' Still, ''most of Mr. Fox's material isn't open to question,'' he said. ''It's hard to take issue with Mr. Fox's resigned conclusion that economic and political forces will soon spread fracking around the world, no matter how harmful critics say it may be to the environment and our health.''
10 P.M. (BBC America) DANGERMAN: THE INCREDIBLE MR. GOODWIN Jonathan Goodwin, a Welsh ''escapologist'' and daredevil, emulates the comic-strip superheroes of his childhood as he attempts feats of bravery, agility and strength -- from scrambling to unlock himself from a rocket-launched car before it drags him off a cliff to fighting his way to the surface after being bitten by a venomous snake and buried underground. In this series premiere, he tackles a stunt that stumped Harry Houdini three times and uses a helicopter and a circus trapeze to extract himself from handcuffs. In the Season 20 opener of ''Top Gear,'' leading in at 8:30, Jeremy Clarkson and James May race a car against an America's Cup yacht off the coast of New Zealand.
10 P.M. (13) HERMAN'S HOUSE (2013) Herman Wallace, a former Black Panther, has spent perhaps more time in solitary confinement than any other prisoner in the United States: 23 hours a day in a 6-by-9-foot cell for most of 40 years in the Louisiana State Penitentiary known as Angola. He was jailed in 1967 for a robbery he admits to but sentenced to life for the killing of a prison guard in 1972 that he adamantly denies. In 2002, Mr. Wallace received a letter from Jackie Sumell with a question: What kind of house does a man in a cell dream of? That query led to hundreds of letters and phone calls between Ms. Sumell and Mr. Wallace, resulting in an art installation, ''The House That Herman Built,'' featuring a full-scale wooden model of Mr. Wallace's cell as well as detailed plans for his dream home, above. The exhibition traveled to 12 galleries in five countries. Eventually Mr. Wallace asked Ms. Sumell to make his dream a reality. She moved from New York to New Orleans to scout land where a real house could be built in the hope that it would serve as his home if he was ever released and used in the interim as a center for troubled youth. This documentary from Angad Singh Bhalla, presented here by ''POV,'' tells of Mr. Wallace's struggle for freedom as he protests and appeals his murder conviction. ''Although this documentary has a powerful political subtext, it is best described as a conceptual art piece about confinement, attached to a dual biography of the artist and the prisoner,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times. ''Mr. Wallace is never shown in the film, but in the recorded conversations with Ms. Sumell, the voice of a man who says 'art is not my thing' grounds this eccentric, often poignant film in an attitude of common sense and stoicism.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HBO
 FIRST RUN FEATURES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NETWORK TELEVISION (89%); HYDRAULIC FRACTURING (89%); OIL & GAS EXTRACTION (88%); BITES & STINGS (78%); REPTILES & AMPHIBIANS (72%); MINING & EXTRACTION RIGHTS & ROYALTIES (68%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) NEW ZEALAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



210 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 756 words

HEADLINE: The High Cost of Childbirth in the U.S.

 BODY:
To the Editor:
I was utterly shocked by the information in ''American Way of Birth, Costliest in the World'' (''Paying Till It Hurts'' series, front page, July 1), even though I regularly follow news about health care. The lack of price transparency was not as surprising as the figure of $37,341, the average 2010 billed charges for having a normal pregnancy and delivery.
It is so important that we Americans learn more about health care costs and try to understand what is behind them, because their growth is outstripping the growth in our gross domestic product. The Affordable Care Act will help bring good sense back into health care spending by providing mechanisms to evaluate new and better ways to provide care. 
Entities such as the Center for Medicaid and Medicare Innovation, the Independent Payment Advisory Board and the Patient-Centered Outcomes Research Institute can provide recommendations toward this goal.
But in the end, Eugene Declercq, a Boston University professor whom you quote, is right: ''We've met the problem, and it's us.'' We all need to examine our health care bills and question our medical providers about what care we do need, and what we might not need.
ELIZABETH POWELL Berkeley, Calif., July 1, 2013
The writer is a retired primary care doctor.
To the Editor:
''American Way of Birth, Costliest in the World'' doesn't mention a critical nuance of childbirth expense. The risk tolerance of pregnant women and their caregivers is exceptionally low. Childbirth is fraught with risks, yet the expected outcome is perfection -- healthy baby, healthy mom, regardless of the circumstances. At the same time, catastrophic outcomes can be very challenging to predict.
Unlike our less expensive European counterparts, most birthing centers in the United States maintain elaborate blood banks, intensive care units and access to specialists. These ''just in case'' resources add to the total cost whether they are used or not, and their ready availability leads to overtreatment.
To solve this problem, we must focus on where the value lies in the care we provide and make this information transparent to families. Then we may have a fighting chance to eliminate needless services and make childbirth more affordable.
NEEL SHAH TONI GOLEN Boston, July 3, 2013
The writers are obstetricians at Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center. Dr. Shah is the founder and executive director of Costs of Care, a nonprofit that tries to reduce medical bills.
To the Editor:
Price gouging of pregnant women has joined the litany of profiteering opportunities by the health care industry. Unnecessary tests during pregnancy add to patients' financial burden.
Women don't have an innate preference for medicalized births and shouldn't be blamed for overuse of services. The root cause rests with companies that sell equipment and supplies for intravenous therapies, ultrasound and anesthesia used in high-tech births, along with other industry players that have every financial incentive to make birth as unnatural as only the unfettered marketplace can do. Investors reap higher returns and sales representatives bag bigger bonuses. Everyone wins except women, who don't stand a chance against the medical-industrial complex.
Little wonder that women interviewed for your excellent article express dismay about the greed that has mutated the miracle of birth.
ROSEMARY GIBSON Arlington, Va., July 2, 2013
The writer is a senior adviser at The Hastings Center, a bioethics research institute, and the author of ''The Treatment Trap.'' To the Editor:
Thank you for calling attention to the challenges America faces in providing affordable, quality maternity care. An overhaul of our maternal care system is long overdue.
As a midwife who has practiced domestically and abroad, I have seen that reserving high-tech, expensive diagnostic tests for high-risk women or women presenting with worrisome symptoms serves women and their families best. It shields women from unnecessary invasive procedures, false alarms requiring even more testing and the associated spiraling costs of care.
It's time for us to learn from others beyond our borders about high-quality systems that keep costs within reason. In most countries with excellent maternal and newborn health outcomes and universally affordable care, midwives lead maternity care -- referring high-risk and complicated cases to specialists.
REBECCA HERMAN Watertown, Mass., July 1, 2013
The writer is special adviser to the president at Pathfinder International, which focuses on reproductive health.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY LAURA JUNGER) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); HEALTH CARE (89%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (89%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (78%); MATERNITY HOSPITALS (78%); WRITERS (78%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (74%); INTENSIVE CARE UNITS (73%); MEDICAID (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (70%); MEDICARE (70%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (68%); BLOOD BANKS (68%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (68%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSTON, MA, USA (91%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (70%) MASSACHUSETTS, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPE (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



211 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1534 words

HEADLINE: Terror on Jet: Seeing Water, Not Runway

BYLINE: By NORIMITSU ONISHI, CHRISTOPHER DREW, MATTHEW L. WALD and SARAH MASLIN NIR; Norimitsu Onishi reported from San Francisco, Christopher Drew and Sarah Maslin Nir from New York, and Matthew L. Wald from Washington. Reporting was contributed by Somini Sengupta from San Francisco; Michael Schwirtz, Ravi Somaiya, Jad Mouawad and Mei-Yu Liu from New York; David Barboza from Shanghai; and Choe Sang-hun from Seoul, South Korea. Jack Begg contributed research.

 BODY:
SAN FRANCISCO -- The nearly 11-hour trip across the Pacific had gone smoothly as Asiana Flight 214 approached San Francisco International Airport -- an uneventful flight for the 291 passengers, including dozens of Chinese teenagers who were arriving for a summer camp to study English and tour colleges.
But from seat 30K, Benjamin Levy knew something was wrong. Outside his window, as the plane approached the airport where Mr. Levy, a frequent traveler, knew there should have been tarmac, there was instead a terrifying sight: the waters of San Francisco Bay.
''The pilot put the gas full steam, and we tipped back up -- he went full throttle to regain a bit of altitude,'' Mr. Levy said from his home on Sunday, a day after he survived the crash landing that killed two 16-year-old girls among the group of Chinese students and injured 180 of the passengers arriving from South Korea. 
''We were so close to the water, the water got sprayed up,'' Mr. Levy said. ''There were walls of water beside the window -- before we started hitting earth.''
When the screaming ceased inside the Boeing 777, the plane rested on its belly, its tail and engines sheared by the crash.
The head of the National Transportation Safety Board said Sunday that the pilots came in too slowly, took too long to realize it and tried to abort the landing seconds before the crash. The South Korean Transport Ministry said the pilot, Lee Kang-guk, had only 43 hours of experience flying a 777. It was Mr. Lee's first time piloting a 777 into the San Francisco airport, an Asiana spokeswoman said. ''For now, this itself should not be cited as if it were the cause of the accident,'' said Chang Man-hee, a senior aviation policy official at the transport ministry. ''Mr. Lee himself was a veteran pilot going through what every pilot has to when switching to a new type of plane.''
In a dramatic moment-by-moment account, the N.T.S.B.'s chairwoman, Deborah A. P. Hersman, suggested that crew members had little inkling of the impending crash until about seven seconds before impact, when one is heard on a cockpit recorder calling for an increase in speed. The call came too late. Three seconds later, an alarm sounded a warning that the plane was about to stall, Ms. Hersman said. One-and-a-half seconds before impact, the pilots advanced the throttles to get more power in an attempt to avert a crash. But before the plane could gain altitude, it hit the sea wall, snapping off its tail section before skidding to a stop and catching fire.
Ms. Hersman's comments, delivered at a news briefing, were based on preliminary data provided by the Boeing 777's cockpit voice recorder and flight data recorder. Other data from a private firm, FlightAware, indicated that as the plane lost forward speed, it descended much faster than normal.
Ms. Hersman emphasized that investigators could not yet draw any conclusions about the cause of the crash. But she did not indicate any sign of a mechanical malfunction and focused almost exclusively on the actions of the pilots as they prepared for landing.
''Everything is on the table right now,'' she said. ''It is too early to rule anything out.''
Saturday was clear, with light winds, no wind shear and visibility of up to 10 miles, Ms. Hersman said. Air traffic controllers had cleared the Asiana flight for a visual approach -- meaning no guiding instruments were needed to land the plane.
What happened to the passengers depended in part on where they were sitting.
Near the front of the plane, including the first-class cabin, some passengers fled clutching their carry-on luggage. In the center of the plane where Mr. Levy sat there was no inflatable chute, as there were at other exits. At the very rear of the plane, which bore the worst of the damage, overhead compartments opened upon impact, raining luggage onto the seated passengers. Mr. Levy said there was a woman with her leg crushed between two seats, which had become uprooted. Mr. Levy and others worked to free her.
Another woman near her was initially unconscious. ''She wouldn't move,'' Mr. Levy said. ''There were two other guys. We couldn't pick her up.''
Suddenly, through the hole in the tail of the plane, a firefighter charged in, rushing Mr. Levy and the remaining passengers out as smoke billowed. The jetliner was on fire.
On Sunday, hospital officials said that nearly all of the most grievously injured passengers had been in the rear of the plane, including six people in critical condition with spinal injuries, paralysis and head injuries, and a few with what was described as ''road rash'' as if they had been dragged.
It was not clear where the two girls who died were seated on the plane; both bodies were found on the tarmac. One of the bodies, found on the ground to the left side of the plane, may have been run over by a fire truck or another emergency vehicle in addition to her injuries from the crash, Robert J. Foucrault, the San Mateo County coroner, said on Sunday.
Mr. Foucrault said his examination was not complete, so he could not confirm that was the case.
Jang Hyung Lee, 32, was seated with his wife and their 15-month-old son in the first row of economy class. He said he heard a distant thump, then a few seconds later, a louder thump, and then saw an engine on fire to the right.
He said he was lucky to be sitting toward the front of the aircraft. Doors opened. He lined up to slide down the chute, clutching his baby in a carrier on his chest. His wife grabbed the diaper bag.
The evacuation, at least in the front of the plane where the Lee family sat, was calm and orderly.
''It wasn't really chaos; people actually took their hand carriers,'' Mr. Lee said. ''People in front, they were pretty much O.K. We could walk out by ourselves.''
His in-laws in business class said luggage fell from the overhead compartments. His mother- in-law somehow knocked out a front tooth and his father-in-law is suffering from back pain, he said, but they both made it safely down another chute to waiting paramedics.
Xu Da, the production manager at Taobao, the Chinese shopping Web site, wrote on Sina Weibo, a Chinese blogging site, that he smelled ''the smoke, and saw the flames.''
Nevertheless, like many other passengers, he wrote that he grabbed his carry-on bags before leaving the plane.
''I grabbed my bags as soon as it stopped,'' he said of the plane. ''My wife was very calm -- she even picked up the scattered stuff on the ground,'' he wrote, adding that the couple took their child and bags as they turned toward the rear. ''There was a huge hole, quite round, so we rushed out there.''
Strapped into his exit row midway in the plane, Mr. Levy thought his ribs had been broken. Nonetheless, he stood up inside the shattered aircraft, pried open the emergency door and began to shout out directions.
''We were left on our own, there was no message from the pilot, from the crew, there was no one. We had to help each other out,'' Mr. Levy said, describing how he and others stayed in the plane as they hustled other passengers out, shouting for people to keep calm, while 30 to 40 people exited the door beside him.
The flight had a crew of 16, including four pilots who switched off during the flight in two-man rotations. Korean officials said the main pilot at the time of the landing was Lee Jeong-min, who had more than 12,000 hours of overall flight experience and 3,220 hours in Boeing 777s. The pilot at the controls, Lee Kang-guk, 46, had almost 10,000 total flying hours, with just 43 of them in 777s, Korean officials said.
Ms. Hersman said that an electronic system called a glide slope indicator, which keeps planes at the proper descent angle, had been turned off, but that the crew should have known this, and that other tools were available to the pilots.
''Pilots have available to them a number of options for how to get the plane in on the right speed, on the right approach, on the right path,'' Ms. Hersman said.
Another tool, known as a localizer, which allows planes to line up along the center of the runway, was operating, as were the airport's red and white lights that visually guide pilots to the runway.
Pilots can also use onboard GPS-based equipment to guide their approach to the runway.
Airlines had been told that the glide slope system was out of service, and many carriers, including Asiana, had been landing for weeks on that runway without difficulty, the official said. Air traffic control tapes indicate that the controller cleared the plane for a visual approach, for which the system was not necessary.
Some experts said that pilots often have little opportunity to practice landings without the aid of such technology, particularly on international flights into large, technologically advanced airports like San Francisco International.
Still, given that the weather was ideal and the guide lights were on, making a visual landing should not have been difficult for most commercial pilots, aviation experts said.
''Even if it was the least experienced crew in Asiana Airlines, the maneuver that led to this crash, on a difficulty scale of 1 to 10, this was a 2 or 3 at the most,'' said Oscar S. Garcia, the chairman of InterFlight Global Corporation, a consulting firm.

CORRECTION-DATE: July 13, 2013 

 CORRECTION:
Because of a data error, an article and chart on Monday about the crash of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 misstated how quickly the plane descended. The corrected preliminary data shows that the plane descended 200 feet in 8 seconds, not 600 feet in 9 seconds. A corrected chart can be found online at nytimes.com/national.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Investigators from the National Transportation Safety Board on Sunday at the scene of the crash of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 at San Francisco International Airport. (PHOTOGRAPH BY REUTERS)
The United Airlines domestic terminal, which was crowded a day after the airport was closed.
 Deborah Hersman, the transportation safety board chairwoman, and Mayor Edwin M. Lee. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JIM WILSON/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A10) CHART: An Uneven Descent: About a minute and a half before the crash, preliminary data shows, Asiana Airlines Flight 214 sank 600 feet in nine seconds. During a normal approach, the plane should have descended only 150 feet in that time. (Source: FlightAware.com) (A10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRPORTS (91%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (89%); FLIGHT RECORDERS (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (73%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); CIVIL AVIATION (73%); WOMEN (73%); ADOLESCENTS (57%)

COMPANY: ASIANA AIRLINES INC (91%); BOEING CO (58%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY BOARD (82%)

TICKER: 020560 (KSE) (91%); BOE (LSE) (58%); BAB (BRU) (58%); BA (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (91%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (91%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



212 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 2004 words

HEADLINE: Progress on Housing Finance Reform

BYLINE: PHILLIP SWAGEL


HIGHLIGHT: A sound housing finance system that insulates taxpayers against bailouts would require some private capital and let new firms enter the securitization business, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Phillip Swagel is a professor at the School of Public Policy at the University of Maryland, and was assistant secretary for economic policy at the Treasury Department from 2006 to 2009. 
Taxpayers received $66 billion of good news last Monday in the form of dividends to the Treasury from Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac as part of the compensation for the bailout of the two government-sponsored enterprises (G.S.E.'s). The bad news is that these payments reflect the fact that the two firms remain in government hands nearly five years after being taken into conservatorship in September 2008, putting taxpayers at risk in the event of another housing downturn. 
A fundamental change in this situation requires Congressional action, which is always difficult in our divided political system. Even so, legislation introduced recently by a bipartisan group of eight senators led by Bob Corker, a Tennessee Republican, and Mark Warner, a Virginia Democrat, has focused renewed attention on housing finance reform. 
I was among the many people providing technical advice to the group working on the Corker-Warner proposal and think there is much to like in it. The legislation includes the essential elements of housing finance reform: a dominant role for private capital; considerable protection for taxpayers against future bailouts; a secondary government backstop to ensure stability; competition and entry by new firms into housing finance so that no future entity is too big to fail; a clear delineation of the roles of private firms and the government; an empowered regulator to ensure that loan quality remains high for guaranteed mortgages; and support for activities related to affordable housing.
A paper I wrote with Ellen Seidman, Sarah Rosen Wartell, and Mark Zandi has a proposal similar in many respects to the Corker-Warner bill. Clicking through to the biographies of my co-authors quickly reveals that the four of us come at this issue from quite different political perspectives. The common ground we reached in a sense mirrors that of the bipartisan group of senators in looking to move forward with reform rather than allowing Fannie and Freddie to remain effectively part of the government, which is the outcome that will obtain if no action is taken. 
A key feature of the Corker-Warner proposal is the requirement that private investors must put up capital equal to 10 percent of the loans that will be guaranteed by a new government agency set up along the lines of the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. This provision alone goes a long way toward restoring the dominant role of private incentives and protecting taxpayers against the possibility of another costly housing bailout. Indeed, Fannie and Freddie would have easily made it through the crisis had this been in place. The legislation further allows new firms to enter the mortgage securitization business now dominated by the two G.S.E.'s. With enough competition, no firm in the future housing finance system will be too big to fail.
At the same time, a secondary government guarantee behind the private capital would ensure that mortgage financing is available across economic conditions, with taxpayers compensated for taking on residual housing credit risk. This contrasts with the failed system of the past in which the government backstop was implicit but free.
 The U.S. Mortgage Market 
Some background might be useful for readers unfamiliar with the workings of our convoluted housing finance system. 
Originators such as banks make loans, which Fannie and Freddie then buy and bundle into mortgage-backed securities with a guarantee against losses from homeowner defaults. The two firms then sell these securities to investors, now including the Federal Reserve as part of its quantitative easing program. Banks and other lenders like the arrangement because they can readily sell loans to Fannie and Freddie and get cash to lend to yet again. The setup benefits home buyers through the greater availability of financing and lower interest rates as American families effectively tap into global financial markets for their mortgages.
There is a cost, however, borne by taxpayers. When the government took over the two firms in 2008, the Treasury Department promised to provide cash as needed to keep Fannie and Freddie afloat, effectively ensuring that the two firms' $5 trillion in obligations will be honored (in addition to guarantees, that huge sum includes debt issued by the G.S.E.'s to finance their own purchases of mortgage-backed securities). Investors had long believed that the government would support the firms in a pinch, a belief that gave the G.S.E.'s an advantage over other financial firms.
Actions taken during the crisis turned the previously implicit government guarantee into an explicit one, at a cost to taxpayers that peaked at $189 billion at the end of 2012. American families at least got something from the bailout of Fannie and Freddie, as mortgages were available throughout the crisis even as other parts of credit markets experienced strains. The firms have paid some $132 billion in dividends to the government, but these funds do not get credited as paying down the taxpayer assistance. Moreover, the firms are not allowed to build up reserves with which to cover any potential future losses. Instead, the firms' profits are swept to the Treasury, where they provide a temptation to Congress and the president as a means by which to pay for new government spending.
Fannie and Freddie today are linchpins of the nation's housing finance system, providing guarantees on two-thirds of the mortgages originated in 2012. Together with agencies like the Federal Housing Administration, the government stands behind nearly 90 percent of new mortgages. Taxpayers are thus extraordinarily exposed to future housing-related losses.
Many who follow Fannie and Freddie had long warned that their problems posed a risk to the financial system. The imperative of housing finance reform is to devise a new system that protects taxpayers against another costly bailout while ensuring that American families have access to mortgages on reasonable terms.
 Challenges With Reform 
A key challenge in moving forward with reform is that bringing in private investors who take losses ahead of taxpayers will translate into higher mortgage interest rates, reflecting the compensation demanded by private investors to take on housing credit risk. Indeed, in the past, proponents of reform were sometimes derided as being "anti-housing" for supposedly wishing for higher interest rates. The crisis has mostly silenced this criticism, with broad agreement that reform must involve greater private capital to take losses ahead of any potential government backstop.
The Corker-Warner proposal requires investors to put at risk funds equal to 10 percent of the value of the mortgages included in mortgage-backed securities to be guaranteed by the government. The total losses of Fannie and Freddie during the crisis were equal to about 4 percent of the firms' combined assets. The firms were shielded by homeowner down payments and by private mortgage insurance before they had to make good on their guaranteed securities, but the housing price collapse of more than 30 percent combined with concentrations of Fannie and Freddie's risk in key bubble states such as Nevada combined to generate losses that wiped out the firms' thin capital cushions of less than 1 percent of their assets. 
With a 10 percent capital requirement, the firms would easily have made it through the worst housing cycle in recent memory. To be sure, a 10 percent capital requirement is not the same as the 100 percent in a fully private system. But a fully private system is neither feasible nor stable. By the standards of the recent housing debacle, the Corker-Warner legislation provides considerable protection for taxpayers.
Still, any government guarantee gives rise to moral hazard, since investors will naturally seek to obtain government backing on risky mortgages that provide a high private upside if the loan works out, and a loss for taxpayers if it does not. The Corker-Warner legislation creates an empowered regulator with a mandate to ensure that underwriting standards remain high. This is helpful, but not enough by itself - after all, regulators failed to prevent the previous bout of poor lending behavior.
An important insight, however, is that requiring substantial private capital to take losses ahead of the government guarantee helps to mitigate the moral hazard. This is because the investors with their funds at stake have a powerful incentive to enforce prudent underwriting. The presence of first-loss private capital thus brings market discipline to bear by aligning private interests with those of the government. This is exactly the point made by the Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, in an April 2007 speech on financial regulation. The Corker-Warner proposal involves sufficient private capital to generate a meaningful incentive for prudence.
A further critique of the Corker-Warner approach is that the government inevitably will charge too little for its guarantee. Indeed, this would be in keeping with other government insurance offerings, such as the federal flood insurance program. In the first place, setting a price for the guarantee will be better than leaving it implicit and unpriced, as in a system that is notionally private until the crisis actually hits. Moreover, as reform brings in private capital and the government share of the housing market recedes from its current 90 percent, market-based mechanisms like auctions can be used to set the price of the government backstop.
 Moving Forward 
The policy debate over housing finance reform is a microcosm of the larger debate about the role of the government in society. A government guarantee lends stability and ensures that taxpayers can get mortgages across economic conditions, but puts taxpayers at risk in the event of the next housing downturn. The Corker-Warner proposal seeks a balance by ensuring that considerable private capital is at risk ahead of the guarantee.
Other possible outcomes for housing finance reform are to maintain the status quo in which Fannie and Freddie are controlled by the government and there is no private capital, or to move to a private system in which government involvement is limited to the small share of loans made with the involvement of agencies such as the Federal Housing Administration that work with targeted groups of borrowers.
Both of these alternatives are flawed. The current government-dominated system exposes taxpayers to needless risk and stifles the possibility of beneficial competition and innovation. Not moving forward with reform would lock in this unfortunate situation.
A move to a fully private system seems desirable, but it is difficult to see this as a stable outcome or one that actually protects taxpayers in the event of an inevitable future crisis. This is because the government will feel compelled to intervene in the face of any future housing market collapse, regardless of promises that the system was private. To do otherwise would be to countenance an economic catastrophe. A housing finance system that is notionally private would inadvertently recreate the key flaw of the past with an implicit, and uncompensated, guarantee.
Moreover, it is a political reality that legislation for a fully private system has scant chances. Delay in moving forward with a pragmatic reform maintains the current system in which there is a dominant government role with a full guarantee and no private capital. Holding out for the unattainable but theoretically perfect housing finance system thus cements in place the nationalized outcome least favored by proponents of a market-based approach.

        
Stronger U.S. Growth Ahead
        
They're Not Making Any More (Well, Almost)
        
Immigration and the Labor Market
        
How Immigration Reform Would Help the Economy
        
Housing Trends, Short and Long Term

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (95%); BAILOUTS (91%); SECURITIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (89%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (75%); SUBPRIME LENDING (74%); POLITICS (74%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (74%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); WRITERS (63%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (62%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (50%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal Housing Finance Agency; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); Law and Legislation; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Mortgages; Real Estate and Housing (Residential); Subprime Mortgage Crisis; United States Economy; Warner, Mark R; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac)|FMCC|OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)|FNMA|OTCBB; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (84%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (61%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae)

TICKER: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp (Freddie Mac); FMCC; OTCBB; Federal National Mortgage Assn (Fannie Mae); FNMA; OTCBB

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (61%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (61%)

PERSON: BOB CORKER (90%); MARK WARNER (90%) Corker, Robert Phillips Jr; Warner, Mark R

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



213 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: Spitzer Opens Up About His Decision to Return to Politics

BYLINE: MICHAEL BARBARO


HIGHLIGHT: Even though polls have shown little desire among voters for Eliot Spitzer to return to public office, he is ready to ask for forgiveness and to make the case why he is again qualified to serve. 

 BODY:
Even by the forgiving standards of New York City politics, it sounds improbable: a governor felled by a prostitution scandal entering a race for citywide office with just four days left until qualifying petitions are due. 
What exactly is Eliot Spitzer thinking? 
We asked him. Below, edited excerpts from our interview on Sunday night:
 On whether the public is ready for his return to politics: 
The best I can answer is that I hope so. I will continue to ask the public's forgiveness and simultaneously ask for another opportunity to serve. I think the five years have been important to me. I have done many and different things. I think they have been useful. I have tried to do things in the public interest.
 On his vision for the often-overlooked comptroller's office, the city's chief financial watchdog: 
One is to be the primary voice of urban policy - what works and what doesn't work. It's understanding that the audit power of the office is not just to figure out how many paper clips where bought and delivered, but to be the smartest, most thoughtful voice on a policy level.
 On whether the public embrace of candidates like Anthony D. Weiner and Mark Sanford have encouraged his candidacy: 
I have seen those, but I don't ever draw conclusions from other races. Everyone is different.
 On his daughters, and their role in his decision-making: 
They are now older than they had been when I ran initially. When I first ran, one had just been born. They are 19, 20 and 23. They are in a completely different stage of life. They are mature, they are grown up. They have lived through a lot.
 On his wife, Silda, and whether they are separated, as reports suggest: 
Our private lives are our private lives. We do not comment on that. Yes, we are married, absolutely.
 On his reputation, as attorney general of New York: 
We took on battles that people thought were impossible to win. We won a lot of them. I was able to re-envision the attorney general's office and hope to do the same for the comptroller's office.
 On his likely opponent, the Manhattan borough president, Scott M. Stringer: 
 Most of the time I agree with Scott. I hope Scott and I, who are friends now, are friends when this is over.
 On why he would challenge a friend for office: 
I believe in competitive races. I think I am qualified to be comptroller.
 On public polling of city voters, which has shown little appetite for his return to office: 
 I have not done one stitch of polling. I have none other than the experience and data of walking down the street. I used to say to the folks that did polling for me, 'I live in a focus group.'
After five years, the public might be willing to give me a second chance.

        
Mayoral Candidates Quizzed on Use of Drones
        
No Stranger to Scandal, Spitzer Says Weiner 'Can Come Back'
        
July 8: Where the Candidates Are Today
        
Citi Bike Prompts New Rental Ideas
        
July 7: Where the Candidates Are Today

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICS (91%); CITIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (86%); INTERVIEWS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); PETITIONS (77%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (73%); SCANDALS (73%); SEX SCANDALS (73%); LAWYERS (63%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (61%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%) New York City; Spitzer, Eliot L; Stringer, Scott M; NYC 2013

PERSON: ELIOT SPITZER (91%); MARK SANFORD (58%); ANTHONY D WEINER (58%) Spitzer, Eliot L; Stringer, Scott M

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%) New York City

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



214 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1965 words

HEADLINE: A Vote of Confidence for Dell Buyout

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Institutional Shareholder Services recommends that Dell investors accept a buyout offer. | The government has a range of possible avenues in the SAC Capital Advisors insider trading investigation. | Thomson Reuters is suspending the practice of providing select clients with an early look at an index. | The future of mostly automated cars looks attractive to a group of investors. 

 BODY:
The influential proxy advisory firm Institutional Shareholder Services recommended on Monday that Dell Inc. investors accept Michael S. Dell's $24.4 billion leveraged buyout offer. The recommendation is something of a surprise. Advisers to both the buyers and to a special committee of Dell's board had expected the report would likely be unfavorable to the deal, DealBook writes.
But I.S.S. cited "the 25.5 percent premium to the unaffected share price, the certainty of value provided by the all-cash consideration, and the fact that the transaction would transfer to the buyout group the risk of the deteriorating PC business and the company's ongoing business transformation." Mr. Dell and the private equity firm Silver Lake have offered $13.65 a share.
MANY PATHS FOR A CASE AGAINST SAC | The government has a range of possible avenues as it pursues a long-running investigation into possible insider trading by Steven A. Cohen and his hedge fund, SAC Capital Advisors, DealBook's Peter Lattman and Ben Protess report. 
The strategy has shifted. After Mathew Martoma, a former SAC employee, persistently rebuffed the government's efforts to secure his cooperation, authorities concluded that they lacked sufficient evidence to file a criminal case against Mr. Cohen related to suspicious trading in two drug stocks before a legal deadline expires in mid-July, according to people with direct knowledge of the investigation. But Mr. Cohen and SAC are hardly out of the woods, as criminal and civil authorities continue to weigh several possibilities.
"For one, federal prosecutors are considering criminal charges against SAC related to the drug-stock trades and other activity, the people with direct knowledge of the inquiry said. The Securities and Exchange Commission is contemplating a civil lawsuit against Mr. Cohen. And the Federal Bureau of Investigation - which has agents in New York, Connecticut and Boston scrutinizing SAC - continues to examine more recent trading at the fund," Mr. Lattman and Mr. Protess write. "The authorities, for example, have looked at SAC trading in the shares of Gymboree, the children's clothing store, the people said."
THOMSON REUTERS TO SUSPEND EARLY PEEKS AT A KEY INDEX | Thomson Reuters, which for several years has provided an exclusive group of investors the results of a closely watched economic survey a full two seconds before its broader release, is expected to announce on Monday that it will suspend the practice, yielding to pressure from the New York attorney general, Mr. Lattman reports. 
Eric T. Schneiderman, the attorney general, and his staff have been looking into the unusual arrangement that Thomson Reuters has with the University of Michigan, which releases the often market-moving economic survey known as the consumer confidence index. Thomson Reuters pays for the right to distribute that data early to its money management customers, offering clients of its news service the opportunity to receive the information at 9:55 a.m. But an elite group of about a dozen clients pays an additional fee to receive it at 9:54:58.
Mr. Schneiderman's investigation began in April after a former Thomson Reuters employee filed a whistle-blower complaint, according to a person briefed on the inquiry, Mr. Lattman reports. Legal experts have said the tiered pricing arrangement Thomson Reuters has with its customers does not violate federal insider trading laws. But Mr. Schneiderman's office is exploring whether the advanced look at the consumer data is a violation of the Martin Act, a state securities-fraud law that gives the attorney general broad powers to pursue either criminal or civil actions against companies. A spokesman for Thomson Reuters defended the practice and said the company was fully cooperating with the attorney general's review.
The investigation of Thomson Reuters evokes the investor-protection campaign waged a decade ago by a former attorney general, Eliot Spitzer, who told The New York Times on Sunday that he planned to re-enter political life with a run for the citywide office of comptroller. Mr. Spitzer, who resigned as governor of New York five years ago amid a prostitution scandal, said he yearned to resurrect the kind of aggressive role he played as attorney general.
ON THE AGENDA | Alcoa reports earnings after the market closes. T. Boone Pickens is on CNBC at 2 p.m. Gordon Nixon, chief executive of the Royal Bank of Canada, is on CNBC at 4:30 p.m.
AUTOMATED CARS ATTRACT $400 MILLION | "For a handful of investors, the future of mostly automated cars looks increasingly attractive," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. "Mobileye, a provider of driver-assistance technology systems, said on Sunday that it had raised $400 million in financing, valuing the company at about $1.5 billion. The money, raised in an oversubscribed financing round, is coming from five new investors, according to a person briefed on the matter: the money management firms BlackRock, Fidelity Management and Wellington Management; a Chinese investment firm, Sailing Capital; and Enterprise Rent-A-Car, the privately held rental car company." The financing comes ahead of what Ziv Aviram, a co-founder and the company's chief executive, said was an expected initial public offering in perhaps a year and a half.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
TV Station Deals Are Back | "After years of small-bore shifting and tweaking by media companies in an effort to stay in front of consumers, big deals are back on the table," David Carr writes in The New York Times. "Using relatively cheap capital, companies in dire need of diversification away from wounded businesses like print are going shopping." NEW YORK TIMES
With Campaign Ad Cash, Swing-State TV Stations Attract Buyers | "The increasingly expensive elections that play out across the country every two years are making stations look like a smart investment," Brian Stelter writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
In Japan, Mergers Fall to Nine-Year Low | Volatility in the yen in the first half of the year put a damper on deal-making, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Shaking Up Corporate Board Elections | The Shareholder Rights Project, a program operating at the Harvard Law School, has succeeded in convincing dozens of companies to replace staggered board elections with annual ones, Gretchen Morgenson writes in The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
William Heinecke, an Early Entrepreneur in Asia, Is Still Finding Success | The billionaire William Heinecke has expanded from Thailand into the Middle East, Africa, Australia and emerging markets across Asia. DealBook »
In France, Firms Cut Back on Investments | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING »
What Bankers Can Learn From a Tennis Champion | The victory by Andy Murray at Wimbledon on Sunday offers lessons for the financial sector, Christopher Hughes of Reuters Breakingviews writes. Mr. Murray "had seemed distant and aloof. But recently he changed his manner. He cried publicly after losing Wimbledon in 2012. This year, he humbly acknowledged he might never win the championship. After all that, people got behind him and wanted him to win. And he did." REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Bank of America Merrill Lynch Hires Executive in Asia | Winston Cheng was hired as the head of telecommunications, media and technology investment banking in Asia by Bank of America Merrill Lynch, The Wall Street Journal reports. He was previously at Goldman Sachs. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Meredith Whitney's Research Firm Faces Challenges | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
How Regulators Can Restore Trust in Bank Capital | From the outside, it can be difficult to see where justified diversity of risk ends and where fiddling begins, George Hay of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
East Hampton Plans to Sell $3.3 Million of Bonds | The bond sale would be the first for the Long Island town since 2008, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
PRIVATE EQUITY »
After Buying Homes, Blackstone Plans to Offer Loans | The Blackstone Group, which has bought thousands of distressed homes to rent them out, is preparing a new service to offer loans to other landlords, Bloomberg News reports, citing four unidentified people who reviewed the terms. BLOOMBERG NEWS
TPG Said to Be Near Deal for Envision Pharmaceutical | The private equity firm TPG Capital is said to be close to an agreement to buy the pharmacy benefits manager Envision Pharmaceutical Holdings, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Investors Sue U.S. Over Rescue of Fannie and Freddie | An investor group led by the hedge fund Perry Capital sued the Treasury Department in a challenge to changes of the bailout terms of Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, Reuters reports. REUTERS
A Challenge for Hedge Funds: Provide Stability | Institutional investors crave a "diversified, low-volatility compliment to their portfolios," The Financial Times writes. "The challenge for hedge funds, many now equally pressured by the unforgiving investing climate, is to fulfill that mandate." FINANCIAL TIMES
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
With Search Feature, Facebook Aims to Deepen Engagement | On Monday, Facebook is rolling out its new Graph Search tool to several hundred million users in the United States and to others who use the American English version of the site. NEW YORK TIMES
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Shazam Raises $40 Million | Shazam, which makes an app that helps people identify songs, attracted $40 million from América Móvil, the Latin American phone carrier controlled by the billionaire Carlos Slim Helú, AllThingsD reports. The chief executive of Shazam, Rich Riley, said the investment included a "substantial secondary element." ALLTHINGSD
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Moral Quandaries at MF Global | A central question in the MF Global saga is how Edith O'Brien, former assistant treasurer of MF Global, interpreted one of Jon S. Corzine's comments to her about over drafts in the final days leading up to the firm's downfall, writes James B. Stewart in the Common Sense column for The New York Times. NEW YORK TIMES
For Geithner, the Speaking Circuit Proves Lucrative | After leaving his job as Treasury secretary, Timothy F. Geithner "has been elevated to the highest rank of public speakers, alongside former world leaders Bill Clinton and Tony Blair, after receiving about $400,000 for three speaking engagements," The Financial Times reports. FINANCIAL TIMES
Summers Said to Be Interested in Fed Job | Friends of Lawrence H. Summers say the former White House official is "more than a little interested" in succeeding Ben S. Bernanke at the Federal Reserve, The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
F.C.C. Clears Sprint Deals With SoftBank and Clearwire | The Federal Communications Commission on Friday cleared the way for the $21.6 billion purchase of Sprint by SoftBank of Japan, as well as Sprint's offer to buy the broadband network Clearwire. DealBook »
Basel Report Finds Diverging Bank Views on Risk | The Basel Committee on Banking Supervision, a body of central bankers, said it found significant differences in how some of the world's large banks continued to assess risks on their balance sheets. DealBook »
Echoes of an Ugly Bailout | Floyd Norris of The New York Times writes about the recently emerged tapes of 2008 phone conversations between top executives at Anglo Irish Bank, which had to be bailed out. Mr. Norris writes: "As I listened to the Irish tapes, what stood out the most was the sheer arrogance of bankers who felt no shame that their imprudent lending had created a crisis." NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSIDER TRADING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); PRIVATE EQUITY (78%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); STOCK INDEXES (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (73%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (73%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (73%); CRIMINAL INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EVIDENCE (71%); LITIGATION (70%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (70%); HEDGE FUNDS (67%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (65%); SUITS & CLAIMS (64%); CHILDREN'S CLOTHING STORES (61%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: DELL INC (91%); INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (58%); SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (55%)

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (79%); MICHAEL DELL (73%); STEVEN COHEN (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (67%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



215 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(You're the Boss)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; smallbusiness

LENGTH: 1543 words

HEADLINE: This Week In Small Business: The Employer Mandate

BYLINE: GENE MARKS


HIGHLIGHT: Where the economy is headed in seven charts. Hiring beats the forecasts. A start-up has 30 days to live. Can you explain what a Bitcoin is? 

 BODY:
What's affecting me, my clients and other small-business owners this week.
 Must-Reads 
Clate Mask shares some ugly truths about owning a small business, and Nouriel Roubini says that a new period of uncertainty and volatility has begun.
 The Economy: Seven Charts
Manufacturing activity increased, but the service sector slowed. Construction spending rose in May. Small-business borrowing rose, and SurePayroll's Small Business Scorecard reports increased optimism. Nissan expands production in the United States, and the Restaurant Performance Index hits a 14-month high. The Agriculture Department expects food prices to climb. Apparently sequestration wasn't as bad as feared, and these seven charts show where the economy is headed.
 Jobs: Hiring Up 
The economy added more jobs than expected in June, and ADP reports that small-business hiring beat forecasts, too. Another survey found that nearly a third of manufacturers and distributors plan to increase the size of their work force in 2013, and 10 of 36 states saw employment growth in June. But the National Federation of Independent Business said that small-business employment edged down for a second straight month. Minneapolis has the lowest unemployment rate for a major city. 
 Health Care: Mandate Delayed 
The health care law employer mandate has been delayed until 2015, and Ed Rogers believes that the decision could hurt small businesses. Ezra Klein says the employee mandate should not be delayed - "it should be repealed." The Wall Street Journal apologizes for not being "critical enough" about the Affordable Care Act. Connecticut struggles to get ready to introduce coverage. More than 40 percent of uninsured Americans aren't aware that they could be required to buy coverage next year, according to a Gallup survey.
 Online Payments: Bitcoin Mania 
Many small businesses are embracing Bitcoin, and some wonder if it will drive more sales (and for those still wondering what it is, here's a definition). A Google-backed distributed currency exchange is trying to make it easier for people to pay others with the alternative currency. Michel Bauwens explains how the "Bitcoin 1 percent" manipulate the currency, deceive its user community, and make its future uncertain. Kate Craig-Wood explains how she made a fortune with bitcoin. This ATM will turn bank notes into bitcoins, and the Winklevoss Twins want to sell you a bitcoin fund. Here are eight ways investing in bitcoins could go terribly wrong, and a seminar that will explore the currency's future.
 Employees: Amy's Baking
Amy's Baking Company makes news again by requiring employees to sign a contract. Amanda MacArthur explains how restaurant tipping is evolving. A Staples survey finds workers want naps, better technology, and the ability to work from home. Former MSNBC and "Saturday Night Live" interns target NBCUniversal in a lawsuit, while thousands of other emboldened and disgruntled former interns are potentially eligible to sue media companies. A teacher has worn the same outfit in his yearbook photo for 40 years. A grumpy cat becomes a "cat-alyst" for social good.
 Entrepreneurs: The Walking Dead 
An entrepreneur explains how he went from a village boy to chief executive of India's largest bus-ticketing service. Kim Kaupe says there are four ways entrepreneurs can avoid becoming the walking dead. This is how tech entrepreneurs in three different countries get on their bikes. A new live radio show will let Americans vote on contestants' ideas for business ventures. A Detroit entrepreneur transforms personal tragedy into lifesaving inventions. A 10-week training program from the Kauffman Foundation that promises to build skills in entrepreneurship is accepting applications from military veterans.
 Cash Flow: This American Business 
Jules Olbermann tells the story of how separate accounts helped keep her and her husband together. PayPal Galactic can help you pay for that Mars vacation you always wanted. Ira Glass explains why "This American Life" is thriving as a business. An online marketplace and a crowdfunding platform team up. Chris Peden shares a small-business owner's guide to applying for a mortgage.
 Start-Up: 30 Days To Live 
Jacob Goldstein says that his start-up has only 30 days to live, and Andrew Montalenti explains why start-ups fail. Ariel Diaz thinks start-up schools are incredible places to recruit outside of Silicon Valley. This five-time entrepreneur shares fivecrucial ways to know when you should start up, and here's how to try out your business idea before you dive in. New York barely breaks the top 20 in start-up investment per capita (and a prank brings out the best and worst in its citizens).
 Around The Country: Boating is Back 
Jon Xavier explains how the Defense of Marriage Act ruling complicates business, but California's wedding industry loves the Prop 8 ruling and studies show that the L.G.B.T. market is affluent and influential. The boating industry makes a comeback. In a new contest, Wal-Mart offers entrepreneurs a chance to compete for shelf space. These are the top 10 states for new manufacturing jobs. Oregon gets closer to a plan to provide free college education.
 Around the World: Your Flight Number 
In Colombia, Coke tests a bottle made of ice. Israel's start-up culture is luring more M.B.A.'s. A film banned as pornography in China was accidentally shown on a large screen in a public square. And in case you were wondering, here's what your flight number means.
 Management: Relocating 
Laurie McCabe explains eight ways to grow your small business, while a family business owner learns a few hard lessons about succession. Larry Kudlow interviews successful manufacturers about how they can afford to make things in America, and Jim Smith lists six important small-business tasks for the second half of 2013. Joe Taylor Jr. says there are five ways that relocating a small business can cut costs. A few tech giants offer advice to small-business owners, and here are five business lessons from the "Fresh Prince of Bel Air."
 Marketing: Why It Isn't Working
Craig Newmark reminds us of the glorious future of shopping. Jim Connolly explains why your marketing isn't working, and Andrew Gothelf suggests three ways to motivate your sales team (and they are not about money). Jay Baer shares three modern marketing mistakes. Barbara Austin wonders if you really need to do in-person marketing. These are 15 e-mail subject line formulas that work, and here are three Web site add-ons that are worth buying.
 Social Media: Must-Use Sites and Apps 
Jeff Bullas looks into the facts, figures and statistics of social media. Here is how social media is driving huge online video growth. This infographic explains the five essential elements of viral content, and here are seven "must-use" sites and apps to boost social media. Megan Conley explains how to increase your Google+ engagement, and Lynn White shares advice on how to use Facebook to promote events. The federal government spent $630,000 to "buy" Facebook fans when it could have used these techniques.
 Red Tape: Regulatory Issues 
Paychex identifies the top five regulatory issues of the summer, and Rick Harrison slams anti-business regulations. Many small-business owners back taking action on climate change. The General Services Administration continues to exceed its small-business goals, and the Small Business Administration and Native American Contractors Association agree to a strategic alliance. Hundreds of new laws went live on July 1.
 Mobile: The 99 Percent 
Here are seven mobile marketing stats that will amaze you, and this is how to avoid mobile-app overload. Felix Salmon explains why mobile payments will never take off. A major app vulnerability could affect 99 percent of Android devices.
 Technology: Mind-Blowing Products 
A couple of ZDNet editors delve into the challenges and opportunities that small businesses face in making decisions about technology. This new printing method works on any surface. Gartner predicts that tech spending will reach $3.7 trillion in 2013. Yahoo kills a dozen more products to sharpen its focus, while Google continues to work on these "mind-blowing products." Here are 10 traditional industries that have been transformed by tablets, and these are the worst cloud outages of 2013 (so far).
 Tweet Of The Week 
@CherylHeppard: If your own market is small right now, pair up with another, stronger marketer and release your product together.
 The Week's Best Quote 
Ryan Derousseau says you can change your luck: "There are tons of ways to fix the problem you're having, especially if it's not life-and-death. All you need to do first is change your perspective of the problem. Once that's accomplished, then that first small step can take place."
 This Week's Question: Have you tried accepting bitcoins for payment? Can you explain what a bitcoin is?
 Gene Marks owns the Marks Group , a Bala Cynwyd, Pa., consulting firm that helps clients with customer relationship management. You can follow him on Twitter. 

        
This Week in Small Business: Firing the Founder
        
This Week in Small Business: Analytics and Hashtags
        
This Week in Small Business: Cronuts!
        
This Week in Small Business: Gordon Ramsay Calling!
        
This Week in Small Business: The Van Halen Principle

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SMALL BUSINESS (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); RESTAURANT FOOD & BEVERAGE SALES (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); EMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); COMMERCIAL BAKERIES (77%); LABOR FORCE (77%); EMPLOYEE LEAVE (76%); RESTAURANTS (76%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BAKERIES (72%); HEALTH CARE LAW (71%); EXCHANGE RATES (71%); FOOD PRICES (70%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (70%); ELECTRONIC BANKING (68%); ELECTRONIC FUNDS TRANSFER (68%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (66%); LITIGATION (65%); CURRENCIES (61%) Entrepreneurship; Paid Time Off; Small Business; Start-ups; United States Economy; Dashboard

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); GOOGLE INC (52%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (52%)

PERSON: NOURIEL ROUBINI (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MINNEAPOLIS, MN, USA (79%) MINNESOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



216 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: The Limits of Facebook's Search Tool

BYLINE: VINDU GOEL


HIGHLIGHT: Facebook rolled out a new search tool on Monday to its United States users. So far, its usefulness is constrained by the data people have shared as well as how the technology analyzes that information, but Facebook has high hopes for its development. 

 BODY:
 11:41 a.m. | Updated to clarify that companies like hotel chains were improving their Facebook presence even before Facebook introduced its search tool.
As I reportedin Monday's New York Times, Facebook is rolling out its Graph Search feature on Monday to all of its English-language users in the United States.
In theory, the tool, which has been undergoing refinement since public testing began in January, will allow users to search through their social network to find friends or other connections with a common link - say, "women who like Mitt Romney and Nancy Pelosi and live in San Francisco" (Facebook reports there are 12) or "my friends who like hiking." 
In practice, Graph Search has many limitations. Because Facebook uses so-called structured search technology to scan the boxes and buttons that users fill out on the site, it's only as good as the boxes checked.
For example, when I searched my social network for "friends who like ice cream," Facebook only returned 12 results. Left out was the silent majority who regularly lick cones and never bothered to tell Facebook.
Graph Search also tends to be too literal, often failing to discern the broader meaning of specific data points. For example, a search for "my friends who work at newspapers" returned no results, even though several hundred of my Facebook friends have listed specific newspapers as employers.
In short, Facebook's Graph Search lacks the intuitiveness that people increasingly expect - and often get - from Web search engines like Google.
"You can search for restaurants my friends like, but 'like' is still binary on Facebook - they hit the like button or not," said Nate Elliott, a principal analyst at Forrester Research who studies social media. "What if I want to find restaurants my friends love on Facebook. Or ones that get at least 3 out 5 stars?"
"There's a lot of nuance required to make this really useful," he said.
Over time, Facebook plans to encourage people to share more data to make Graph Search more valuable.
When I was on my profile page over the weekend, for example, the site prompted me to like more television shows, pulling up a long list of suggested titles, from current hits like "Game of Thrones" to moldy oldies like "Benson," a political comedy popular in the 1980s.
The company is also considering how and when to prompt people to check in more frequently and write reviews without being too pushy about it.
"After you check in, half an hour later, do you want to rate that restaurant?" said Loren Cheng, who leads the team of linguists working on Graph Search. Or would you prefer to be prompted during dessert? Facebook is trying to figure that out.
Mr. Cheng said users' own search experiences will be the biggest force prompting them to share more information.
"In user experience studies of likes, they say 'why does it matter that I like something, why does it matter if I check into some place?' " he said. "You almost have to get them to a search result and they say, 'wow, that's what can I get. Tell me what I can do to get better results.' "
The search feature will also get more powerful later this year, when Facebook intends to add the ability to search through the text of status updates as well as information posted to Facebook by some third-party applications, like hotel and restaurant review sites and the streaming music service Spotify.
Consumer brands are already scrambling to tune their pages for Graph Search, said Susan Etlinger, an industry analyst with the Altimeter Group.
For example, big hotel chains have already been trying to make sure every property has its own Facebook page. Those pages could be easily liked by customers and found in a future search by their friends.
"Down the line, when people are searching for a hotel, you want to show up as a hotel with a positive reputation," Ms. Etlinger said. "The experience you have at a Marriott in Minneapolis may not correspond to your experience in Houston."
Facebook's partnership with Bing, Microsoft's search engine for the broader Web, will also benefit from better Graph Search, since Bing users who choose to link that engine with their Facebook account can pull up results from their social network along with overall Web results.
"When I look at the potential to create a more unified experience, they are making a very smart play," Ms. Etlinger said.

        
Daily Report: Facebook Rolls Out a Powerful Search Tool
        
Disruptions: Social Media Images Form a New Language Online
        
Instagram Video and the Death of Fantasy
        
Facebook Is Betting Longer Videos Are Better
        
Google Calls U.S. Data Request Disclosures a Step Backward for Users

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (92%); SEARCH ENGINES (90%); SOCIAL MEDIA (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); NEW PRODUCTS (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); LINGUISTICS (77%); HOTELS & MOTELS (73%); STOCK EXCHANGES (69%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (50%) Facebook Inc; Search Engines; Social Networking (Internet); Facebook Inc|FB|NASDAQ; Social

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (90%); FACEBOOK INC (90%); FORRESTER RESEARCH INC (53%)

ORGANIZATION: Facebook Inc

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (90%); FB (NASDAQ) (90%); FORR (NASDAQ) (53%) Facebook Inc; FB; NASDAQ

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (90%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (53%); SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (53%)

PERSON: MITT ROMNEY (54%); NANCY PELOSI (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



217 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(In Transit)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: TRAVEL

LENGTH: 189 words

HEADLINE: Walkabout: Asiana Airlines Crash at San Francisco Airport; Delays Expected

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A weekly capsule of travel news curated by our writers and editors. 

 BODY:
 Lives Saved in Airline Disaster Early reports indicate that a combination of smart design and preparation saved lives in yesterday's Asiana Airlines crash at San Francisco Airport. (Bloomberg, via Skift) 
 Delays Following Crash Air travelers in the U.S. likely will be experiencing delays as airlines cope with both inclement weather and the ripple effect of the Asiana Airlines crash this weekend. (NBC)
 High-End Haiti? The Haitian government is hoping that a $160 million investment in high-end tourism, including plans for a new airport and development in the coastal town of Jacmel, will attract travelers to the impoverished nation. (Associated Press, via Yahoo)
 Divided Skies The stark class division aboard planes, between economy seating and "the other side of the curtain," should come as no surprise: what's happening in the clouds mirrors what's happening on the ground. (The New York Times)

        
Boston Gets a New Coral Reef
        
A Celebration of Cheese in North Carolina
        
Calendar: Coming Events in Aix-en-Provence, France; Virginia; and Santa Fe, N.M.
        
New Mexico Rides with 'The Lone Ranger'
        
Jamaica to Prohibit Smoking in Public Places

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: AIRCRAFT ACCIDENTS (92%); AIRLINES (91%); AIRPORTS (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); WRITERS (79%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (77%); ISLANDS & REEFS (69%) Travel and Vacations

COMPANY: ASIANA AIRLINES INC (92%); ASSOCIATED PRESS (54%)

TICKER: 020560 (KSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); SIC7383 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); PROVENCE-ALPES-COTE D'AZUR, FRANCE (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); HAITI (91%); FRANCE (53%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



218 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 993 words

HEADLINE: Dispatch From Europe: Learning, or Not, From Policy Mistakes

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: The continued insistence on austerity in Europe flies in the face of increasing evidence that a focus on public debt is hurting economic growth, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
In contemplating American political gridlock, I've often written that one of the most disconcerting aspects of our current economic policy is an inability, or at least an unwillingness, to diagnose what's wrong and prescribe solutions. Still, our economy is resilient and flexible, our central bank has been aggressively applying monetary stimulus (while fruitlessly importuning Congress to help), and our currency is our own and the one other countries hold in reserve.
As a result, we do not face recessionary risks, as in Europe, where I'm enjoying a working vacation (a concept that gets you lots of eye-rolls in France). Yet we slog along at growth rates that are too slow to move the jobless rate down from its still elevated level of 7.6 percent, officially, and above 14 percent if you count the underemployed. 
It's worse in Europe. In France, growth is flat-lining if not slightly negative, and unemployment is creeping up on 11 percent. But at least among economic elites, many continue to defend the fiscal consolidation, or austerity measures, that have reduced the French budget deficit, e.g., from 7.5 percent of gross domestic product in 2009 to 4.8 percent last year (according to Eurostat).
These numbers came up in a discussion with one French economist who insisted the nation's main economic problem was politicians' refusal to lower the deficit. When these declining deficit values were pointed out, her response was, "It should be 3 percent."
Another prominent economist argued that my criticisms of austerity measures must be wrong because the American budget cuts prescribed by sequestration don't appear to be hurting our economy. Except for the fact that (a) they are, and (b) "not hurting" is not equal to "helping." (Thanks in part to sequestration and other fiscal headwinds, the United States gross domestic product was only 1.8 percent in the first quarter, as government subtracted 0.9 percentage points from growth. See also Catherine Rampell's review of sequestration's significant employment impacts.)
In fact, the essential problem with the debate in Europe is the same as in the United States: reducing deficits and debt is seen as a solution in and of itself, not as the outcome of actual solutions. Let me explain. 
While your spending must broadly align with your revenues over business cycles, it is a mistake to think that when you're facing large output gaps, if you only make the "hard choices" to reduce your budget deficit, your fiscal rectitude will be rewarded with growth and jobs. Closing the budget deficit won't close the jobs deficit.
This relates to the Reinhart-Rogoff mistake that gave policy makers a paper to wave around allegedly arguing that high debt levels slow growth. Again, the causality is reversed. Stronger growth right now would solve problems that debt reduction can only create.
In other words, they're aiming at the wrong variables and yet adamantly defending results that quite plainly show their mistakes. And I'm not just talking about rising unemployment. Note that even as the French budget deficit has gone down since 2009, the debt-to-G.D.P. ratio has gone up, from 79 percent to 90 percent.
To be fair, American Keynesians too often suggest that if only European Union countries would increase government spending and backstop the banks, everything would fall into place. But as I've heard from even the occasional sympathetic policy makers and advisers over here, life is a lot more complicated than that in the currency union.
As one German asked me, "How do you think New Yorkers would feel about bailing out Texans or vice versa?" - an excellent question that we never have to think about. Another high-ranking German official told me, "Look, we know what we have to do ... we just can't let anyone see us doing it." Good luck with that.
Yet when I say European policy makers aren't learning from their mistakes, I mean that quite literally. Two economists for the International Monetary Fund recently published an important and rigorous analysis of austerity in action. Their work asks the following question: so far, have the results of fiscal consolidation come out the way what we expected? It's a statistical exercise that asks how far off the mark the conventional European wisdom turned out to be by looking at what forecasters thought would happen to G.D.P. growth given fiscal consolidation plans versus what actually happened.
And the answer is off the mark by a factor of three. That is, they found the fiscal multiplier to be around three times as large as the consensus, meaning deficit reduction was that much more hurtful to growth than they expected.
But when you're focused so intensely on the problem of public debt, the idea that reducing it is more damaging than you thought apparently creates too much cognitive dissonance. And it's easy to dismiss a study that goes against your strongly held assumptions. Another economist said the I.M.F. analysis just proves that economists are poor forecasters, as if we didn't already know that (in fact, their study shows systematic mistakes in the same direction - all underestimating the cost of premature consolidation).
So, if my short sojourn is any indication, Europe will continue to slog even more slowly than we will. It may well be a while until policy makers begin to learn from their mistakes. I'm sorry I can't share happier news from abroad, but perhaps the smart thing to do at this point is to turn off the laptop, start the vacation part of the vacation, and be very thankful that I'm privileged enough to do so in such beautiful, historic places.

        
The Incredible Shrinking Budget Deficit
        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market
        
Stronger U.S. Growth Ahead
        
The Current U.S. Economy: Text and Subtext
        
'Financialization' as a Cause of Economic Malaise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); BUDGETS (91%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (89%); BUDGET CUTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (77%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (73%); TRENDS (73%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (69%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (68%) Economic Conditions and Trends; European Union; Federal Budget (US); France; United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: European Union

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EUROPE (98%); UNITED STATES (96%); FRANCE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%) France

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



219 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Well)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: HEALTH

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: What Does Birth Cost? Hard to Tell

BYLINE: GINA KOLATA


HIGHLIGHT: Hospitals do not have to tell you their prices and often they keep them secret, until they send the bill. 

 BODY:
We're continually told that when it comes to health care, we need to be savvy and shop around for the best prices. To that end, policy experts and politicians promote health care savings accounts, saying they make "health care consumers" (a k a patients) more conscious of prices, bringing down the cost of medical care.
Here is what happened to my daughter, Therese Allison, when she tried to be just the sort of shrewd and informed patient that politicians should love.
Therese is more than seven months pregnant and uninsured - in fact, she is uninsurable. Pregnancy is a pre-existing condition, so she can't get health insurance at any price. And now that the birth of her baby is imminent, she wants to find out what a delivery will cost, maybe even negotiate a price for this expensive procedure. 
In a way, she's lucky. She and her husband, who are self-employed, live in New Jersey, so she qualifies under a little-known and unadvertised law that caps hospital expenses for uninsured people with incomes less than five times the poverty level.
Under the law, a hospital can charge 115 percent of what it accepts from Medicare for the same services. Although most Medicare beneficiaries are 65 or older, the federal program also includes younger people who are disabled. As a result, Medicare covers pregnancies. California, New York and, as of last year, Colorado, have similar laws, but none are as generous as New Jersey's.
Her Alice in Wonderland tale began in June, when Therese's midwife offered to call the two hospitals she uses and get their prices. Therese is planning and fervently hoping to have a normal vaginal delivery, without an epidural anesthetic, and to leave the hospital the next day.
Elmer Hospital, in Elmer, N.J, said it would charge $4,300 for a normal delivery without an epidural and with no complications. Newborn care would be $1,400 more. Kennedy University Hospital, in Washington Township, refused to say, but told the midwife that Therese could apply for Medicaid or New Jersey Family Care (she does not qualify for either) and could apply for charity care if she was turned down.
If accepted, she would have to pay only a fraction of what the hospital charged. But what would the hospital charge? The hospital was mum, saying it could not give a price because if Therese needed additional services, its quote would be wrong.
Therese called the hospitals herself. But all she heard - after calling Kennedy University Hospital three times and asking for a price - was two voice mail messages. In one, she was told to apply for New Jersey Family Care. In the other she was told to apply for Medicaid.
Isn't there a law, Therese asked me, requiring hospitals to reveal their prices? I asked Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton health care economist who is a frequent contributor to The New York Times.
No, he said. Hospitals do not have to tell you their prices, and often they keep them secret until they send the bill.
"When I was chair of the New Jersey commission on hospitals two years ago, my wife, at my behest, tried to get a price for a normal delivery from the Princeton Medical Center," Dr. Reinhardt said. "She pretended to be an uninsured entrepreneur earning $80,000 a year. She got nowhere. I then called to try out a colonoscopy. I got nowhere too."
The commission then recommended that all hospitals be required to list their prices for their top 25 procedures. That never happened, but instead the New Jersey Legislature passed the law limiting hospital charges for the uninsured with low incomes.
The problem, though, is that even if you know what a hospital charges, you may not be able to find out what Medicare pays. Medicare publishes a giant spreadsheet with its payments for the 100 most popular hospital procedures and treatments in 3,000 hospitals across the country. Pregnancy is not on the list.
Even people with insurance can have a hard time finding out what they will have to pay. After my inquiry, Dr. Reinhardt did a little sleuthing. Private insurers, he said, claim they let patients know what their out-of-pocket costs are likely to be. So he checked UnitedHealthcare's Web site. First he put in "normal delivery." Nothing came up. He tried "vaginal delivery." Nothing. Then he tried another common procedure, an appendectomy. Nothing.
"I called the UnitedHealth hot line and asked the lady there to help me find the 'cost estimates' (as they are called) for normal delivery and appendectomy," Dr. Reinhardt wrote in an e-mail. "She couldn't find the items either."
"It is all so pathetic," he said.
Last month, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a measure to make Medicare reveal what it pays providers for every service. Mr. Wyden said the uninsured could use the data to negotiate, as could people with health care savings accounts. A searchable list of Medicare payments should be a fundamental service, Mr. Wyden said.
"Every single person in government tells people, 'Oh, you've got to make good choices,' " he said in an interview. "But patients have their hands tied. They can't get costs and they can't find out about quality."
If that bill were law, Therese's problem would be solved. But for now, she needed some extra help to find out what those two hospitals were allowed to charge. So I e-mailed Donald McLeod, a Medicare spokesman, and asked for assistance. He got the answers.
Medicare would pay Elmer Hospital $3,550 for a normal delivery without an epidural and $1,028.30 for newborn care. Kennedy is a teaching hospital, so it gets bigger payments: $4,327.60 for a normal delivery and $1,253.55 for newborn care.
I finally called Kennedy Health System, identifying myself as a reporter, and not surprisingly was given a price. The system's president and chief executive, Martin A. Beaver, called to tell me. A normal delivery is approximately $4,900, and newborn care costs about $1,400. And, he added, Kennedy charges all uninsured patients those prices, which are 115 percent of the Medicare rates, no matter what their income.
In a way, even with the overcharges by Elmer, its prices - and Kennedy's - look like a bargain. Dartmouth, one of the few places that posts its prices, says it charges the uninsured about $11,000 for a normal delivery and newborn care.
Meanwhile, Therese found the bill for her previous pregnancy. She had a normal delivery with no epidural in December 2010 and refused all extras, even Tylenol. She was insured, and her baby was born at the University of Pennsylvania.
Her insurer's negotiated price? $16,672.

        
Think Like a Doctor: A Mysterious Fever
        
The Well Quiz: Cutting Health Costs
        
A Hospital Room With a View
        
Safer Hospital Rooms
        
Price for a New Hip? Many Hospitals Are Stumped

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (91%); HOSPITALS (90%); MEDICARE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MIDWIVES (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MEDICAID (58%) Health Insurance and Managed Care; Hospitals; medicine and health; Pregnancy and Childbirth; Medicine and Health; Family; Featured

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



220 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 417 words

HEADLINE: Pondering a Drought in Merger Deals

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: A report from Ernst &#038; Young released on Monday proposes that the deal-making slump may be more than just a passing phase. 

 BODY:
Such is the optimism of the deal maker that, even with the downturn in activity in the first half of the year, some say a recovery in mergers and acquisitions is just around the corner. 
But is that sunny outlook justified?
That is the uncomfortable question raised in a report from Ernst & Young released on Monday, which proposes that the deal-making slump may be more than just a passing phase. Amid persistent economic and political uncertainty, there may be a "fundamental reset" in deal volume, the report says.
"You can't ignore it," Richard M. Jeanneret, the Americas vice chairman of transaction advisory services at Ernst & Young, said in an interview. "If you look around the corner so many times and don't find anything there, you have to say: Hey, maybe there's not anything nearby. Maybe it's several streets over."
The ingredients for a recovery are in place, deal makers say, with companies sitting on large piles of cash, stock prices high and interest rates still relatively low. That has led many to predict that the lackluster period is nearing its end.
But this is now the sixth straight year of declining deal volumes, Ernst & Young says in the report. In the United States, the number of deals in the first half of the year decreased 3 percent from a year earlier, the report said.
Still, the value of United States deals in the first half rose 29 percent, helped by a few large transactions, according to the report. (Worldwide, the value of deals was down, according to Thomson Reuters.)
Those big deals aside, companies are likely to play it safe, with "laser-focused" or "tuck-in" deals, Mr. Jeanneret said.
In a survey of corporate executives this year, Ernst & Young found that 76 percent expected the overall volume of mergers and acquisitions to improve, but only 29 percent expected to do a deal in the next 12 months. That suggests a "you go first" mindset, Mr. Jeanneret said.
And yet, deal makers are finding reasons to hope. Joseph Cosentino, a partner in the mergers and acquisitions practice at the law firm Clifford Chance, said that he is sensing an increase in deal appetite.
"I see a lot more assets being looked at," he said. "I see people, when they're kicking the tires, going further with it."
But such increased interest may be coming in spite of the bleak outlook.
"I don't know if there's less uncertainty," Mr. Cosentino said, "but at least more comfort with the uncertainty that there is."

        
Smog, Fraud and Diplomacy
        
A Rise in M.&A. Activity Is Seen in the Near Future

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MERGERS (91%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (74%); INTEREST RATES (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (67%); DIVESTITURES (67%); MAJOR UK LAW FIRMS (65%) Ernst & Young; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Investment Banking; Mergers & Acquisitions

COMPANY: ERNST & YOUNG GLOBAL LTD (58%); CLIFFORD CHANCE LLP (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Ernst & Young

INDUSTRY: NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS541211 OFFICES OF CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS (58%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (52%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



221 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: The Long Chain of Responsibility Behind an Oily and Deadly Train Wreck

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: The deadly derailment of an oil train in a small Quebec town says much about the unaccounted costs of humanity&#8217;s appetite for crude. 

 BODY:
Around the smoldering, oil-soaked crater in the heart of Lac-Mégantic, a small Quebec town where an unmanned train with 72 tank cars carrying crude oil derailed and exploded early on Saturday, killing at least 13 people*, the search for victims and causes is still on.
Attention will soon focus on some misstep by a train crewman or maintenance worker or the like. But the chain of responsibility goes much further. While investigations proceed, here's some context to mull.
In case you missed it, the oil was being carried from America's new oil patch, the Bakken shale fields of North Dakota, to a St. John, New Brunswick, refinery that, according to the owner, Irving Energy, sends more than half of its 300,000 daily barrels of petroleum products back across the border to the northeastern United States.
As I wrote during the Gulf of Mexico oil disaster, as long as we depend heavily on oil, we all "own" a portion of every disaster related to oil extraction, transport or use. 
An important article in the Montreal Gazette notes that even as Canada's conservative leader Stephen Harper conveyed his grief about the calamity, the government was deeply cutting the budget of the agency responsible for safeguarding train transport: 
At a time when train shipments of crude oil are expected to skyrocket in Canada, the federal government is cutting funding for Transport Canada, the country's transportation regulator, by almost 30 per cent, down to $1.5 billion, according to government spending estimates for 2012-13 and 2013-14.
One would hope that, in the face of this tragedy, that gutting of those budgets will end. (Canada is hardly alone in cutting budgets for important government agencies.)
Until long-term shifts in relevant policies - like stricter vehicle efficiency standards - more deeply curtail oil demand in the United States, the lack of pipeline capacity will continue to increase train transport of fuel from North American oil fields. As always, tradeoffs result.
The rising pressure for rail shipments was explored in depth earlier this year in "Busting Bottlenecks in the Bakken," an article in Fed Gazette, a publication of the Minnesota Federal Reserve (yes, weird, but it's a thorough, interesting piece) and in this Christian Science Monitor story: "Pipelines can't keep up with North American oil boom."
A helpful Bloomberg article today, "Quebec Disaster Spurs Rail-Versus-Pipelines Debate on Oil," digs in on the relative merits of pipeline and train transport of oil. But a quote in Ian Austen's story in The Times best conveys how the data on pipeline or rail safety can be interpreted differently depending on one's worldview:
Edward Whittingham, the executive director of the Pembina Institute, an environmental group based in Calgary, Alberta, said there was not conclusive research weighing the safety of the two shipment methods.
"The best data I've seen indicates," he said, "depending on your perspective, both are pretty much as safe as each other, or both are equally unsafe. There's safety and environmental risks inherent in either approach."
At Grist, John Upton offers an overheated analogy in rejecting debates about which transportation method is safer:
[T]he comparison obfuscates an obvious reality: The oil can't be moved safely at all. (Same goes for natural gas.)
After a string of pipeline and rail accidents in recent years, it's clear that letting the energy industry move incendiary bulk fluids around the continent is like tossing a book of matches into the crib to keep little Johnny happy while his folks stare at the television. And that's without even considering the climate impacts of the fossil-fuel mining binge, or the many hazards of fracking.
Of course, this description leaves out that it is consumer demand for petroleum products that is driving the shipments. It's nice to wish that the United States could magically go cold turkey on oil and other fuels overnight and simply stop all of those trains and shut down those pipelines.
But in the real world, the transition to new energy sources will take a very long time. That means choosing among a suite of imperfect options is unavoidable. My view is that, with strengthened standards and oversight, pipelines win out over rail for moving oil or related products.
But it's also vital that any push on expanding pipelines, or oil (or gas) extraction, has to be accompanied by a lockstep push on reducing demand and environmental impacts.
This is why President Obama needs to be sure he articulates a cogent overarching energy policy to accompany his relatively meaningless "all of the above" energy mantra.
Needless to say, the same is true for Canada and its leaders, as was effectively described in a piece by Peter Tertzakian in The Globe & Mail today:
Canada is one of the largest producers of primary energy resources. We have world scale reserves of oil, natural gas, coal, uranium, hydroelectric power, wood and other renewable sources too.
Yet despite our global energy stature, we have a sad lack of cohesive, pro-active thinking about how we should be producing, consuming and trading all our valuable energy resources, not just oil. Lac-Mégantic is a most unfortunate metaphor: how we think about energy is like a train without a conductor.
 8:15 p.m. | Update | Andrew Leach, an energy and environmental economist at the Alberta School of Business of the University of Alberta, has predicted that the rail disaster will not boost prospects for pipeline transport of oil, but instead create new pressures on the oil business all around (most of which are appropriate and good, to my mind):
The fallout from the Lac-Mégantic tragedy will depend on what we learn about the ultimate causes and, as Paul Wells wrote here, that's a long way off. I expect, however, that there will be three first-order effects that will be very similar to those that followed the BP spill: 1) increased public consciousness of the dangers inherent in transporting oil and oil products and more aversion to having these products moved nearby; 2) increased calls for alternatives to oil rather than alternative means of transporting oil; and 3) decreased trust in regulators' and firms' abilities to sufficiently mitigate risks from transporting oil. If you're in the oil transportation business, these are negative impacts, whether you move oil by rail or by pipeline.
 5:29 p.m. | Update | A report released by the International Energy Agency in May has a section on transport risks that is highly relevant (seen via the FuelFix blog):
"Increasing volumes of crude oil transported by rail raise questions of safety," the IEA said in its medium-term oil market report. [ link ] "Our analysis reveals that compared to pipelines, rail incident rates are higher while the opposite holds for spill rates."
 5:28 p.m. | Updated * There were five confirmed deaths at the time of posting. I'll update the number as new counts are announced.

        
Pipelines, Pulitzers and Independent Online Journalism
        
Is There Room for Varied Approaches to Energy and Climate Progress?
        
Keystone Protests Resume, But None Against Oil Imports from Nigeria?
        
State Department Again Sees No Environmental Barriers to Keystone Pipeline
        
More on Tar, Oil, Pipelines and Presidents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RAIL TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS (90%); TRAINS (90%); RELIGION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); RAILROAD ROLLING STOCK (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); OIL SPILLS (78%); OIL SANDS (78%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); TRANSPORTATION LAW (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY DEREGULATION (78%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (77%); 2010 GULF COAST OIL SPILL (77%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (77%); PETROLEUM REFINERIES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); TRANSPORTATION REGULATION (72%); TRANSPORTATION INDUSTRY LAW (72%); CONSERVATISM (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (71%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); BANDWIDTH (67%); EXECUTIVES (66%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (60%); BULK SHIPPING (58%) Accidents and Safety; Austen, Ian; Canada; Christian Science Monitor; Explosions; Gulf of Mexico; Harper, Stephen J; Keystone Pipeline System; New Brunswick (Canada); North Dakota; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Oil Sands; Pipelines; Quebec Province (Canada); Railroad Accidents and Safety; Railroads; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; environmental policy; oil

ORGANIZATION: Christian Science Monitor

PERSON: STEPHEN HARPER (84%) Austen, Ian; Canada; Harper, Stephen J

GEOGRAPHIC: GULF OF MEXICO (93%); NORTH DAKOTA, USA (93%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (93%); QUEBEC, CANADA (92%); NEW BRUNSWICK, CANADA (90%); ALBERTA, CANADA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (93%); NORTH AMERICA (92%) Gulf of Mexico; New Brunswick (Canada); North Dakota; Quebec Province (Canada)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



222 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 1695 words

HEADLINE: 10 Questions for Obama's Chief Technology Officer

BYLINE: JOHN HARWOOD


HIGHLIGHT: Todd Park, a former Silicon Valley entrepreneur, spoke to John Harwood about how the government is using data and the &#8220;lean start-up&#8221; model. 

 BODY:
Todd Park, a former Silicon Valley entrepreneur, serves as President Obama's chief technology officer. His role has taken on heightened importance after several recent developments, including the implementation of the new health care law, efforts to reduce the backlog in Department of Veterans Affairs claims processing, and privacy issues raised by disclosures about data collection by the National Security Agency. Mr. Park spoke with John Harwood of The Times and CNBC at the White House as Mr. Obama publicly challenged his administration to improve the government's innovation and efficiency in his second term.
What follows is a condensed, edited account of their conversation. 
 Q. 
 Government has a reputation for being clunky, slow, inefficient. What do you think you have been able to accomplish?
 A. 
 There are phenomenal people harnessing the power of tech and innovation to help government work better, cost less and help grow the economy. For example, in the recent Hurricane Sandy and Oklahoma tornado response, FEMA has harnessed tech in all kinds of ways to deliver better results. To get housing to folks, you used to rely exclusively on the ground inspectors, now we can use satellite and analytics to figure out what areas need help and get help faster. In addition, a majority of folks who registered for disaster aid post-Sandy were able to do so via mobile phone or Internet. Even when folks didn't have access, FEMA inspectors came back with iPads to actually register them for aid.
Another example: I was recently traveling with the president to Austin, where he launched a new executive order that opens up tons of government data - everything from health and medicine and science to safety and more - as machine-readable, free fuel for entrepreneurs to tap to create new companies and jobs. The president's attitude is, this is America's data. All kinds of entrepreneurs are picking up that data to help grow the economy.
 Q. 
 Possibly the biggest thing the government has going right now is trying to implement the health care law. The administration announced a delay in the employer mandate; they couldn't get it done in time. What does that tell you about the limits of technology in making it work more rapidly and efficiently?
 A. 
The president is really focused on implementing the law very well. Business expressed concern that there are issues to be worked through, so it was a sensible thing to do to say, "O.K., let's work through those issues." Oct. 1, we'll be bringing live the new health marketplaces. Things are on track to make that happen. There is a whole team at the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services working incredibly hard, night and day, on bringing out these new health marketplaces. We have actually done a huge amount of user testing on it to make sure the Web site is as user-friendly as possible. The prototypes are incredibly impressive.
 Q. 
No doubt they'll be up and running in October?
 A. 
They'll be up and running Oct. 1.
 Q. 
Let me ask you about the culture of Washington. It has a reputation as being the opposite of the Silicon Valley culture in terms of agility and decision-making, flexibility, innovation. What have you found?
 A. 
I have actually found a lot more similarities than you might expect. Whenever the president gives us a mission to harness tech innovation and get something done for the American people, in terms of growing the economy and improving health care, we go find the folks across government who have been dreaming about that for a really long time. They're out there, they're incredibly talented innovators. We team them together into what we call a virtual start-up that's running inside the government, to move Silicon Valley speed to get stuff done. When you have the air cover like President Obama, who is deeply passionate about harnessing innovation and tech, it is possible for these focused teams to get a lot done in a short period of time. It's hard to actually build anything new, but it turns out if you apply a lot of the same techniques that make Silicon Valley companies successful to internally change parts of the government, they definitely work.
 Q. 
Talk about how those virtual start-ups work, and how many are there?
 A. 
The way they operate is modeled on a philosophy called "lean start-up," which was popularized recently by Eric Ries. You want to build small, interdisciplinary, agile teams that have strategy, policy, ops and tech all represented in one team, all working to solve one problem. Secondly, there's an emphasis on rapid prototype. You don't think aircraft carrier, you think rowboat - the smallest possible thing I can deliver to my actual customer as early as possible, so they can actually start getting their engagement. The third principle is rapid iteration - iterate that product at high speeds with versions released every few days or every few weeks, instead of every few months or years, so you maximize the learning. So from the ground up, you eventually get to a real understanding of what the customer wanted and how to create something that delivers that. So that's the model that we've been adopting.
There are about 15 or so that I personally oversee. But this is actually a model that's been cloned across the government. The key is that we have an idea, we find the three or five people initially that had the idea a long time ago or had a similar idea across the government, put them together in this lean start-up team, liberate them to actually operate, give them the air coverage to do so, and they rock 'n' roll from there.
 Q. 
One of the innovations the president is going to talk about is something called Blue Button at the Department of Veterans Affairs to help people get their medical records quickly. The department has gotten a reputation for the very slow process of handling disability claims, and it has gotten mocked for stacks of paper records. So why shouldn't the average person say, "Great, Blue Button is fantastic, but you have such a bigger problem than that and you aren't making much headway?"
 A. 
The backlog issue, as you know, is one that the administration inherited. The administration, on top of that, passed a whole set of rules that expand eligibility and increase the number of claims. There is an unprecedented, governmentwide effort that is pretty amazing to take that problem out, to take the whole backlog problem out - to apply technology and process change. We're actually beginning to see the progress of the backlog beginning to come down at a growing clip, and we think we're going to be able to meet our goals there. The president has made it super clear that this is a top, major priority. There's a huge team, a cross-agency team, a cross-government team that's actually working very hard at this complex problem and taking it out.
 Q. 
You did consulting for Booz Allen Hamilton, the firm that employed the National Security Agency leaker Edward J. Snowden. What is your concern in regard to privacy with government technology and the centralization of information?
 A. 
It's incredibly important to protect personal privacy, and it's something that the administration has been championing from the very beginning, advocating for consumer privacy bill of rights and making sure we build privacy protections into the Affordable Care Act and lots of different venues of activity. I think a lot has been accomplished there. I think it's important to stay abreast of the continuing trends, and to make sure that we are tracking with those trends and ensuring that consumer privacy is protected everywhere possible.
 Q. 
What's a reasonable way of looking at the success of the open-data policy that the president implemented? How quickly will we see results from that?
 A. 
That's something actually that we've been working on since the president's first day in office, when he submitted his open-government memorandum. There's over 75,000 data sets on data.gov already, everything from daily hospital charges for different procedures across the country, to credit card complaints, account affordability, weather, climate, and so forth. So there's a bunch of data that's already been out there, and a bunch of data that has been downloaded and used by companies like Opower, which is a start-up that uses government energy trends and weather data to help consumers save money on their energy bills. Companies like iTriage, which was started a couple of years ago from a couple of emergency room doctors from Denver, that used downloaded data from the Department of Health and Human Services to help you use on a mobile app, based on what's wrong with you, to get the best local doctors and hospitals to help you. What the executive order does is it says, going forward as a new default, all new or modernized government resources should be made open and machine-readable while protecting privacy and national security, which turbocharges the number of data sets on data.gov, and therefore turbocharges the new company creation and job creation that results.
 Q. 
Do you feel, as a Silicon Valley guy that has started companies, like a fish out of water in Washington?
 A. 
A lot of people ask me that question, a lot of my friends back home. It's been the most amazing entrepreneurial experience I've ever had. The opportunity you have here to work with teams that are making changes happen at scale is quite extraordinary. The impact you can have is mass times velocity. If you take an opportunity like this, with the scale of opportunity for change that it has, and combine it with the ability to do lean start-up with air cover of the president to make change happen rapidly, that mass times velocity equation is going to have an impact.
 Q. 
I thought Washington was all mass and no velocity.
 A. 
It's interesting. It turns out that it can have velocity on innovation ambitions, if you have a president that cares about that.
 Transcribed by Katherine L. Kreider 

        
Spending Cuts Threaten to Delay Research, Obama Tells Scientists
        
The Early Word: Snail Mail Surveilled
        
The Early Word: Reinforcements
        
Obama Speaks at Rally for Massachusetts Democrat
        
Leaks Overshadow Obama's Meeting With President of China

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NATURAL DISASTERS (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); DISASTER & EMERGENCY AGENCIES (90%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); HEALTH CARE LAW (89%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (89%); EXECUTIVE ORDERS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); HURRICANES (76%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (71%); HURRICANE SANDY (68%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (56%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%) Obama, Barack; Park, Todd; Science and Technology; Start-ups; United States Politics and Government; The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%) Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



223 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 591 words

HEADLINE: Projections Show U.S. Budget Deficit Will Shrink

BYLINE: JONATHAN WEISMAN


HIGHLIGHT: The deficit will fall to $759 billion for the fiscal year that ends this September, a $214 billion improvement from the projection made in March. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The federal budget deficit will fall to $759 billion for the fiscal year that ends this September, a $214 billion improvement from the projection made in March, as spending cuts, tax increases and an improving economy begin to tame the government's red ink, the White House budget office said on Monday.
The annual midsession review from the White House Office of Management and Budget was largely in line with a recent forecast from the Congressional Budget Office. Both see a rapid decline in deficits expressed as a percentage of the economy, the fastest since the years following World War II, according to Sylvia Mathews Burwell, the White House budget director. A White House official said this year's deficit would reach 4.7 percent of the gross domestic product, down from more than 10 percent four years ago, and would continue to slide to 3 percent of the economy by 2017. 
But absent structural changes to Medicare and Social Security, the forecast makes clear that such short-run improvements may not last. The White House projected the deficit to bottom out at $496 billion in 2018, then start ticking back up to $593 billion in 2022. 
Over the course of the next decade, a White House official said nearly $6.6 trillion will be added to the federal debt, with President Obama's policies in place. That is slightly higher than the $6.3 trillion that the Congressional Budget Office said current policies without additional changes would add to the debt through 2023. The office's forecast assumes the automatic spending cuts known as sequestration will remain in force, while the president's figures assume they will not.

Senator Jeff Sessions of Alabama, the ranking Republican on the Senate Budget Committee, said total spending under the president's budget would rise $1.5 trillion - about where it would be without policy changes.
"Ominously, the president provides no serious proposal for strengthening and preserving our unsustainable Medicare and Social Security programs," Mr. Sessions said.
Still, both the White House and the Congressional Budget Office deficit figures mark a steady improvement in the federal government's fiscal picture as Washington approaches its next budget showdown. 
On Sept. 30, the spending laws now financing the government will expire, and the House and Senate are far apart in the amount of money the chambers want to allocate for the next fiscal year. In October or November, the government will exhaust its ability to borrow, and Republican leaders in Congress have said they will not raise the government's debt limit without more concessions, either on spending, entitlement programs like Medicare, or an overhaul of the tax code.
For his part, Mr. Obama is sticking to jobs proposals that include spending increases on roads, bridges and other infrastructure that are included in his spending forecast.
"The president believes our top priority must be strengthening the true engine of economic growth - a rising and thriving middle class," Ms. Burwell said. "The 2014 budget demonstrates that we do not need to choose between making critical investments necessary to help grow our economy and support middle class families and continuing to cut the deficit in a balanced way."
Republicans in Congress, who are pressing for a budget that actually balances in 10 years, did not greet the new figures with relief.
"The president's plan is simply to tax more in order to spend more: avoiding any attempt at reducing the waste and inefficiency that plagues the federal budget," Mr. Sessions said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (95%); BUDGETS (94%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); NATIONAL DEBT (92%); BUDGET DEFICITS (91%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAX INCREASES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); TRANSPORTATION INFRASTRUCTURE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TAX REFORM (71%); POLITICS (70%); WORLD WAR II (55%) The Caucus

PERSON: JEFF SESSIONS (57%); BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2013



224 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Trader's Day in Court May Lack Some Details

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSS SORKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A case is seen within the S.E.C. and on Wall Street as a referendum on Goldman Sachs. But all of the details might not be presented. 

 BODY:
Next Monday, in a courtroom in downtown Manhattan, the Securities and Exchange Commission will begin what is likely to be its most prominent case stemming from the financial crisis: its case against Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader who is accused of misleading clients by selling a mortgage securities investment that the government said was designed to fail.
Mr. Tourre, as you might remember, was a 28-year-old French banker who wrote this gem of an e-mail to his girlfriend in 2007, which was widely quoted several years ago: "The whole building is about to collapse anytime now," he explained to her about the markets. "Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab," he continued, not so humbly referring to himself, "standing in the middle of all these complex, highly leveraged, exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all of the implications."
 Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle the case in 2010 without admitting or denying guilt. Mr. Tourre, however, turned down an offer to settle. He wanted his day in court. And now that day has come. The trial is seen within the S.E.C. and on Wall Street as a referendum on Goldman Sachs and the government's case, which was never argued in front of a jury. 
But the jury may never hear the full account if the S.E.C. gets its way.
The heart of the S.E.C.'s case contends that Mr. Tourre and Goldman created a mortgage security known as Abacus with the help of the hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson. Mr. Paulson's firm helped choose the assets in that security and then bet against it. The S.E.C. contends Mr. Tourre deliberately hid the intentions of the Paulson fund so that Goldman could more easily sell Abacus to investors who would unknowingly bet that its value would go up, including ACA Management, which both invested in Abacus and helped approve its components.
The entire case rests on whether Mr. Tourre deprived investors of information that the S.E.C. says they needed to make an informed investment decision.
And so it is a little awkward, in a case that hinges on appropriate disclosure, that the S.E.C., in a bevy of pretrial briefs, appears to be fighting vociferously to exclude troves of evidence from the trial that the defense says is material for the jury to make an informed decision about Mr. Tourre's innocence or guilt.
The S.E.C., for example, has sought to block any mention of news reports that Mr. Paulson was betting against the subprime mortgage market. The defense argues that the news reports are necessary to demonstrate that the institutional investors, who arguably read the news as part of their jobs, were not duped into thinking that Mr. Paulson was betting that the value of Abacus would rise, undercutting the S.E.C.'s contention that the investors were misled victims.
"News articles about Paulson's purported macro investment strategy of shorting the subprime housing market are not relevant," the S.E.C. wrote. "Such articles are irrelevant, prejudicial and confusing. With respect to most or all of them, there is no evidence that they were read by the employees of ACA Management."
The S.E.C. has also tried to block references to public statements made by current and former regulators, including Ben S. Bernanke, Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Alan Greenspan, that suggested that the subprime lending problems were overblown. That would buttress the defense's case that investors made the decision to invest in Abacus, and bet it would go up in value, based on their research and a prevailing view in the marketplace. "What government regulators believed about the subprime housing market in 2007 has nothing to do with the facts of consequence to the determination of this action," the government wrote the court.
What else might the jury miss?
One of the biggest issues is this: ACA, which the S.E.C. has portrayed as a victim of Mr. Tourre's fraud, was not considered a victim when the government divided the $550 million Goldman Sachs settlement that had been set up to repay victims. The government excluded ACA completely from the list of investors that were paid from the Goldman settlement. How can ACA be a victim for the purpose of Mr. Tourre's case, but not be for the purpose of the recompense? The S.E.C. says the victim list from the fund is irrelevant. Payments are "entirely discretionary and involve policy judgments that do not necessarily reflect any decision about whether a particular entity or institution was actually victimized as a result of a defendant's fraud," the S.E.C. said in a legal brief. (If the S.E.C. is being honest about how it determines who is a victim, it raises a hornet's nest of policy questions that are worth investigating.)
Then there is the issue of who else has been charged in the case - or rather, has not been charged. The government has argued that Mr. Tourre is part of a "scheme" to defraud investors, but the government has not charged anyone else. The S.E.C. insists that jurors not be told that.
Next is Lucas Westreich and his honeymoon. Mr. Westreich, a former employee of ACA who appears on a recorded phone call that prosecutors say is central to their case, has told the court that he will be unavailable to testify in person because he will be on his honeymoon outside the country. The government seems perfectly fine with Mr. Westreich's skipping out on the case, saying that he is expected to claim he does not remember the call.
The defense has suggested that it wants to cross-examine him about other tape recordings that it says may undermine the claims made on the original call. The government has consented to Mr. Westreich being deposed on videotape. The defense, which subpoenaed him in December 2012, wants him to appear live.
It is unclear whether he will appear, but the judge hinted: "Somebody just sitting there on this highly relevant call saying 'I don't recall a thing about it,' even if it is 10 minutes, is potentially useful for the jury to see, because they can see whether or not this guy looks like a guy who just doesn't recall or a guy who is squirming around and doesn't recall. Sometimes people squirm."
Finally, there is the S.E.C.'s star witness, Laura Schwartz, a former ACA employee who is expected to testify that she was duped by Mr. Tourre into thinking that Mr. Paulson's firm was investing in Abacus side by side with her. For the last several months, there had been a fierce battle between the government and the defense over whether the jury should hear that the S.E.C. had issued a Wells notice to her on an unrelated matter, indicating that the government was considering bringing a case against her.
The defense had argued in pretrial briefs that jurors needed to know about the Wells notice to measure her motive to testify on behalf of the government. But just last week, the S.E.C. ended its case against her, effectively trying to take the issue off the table ahead of the trial. Late Tuesday, however, the defense submitted a brief to the court saying that it believed jurors needed to know about the inquiry into Ms. Schwartz.
"Even if one were to accept that there was no quid pro quo here (and the court should not), the bias materials remain relevant to and necessary to fair cross-examination, for example, as to whether Ms. Schwartz cited her cooperation with the S.E.C. in this case as a basis on which it should not bring charges against her," the brief said.
We will see next week how much the jury ultimately finds out.

        
What to Watch at Senate's Hearing on Goldman
        
Errors Afflict More Checks Issued to Aid Homeowners

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); DEREGULATION (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (77%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (77%); FINANCIAL GUARANTY INSURANCE (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); REFERENDUMS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); MORTGAGE LOANS (58%) ACA Financial Guaranty Corp; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Paulson, John A; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Schwartz, Laura; Securities and Exchange Commission; Subprime Mortgage Crisis; Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; DealBook Column; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: ACA Financial Guaranty Corp; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%) Paulson, John A; Schwartz, Laura; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



225 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 8, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1210 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Examining Sales of Early Financial Data

BYLINE: NATHANIEL POPPER


HIGHLIGHT: The New York attorney general is looking into early release of data after Thomson Reuters announced that it was suspending an early release of a consumer confidence survey to clients who paid extra. 

 BODY:
The financial industry is bracing for new scrutiny of services that give trading firms an advance look at market-moving data and news.
The New York attorney general's office has been taking a broad look at the common practice. On Monday, one prominent data provider, Thomson Reuters, under pressure from the attorney general, announced that it was suspending an early release of a consumer confidence survey to clients who paid extra.
Financial products that give traders first access to data have become widely accepted within the industry. Dow Jones recently announced the creation of DJ Dominant, a program that will release news articles two minutes early to subscribers who pay more. The nation's stock exchanges, meanwhile, are often releasing new premium products that offer faster delivery of public data from the exchanges.
For the most part, federal securities regulators have been comfortable with these arrangements. But the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, is potentially in a position to throw them into question. The attorney general has broad powers to crack down on Wall Street because of the Martin Act, a 1921 New York law that allows him to bring fraud cases against a company without proving the company's intent. 
"Where are you going to go with this investigation?" said Chris Malo, the chief financial officer at the high-speed trading firm Sun Trading. "It's a slippery slope. I don't know where you draw the lines."
The race to get information first has been a part of financial markets at least as far back as the carrier pigeons that delivered news of the Napoleonic Wars to London. More recently, news providers of all sorts give preferential access to articles to their own subscribers.
In the trading world, though, speed has taken on a particular importance over the last decade as an increasing proportion of traders in the financial markets have come to rely on a time advantage. Such superfast computer-programmed trading means that just two seconds - the advantage that Thomson Reuters was giving its clients for early access to the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey - can make all the difference in trading millions of dollars' worth of stocks or bonds or other investments. High-frequency trading now accounts for more than half of all trading in American stocks.
"You've devolved to a footrace," said Tim Quast, founder of Modern IR, which works with companies on their listings on stock exchanges.
While the attorney general's inquiry has unnerved some on Wall Street, it is being cheered by others who have criticized the privileged delivery of data in the past.
"This is a much welcome change," said Eric Hunsader, the founder of the market data provider Nanex. "Somebody needed to take this up."
Sal Arnuk, a partner at Themis Trading, and a longtime critic of the high-speed innovations, said that the questions now being asked were long overdue.
Thomson Reuters, in its defense, pointed to how many other data companies provide their own subscribers with preferential access to information. A Thomson Reuters spokesman, Lemuel Brewster, said that its early release of the University of Michigan data was legal, but that it would stop giving the two-second advantage while Mr. Schneiderman was investigating the issue.
Mr. Brewster said that the "debate" about the timing of data release "is a universal industrywide debate that impacts all news and information companies and needs to be done in consultation with the market."
The current push for speed is in part different than in the past because data companies have standardized the time advantage given to some companies.
One recent example is a service that the Nasdaq market and Chicago Mercantile Exchange introduced in May, which promises to get Nasdaq's market data to customers in Chicago - and Chicago data to the East coast - 2 milliseconds faster than it is otherwise available thanks to the use of microwave transmission. The cost for the advantage is a reported $20,000 a month.
Some exchanges and several unregulated data companies have recently introduced similar microwave networks. So far, the Securities and Exchange Commission has not objected to these programs as long as they are fully disclosed to all customers. Last year the S.E.C. fined the New York Stock Exchange $5 million for releasing some data early. But those problems were described as irregular and not part of any standard product. The S.E.C. has also looked into other cases in which important data was accidentally released early.
The New York attorney general is throwing the issue open by looking at practices that have not been accidents, and that have previously won acceptance from regulators.
"It does open up a Pandora's box," Mr. Quast of Modern IR said.
In addition to the Thomson Reuters program, there are products like the Deutsche Börse's AlphaFlash, which provides the results of the Chicago Business Barometer to subscribers three minutes earlier than the normal 8:45 a.m. release.
Mr. Hunsader, at Nanex, has documented how these early releases lead to a flurry of trading that moves stock indexes before the public has even had a glimpse of the numbers.
Mr. Schneiderman's office could choose to restrict his investigation to the University of Michigan survey data thanks to some of the distinctive elements of that product. It involves data from a public institution, rather than the private companies that provide surveys like the Chicago Business Barometer. In addition, Thomson Reuters was not just providing the University of Michigan data five minutes early to its subscribers, it was providing it five minutes and two seconds early to a select group of about a dozen high-paying clients.
Even as Thomson Reuters is discontinuing that two-second advantage, it will continue delivering the Michigan data to all Thomson Reuters subscribers five minutes earlier than it goes to the public.
But Mr. Schneiderman's office indicated on Monday that he was interested in the broader principle behind the early release of data, rather than the particular details of the University of Michigan product.
"The securities markets should be a level playing field for all investors and the early release of market-moving survey data undermines fair play in the markets," Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement Monday.
The stock exchanges would be vulnerable to any investigation because of their increasing reliance on revenues from technology products that promise customers with faster access to information about orders on the exchanges. The most well-known programs allow trading firms to "co-locate" in the same building as the exchange's servers, for a monthly fee. All firms inside the building are a standard length of cable away from the exchange servers, to ensure none of them have an advantage. But all of the firms inside the building are much closer than those not paying for the access.
Representatives for the exchanges declined to comment for this article. But in the past, exchange executives have said that they offered their products equally to anyone who pays, much like an airline offers equal access to first-class airline tickets.

        
Thomson Reuters to Suspend Early Peeks at Key Index
        
Consortium in Canada Plans Rival Exchange to Curb Rapid Trading

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (94%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); BONDS (89%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); DEREGULATION (78%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (51%) High-Frequency and Flash Trading; News and News Media; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Schneiderman, Eric T; Stocks and Bonds; Thomson Reuters Corporation; University of Michigan; Thomson Reuters Corporation|TRI|NYSE; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Thomson Reuters Corporation; University of Michigan

TICKER: Thomson Reuters Corporation; TRI; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

PERSON: Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



226 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 326 words

HEADLINE: Alcoa Posts $119 Million Loss, but Still Sees Higher Demand

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
Alcoa led the second-quarter corporate earnings season on Monday, reporting a loss far wider than that of a year earlier. But excluding one-time charges, its performance exceeded Wall Street's expectations. 
The company stuck to its forecast for 7 percent growth in global aluminum demand this year, led by a roughly 10 percent increase for aerospace needs, even though aluminum prices fell about 8 percent in the second quarter.
But other parts of Alcoa's business -- the sale of aluminum sheets and parts like fasteners -- are growing as car and aircraft manufacturers use more aluminum for better fuel efficiency.
Alcoa took charges against its earnings for closing two smelter lines in Canada and a smelter in Italy, but it is expanding mills in Tennessee and Iowa that cater to the auto and aerospace industries.
The company reported a second-quarter loss of $119 million, or 11 cents a share. That compared with a loss of $2 million, or break-even on a per-share basis, a year earlier.
Excluding $195 million in restructuring and legal-expense items, Alcoa said it would have earned 7 cents a share, a penny more than analysts had expected. Revenue fell 2 percent, to $5.85 billion, matching the forecast of analysts surveyed by FactSet.
Alcoa, which is based in Pittsburgh, has been the worst-performing stock in the Dow Jones industrial average this year, down 9 percent. In after-hours trading on Monday, after Alcoa reported its results, its shares slipped 5 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $7.87.
In May, Moody's Investors Service cut the company's credit rating to junk status, citing weak aluminum prices. Klaus Kleinfeld, Alcoa's chairman and chief executive, said on Monday that the company was disappointed by the move, which he attributed to Moody's view of the economy and aluminum prices, not Alcoa's strategy and performance.
''We control what we can control, and we can't control the metal price volatility,'' he said on a conference call with analysts.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (90%); ALUMINUM MARKETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (86%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (86%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); COMPANY REVENUES (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); METALS MARKETS (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (76%); SECURITIES TRADING (75%); EXECUTIVES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); AIRCRAFT MFG (55%); CONFERENCE CALLS (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (96%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (63%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (96%); AA (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (96%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (96%)

PERSON: KLAUS KLEINFELD (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (70%) UNITED STATES (79%); CANADA (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



227 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; THE APPRAISAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1260 words

HEADLINE: Words to Start a Stampede: New York Apartment for Sale

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH A. HARRIS

 BODY:
Even by New York City standards, Annette Suarez's Manhattan apartment has a few drawbacks. It is a 408-square-foot one-bedroom and a fifth-floor walk-up. While it is nicely renovated, the miniature stainless steel refrigerator accommodated by its kitchen area is only hip-high.
No matter. When the apartment was listed two months ago for $595,000, 55 people hoofed it up the stairs for the first and only open house. Seven offers and 10 days later, a contract was signed, above the asking price. Because, despite its flaws, Ms. Suarez's apartment had something very powerful going for it, said one of her brokers, Christopher Kromer of Halstead Property: at the time, it was the only condominium for sale in the West Village for under $600,000.
The apartment had no competition. 
The number of homes for sale in and around New York City has fallen far behind demand, with inventory of apartments in Manhattan reaching the lowest levels in at least 13 years. With so few properties on the market, and so many buyers eager to lock in historically low interest rates before they climb any further, many ''for sale'' signs planted in a window or on the Web are greeted by a tidal wave of desperate buyers and frantic offers. And almost as quickly as they appear, those listings are gone.
''In the last several decades of housing, the lack of supply hasn't been seen on this scale,'' said Jonathan Miller, president of the Miller Samuel appraisal firm. ''No supply means frenzy, and it means prices rise.''
The average price for a Manhattan apartment this spring was a stratospheric $1.425 million.
Anthony Francavilla and his girlfriend had hoped to buy a two-family home in Bedford-Stuyvesant, Brooklyn, but gave up on that plan after encountering an open house crammed with perhaps 100 people, he said, and another with nearly two dozen offers already on the table. Another would-be buyer, John Clark, a corporate lawyer with a healthy down payment, lost out on at least two apartments because his bids were not all cash.
And Michael Munn, a math professor looking to buy a studio in Brooklyn or downtown Manhattan, recently rushed back to the city in the middle of a Fire Island beach vacation to see a newly listed apartment, because he worried it would be gone by the time he got back just a few days later.
''Everybody was warning me how emotional it can become,'' Professor Munn said of the buying process. ''It's a huge purchase, it's exciting and nerve-racking. But this is a whole different emotion.
''It felt very manic,'' Professor Munn said.
He was outbid.
When the economy crashed in 2008, financing for new residential projects all but evaporated, and for the next several years there were few new apartments to buy. But several other factors contributed to this scarcity as well.
Tight lending standards and low amounts of equity in some homes meant that many people could not afford to buy a new apartment, even if they sold the one they had. And powerful jitters about the economy in recent years -- and last year, concerns about the so-called fiscal cliff -- have persuaded many sellers to keep their homes off the market until calmer times.
At the end of 2012, Manhattan apartment inventory dropped to only 4,749 listings for sale, the lowest level seen since at least 2000, according to Miller Samuel, which prepares reports for Douglas Elliman, the real estate brokerage firm. In the second quarter of this year, that figure was only nominally higher, at 4,795 listings.
Traditionally, the spring is the busiest real estate season of the year, with a big bump in inventory and an influx of buyers who have waited through the winter for those homes to appear on the market. This year, however, that balancing of supply and demand did not happen, and what new listings there were became overwhelmed by a rush of buyers hoping to escape high rents and to catch low interest rates.
''We just put up a banner at 7 Harrison, and we have 120 people who have called already,'' said Leonard Steinberg, a broker at Douglas Elliman, of a sign that went up about three weeks ago on an unfinished condominium in TriBeCa. The building is still surrounded by scaffolding and Dumpsters, and from the street it appears to still be without windows and ceilings.
The lack of inventory is helping to push prices higher in Manhattan, though the rise is modest overall. The median price for an existing apartment in Manhattan in the second quarter of the year was $837,500, which is 14 percent off the peak in 2008. But four years ago, not long after Lehman Brothers collapsed, the median was $675,000, according to Miller Samuel. (Median prices are generally lower than averages because they are less influenced by very high-end sales.) Today, tight credit and memories of the economic collapse are keeping buyers from drastically bidding up listings, real estate professionals said, and overpriced apartments tend to sit on the market.
Just shy of 36 percent of Manhattan sales that closed in the second quarter of this year sold at or above the asking price. Among sales that closed in the third quarter of 2008 -- deals that were struck in the first half of that year, during the height of New York City's housing boom -- 51.6 percent of listings in Manhattan sold at a sum at least as high as the asking price.
It is not just Manhattan that is experiencing a scarcity of inventory. This phenomenon extends throughout much of New York City, especially in Brooklyn, where inventory fell 45.6 percent from the first quarter of 2012 to the first quarter of 2013, according to Miller Samuel. Across the country, the National Association of Realtors found that the inventory of existing single-family homes for sale fell by 9.2 percent from May 2012 to May 2013.
In many places, one step toward a solution would be to build new homes. But not in Manhattan.
''We are starting to see new projects that will come to market over the next couple of years, but the fact is that most of it will be very high-end,'' said Pamela Liebman, president of the Corcoran Group. Because of the high cost of land, she continued, ''it's the only way developers can finance these projects.''
Mr. Miller estimates that most residential development in Manhattan is now targeted at the top 10 percent of the market, which has started at around $3 million for the last four years.
The scarcity creates an extraordinary climate for sellers. They are besieged by accommodating offers and all-cash bids, meaning the buyer does not apply for a mortgage, which takes time and sometimes falls through, especially if the appraised value is lower than the sale price. But sellers must also become buyers or renters themselves, so the very lack of inventory their listing would ease also helps to pin them in their homes.
''Sellers who would like to move, they can't find anything either,'' said Hall F. Willkie, president of the real estate firm Brown Harris Stevens.
In the face of so much frenetic competition, many would-be buyers have decided to go another route; they are giving up. Like Jenna Weiss-Berman, for example, who spent nine months trying to buy an apartment in Brooklyn for a maximum of $475,000. ''It was horrible,'' she said. ''It feels like buying real estate in New York is something rich people can do, and I was naïve to think it was something I could do, too.''
So a few weeks ago, she started looking for a rental apartment instead. She and her girlfriend signed a lease for a place in Bedford-Stuyvesant, and they will move in this weekend.
Ms. Weiss-Berman said that she had not felt so calm in months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Annette Suarez's small one-bedroom was the only condo for sale in the West Village for under $600,000 two months ago. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HIROKO MASUIKE/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A19) CHART: Fewer Homes for Sale: The inventory of co-ops and condos for sale in Manhattan recently hit its lowest point in at least 13 years. (Source: Miller Samuel) (A19) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOME PRICES (89%); CONDOMINIUMS (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (73%); CITY LIFE (73%); CITIES (73%); PRICE CHANGES (72%); PRICE INCREASES (70%); BEACHES (65%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



228 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: China: Journalist Is Out of Jail

BYLINE: By ANDREW JACOBS

 BODY:
BEIJING -- A Chinese journalist and documentary filmmaker whose work has been harshly critical of life in China was released on bail Monday after spending five weeks in a Beijing jail. 
The journalist, Du Bin, said in an interview hours after his release that he could still face trial for ''picking quarrels and making trouble,'' accusations he said stemmed from his recent film about a Chinese labor camp and a book about the crackdown on Tiananmen Square protesters. The charges against him carry a maximum five-year prison term.
Over the coming year, he said, the authorities could still try him on those charges, adding that his movements would be largely restricted during that period. ''It all depends on whether the police are unhappy with me,'' he said, speaking from the home of his girlfriend.
His lawyer, Pu Zhiqiang, said the terms of Mr. Du's release on bail were not entirely clear, which he said was most likely intentional, perhaps as a way to constrain his behavior.
Mr. Du, 41, who has worked as a freelance photographer for The New York Times, has published a number of books outside mainland China in recent years that have been pointedly critical of the Chinese Communist Party. They include a history of the famine caused by Mao Zedong's disastrous Great Leap Forward of the 1950s, and another that included graphic accounts of the torture endured by members of Falun Gong, the banned spiritual movement.
It was his most recent two works that drew the most attention of the authorities: an hourlong documentary about conditions at the notorious Masanjia ''re-education through labor'' camp in northeast China and a book that compiled firsthand accounts describing the military's violent suppression of the 1989 pro-democracy protests. The book, ''Tiananmen Massacre,'' was published in late May by Mirror Books, which has offices in New York and Hong Kong.
Mr. Du said the police seemed particularly interested in how much money he had received from the book, perhaps because they sought to charge him with economic crimes. ''They were disappointed when I told them I hadn't made a cent,'' he said.
Mr. Du said his 37 days in detention were unpleasant -- especially during his initial 20 hours of interrogation -- but that his jailers did not mistreat him. He said he shared a cell with nearly two dozen other inmates, most of them arrested over petty crimes. Over the five weeks of detention, he said, he lost a considerable amount of weight.
Despite the uncertainty of whether he would be formally arrested and tried, Mr. Du said he felt at ease during most of his time at the Fengtai District detention center. ''I was relaxed because I knew I hadn't committed any crime,'' he said. ''I did what everyone should be doing, which is to tell the truth.''
He said he was surprised that the police did not warn him before setting him free against talking to the media about his experience, an admonishment often given to political dissidents upon their release. ''This,'' he said, ''is progress for China.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VISUAL ARTISTS (90%); WRITERS (90%); BAIL (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); PRISONS (89%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); ARRESTS (78%); PHOTOJOURNALISM (78%); MISDEMEANORS (77%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); CULTS & SECTS (73%); CORRECTIONS WORKERS (72%); PHOTOGRAPHY (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); LAWYERS (70%); POLITICAL PROTESTS (70%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); NORTHEAST CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) CHINA (96%); HONG KONG (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



229 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 891 words

HEADLINE: Sore Feelings as U.S. and Europe Begin Trade Talks

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Negotiations over a trade deal encompassing nearly half the global economy formally kicked off on Monday, despite concerns that the United States has been spying on its European allies.
European officials have called the potential free trade agreement with the United States a ''once-in-a-generation prize,'' with the prospect of adding hundreds of billions of dollars in yearly growth and thousands of jobs to the still-lagging European and American economies.
But big deals come with big stakes, and analysts expect months of intense negotiations as officials rush to complete a comprehensive agreement -- under the title of the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership -- before a deadline of the end of 2014. 
Companies and countries have started maneuvering in an effort to broker special carve-outs, exclusions or inclusions. Sensitive issues like agricultural policy, airline rights, data privacy and intellectual property are likely to face serious headwinds.
Michael Froman, the United States trade representative, urged those taking part in the talks here to ''think outside of the box as necessary to make progress.'' He added both sides were entering the talks ''with eyes wide open'' but with the knowledge that ''there is strong political will at the highest levels on both sides of the Atlantic determined to stay focused and get this done on one tank of gas.''
Despite the push on both sides of the Atlantic, reports that the United States' National Security Agency has been secretly tracking European diplomatic offices in Washington overshadowed the start of the talks.
In recent weeks, several European leaders expressed outrage over the reports, which were based on information supplied by the former government contractor Edward J. Snowden, who remains in legal limbo in a Moscow airport. France, in a show of deep discontent, called for postponement of the trade talks. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany criticized American espionage agencies for ''cold war'' tactics.
Last week, the European Parliament voted to start an investigation into the matter. Parallel negotiations on security and surveillance concerns started Monday as well, covering ''data protection and privacy rights of E.U. citizens,'' European officials said in a statement.
Even so, the interlinked economies -- still suffering from low growth rates and high unemployment in the wake of the recession -- desperately need a shot in the arm.
The International Monetary Fund predicts that the euro zone will contract again this year, with the broader European Union scarcely growing. The outlook is better in the United States, but not much; the fund expects modest growth of about 1.9 percent.
''We are convinced that this trade agreement will result in more jobs and more growth -- and that will help to get us out of the economic crisis,'' Karel de Gucht, the European trade commissioner, said at a news conference on Monday. ''That would be good news for Europe, but also a very good message for the whole world economy.''
One major study by the London-based Center for Economic Policy Research found that a comprehensive trade and investment deal could increase the European economy by about 119 billion euros, or $150 billion a year, and the American economy by an annual $122 billion.
Households are expected to benefit, too. An average family of four in the European Union might see an additional 545 euros in disposable income, the study found. An American family might benefit by about $841.
''This is a once-in-a-generation prize, and we are determined to seize it,'' David Cameron, the British prime minister, said last month at a meeting with President Obama and other leaders at the Group of 8 summit meeting in Northern Ireland.
The similarity of the American and European work forces, corporate structures and legal systems -- and the depth and breadth of the existing ties between the two economies -- have eased the way for an ambitious deal on tariffs, regulations and other issues.
But entrenched interests have started lobbying in earnest behind the scenes. For instance, France has pushed to retain its subsidies for its domestic film industry. And farm and food safety standards are expected to be a major sticking point in the negotiations. Genetically modified crops, which Europe largely abhors and which the United States produces billions of dollars' worth a year, are just one issue.
On Monday, public interest groups also raised concerns that the negotiations would weaken consumer protection standards, and that corporate interests were too strong.
''We are highly skeptical that an agreement focused on regulatory harmonization' will serve consumer interests, workers' rights, the environment, and other areas of public interest,'' said a large coalition of American and European consumer groups in a statement. ''It could lead to lower standards and regulatory ceilings instead of floors,'' the statement said. The coalition called for negotiating texts to be released to the public.
But officials have put in months of legwork on the negotiations, and they were optimistic as the deal talks formally began.
''We will work hard to get a result,'' said Mr. De Gucht, the European trade commissioner. ''We will of course meet a lot of problems and stumbling stones, but if we reach an agreement, it would be a historic one.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A celebration last month for the Smurfs creator, Peyo. France has lobbied trade negotiators to preserve subsidies for its film industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GONZALO FUENTES/REUTERS)
 Genetically modified foods meet with protests in Europe, but are widespread in the United States. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC CABANIS/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (91%); TALKS & MEETINGS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (86%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (78%); COLD WAR (78%); EURO ZONE (78%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); RECESSION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); GLOBALIZATION (78%); INTERNET PRIVACY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (77%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (77%); MONETARY UNIONS (76%); DATA SECURITY (73%); AIRPORTS (73%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (73%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (68%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); EURO (65%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (53%); AGRICULTURE (53%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (56%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (79%); ANGELA MERKEL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (98%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (92%); GERMANY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



230 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1104 words

HEADLINE: Financial Crisis Just a Symptom of Detroit's Woes

BYLINE: By MONICA DAVEY

 BODY:
DETROIT -- A question unimaginable in most major American cities is utterly commonplace in this one: If you suddenly found yourself gravely ill, injured or even shot, would you call 911?
Many people here say the answer is no. Some laugh at the odds of an ambulance appearing promptly, if ever. In Detroit, people map out alternative plans instead, enlisting a relative or a friend.
As officials negotiate urgently with creditors and unions in a last-ditch effort to spare Detroit from plunging into the largest municipal bankruptcy in the nation's history, residents say the city has worse problems than its estimated $18 billion debt.
''The city is past being a city now; it's gone,'' said Kendrick Benguche, whose family lives on a block with a single streetlight, just down from a vacant firehouse that sits beside a burned-out home. The Detroit police's average response time to calls for the highest-priority crimes this year was 58 minutes, officials now overseeing the city say. The department's recent rate of solving cases was 8.7 percent, far lower, the officials acknowledge, than clearance rates in cities like Pittsburgh, Milwaukee and St. Louis. 
''I guess I'll be glad if someone else takes over and other people run this thing,'' Mr. Benguche said. ''The way I look at it, the city is already bankrupt.''
Kevyn D. Orr, the state-appointed emergency financial manager for Detroit, has said that the chances of filing for bankruptcy, a possibility that could be decided as early as this month, stand at 50-50. On Wednesday, Mr. Orr is expected to lead 40 representatives of Detroit's creditors on a bus tour of the city and its blight to let the bleak images of empty lots and shuttered firehouses make the argument that creditors should accept pennies on the dollars owed.
The prospect of a bankruptcy filing -- a move that is extremely rare for cities and one that has never happened to an American city as populous as Detroit, with about 700,000 people -- worries some residents. They say they fear that bankruptcy would add more stigma to a city that has contracted alarmingly in the decades since it was the nation's fourth largest, starting in the 1920s, and that it might worsen already bare-bones services.
The notion that assets like Coleman A. Young International Airport, Belle Isle Park and the collections of the Detroit Institute of Arts might be sold -- either in a formal bankruptcy proceeding or in a huge city reorganization outside of the court system -- has fueled outrage.
''Bankruptcy scares me,'' said LaTanya Boyce, a nurse practitioner. She urges her patients to treat health concerns before they become acute because, she said, ''if they find themselves calling 911, it's probably too late.''
But as with many here who have wrestled with the practical realities of living in this city, Ms. Boyce said she would not mind if some entity other than the city took over the management of Belle Isle, a park whose plan was conceived in the early 1880s by Frederick Law Olmsted. Ms. Boyce goes to the park for exercise, wearing a fanny pack that at times contains a gun -- ''Do you see any city police here?'' -- and bemoaning several locked restrooms that have portable toilets planted in front of them.
''I would love to see it leased to the state,'' she said of the park. ''They'd take better care.''
Recent developments among Detroit's elected leaders have only added to the sense that significant changes in the city are perhaps even preferable. Two of the nine City Council members have resigned. (One said he was leaving to work for the emergency manager's office.) Then, Charles Pugh, the Council president, had his salary stopped and power stripped by Mr. Orr after the councilman abruptly stopped showing up for meetings and disappeared from public view.
''Where Is Charles Pugh?'' a headline at the top of the front page of The Detroit Free Press asked.
''For a lot of people, I think city government has become a nonentity here,'' said Kurt Metzger, the director of Data Driven Detroit, which tracks demographic, economic and housing trends in the region. ''People almost feel like the city goes on in spite of city government -- that city government in this case certainly doesn't define the city -- and that affects how they're feeling about what comes next.''
Recently, Mr. Orr indicated that Detroit was getting out of the business of electricity distribution. An independent authority is already planning to take control of the city's streetlights, 40 percent of which, Mr. Orr's office said, were not working in recent months. Similar handoffs are being weighed for the water and sewer services, and possibly more.
While many who have been through municipal bankruptcies say such moves often mean more budget cuts to city services, Mr. Orr has called for spending about $1.25 billion over the next 10 years on improving city infrastructure and services, including the police. Last week, James Craig, Mr. Orr's choice for police chief, arrived to face a city that had seen five chiefs in as many years and had the highest rate of violent crime in 2012 of any city with more than 200,000 residents, according to a report by Mr. Orr.
''Whatever the solution is -- a negotiated plan or a bankruptcy proceeding -- the end result is going to be better services,'' Bill Nowling, Mr. Orr's spokesman, said. ''This is all about getting Detroit strong, viable and solvent.''
Frank Ponder, 45, who works at a hospital here, said major changes in the city, even bankruptcy, now seem all but certain. ''Everybody had all these ideas about saving Detroit, and nobody's ideas actually worked,'' he said. ''At a certain point, you have to stop fooling yourself.''
The East Side house in which Mr. Ponder lives, once owned by his grandmother, is the only one on his block that appears to be occupied. He has been saving money for years in hopes of moving this fall to a suburb, Warren -- and he expects to just walk away.
''What can you do?'' he said. ''Sell it? On that block?''
While corporations announced this year that they would donate money to the city in part to lease new emergency vehicles, there have been times in 2013, the authorities acknowledge, when only 10 to 14 of Detroit's 36 ambulances have actually been in service. Some of the city's emergency medical service vehicles have as many as 300,000 miles on them, so they tend to break down.
All this helps explain why Mr. Ponder said he, as so many here, would try to get himself to a hospital before seeking help from Detroit.
''If you have a heart attack, you're dead,'' he said. ''There is no such thing around here as 'in case of emergency.' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top left: Suzette and Kendrick Benguche, whose block in Detroit has one streetlight
an abandoned house next to a closed firehouse
a portable toilet outside a shut restroom in Belle Isle Park
and the Detroit Institute of Arts, whose collections are in danger of being sold. More pictures, nytimes.com/national. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY FABRIZIO COSTANTINI FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
 CARLOS OSORIO/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (A14) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); HISTORY (76%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (75%); CRIME CLEARANCE RATES (73%); APPOINTMENTS (70%); FAMILY (69%); NURSES & NURSING (60%); AIRPORTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (94%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



231 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1059 words

HEADLINE: Seeing Double on Check-In At Certain Hotels

BYLINE: By AMY ZIPKIN

 BODY:
A visitor arriving at the Hilton Garden Inn or Homewood Suites Midtown Atlanta might be forgiven for doing a double take about the destination. The brands share the same building in what is known in the industry as a dual-branded hotel.
As the economy recovers and hotels begin new construction -- Smith Travel Research reported an 18.5 percent increase in hotel rooms under construction in April -- hoteliers that took pains to differentiate brands are now, if not tossing those notions aside, at least testing their limits. 
''I can't say that it's the dominant form of hotel construction at this point, but it definitely is on the radar,'' Jeff Higley, vice president for communications at Smith Travel Research, in Henderson, Tenn., said of the dual-branded approach.
These combination hotels, which share buildings, meeting rooms, recreation facilities, back-office operations and sometimes front desks, are sprouting in cities like Los Angeles, New York and Atlanta, and in smaller markets like Austin, Tex.; Huntsville, Ala.; and suburban Baltimore.
The hotels typically pair an extended-stay property like a Marriott Residence Inn or Hilton Homewood Suites, with a limited-service hotel like Marriott Courtyard or a Hilton Garden Inn or Hampton Inn. White Lodging of Merrillville, Ind., a hotel developer, expects to open a combined Hyatt Place/Hyatt House in Denver in 2015. Choice Hotels has linked a Sleep Inn with a MainStay Suites in Port St. Lucie, Fla.
''The trend is intensifying as the cost of building and running hotels is becoming more expensive and growing as developers seek creative ways of building out real estate,'' says Henry Harteveldt, a travel industry analyst with Hudson Crossing, a consulting firm in San Francisco. Marriott estimates that 12 percent of Residence Inns being built will be joined with other Marriott brands. Hilton has 15 combined hotels open in the United States and Canada and 15 more under construction.
Hotel executives say the model allows them to provide more amenities than at individual hotels. ''There are bigger pools, fitness centers and guest laundries than would otherwise be available,'' says Craig Mance, senior vice president for development for North America at Hilton Worldwide.
The chains do not necessarily advertise the combinations or even mention them on their respective hotel Web pages. As with any relatively new concept, prospective guests need to be aware of potential sticking points.
S. Jay Patel, president and chief executive of the North Point Hospitality Group, which develops and manages hotels in Georgia and nearby states, opened the combined Homewood Suites/Hilton Garden Inn Atlanta Midtown in December 2012.
Each hotel brand has a separate entrance and its own check-in area. Inside there is access to one hotel from the other through a closed interior door, but Mr. Patel said a guest ''would not know the other lobby exists.'' Travelers share meeting rooms, the pool and fitness area, and Homewood Suites guests have access to Hilton Garden Inn room service. That brand offers a free breakfast; Hilton Garden Inn does not. Gina Kreiss, corporate director of sales and marketing at the North Point Hospitality Group, said rates depended on factors like rate of occupancy and the number of nights guests stayed at the Homewood Suites.
Marriott is also combining hotels. It is building a Residence Inn/Courtyard in Los Angeles and plans to open a Residence Inn/Courtyard in Midtown Manhattan this fall. Guests there can expect to check in at a single front desk, before their experiences diverge. Courtyard guests will be on the lower floors, through 33. The upper floors will be reserved for Residence Inn guests, who typically stay longer. A Residence Inn guest who prefers lower floors would be required to switch brands.
As with other Residence Inns, guests will have access to a free breakfast and even board games on the third floor, which will be off limits to Courtyard guests. The Courtyard guests will have a separate elevator that will stop only at the Bistro restaurant, which is also available to Residence Inn guests. Neither hotel will have room service, but guests at both hotels will have access to Courtyard's Bistro to Go. They will share fitness facilities including virtual fitness classes.
For Diane Mayer, vice president and global brand manager for Residence Inn, the trend of combining a long-term-stay hotel with one that offers limited service instead of building a full-service hotel makes economic sense. ''Full-service hotels are expensive to build and don't deliver the margins that select-service hotels do,'' she said.
With combined back-office operations at the properties a given, some hotel executives are extending cost-cutting by training front desk personnel and housekeepers, a strategy that experts say can be risky. ''If hotels utilize employees across properties and brands, it's not just technical skills, but personality that matters,'' Mr. Harteveldt said.
Still, with housekeepers beginning a shift in one property and finishing in the other, some guests notice. Norman Moy of Cypress, Tex., attended a Comic Con Convention in Austin last October with his 12-year-old son. They stayed at the Courtyard Downtown Convention Center, which shares space with a Marriott Residence Inn. Previous trips had led him to expect morning room-cleaning, and he said he was surprised when he returned after lunch to hear a knock from the housekeeper. ''We packed up really quick,'' he said. While management did not explain the schedule alteration to him, a Marriott representative said most of the dual brands did share staffs, including housekeeping.
Jim Butler, partner and chairman of the global hospitality group at the Jeffer Mangels Butler & Mitchell law firm in Los Angeles, says the complexity of putting the brands together means there may be a shakedown ahead as hotels decide ''what facilities get shared, how large should they be, and even what brands go together.''
And some hotel companies are not stopping at two under the same roof. White Lodging recently opened a hotel with three separate brands -- a Marriott Fairfield Inn and Suites, an Aloft owned by Starwood and a Hyatt Place -- in the River North section of Chicago. And Marriott has announced plans to add a Springhill Suites to an existing Courtyard and Residence Inn in Houston.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Hilton Garden Inn and Homewood Suites in Atlanta. Dualbrand hotels often pair a short-stay hotel with a long-stay one. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DAVID WALTER BANKS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HOTELS & MOTELS (92%); LODGING CONSTRUCTION (90%); CONSTRUCTION (90%); HOSPITALITY INDUSTRY (89%); EXECUTIVES (88%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); HOTEL CHAINS (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); TRENDS (76%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (72%); RESEARCH REPORTS (72%); CONSTRUCTION COSTS (72%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); EXERCISE & FITNESS (68%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (68%); LOBBYING (57%); BACK OFFICE OPERATIONS (53%)

COMPANY: HILTON WORLDWIDE (94%); MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC (85%); RESIDENCE INN (58%)

TICKER: MAR (NYSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTA, GA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); HUNTSVILLE, AL, USA (55%) GEORGIA, USA (94%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ALABAMA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (92%); CANADA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



232 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 353 words

HEADLINE: Pace of Consumer Borrowing Rose in May

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Americans borrowed in May at the fastest pace in a year, an increase that typically means consumers are feeling more confident. Borrowing in the category that includes credit cards reached its highest point since the fall of 2010. 
Americans stepped up their borrowing by $19.6 billion in May compared with April, the Federal Reserve said on Monday in its monthly report on consumer credit. That was the biggest jump since a $19.9 billion rise in May 2012.
Total borrowing reached a record $2.84 trillion.
The category that includes credit card use rose $6.6 billion, also the largest gain in a year. Credit card debt reached $847.1 billion, the most since September 2010. Credit card debt remains about 16 percent below its high of $1.02 trillion in July 2008 -- just before the financial crisis erupted.
Borrowing for autos and student loans rose $13 billion in May. That was the sharpest increase since February. This category of borrowing has been rising especially fast, driven by loans to pay for college.
The Fed's consumer credit report does not separate student loans from auto loans. But data from the Federal Reserve Bank of New York shows that student loan debt has been the biggest driver of borrowing since the recession officially ended. In part, that is because some unemployed Americans have returned to school for training in hopes of landing a job.
Despite the increase in credit card debt in May, consumers are not likely to raise their card use to prerecession levels, said Cooper Howes, an economist at Barclays Research. ''We expect the trends of student loan-driven expansion,'' Mr. Howes said, ''and only small changes in revolving credit to continue in coming months.''
The measure of credit card debt in the Fed's report has risen $15.8 billion this year. That compares with annual increases from $25 billion to $50 billion in credit card debt before the recession, which officially began in December 2007 and ended in June 2009.
Consumers increased their spending from January through March but reduced the pace of their savings to finance it. After-tax income dropped in the first quarter.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Consumer Borrowing: Net change in total consumer debt, excluding mortgages, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Federal Reserve) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSUMER LENDING (92%); PERSONAL DEBT (92%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); RECESSION (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); TRENDS (78%); CONSUMER CREDIT REPORTING (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (71%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (65%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (67%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



233 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; WELL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1112 words

HEADLINE: What Does Birth Cost? Hard to Tell

BYLINE: By GINA KOLATA

 BODY:
We're continually told that when it comes to health care, we need to be savvy and shop around for the best prices. To that end, policy experts and politicians promote health care savings accounts, saying they make ''health care consumers'' (a k a patients) more conscious of prices, bringing down the cost of medical care.
Here is what happened to my daughter, Therese Allison, when she tried to be just the sort of shrewd and informed patient that politicians should love.
Therese is more than seven months pregnant and uninsured -- in fact, she is uninsurable. Pregnancy is a pre-existing condition, so she can't get health insurance at any price. And now that the birth of her baby is imminent, she wants to find out what a delivery will cost, maybe even negotiate a price for this expensive procedure. 
In a way, she's lucky. She and her husband, who are self-employed, live in New Jersey, so she qualifies under a little-known and unadvertised law that caps hospital expenses for uninsured people with incomes less than five times the poverty level.
Under the law, a hospital can charge 115 percent of what it accepts from Medicare for the same services. Although most Medicare beneficiaries are 65 or older, the federal program also includes younger people who are disabled. As a result, Medicare covers pregnancies. California, New York and, as of last year, Colorado, have similar laws, but none are as generous as New Jersey's.
Her Alice in Wonderland tale began in June, when Therese's midwife offered to call the two hospitals she uses and get their prices. Therese is planning and fervently hoping to have a normal vaginal delivery, without an epidural anesthetic, and to leave the hospital the next day.
Elmer Hospital, in Elmer, N.J, said it would charge $4,300 for a normal delivery without an epidural and with no complications. Newborn care would be $1,400 more. Kennedy University Hospital, in Washington Township, refused to say, but told the midwife that Therese could apply for Medicaid or New Jersey Family Care (she does not qualify for either) and could apply for charity care if she was turned down.
If accepted, she would have to pay only a fraction of what the hospital charged. But what would the hospital charge? The hospital was mum, saying it could not give a price because if Therese needed additional services, its quote would be wrong.
Therese called the hospitals herself. But all she heard -- after calling Kennedy University Hospital three times and asking for a price -- was two voice mail messages. In one, she was told to apply for New Jersey Family Care. In the other she was told to apply for Medicaid.
Isn't there a law, Therese asked me, requiring hospitals to reveal their prices? I asked Uwe Reinhardt, a Princeton health care economist who is a frequent contributor to The New York Times.
No, he said. Hospitals do not have to tell you their prices, and often they keep them secret until they send the bill.
''When I was chair of the New Jersey commission on hospitals two years ago, my wife, at my behest, tried to get a price for a normal delivery from the Princeton Medical Center,'' Dr. Reinhardt said. ''She pretended to be an uninsured entrepreneur earning $80,000 a year. She got nowhere. I then called to try out a colonoscopy. I got nowhere too.''
The commission then recommended that all hospitals be required to list their prices for their top 25 procedures. That never happened, but instead the New Jersey Legislature passed the law limiting hospital charges for the uninsured with low incomes.
The problem, though, is that even if you know what a hospital charges, you may not be able to find out what Medicare pays. Medicare publishes a giant spreadsheet with its payments for the 100 most popular hospital procedures and treatments in 3,000 hospitals across the country. Pregnancy is not on the list.
Even people with insurance can have a hard time finding out what they will have to pay. After my inquiry, Dr. Reinhardt did a little sleuthing. Private insurers, he said, claim they let patients know what their out-of-pocket costs are likely to be. So he checked UnitedHealthcare's Web site. First he put in ''normal delivery.'' Nothing came up. He tried ''vaginal delivery.'' Nothing. Then he tried another common procedure, an appendectomy. Nothing.
''I called the UnitedHealth hot line and asked the lady there to help me find the 'cost estimates' (as they are called) for normal delivery and appendectomy,'' Dr. Reinhardt wrote in an e-mail. ''She couldn't find the items either.''
''It is all so pathetic,'' he said.
Last month, Senator Charles E. Grassley, Republican of Iowa, and Senator Ron Wyden, Democrat of Oregon, introduced a measure to make Medicare reveal what it pays providers for every service. Mr. Wyden said the uninsured could use the data to negotiate, as could people with health care savings accounts. A searchable list of Medicare payments should be a fundamental service, Mr. Wyden said.
''Every single person in government tells people, 'Oh, you've got to make good choices,' '' he said in an interview. ''But patients have their hands tied. They can't get costs and they can't find out about quality.''
If that bill were law, Therese's problem would be solved. But for now, she needed some extra help to find out what those two hospitals were allowed to charge. So I e-mailed Donald McLeod, a Medicare spokesman, and asked for assistance. He got the answers.
Medicare would pay Elmer Hospital $3,550 for a normal delivery without an epidural and $1,028.30 for newborn care. Kennedy is a teaching hospital, so it gets bigger payments: $4,327.60 for a normal delivery and $1,253.55 for newborn care.
I finally called Kennedy Health System, identifying myself as a reporter, and not surprisingly was given a price. The system's president and chief executive, Martin A. Bieber, called to tell me. A normal delivery is approximately $4,900, and newborn care costs about $1,400. And, he added, Kennedy charges all uninsured patients those prices, which are 115 percent of the Medicare rates, no matter what their income.
In a way, even with the overcharges by Elmer, its prices -- and Kennedy's -- look like a bargain. Dartmouth, one of the few places that posts its prices, says it charges the uninsured about $11,000 for a normal delivery and newborn care.
Meanwhile, Therese found the bill for her previous pregnancy. She had a normal delivery with no epidural in December 2010 and refused all extras, even Tylenol. She was insured, and her baby was born at the University of Pennsylvania.
Her insurer's negotiated price? $16,672.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Therese Allison, 35, with her daughters Olivia, 4, and Amaya, 2.Ms. Allison, who is uninsured, had difficulty finding the price of a normal delivery. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JESSICA KOURKOUNIS FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MEDICARE (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); HEALTH INSURANCE (90%); HOSPITALS (89%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); MIDWIVES (89%); MEDICAL CHARITIES (78%); UNDERINSURED & UNINSURED PATIENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); HEALTH SAVINGS ACCOUNTS (78%); POOR POPULATION (71%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (70%); MEDICAID (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



234 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Science Desk; BY DEGREES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 917 words

HEADLINE: Old Tactic in New Climate Campaign

BYLINE: By JUSTIN GILLIS

 BODY:
It was a single word tucked into a presidential speech. It went by so fast that most Americans probably never heard it, much less took the time to wonder what it meant.
But to certain young ears, the word had the shock value of a rifle shot. The reference occurred late in President Obama's climate speech at Georgetown University two weeks ago, in the middle of this peroration:
''Convince those in power to reduce our carbon pollution. Push your own communities to adopt smarter practices. Invest. Divest. Remind folks there's no contradiction between a sound environment and strong economic growth.'' 
That injunction to ''divest'' was, pretty clearly, a signal to the thousands of college students who have been manning the barricades for nearly a year now, urging their colleges to rid their endowments of stock in fossil-fuel companies as a way of forcing climate change higher on the national political agenda.
''The president of the United States knows we exist, and he likes what we're doing,'' Marissa Solomon of the University of Michigan wrote soon after. Other students recounted leaping to their feet or nearly falling off their chairs when the president uttered the word.
Chris Hayes, the host of a program on MSNBC who is young enough and smart enough to have caught the reference instantly, said on Twitter that '' 'invest, divest' is the most crypto-radical line the president has ever uttered.''
Maybe it should come as no great surprise, though. Divestment as a tactic for social change holds a fond place in Barack Obama's memory.
Mr. Obama's first foray into politics, as a student at Occidental College in the early 1980s, was in support of demands that the trustees divest from the stocks of companies doing business in South Africa under apartheid.
In what he later called a piece of street theater, he was dragged off stage by two white students dressed up as oppressive Afrikaners. (He transferred to Columbia in 1981.)
The White House is not elaborating on what the president meant at Georgetown by ''divest,'' but the smoke signals seem to suggest that he sees direct parallels between the movement of the 1980s and the one today.
That is certainly how today's student activists see it. Though careful not to overdraw moral comparisons between apartheid and climate change, they have embraced divestment as one of the few ways available to them to call attention to the gulf between the risks of global warming and the weak political response to it. They cite 1980s apartheid activism as a model.
So how is their movement going?
My sense is that the students themselves are surprised by how far and fast their divestment demand has spread. Since the idea was championed last year by the group 350.org and its leader, Bill McKibben, student groups have demanded divestment on more than 300 college campuses.
The idea is spreading to other countries, and it is spreading beyond campuses to city governments and religious institutions. Indeed, while only a half-dozen colleges have committed to divestment so far, nearly 20 mayors and city councils have made pledges of some sort.
Quite a few churches have done so, especially in New England, and last week the general synod of the United Church of Christ approved a divestment resolution. It was the first national religious denomination to go for the tactic, but probably not the last.
Neither Mr. McKibben nor his followers pretend that they are going to move the stock prices of Exxon Mobil or other fossil-fuel companies. Their real goal is to force the most important people in the country, many of whom sit on college boards, to grapple with the morality and practicality of unchecked fossil-fuel burning. In that sense, the students may stand to win even when the colleges say no.
So far, all indications are that big colleges will do just that. Not a single school with an endowment exceeding $1 billion has agreed to divest. They have generally argued it would be too difficult, or would hurt investment returns.
Moreover, active opposition has emerged on some campuses, with students taking public stands against divestment. Some complain that they have been shouted down. After Mr. Obama's Georgetown speech, the Wisconsin Federation of College Republicans put out a statement criticizing him for ''a nanny state climate-change policy'' that will destroy jobs.
Intriguingly, though, the Wisconsin group said it was open to discussion of market-friendly solutions to climate change. Maybe the College Republicans, like a lot of other people, are growing impatient with climate deniers.
In Washington, of course, Mr. Obama faces intractable political opposition. His speech was all about executive actions he plans to take that do not require approval from Congress, but whether he can defend those from Congressional attack and from industry lawsuits remains to be seen.
Indeed, one way to read Mr. Obama's speech is as a plea for help.
He knows that if he is to get serious climate policies on the books before his term ends in 2017, he needs a mass political movement pushing for stronger action. No broad movement has materialized in the United States; 350.org and its student activists are the closest thing so far, which may be why Mr. Obama gazes fondly in their direction.
''I'm going to need all of you to educate your classmates, your colleagues, your parents, your friends,'' he said plaintively at Georgetown. ''What we need in this fight are citizens who will stand up, and speak up, and compel us to do what this moment demands.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, in his speech last month on plans to combat climate change, gave a nod to divestment. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CLIMATOLOGY (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CLIMATE CHANGE (89%); DIVESTITURES (89%); POLITICS (77%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (74%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (70%); GLOBAL WARMING (68%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (55%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGETOWN UNIVERSITY (57%); UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); SOUTH AFRICA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



235 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1050 words

HEADLINE: Asiana President Says Pilot Was in Training

BYLINE: By CHOE SANG-HUN

 BODY:
SEOUL, South Korea -- It was Lee Kang-guk's first attempt to land a Boeing 777 at San Francisco International Airport, and it ended in disaster. The crash of Asiana Airlines Flight 214 on Saturday killed two passengers, injured 180 others and tarnished the reputation of South Korea's aviation industry, whose leaders had thought it was leaving a poor safety record behind.
''For him, this was a training flight, as he was switching to a new type of plane,'' Asiana Airlines' president, Yoon Young-doo, said Monday of Mr. Lee. 
Mr. Lee, 46, a 19-year veteran with Asiana, has logged more than 9,700 hours of flying, piloting A320s and Boeing 737s and 747s to various destinations, including San Francisco. He had just 43 hours of flying time with Boeing 777s, and had made eight landings with them, in London, Los Angeles and Narita, Japan. He was still on a "familiarization flight" program when he was at the controls Saturday; a senior colleague with more experience landing 777s, including at San Francisco, sat beside him as co-pilot.
Choi Jong-ho, a senior aviation policy official with South Korea's Transportation Ministry, said Monday that South Korean investigators had arrived in San Francisco and interviewed the four pilots on Flight 214, who worked two-man shifts during the flight. He refused to speculate about whether the cockpit decision to let Mr. Lee, instead of one of his more experienced colleagues, land the plane had contributed to the accident; he said that investigators, including those from the United States National Transportation Safety Board, were looking into all possibilities.
Any challenge to the pilots would have been further complicated by the shutdown of a ground-based electronic system called a glide slope indicator, which helps keep planes at the correct descent angle. But the pilots had been notified that the system had been turned off, government and Asiana officials here said.
''Ultimately, it's the trainer pilot who is responsible for the flight,'' Mr. Yoon, the Asiana president, said, referring to Lee Jeong-min, 49, the more experienced pilot who sat in the co-pilot's seat when Lee Kang-guk was landing the plane. He had 3,220 hours of flying time with 777s.
''Familiarization flights'' are part of the routine for pilots learning to fly a new kind of plane, officials at both the Transportation Ministry and Asiana said. At Asiana, the pilots are required to go through manual and simulator training -- Asiana has run its own simulator training center since 1998 -- and make 20 familiarization flights in the presence of more experienced ''mentor'' or ''trainer'' pilots.
The crash Saturday was Asiana's third accident involving fatalities since its founding in 1988. In 1993, a 737 domestic flight crashed into a mountain while making a descent amid high winds and poor visibility. Sixty-six people were killed in the crash, which was attributed to pilot error. In 2011, a 747 cargo jet bound for Shanghai crashed into the sea off Korea's southern coast, killing two pilots. An inquiry blamed mechanical problems.
South Korea's aviation industry long had a tarnished safety record that mainly involved Asiana's bigger, older domestic rival, Korean Air. In 1983, a Soviet fighter jet shot down a Korean Air 747, killing all 269 people on board. In 1987, a Korean Air 707 disintegrated over waters near Myanmar in an explosion that South Korea attributed to a North Korean terrorist attack. All 115 people on board were killed.
Eighty people died in 1989 when a Korean Air DC10 passenger jet crashed while landing in Tripoli, Libya. In 1997, a Korean Air 747 slammed into a hill while approaching the airport in Guam, killing 225 people.
Since then, South Korea has tightened safety regulations and pilot qualification requirements, as well as improving pilot training. It also has struggled to address long-running skepticism over its cockpit culture.
With most pilots recruited from the air force, strict hierarchy ruled among South Korean pilots, so much so that investigators and critics at the time said that co-pilots were not able to challenge the pilots even when there was an obvious mistake. Both Asiana and Korean Air have been gradually hiring more nonveterans, including foreign pilots, partly because there were not enough South Korean Air Force veterans to meet the rising demand for pilots -- especially in recent years, when they expanded overseas routes as budget airlines joined the competition for the domestic market. Now they fill roughly half of the cockpits. (Mr. Lee was one of them, joining Asiana in 1994 as a trainee pilot.)
The reform effort seemed a success when South Korea was ranked No. 1 in a safety assessment of member countries of the International Civil Aviation Organization in 2008. But a 12-year streak with no accidents ended with Asiana's crash in 2011.
Asiana has struggled in the shadow of the national flag-carrier, Korean Air. It began business in the same year South Korea hosted the 1988 Summer Olympics. The military dictatorship at the time gave the license to the Kumho Asiana transportation and construction conglomerate after deciding that the country needed a second airline to boost its international appeal as a rising ''Asian Tiger'' economy.
Asiana now runs 91 international passenger routes, 28 cargo routes and 14 domestic routes. It operates a fleet of 80 aircraft. Once focused on routes to Japan and China and elsewhere in Asia, the company has been rapidly expanding into North American and European markets, especially since the United States included South Korean travelers in its Visa Waiver Program in 2008. It purchased 11 jets last year and plans to buy 8 this year. It has separately placed orders to buy six Airbus A380s and 30 A350s, beginning in 2014, to meet growing mid- to long-range passenger demands. The company recorded 5.6 trillion won, or $4.9 billion, in revenues last year, and employs about 9,595 people.
Asiana shares fell 5.76 percent on Monday, the first day of trading since the accident, in a South Korean market that was weaker overall.
On Monday, Asiana again offered a ''heartfelt'' apology for Saturday's crash. A news report from China says families of the children onboard Flight 214, accompanied by government officials, boarded a flight to San Francisco on Monday.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AIRLINES (90%); AIRPORTS (90%); AIRCRAFT PILOTS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (87%); AIR TRANSPORTATION SAFETY (78%); AVIATION ADMINISTRATION (78%); CIVIL AVIATION (78%); AVIATION REGULATION & POLICY (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (71%)

COMPANY: ASIANA AIRLINES INC (92%); BOEING CO (92%)

TICKER: 020560 (KSE) (92%); BOE (LSE) (92%); BAB (BRU) (92%); BA (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (92%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (92%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (92%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SEOUL, KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) CALIFORNIA, USA (94%) KOREA, REPUBLIC OF (95%); UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



236 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 627 words

HEADLINE: Investors' Wary Optimism Leads to Gains for Stocks

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market rose on Monday, with investors seeming cautiously optimistic about corporate earnings.
American companies start reporting their second-quarter results this week, led by the aluminum producer Alcoa, the first company in the Dow Jones industrial average to announce results. Other major companies scheduled to report their financial results this week include JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo.
Analysts predict that earnings growth for companies in the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 3 percent in the second quarter. While that would be down from 5 percent in the first quarter, earnings are still expected to remain relatively strong. 
Investors will be searching for evidence that companies are increasing revenue, not just cutting costs to bolster profits. Sales growth is predicted to have fallen 0.3 percent in the second quarter.
''We'll be looking to see where revenue comes in,'' said James P. Dunigan, an executive vice president of investments at PNC.
After the market closed, Alcoa reported a $119 million second-quarter loss, although its results excluding onetime charges exceeded analysts' forecasts.
Alcoa fell 5 cents, or 0.6 percent, to $7.87 in after-hours trading.
The Dow industrials rose 88.85 points, or 0.6 percent, to close at 15,224.69. The S.& P. 500 gained 8.57 points, or 0.5 percent, to close at 1,640.46.
Dell was among the big gainers in the S.& P. 500 index. An advisory firm recommended that shareholders support a plan by its founder, Michael S. Dell, to take the computer company private for $24.4 billion, or $13.65 a share. Dell rose 41 cents, or 3.1 percent, to $13.44.
The Russell 2000 index, an index of small-company stocks, closed at a record high of 1,009.25, having gained 18.8 percent this year.
The Nasdaq composite index rose just 5.45, or 0.2 percent, to 3,484.83, the smallest gain of the major indexes.
The Nasdaq was weighed down by a slump for Intel. The chip maker fell after a Citigroup analyst wrote that weak PC sales and diminishing demand for smartphones would stunt the company's growth. Intel, which makes up 2.2 percent of the Nasdaq, fell 88 cents, or 3.6 percent, to $23.18.
Other chip makers also declined. Qualcomm dropped 96 cents, or 1.6 percent, to $59.99.
In government bond trading, the yield on the Treasury's 10-year note pulled back from a two-year high of 2.74 percent late Friday. The yield fell to to 2.64 percent on Monday as the price of the 10-year note rose 26/32, to 92 11/32.
The 10-year note's yield jumped after the government reported stronger-than-expected hiring for June on Friday. Investors say they believe that the improving job market will prompt the Federal Reserve to ease back on its bond-buying program, which it undertook to keep interest rates low and spur borrowing and investing.
Stocks moved higher for the first five months of the year, supported by low interest rates, a recovering housing market and increased hiring. But the stock market began to pull back after the Fed's chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, signaled on May 22 that the central bank might consider easing its stimulus.
Since then, stocks have gradually recouped losses as investors appear to be becoming more comfortable with higher interest rates.
''Interest rates, even though they've risen, are still incredibly low,'' said Brent Schutte, a market strategist at BMO Private Bank. ''Right now, increases in rates are a good thing, because it means the economy is doing a little bit better.''
The rising rates are still making bond investors nervous, though. Investors pulled a net $900 million from stock-focused mutual funds for the week that ended June 26, but they withdrew $28.1 billion from bond-focused mutual funds over the same period, according to data from the Investment Company Institute.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (97%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (84%); PRICE INCREASES (78%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); BONDS (78%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (77%); ALUMINA & ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (76%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (74%); GOING PRIVATE (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ALUMINUM INDUSTRY (72%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

COMPANY: ALCOA INC (90%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); INTEL CORP (52%); QUALCOMM INC (51%)

TICKER: AAI (ASX) (90%); AA (NYSE) (90%); WFC (NYSE) (84%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); INTC (NASDAQ) (52%); QCOM (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS331313 ALUMINA REFINING & PRIMARY ALUMINUM PRODUCTION (90%); SIC3334 PRIMARY PRODUCTION OF ALUMINUM (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (51%)

PERSON: MICHAEL DELL (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



237 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1309 words

HEADLINE: Edmund S. Morgan, Historian Who Shed Light on Puritans, Dies at 97

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Prof. Edmund S. Morgan, an award-winning historian who illuminated the intellectual world of the Puritans, explored the paradox of freedom and slavery in colonial Virginia and, in his 80s, wrote a best-selling biography of Benjamin Franklin, died on Monday in New Haven. He was 97.
His death was confirmed by his editor, Robert Weil.
Like his mentor and fellow atheist, the Harvard historian Perry Miller, Professor Morgan found his richest material in the religious thought of Puritan New England and endless fascination in the theological debates and spiritual struggles of men like John Winthrop, Roger Williams and Ezra Stiles. 
''I think that any group of people who have a system of belief that covers practically everything, and who act upon it, are bound to be interesting to any scholar,'' he said in a 1987 interview with The William and Mary Quarterly.
His elegantly written, succinct biographies and studies of early New England, respected by specialists but accessible to undergraduates, became required reading for several generations of college students.
''As a historian of colonial and revolutionary America, he was one of the giants of his generation, and a writer who could well have commanded a larger nonacademic audience than I suspect he received,'' said Pauline Maier, a professor of American history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''He characteristically took on big issues and had a knack for conveying complex, sophisticated truths in a way that made them seem, if not simple, at least easily understandable.''
Professor Morgan's book ''The Puritan Dilemma: The Story of John Winthrop'' (1958) was for decades one of the most widely assigned texts in survey courses on American history. His ''Visible Saints: The History of a Puritan Idea'' (1963) showed his unmatched talent for mining primary sources to illuminate an important concept, in this case the change in understanding among New Englanders of what it meant to be the member of a church.
Professor Morgan later became intrigued by colonial Virginia, a slaveholding society that produced some of America's most sophisticated theoreticians of human freedom. This paradox was the subject of ''American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial Virginia'' (1975), which won the Francis Parkman Prize in 1976. ''Inventing the People: The Rise of Popular Sovereignty in England and America'' (1988) won the Bancroft Prize in American History in 1989.
A prolific writer well into his 90s, Professor Morgan made a belated appearance on The New York Times's best-seller list in 2002 with the lively, eminently readable ''Benjamin Franklin.''
Based almost entirely on primary documents in Yale's collection of Franklin papers, it presented a more vigorous, impassioned founding father than the traditional portrait of, as he wrote, ''a comfortable old gentleman staring out at the world over his half-glasses with benevolent comprehension of everything in it.''
''My view has always been that an analysis of historical developments should be embodied in narrative,'' Professor Morgan told The Yale Bulletin and Calendar in 2001. ''A historian should not be didactic -- that is a word that makes my blood run cold.''
Edmund Sears Morgan was born on Jan. 17, 1916, in Minneapolis. His father, Edmund Morris Morgan, was an expert on the law of evidence and served as chairman of the committee that drafted the first uniform code of military justice for the armed forces in 1948.
Edmund grew up in Arlington, Mass., where the family moved after his father began teaching at Harvard's law school. He enrolled in Harvard intending to study English history and literature, but after taking a course in American literature with F. O. Matthiessen, he changed to the newly offered major of American history and literature, with Perry Miller as his tutor. He received a bachelor's degree in 1937, and, at the urging of the jurist Felix Frankfurter, a family friend, he attended lectures at the London School of Economics.
In 1942, he completed a doctorate in Harvard's new program on the history of American civilization under Professor Miller's supervision. His dissertation, on the domestic life of the Puritans, became his first book: ''The Puritan Family: Religion and Domestic Relations in 17th-Century New England'' (1944).
In 1939 he married Helen Theresa Mayer, who died in 1982. He is survived by their two daughters, Penelope Aubin and Pamela Packard; his second wife, the former Marie Caskey, a historian; six grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
Although a pacifist, Professor Morgan became convinced, after the fall of France, that only military force could stop Hitler, and he withdrew the application he had submitted for conscientious objector status. During World War II, he trained as a machinist at the M.I.T. radiation laboratory, where he turned out metal parts and instruments for radar installations.
After teaching for a year at the University of Chicago, he accepted a position at Brown University, where he taught until 1955. He was then offered a full professorship at Yale, where he spent the rest of his career. He was named Sterling professor of history in 1965 and retired in 1986.
From the outset Professor Morgan showed a knack for grounding abstract ideas in specific circumstances and presenting history through the eyes of individuals, whose personalities he captured in a few deft strokes.
''People did not like Thomas Hutchinson,'' he wrote of the colonial governor of Massachusetts in ''The Birth of the Republic, 1763-89'' (1956). ''They did not like his long nose or his long face or the long list of offices he held.''
''The Virginia Company had sent the idle to teach the idle,'' he wrote in ''American Slavery, American Freedom,'' describing the doomed Jamestown colony. ''And they had sent, as it turned out, a quarrelsome band of gentlemen and servants to bring freedom to the free. It was a recipe for disaster.''
In ''The Puritan Dilemma,'' John Winthrop, the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, served as a window on the social structure, changing political institutions and religious life of early colonial New Englanders.
One of Professor Morgan's most provocative works, ''The Stamp Act Crisis: Prologue to Revolution'' (1953), used sharply etched biographical sketches to revisit the arguments that the colonists had brought to bear on taxation and representation, which a generation of progressive historians had dismissed as mere propaganda disguising the pursuit of narrow economic interests.
This approach, elaborated by Bernard Bailyn -- also a student of Perry Miller -- in ''The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution'' (1967), reshaped the study of colonial history.
''What Americans said from the beginning about taxation and just government deserved to be taken as seriously as the Puritans' ideas about God and man,'' Professor Morgan wrote in the preface to ''The Genuine Article'' (2004), a collection of his review essays for The New York Review of Books. ''In subsequent books I argued that the American Revolution was really what the revolutionaries said it was.''
After dealing with Winthrop, he went on to write biographies of two other Puritans. Reviewing a batch of books by and about Roger Williams convinced him that he had misunderstood and misjudged the man. He made amends with ''Roger Williams: The Church and the State'' (1967) and later wrote ''The Gentle Puritan: A Life of Ezra Stiles.''
''I would say that my ideal of writing history is to give the reader vicarious experience,'' Professor Morgan told The William and Mary Quarterly. ''You're born in one particular century at a particular time, and the only experience you can have directly is of the place you live and the time you live in. History is a way of giving you experience that you would otherwise be cut off from.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HISTORY (91%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); RELIGION (90%); SLAVERY (89%); WRITERS (89%); BESTSELLERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (73%) VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (73%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



238 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 815 words

HEADLINE: Justice, Louisiana Style

BYLINE: By JOE NOCERA

 BODY:
You can actually pinpoint the moment when the oil company BP began to get hosed in Louisiana: March 2012.
By then, BP had paid out around $6.3 billion to some 220,000 people and businesses in the Gulf Coast region for damages suffered as a result of the 2010 oil spill. The money was distributed by Kenneth Feinberg, who had parceled out the 9/11 fund, and subsequently managed other victim compensation schemes.
In return for the payouts, however, Feinberg had insisted that the victims sign documents agreeing not to sue BP -- a main goal for the company, which was hoping to avoid the kind of drawn-out litigation that went on after the 1989 Exxon-Valdez spill. He had also insisted that the claims be for real, documented harm. Believe it or not, Feinberg spent more time turning down bogus claims than he did approving payments to victims. 
It almost goes without saying that the Louisiana plaintiffs' bar found such a scheme offensive. No litigation, after all, meant no lawyers' fees. Plus, the idea that you could have this giant company, so ripe for the plucking ... and then not pluck?
So a group of lawyers -- known as the Plaintiffs' Steering Committee -- persuaded their clients to skip the Feinberg process and sue BP. And in March 2012, BP settled with those lawyers. As a condition for settling, the plaintiffs' lawyers insisted that Feinberg be replaced by Patrick Juneau, a good-ol'-boy plaintiffs' lawyer himself. BP also agreed to expand the potential universe of claimants, knowing full well that this would likely mean that people whose economic losses had no connection to the spill would receive ''compensation.'' It estimated that the settlement would cost it an additional $7.8 billion.
On Monday, however, before a federal appeals court in New Orleans, BP finally said ''enough.'' Over the ensuing months, the company had come to realize that Juneau's interpretation of such concepts as ''revenue'' and ''earnings'' was, er, unique. So unique, in fact, that businesses that not only weren't affected by the BP disaster but hadn't even suffered losses were getting millions of dollars. Some had seen increased profits during the oil spill -- and still got money. Lawyers started trolling for new clients, trumpeting the fact that claims didn't have to have any connection to the disaster. Suddenly, BP was facing the prospect of paying tens of billions of additional dollars to people who had no justifiable claim on the money.
When BP, which is based in London, complained to Judge Carl Barbier, who is overseeing all of the BP litigation in New Orleans, it got nowhere. Do I need to mention that Barbier is himself a former Louisiana plaintiffs' lawyer? In fact, he was once the president of Louisiana Trial Lawyers Association. How cozy is that?
I realize that many people don't much care that a multinational corporation responsible for a huge oil spill is being fleeced in Louisiana. But they should, for two reasons. First, although BP's negligence was unquestionably a significant reason for the spill, its response has been the opposite of the unfeeling corporation. It waived the $75 million liability cap that federal law allows. It has spent, so far, $14 billion cleaning up the Gulf and another $11 billion settling claims of various sorts. It has taken its medicine willingly. Yet its efforts to do right by the Gulf region have only emboldened those who view it as a cash machine.
The next time a big company has an industrial accident, its board of directors is likely to question whether it really makes sense to ''do the right thing'' the way BP has tried to. Any board comparing BP's response to the gulf oil spill with Exxon-Mobil's response to the Exxon-Valdez spill is going to come to the obvious conclusion: Exxon-Mobil's litigation-to-the-death strategy -- which ultimately cost it $4 billion rather than the potential $40 billion liability BP is now facing -- was the right one. Is that really what we want as a country?
There is one other point. I've written a number of columns about the importance of rule of law, especially in Russia, where it is so lacking, and where that lack is so detrimental to the Russian economy. A real rule of law gives businesses the confidence they need to make investments. If gives both parties faith that disputes will be settled fairly. It creates certainty.
We like to talk in the United States about our belief in the rule of law, but the truth is that what is going in Louisiana today is not all that different than when a corrupt Russian official creates a fake tax liability to line his pockets at the expense of some hapless company operating in Russia. ''This is Louisiana, after all,'' a local plaintiffs' lawyer told Bloomberg BusinessWeek recently. ''A big foreign company with deep pockets, and you're surprised there's a feeding frenzy? Come on, man.''
Vladimir Putin couldn't have put it better himself.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL SPILLS (90%); BP GULF SPILL LITIGATION (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); LITIGATION (89%); OIL & GAS ACCIDENTS (89%); DAMAGES (77%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (77%); LAWYERS (75%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (62%); APPEALS COURTS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%) LOUISIANA, USA (93%); SOUTHEAST USA (73%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



239 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1121 words

HEADLINE: Pension Effort Aims to Ease Burden on States and Cities

BYLINE: By MARY WILLIAMS WALSH

 BODY:
As states and cities wrestle with mounting pension woes, some even seeking refuge in bankruptcy, Washington has mostly stayed on the sidelines.
By law, the 50 states are sovereigns, so even though federal officials have regulated company pension plans for decades, they have had little interest in telling the states how to run theirs.
Now, one United States senator wants to change that. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, has devised a way for states and cities to exit the pension business while still giving public workers the type of benefits they want. It involves a tax-law change that would enable governments to turn their pension plans over to life insurers. 
Big players like MetLife and Prudential, to cite just two, might thus step into shoes now occupied by the likes of Calpers, California's giant state pension system. Any such change would be voluntary, said Mr. Hatch, who plans to introduce enabling legislation on Tuesday. He and the Finance Committee's Democratic chairman, Max Baucus of Montana, are committed to working on a tax overhaul package this year, and the public-pension change could be one part of that.
''America cannot continue sleepwalking into the financial disaster that awaits us if we do not get the public-pension debt crisis under control,'' Mr. Hatch said. ''The problem is getting more serious every day.''
Working with insurers would not suddenly make trillions of dollars appear, but Mr. Hatch said it would make costs more predictable and protect both retirees and taxpayers. The proposal ''does not include an explicit or implicit government guarantee,'' he said.
Aides said emphatically that insurers did not come up with this idea and talk the senator into promoting it. Mr. Hatch has been concerned about public pensions for some time, having issued his own study of their problems early last year. His report stated, among other things, that state pensions were a valid issue for federal lawmakers because of the likelihood that Washington would be called upon to bail one out at some point. Specialists working for the finance committee's Republicans devised the insurance arrangement after extensive discussions with public-pension stakeholders, particularly unions that represent public workers.
In those talks, a committee staff member said, union officials were adamant about holding onto their members' defined-benefit pensions, the type where workers receive a stream of predetermined monthly payments from retirement to death. In corporate America, many companies have been discontinuing such pension plans, not wanting to bear the investment risk they pose, especially as the population ages. Companies often give their workers 401(k) plans as a replacement, passing the investment risk to them.
Police unions in particular -- an important constituency for Republicans -- said their workers would not accept anything like that.
That is what prompted finance committee staff members to think about insurance companies. They, too, provide lifelong income to their customers -- they just don't call it a pension; they call it an annuity. Annuities can be devised in any number of ways, including precisely duplicating the terms of a worker's pension. Senator Hatch's staff eventually decided that shifting the states' pension business to insurers was the only way to continue providing the monthly checks that public retirees want without forcing local taxpayers to come up with more money every time the stock market plunges. Life insurers would bear the investment risk, shielding both retirees and taxpayers.
Life insurers can also lose money over soured investments. But the states, which regulate insurance, have guarantee programs to protect policyholders in such cases. No backstop like that exists for public pensions, which is why benefits for older retirees in places like Prichard, Ala., and Central Falls, R.I., have been cut sharply after their municipal pension funds ran out of money.
Perhaps more important, state insurance regulators provide a kind of oversight unknown in the world of public pensions. They require insurance companies to meet capital requirements, taking into account the riskiness of their investments. Insurers are also required to hold more assets than they estimate they will need, and if they burn through their surpluses, state regulators can close them down.
Public pensions, by contrast, have no capital requirements and can make themselves look stronger by taking on more risk.
If Senator Hatch's proposal were to become law, a local government that opted for insurance would hold competitive bidding once a year. The winning carrier would give each worker a contract, guaranteeing a retirement-to-death annuity amount for a year's worth of work. Public employees' unions would no longer negotiate the size of their members' pensions; instead, they would negotiate how much the local employer would pay the insurer upfront. The annuity contracts would be portable, meaning workers would take theirs with them when they changed jobs.
This way, a worker retiring at the end of a 40-year career would have 40 annuity contracts, each representing the retirement income earned from a year's work. An aide to Senator Hatch said an administrative body would have to be created to combine the contracts and issue a single check so the retiree would not receive 40 of them every month. But it would be not be a federal entity. The measure does not expand federal powers or impair states' rights.
The real change would be in the federal tax code. The money that local governments set aside in public pension funds now clearly receives preferential tax treatment; money that it might pay an insurer does not. If a city or a state tried it, the Internal Revenue Service could say the money constituted income for the workers and require them to pay taxes on it.
If the bill became law, it would give the same tax preference to insurance premiums.
Insurers and their trade associations have already sent letters telling Senator Hatch they support his goals and will work with him on the legislative proposal. So has the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and the trade association that represents the state guarantee systems. The biggest opposition is likely to come from public pension systems themselves. They now rely on contributions from workers to help close shortfalls and would lose some of that every time a local government shifted its business to the insurance industry. As envisioned by Senator Hatch, the annuity premiums would be paid solely by public employers; no employee contributions would be allowed.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah said he would introduce a bill to help end what he called the ''the public-pension debt crisis.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); INSURANCE (88%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); PENSION REFORM (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIFE INSURANCE (75%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); TAX REFORM (69%)

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (89%); MAX BAUCUS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



240 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1150 words

HEADLINE: Perry Says He Won't Seek Governorship Again in Texas

BYLINE: By JOHN SCHWARTZ and JONATHAN MARTIN; John Schwartz reported from San Antonio, and Jonathan Martin from Washington.

 BODY:
SAN ANTONIO -- Rick Perry, the longest-serving governor of Texas and an unsuccessful Republican presidential candidate last year, announced on Monday that he would not seek another term but would instead ''pray and reflect and work to determine my own future path.''
''The time has come to pass on the mantle of leadership,'' Mr. Perry told a crowd of supporters in a cavernous heavy equipment dealership here. ''Today, I am announcing I will not seek re-election as governor of Texas.''
As for what happens after his term is over in 18 months, he said he would ''announce any future considerations in due time,'' almost certainly an allusion to the possibility of a White House bid in 2016, though he made no direct reference to it. Mr. Perry has indicated regret over entering the presidential race relatively late in the process and has said that back trouble and a lack of sleep contributed to his gaffe-plagued campaign. 
But it is an open question whether an earlier start and better health would make a difference for Mr. Perry, should he try to run again. Mr. Perry faces some daunting challenges. First, he would have to convince Republican primary voters that he is not the lightweight who could not recite the third of three federal agencies he would eliminate and blurted out, ''Oops.''
Beyond rehabilitating his image from the debates, Mr. Perry must also demonstrate to ever-demanding early-state voters that he will pursue their votes in the fashion to which they have grown accustomed: one at a time.
Mr. Perry faced criticism during the campaign last year that his entourage of aides and security officers made him seem detached from the traditional retail-style politics of a place like Iowa.
Most challenging of all for Mr. Perry is whether there is even space for him in a 2016 primary field that is sure to look very different from the last campaign.
With next-generation Republicans like Senator Marco Rubio of Florida, Senator Rand Paul of Kentucky and Mr. Perry's fellow Texan, Senator Ted Cruz, eager to test the presidential waters, the primary could be far tougher than last year's, when Republican activists seemed to examine and discard a shifting group of candidates in searching for an alternative to Mitt Romney, the weak front-runner.
On Monday, Mr. Perry stood on a temporary dais against a backdrop of American and Texas flags and heavy machinery intended to underscore his focus on jobs and the state's economy and faced a friendly crowd of longtime supporters and employees of Holt Cat, a Caterpillar dealership. Its chief executive, Peter Holt, also owns the San Antonio Spurs and is a major contributor to Mr. Perry's campaigns.
''We have created the strongest economy in the nation,'' Mr. Perry told the crowd, through encouraging growth, balanced budgets and an overhaul the tort system.
''We have stood strong against unwise policies from Washington that would bust the bank,'' he said. ''We have better protected the right to life for Texas children. And we have protected the sanctity of marriage.''
Mr. Perry said he was proudest of the jobs created in the state while he was governor, citing 1.6 million new positions.
Mr. Perry assumed the governorship in late 2000 after George W. Bush left office to become president; he was then elected to three full terms.
He withdrew from the last year's presidential race and quietly returned to Texas. But he recently regained national attention when he squared off with Democrats in the State Senate who opposed a stringent anti-abortion bill, which seems headed for easy passage in the Republican-controlled Legislature.
In particular, he took on State Senator Wendy Davis, a Fort Worth Democrat, after her 11-hour filibuster halted the bill's progress, at least temporarily.
He also spoke out against her directly at a National Right to Life convention in Texas, suggesting that Ms. Davis especially should understand that ''every life matters.'' He later explained to reporters that Ms. Davis had been a teenage mother, and that her own mother had also been a single mother and might have considered abortion.
''What if her mom had said, 'I just can't do this, I don't want to do this'?'' Mr. Perry said. The comments angered fans of Ms. Davis, who saw the attack as unstatesmanlike and offensive. Mr. Perry later said that his comments ''were meant to be a compliment for what she's accomplished in her life.''
The anti-abortion bill is almost certain to pass during a special legislative session called by Mr. Perry. Ms. Davis has said she will not filibuster again, and with weeks before the end of the session, a filibuster would not be possible.
The anti-abortion bill is already making its way through the Legislature. Last week, a House of Representatives committee passed the bill on to the full House after an eight-hour hearing in which about 100 witnesses were heard out of the thousands who had signed up. The Senate Health and Human Services Committee considered the bill on Monday. Both houses are scheduled to reconvene Tuesday; the House has already scheduled debate and a vote on the bill for that day.
In his speech on Monday, Mr. Perry was fluid and passionate, though a longtime observer of Texas politics noted that it did not say much. ''It wasn't even bait and switch; there was no bait,'' said Paul Burka, senior executive editor of Texas Monthly magazine. ''He just bragged about Texas, and bragged and bragged, and gave no information whatsoever, except what everybody already knew -- that he wasn't going to run again, though he never said so directly.''
For Mr. Perry's supporters, it was an event of powerful emotion and hope. Ray Sullivan, a former Perry staff member, called the announcement ''typically big and bold,'' adding, ''I believe he will run for president again.''
To run in 2016, Mr. Perry, 63, will have to return to Iowa. And officials there suggest the road will be uphill. ''His poor showing in the debates gave me pause,'' said Mark Lundberg, chairman of the Sioux County Republican Party in Iowa, adding, ''If he gets his act together, he could be a viable candidate.''
But, he said, Mr. Perry was ''still not my No. 1 or 2 choice at this point.''
Mr. Perry would at least have a chance at a second hearing, said Lisa Van Riper, president of South Carolina Citizens for Life. After the embarrassments of the primaries last year, ''He just went back home and pulled his boots back up,'' she said. ''He's proven he's got a lot of mettle.''
Mark McKinnon, a Republican media strategist who worked with Mr. Bush's campaigns, said Mr. Perry ''could perhaps have won another term as governor, but he would have become a pariah among the G.O.P. leadership in Texas who are all anxious for new generation of statewide elected officials.''
And if he does run in 2016, Mr. McKinnon said, Mr. Perry has two years to prepare, ''Plenty of time to remember the third agency of government he'll cut.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gov. Rick Perry of Texas, who has been in office since 2000, said he would not seek re-election but would ''work to determine my own future path.'' (PHOTOGRAPH BY ERIC GAY/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); EXECUTIVES (71%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (63%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%)

PERSON: RICK PERRY (93%); TED CRUZ (79%); RAND PAUL (58%); MARCO RUBIO (58%); MITT ROMNEY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN ANTONIO, TX, USA (91%) TEXAS, USA (97%) UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



241 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 924 words

HEADLINE: Pollution Leads to Drop in Life Span in Northern China, Research Finds

BYLINE: By EDWARD WONG

 BODY:
BEIJING -- Southern Chinese on average have lived at least five years longer than their northern counterparts in recent decades because of the destructive health effects of pollution from the widespread use of coal in the north, according to a study released Monday by a prominent American science journal.
The study, which appears in The Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences, was conducted by an American, an Israeli and two Chinese scholars and was based on analyses of health and pollution data collected by official Chinese sources from 1981 to 2001. 
The results provide a new assessment of the enormous cost of China's environmental degradation, which in the north is partly a result of the emissions of deadly pollutants from coal-driven energy generation. The researchers project that the 500 million Chinese who live north of the Huai River will lose 2.5 billion years of life expectancy because of outdoor air pollution.
''It highlights that in developing countries there's a trade-off in increasing incomes today and protecting public health and environmental quality,'' said the American member of the research team, Michael Greenstone, a professor of environmental economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''And it highlights the fact that the public health costs are larger than we had thought.''
Mr. Greenstone said in a telephone interview that another surprising result of the study was that the higher mortality rates were found across all age groups.
The study is the first measuring this kind of impact that relies purely on data collected within China. Its conclusions are based on analyses of population groups living in areas north and south of the Huai River. The Chinese government has for years maintained a policy of free coal for boilers to generate winter heating north of the river, which runs parallel to and between the Yellow and Yangtze Rivers. That policy and the ubiquity of northern coal-fired factories have contributed to the vast gap between the coal pollutants emitted in north and south.
Howard Frumkin, dean of the School of Public Health at the University of Washington, said a ''strong point'' of the study was its basis in the ''natural experiment'' resulting from China's disparate coal policies. ''The results are biologically plausible, and consistent with previous research,'' he said.
For every additional 100 micrograms of particulate matter per cubic meter above the average pollution levels in the south, the life expectancy at birth drops by three years, the researchers found. Mr. Greenstone said that estimate could be roughly applied to other developing nations where the baseline level of pollutants was high.
''This adds to the growing mountain of evidence of the heavy cost of China's pollution,'' said Alex L. Wang, a law professor at the University of California, Los Angeles, who studies Chinese environmental policies. ''Other studies have shown significant near-term harms, in the form of illness, lost work days and even risks to children beginning in utero. This study suggests that the long-term harms of coal pollution might be worse than we thought.''
Mr. Wang said the new study could ''help to build the case for more aggressive environmental regulation'' -- for example, a previous order by Chinese leaders to shut down coal-fired boilers in some areas could be widened, and faster shutdown times could be required.
The health statistics recorded through the two-decade period by Chinese officials and examined by the study's researchers showed that the 5.5-year drop in life expectancy in the north was almost entirely due to a rise in deaths attributed to cardiorespiratory diseases or related health problems.
The pollution data, also recorded by officials, indicated that the concentration of particulates north of the Huai was 184 micrograms per cubic meter higher than in the south, or 55 percent greater.
Several recent scientific studies have revealed the toll that China's outdoor air pollution is taking on humans. This spring, new data released from the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study revealed that such pollution contributed to 1.2 million premature deaths in 2010, or nearly 40 percent of the global total.
Some Chinese officials have sought to quash reports that link premature deaths to pollution. According to news reports, Chinese officials excised parts of a 2007 report called ''Cost of Pollution in China'' that had concluded that 350,000 to 400,000 people die prematurely in China each year because of outdoor air pollution. The study was done by the World Bank with the help of the Chinese State Environmental Protection Administration, the precursor to the Ministry of Environmental Protection.
This year, many Chinese have expressed fury and frustration over the surging levels of air pollution, especially in the north, which in January had record levels of particulate matter. Pollution levels have remained high this summer, and many foreigners and middle- or upper-class Chinese with children are looking to leave the country rather than tolerate the health risks.
Mr. Greenstone said he did not have a basis for comparing pollution levels now with those during the period covered by the study, 1981 to 2001. During that time, the method of measuring particulate matter was different. Mr. Greenstone also said he did not know how pollution in northern China affected the life expectancy for people not living there for their entire lives, or for residents of northern China who made frequent or long trips to less polluted areas.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A cyclist in Beijing. A reliance on coal in the north of China has had widespread health effects. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (90%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (90%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (89%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (89%); EMISSIONS (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); DEATHS & DEATH RATES (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); PARTICULATE MATTER (77%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (77%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); INTERVIEWS (75%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (75%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (74%); AIR POLLUTION (72%); POLLUTION MONITORING (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); LAW SCHOOLS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) CHINA (98%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



242 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1261 words

HEADLINE: Trader's Day In Court May Lack Some Details

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSS SORKIN

 BODY:
Next Monday, in a courtroom in downtown Manhattan, the Securities and Exchange Commission will begin what is likely to be its most prominent case stemming from the financial crisis: its case against Fabrice Tourre, a former Goldman Sachs trader who is accused of misleading clients by selling a mortgage securities investment that the government said was designed to fail.
Mr. Tourre, as you might remember, was a 28-year-old French banker who wrote this gem of an e-mail to his girlfriend in 2007, which was widely quoted several years ago: ''The whole building is about to collapse anytime now,'' he explained to her about the markets. ''Only potential survivor, the fabulous Fab,'' he continued, not so humbly referring to himself, ''standing in the middle of all these complex, highly leveraged, exotic trades he created without necessarily understanding all of the implications.''
Goldman Sachs paid $550 million to settle the case in 2010 without admitting or denying guilt. Mr. Tourre, however, turned down an offer to settle. He wanted his day in court. And now that day has come. The trial is seen within the S.E.C. and on Wall Street as a referendum on Goldman Sachs and the government's case, which was never argued in front of a jury. 
But the jury may never hear the full account if the S.E.C. gets its way.
The heart of the S.E.C.'s case contends that Mr. Tourre and Goldman created a mortgage security known as Abacus with the help of the hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson. Mr. Paulson's firm helped choose the assets in that security and then bet against it. The S.E.C. contends Mr. Tourre deliberately hid the intentions of the Paulson fund so that Goldman could more easily sell Abacus to investors who would unknowingly bet that its value would go up, including ACA Management, which both invested in Abacus and helped approve its components.
The entire case rests on whether Mr. Tourre deprived investors of information that the S.E.C. says they needed to make an informed investment decision.
And so it is a little awkward, in a case that hinges on appropriate disclosure, that the S.E.C., in a bevy of pretrial briefs, appears to be fighting vociferously to exclude troves of evidence from the trial that the defense says is material for the jury to make an informed decision about Mr. Toure's innocence or guilt.
The S.E.C., for example, has sought to block any mention of news reports that Mr. Paulson was betting against the subprime mortgage market. The defense argues that the news reports are necessary to demonstrate that the institutional investors, who arguably read the news as part of their jobs, were not duped into thinking that Mr. Paulson was betting that the value of Abacus would rise, undercutting the S.E.C.'s contention that the investors were misled victims.
''News articles about Paulson's purported macro investment strategy of shorting the subprime housing market are not relevant,'' the S.E.C. wrote. ''Such articles are irrelevant, prejudicial and confusing. With respect to most or all of them, there is no evidence that they were read by the employees of ACA Management.''
The S.E.C. has also tried to block references to public statements made by current and former regulators, including Ben S. Bernanke, Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Alan Greenspan, that suggested that the subprime lending problems were overblown. That would buttress the defense's case that investors made the decision to invest in Abacus, and bet it would go up in value, based on their research and a prevailing view in the marketplace. ''What government regulators believed about the subprime housing market in 2007 has nothing to do with the facts of consequence to the determination of this action,'' the government wrote the court.
What else might the jury miss?
One of the biggest issues is this: ACA, which the S.E.C. has portrayed as a victim of Mr. Tourre's fraud, was not considered a victim when the government divided the $550 million Goldman Sachs settlement that had been set up to repay victims. The government excluded ACA completely from the list of investors that were paid from the Goldman settlement. How can ACA be a victim for the purpose of Mr. Tourre's case, but not be for the purpose of the recompense? The S.E.C. says the victim list from the fund is irrelevant. Payments are ''entirely discretionary and involve policy judgments that do not necessarily reflect any decision about whether a particular entity or institution was actually victimized as a result of a defendant's fraud,'' the S.E.C. said in a legal brief. (If the S.E.C. is being honest about how it determines who is a victim, it raises a hornet's nest of policy questions that are worth investigating.)
Then there is the issue of who else has been charged in the case -- or rather, has not been charged. The government has argued that Mr. Tourre is part of a ''scheme'' to defraud investors, but the government has not charged anyone else. The S.E.C. insists that jurors not be told that.
Next is Lucas Westreich and his honeymoon. Mr. Westreich, a former employee of ACA who appears on a recorded phone call that prosecutors say is central to their case, has told the court that he will be unavailable to testify in person because he will be on his honeymoon outside the country. The government seems perfectly fine with Mr. Westreich's skipping out on the case, saying that he is expected to claim he does not remember the call.
The defense has suggested that it wants to cross-examine him about other tape recordings that it says may undermine the claims made on the original call. The government has consented to Mr. Westreich being deposed on videotape. The defense, which subpoenaed him in December 2012, wants him to appear live.
It is unclear whether he will appear, but the judge hinted: ''Somebody just sitting there on this highly relevant call saying 'I don't recall a thing about it,' even if it is 10 minutes, is potentially useful for the jury to see, because they can see whether or not this guy looks like a guy who just doesn't recall or a guy who is squirming around and doesn't recall. Sometimes people squirm.''
Finally, there is the S.E.C.'s star witness, Laura Schwartz, a former ACA employee who is expected to testify that she was duped by Mr. Tourre into thinking that Mr. Paulson's firm was investing in Abacus side by side with her. For the last several months, there had been a fierce battle between the government and the defense over whether the jury should hear that the S.E.C. had issued a Wells notice to her on an unrelated matter, indicating that the government was considering bringing a case against her.
The defense had argued in pretrial briefs that jurors needed to know about the Wells notice to measure her motive to testify on behalf of the government. But just last week, the S.E.C. ended its case against her, effectively trying to take the issue off the table ahead of the trial. Late Tuesday, however, the defense submitted a brief to the court saying that it believed jurors needed to know about the inquiry into Ms. Schwartz.
''Even if one were to accept that there was no quid pro quo here (and the court should not), the bias materials remain relevant to and necessary to fair cross-examination, for example, as to whether Ms. Schwartz cited her cooperation with the S.E.C. in this case as a basis on which it should not bring charges against her,'' the brief said.
We will see next week how much the jury ultimately finds out.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fabrice Tourre testified before a Senate panel in 2010. The subcommittee was investigating investment banks. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ELECTRONIC MAIL (78%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (78%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (73%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (72%); SUBPRIME LENDING (72%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (72%); HEDGE FUNDS (64%); REFERENDUMS (51%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (85%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



243 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1209 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Examining Sales of Early Financial Data

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
The financial industry is bracing for new scrutiny of services that give trading firms an advance look at market-moving data and news.
The New York attorney general's office has been taking a broad look at the common practice. On Monday, one prominent data provider, Thomson Reuters, under pressure from the attorney general, announced that it was suspending an early release of a consumer confidence survey to clients who paid extra.
Financial products that give traders first access to data have become widely accepted within the industry. Dow Jones recently announced the creation of DJ Dominant, a program that will release news articles two minutes early to subscribers who pay more. The nation's stock exchanges, meanwhile, are often releasing new premium products that offer faster delivery of public data from the exchanges.
For the most part, federal securities regulators have been comfortable with these arrangements. But the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, is potentially in a position to throw them into question. The attorney general has broad powers to crack down on Wall Street because of the Martin Act, a 1921 New York law that allows him to bring fraud cases against a company without proving the company's intent. 
''Where are you going to go with this investigation?'' said Chris Malo, the chief financial officer at the high-speed trading firm Sun Trading. ''It's a slippery slope. I don't know where you draw the lines.''
The race to get information first has been a part of financial markets at least as far back as the carrier pigeons that delivered news of the Napoleonic Wars to London. More recently, news providers of all sorts give preferential access to articles to their own subscribers.
In the trading world, though, speed has taken on a particular importance over the last decade as an increasing proportion of traders in the financial markets have come to rely on a time advantage. Such superfast computer-programmed trading means that just two seconds -- the advantage that Thomson Reuters was giving its clients for early access to the University of Michigan consumer confidence survey -- can make all the difference in trading millions of dollars' worth of stocks or bonds or other investments. High-frequency trading now accounts for more than half of all trading in American stocks.
''You've devolved to a footrace,'' said Tim Quast, founder of Modern IR, which works with companies on their listings on stock exchanges.
While the attorney general's inquiry has unnerved some on Wall Street, it is being cheered by others who have criticized the privileged delivery of data in the past.
''This is a much welcome change,'' said Eric Hunsader, the founder of the market data provider Nanex. ''Somebody needed to take this up.''
Sal Arnuk, a partner at Themis Trading, and a longtime critic of the high-speed innovations, said that the questions now being asked were long overdue.
Thomson Reuters, in its defense, pointed to how many other data companies provide their own subscribers with preferential access to information. A Thomson Reuters spokesman, Lemuel Brewster, said that its early release of the University of Michigan data was legal, but that it would stop giving the two-second advantage while Mr. Schneiderman was investigating the issue.
Mr. Brewster said that the ''debate'' about the timing of data release ''is a universal industrywide debate that impacts all news and information companies and needs to be done in consultation with the market.''
The current push for speed is in part different than in the past because data companies have standardized the time advantage given to some companies.
One recent example is a service that the Nasdaq market and Chicago Mercantile Exchange introduced in May, which promises to get Nasdaq's market data to customers in Chicago -- and Chicago data to the East coast -- 2 milliseconds faster than it is otherwise available thanks to the use of microwave transmission. The cost for the advantage is a reported $20,000 a month.
Some exchanges and several unregulated data companies have recently introduced similar microwave networks. So far, the Securities and Exchange Commission has not objected to these programs as long as they are fully disclosed to all customers. Last year the S.E.C. fined the New York Stock Exchange $5 million for releasing some data early. But those problems were described as irregular and not part of any standard product. The S.E.C. has also looked into other cases in which important data was accidentally released early.
The New York attorney general is throwing the issue open by looking at practices that have not been accidents, and that have previously won acceptance from regulators.
''It does open up a Pandora's box,'' Mr. Quast of Modern IR said.
In addition to the Thomson Reuters program, there are products like the Deutsche Börse's AlphaFlash, which provides the results of the Chicago Business Barometer to subscribers three minutes earlier than the normal 8:45 a.m. release.
Mr. Hunsader, at Nanex, has documented how these early releases lead to a flurry of trading that moves stock indexes before the public has even had a glimpse of the numbers.
Mr. Schneiderman's office could choose to restrict his investigation to the University of Michigan survey data thanks to some of the distinctive elements of that product. It involves data from a public institution, rather than the private companies that provide surveys like the Chicago Business Barometer. In addition, Thomson Reuters was not just providing the University of Michigan data five minutes early to its subscribers, it was providing it five minutes and two seconds early to a select group of about a dozen high-paying clients.
Even as Thomson Reuters is discontinuing that two-second advantage, it will continue delivering the Michigan data to all Thomson Reuters subscribers five minutes earlier than it goes to the public.
But Mr. Schneiderman's office indicated on Monday that he was interested in the broader principle behind the early release of data, rather than the particular details of the University of Michigan product.
''The securities markets should be a level playing field for all investors and the early release of market-moving survey data undermines fair play in the markets,'' Mr. Schneiderman said in a statement Monday.
The stock exchanges would be vulnerable to any investigation because of their increasing reliance on revenues from technology products that promise customers with faster access to information about orders on the exchanges. The most well-known programs allow trading firms to ''co-locate'' in the same building as the exchange's servers, for a monthly fee. All firms inside the building are a standard length of cable away from the exchange servers, to ensure none of them have an advantage. But all of the firms inside the building are much closer than those not paying for the access.
Representatives for the exchanges declined to comment for this article. But in the past, exchange executives have said that they offered their products equally to anyone who pays, much like an airline offers equal access to first-class airline tickets.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Eric T. Schneiderman, the New York attorney general, has a darker view of high-speed data services than federal regulators have. (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRED R. CONRAD/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ATTORNEYS GENERAL (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); LAWYERS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); SECURITIES LAW (74%); INVESTIGATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



244 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 515 words

HEADLINE: Bloodshed in Egypt

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
It has been all downhill for Egypt since the military ousted President Mohamed Morsi last week. On Monday, according to reports in The Times, Egyptian soldiers fired on hundreds of Mr. Morsi's supporters as they were praying outside the facility where he was believed to be detained. At least 51 civilians were killed and more than 300 were wounded. . The military claimed its soldiers fired in response to an attack by gunmen from an unnamed ''terrorist group.'' But other evidence -- bullet casings with the army stamp, indications that the gunfire came from the top of a nearby building -- suggest a military all too willing to use excessive force. 
Mr. Morsi and his allies in the Muslim Brotherhood have hardly helped matters. Having squandered their opportunity to lead Egypt to democracy after the 2011 revolution that toppled President Hosni Mubarak, they are now aggravating an extraordinarily dangerous situation by calling for an uprising. This can only embolden the military, whose crackdown on the Brotherhood and the news media has not inspired confidence that it will give all Egyptians a role in any new political order and broadly protect their freedoms and human rights.
The transition cabinet now being assembled will be a test of whether the various warring factions -- the military, the anti-Morsi secularists and Mr. Morsi's allies -- can commit themselves to a broadly representative government that includes the Islamists. Even as an outsider, the United States can play an important role. It has rightly joined the European Union and Egypt's top Muslim cleric, Grand Imam Ahmed al-Tayeb, in condemning the violence. But the United States needs be more forceful in pushing the various factions, not least the military, toward a peaceful solution. True, the Obama administration is in a delicate spot. It has refused to label the coup a coup because to do so would invoke a law forcing it to cut off $1.5 billion in military and economic aid to a country that plays a vital role as a regional anchor and is a signatory of a 34-year-old peace treaty with Israel.
Yet the lesson of the Arab Spring should be that investing in authoritarian rulers is not a recipe for long-term stability. Washington cannot control Egypt's future, but it needs to do a better job at using its leverage to encourage the military and others to write a constitution that reflects democratic norms and to move to another round of elections. That leverage includes not just the threat of suspending aid but also a promise to lead an international effort to rescue Egypt's collapsing economy.
It is hard not to feel some sympathy for President Obama. He was obliged to work with Mr. Morsi, a democratically elected leader, but, in the process, he alienated many Egyptian moderates and secularists. He also worked behind the scenes, albeit unsuccessfully, to find a compromise before the crisis erupted in the streets. Now that it has, he has little choice but to redouble his efforts -- and do a better job of explaining to Egyptians what the United States is doing for and with their country and why.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); SHOOTINGS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); COUPS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); TERRORISM (71%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (71%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICAL PARTIES (71%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (69%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); PEACE PROCESS (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (61%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (91%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (93%); ISRAEL (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (68%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



245 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; The Arts/Cultural Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 751 words

HEADLINE: What's On Tuesday

BYLINE: By KATHRYN SHATTUCK

 BODY:
10 P.M. (13, 49) TWO AMERICAN FAMILIES Since 1992 Bill Moyers has chronicled the lives of two hard-working families in Milwaukee -- the Stanleys, top, and the Neumanns, above -- as they have fought to keep from sliding into poverty. This 90-minute documentary, presented by ''Frontline,'' uses their stories as a stepping-off point to examine the changing nature of the country's economy and the fate of a declining middle class. 
9 A.M. (AMC) E.T. THE EXTRA-TERRESTRIAL (1982) An alien from a distant planet befriends Elliott (Henry Thomas, center left), a 10-year-old boy in suburban California, after being left behind by his spaceship in this fantasy from Steven Spielberg. Soon enough, government agents are after them both, prompting creature and child to devise a way for E.T. to ''phone home.'' This film won Oscars for best sound effects editing, visual effects, sound and original score (for John Williams) and received five more nominations, including for best director and best picture. Vincent Canby, who reviewed the movie for The New York Times, wrote that ''at the end of the film, there is an all-out assault on the emotions that depends, it seems, more on the rising volume of this music than on the events portrayed.'' He added, '' 'E. T.' is good enough not to have to resort to such tricks.''
4 P.M. (Sundance) LOVELY AND AMAZING (2002) Nicole Holofcener examines narcissism and its fallout in this story about two sisters, both in their 30s: Elizabeth (Emily Mortimer, right), an attractive actress who was rejected for a role in a soap opera for not being sexy enough, and Michelle (Catherine Keener), an artist who designs gift shop tchotchkes and has anger-management issues. Brenda Blethyn plays Jane, their mother, a divorced matriarch who has recently adopted an 8-year-old daughter, Annie (Raven Goodwin), whose biological mother was a crack addict. When Jane develops complications from liposuction, Elizabeth and Michelle are left to care for Annie while enduring their own crises with the men in their lives. ''As smart and observant as it is, 'Lovely and Amazing' doesn't really go anywhere,'' Stephen Holden wrote in The Times.
8:30 P.M. (TV5Monde) L'OEIL DE L'ASTRONOME (2012) In the summer of 1610 in Prague, Johannes Kepler (Denis Lavant), the astronomer to the court of Emperor Rudolf II, receives a telescope, shortly after it was designed by Galileo. Now he finally has a way of testing his theories in this drama from Stan Neumann. In French with English subtitles.
9 P.M. (Bravo) INTERIOR THERAPY WITH JEFF LEWIS Mr. Lewis, the obsessive-compulsive house flipper of ''Flipping Out'' fame, begins a second round of slumber parties as he and his assistant Jenni Pulos stay with members of a family to observe them in action, diagnose problems with their home and redesign the space over the course of five days. Mr. Lewis's longtime housekeeper, Zoila Chavez, tags along to make sure her boss doesn't venture too far over the line. In ''Property Envy,'' a new 30-minute talk show hosted by Stephen Collins, at 10, Mr. Lewis, the interior designer Mary McDonald and the real estate expert Brandie Malay explore luxury dwellings, home technology and trendy décor, starting with a concrete paradise in Beverly Hills, Calif.; a one-bedroom artist's getaway in the middle of Idaho; and a Moroccan oasis in Palm Desert, Calif.
11 P.M. (CUNY) THE STOLER REPORT A panel of commercial real estate executives -- Aaron Jungreis of Rosewood Realty Group; Robert Knakal of Massey Knakal Realty Services; Brooke Cianfichi of M&T Bank; and Nat Rockett of Cushman & Wakefield -- tell Michael Stoler what's driving the market, including higher prices and changing interest rates.
3:10 A.M. (Flix) THE SAILOR WHO FELL FROM GRACE WITH THE SEA (1976) In Lewis John Carlino's adaptation of a short story by Yukio Mishima, six British boys enact something out of ''Lord of the Flies,'' while the mother (Sarah Miles) of one (Jonathan Kahn) falls in love with an American sailor (Kris Kristofferson). The boys sentence a cat to death for being old and fat. Then, drawing up accusations against adults, they decide that the sailor should meet the same fate. ''There is a beguilement to 'Sailor,' '' Richard Eder wrote in The Times, ''that of sitting through a movie in a state of irascible unconvincedness while being more than half seduced.'' Still, he said, ''with the inspired work of his director of photography, Douglas Slocombe, the transposition is an atmospheric triumph.'' KATHRYN SHATTUCK

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPH BY FRONTLINE) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FAMILY (91%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (77%); TELEVISION DRAMAS (75%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (72%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (72%); MOVIE REVIEWS (72%); FILM (72%); SURGERY & TRANSPLANTATION (62%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (57%); COCAINE (50%)

COMPANY: TV5 MONDE SA (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (51%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: STEVEN SPIELBERG (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (88%) WISCONSIN, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



246 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 558 words

HEADLINE: Tortilla Factory Owner Gets Jail Time for Violating Payroll Laws

BYLINE: By E. C. GOGOLAK

 BODY:
The owner of a Brooklyn tortilla factory where a worker died in 2011 after falling into a mixing machine was sentenced on Monday to 90 days in jail, after pleading guilty to labor law violations for failing to pay his workers adequate wages, the New York State attorney general's office said.
The factory owner, Erasmo Ponce, also pleaded guilty on behalf of his company, Tortilleria Chinantla, to having failed to obtain workers' compensation insurance for his employees. Mr. Ponce's sentencing in Brooklyn Criminal Court was a sobering change of fortune for a man who was once widely admired as a success story among Mexican immigrants in New York City. 
''All of our labor laws -- minimum wage laws, the workers' compensation law, safety and health laws -- exist to protect vulnerable workers and ensure a basic safety net of protection,'' Attorney General Eric T. Schneiderman said in a statement. ''My office will use all tools at our disposal, including criminal charges where appropriate, to seek justice for New York's workers and their families.''
On January 24, 2011, Juan Baten, a 22-year-old Guatemalan immigrant working at Mr. Ponce's factory in Bushwick, fell into a machine used to mix dough, and was crushed to death in its churning mechanism. After his death, state officials began investigating Mr. Ponce and his operation, and found that the company had been operating without workers' compensation insurance for almost a year. The factory was shut down. The state later allowed the plant to reopen, but in July 2011, federal officials cited the company for safety violations.
The charges brought against Mr. Ponce in his conviction on Monday, however, are not related to safety violations that may have contributed to Mr. Baten's death, Melissa Grace, a spokeswoman for the attorney general's office, said on Monday.
Mr. Ponce, 57, was arrested by the attorney general's office in March 2012. In June of that year, he pleaded guilty to failing to pay adequate wages, a misdemeanor. He also pleaded guilty on behalf of his company to another count of failure to pay wages, and a count of failure to secure workers' compensation insurance for his employees, a felony.
In addition, Mr. Ponce was ordered to pay nearly $450,000 in restitution, $300,000 of which will go to the Workers' Compensation Board to reimburse the agency for the benefit payment made to Mr. Baten's 3-year-old daughter, Daisy. Another $138,000 will go to the New York State Department of Labor to cover overtime wages that Mr. Ponce failed to pay 28 employees from 2006 to 2011. The remaining amount will cover unpaid unemployment insurance taxes.
''It pains me that Juan will not see Daisy grow up,'' Mr. Baten's wife, Rosario Ramirez, 26, said in a statement released on Monday that was written in Spanish and translated into English by Brandworkers, an advocacy group that has been assisting her. ''Although she doesn't have her father's love, I still wish for her a better future, and the restitution will help. The jail time means Erasmo Ponce did not get away with his crime and Juan's death will not have been in vain.''
Mr. Ponce could not be reached for comment on Monday. Manuel Portela, Mr. Ponce's lawyer, wrote in an e-mail that his client ''knows that as a business and community leader, he should have acted in compliance with the law, and he is sorry.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUILTY PLEAS (90%); SENTENCING (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (90%); LITIGATION (90%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (90%); JAIL SENTENCING (90%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (89%); CRIMINAL OFFENSES (89%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (89%); OVERTIME (78%); LAWYERS (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (78%); ARRESTS (78%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (78%); WAGE VIOLATIONS (78%); MISDEMEANORS (78%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (78%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (78%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (77%); WAGE & HOUR LAWS (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); WORKERS COMPENSATION LAW (77%); FELONIES (73%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (72%); MINIMUM WAGE LAWS (72%); CLOSINGS (69%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



247 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 691 words

HEADLINE: Egypt and the Fate of Democracy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
''The Perils of a 'People's Coup', '' by Khaled M. Abou El Fadl (Op-Ed, July 8), is clear, concise and correct. The ouster of President Mohamed Morsi's government in Egypt, the arrests of Muslim Brotherhood leaders and the shutting down of some media outlets by the Egyptian military are actions in opposition to any real democratic process.
There are better ways to oust an unpopular government, especially one that was democratically elected. Egypt's march toward democracy has suffered a major setback. 
NORTON MEZVINSKY New York, July 8, 2013
The writer, a Middle East historian, is president of the International Council for Middle East Studies.
To the Editor:
My respectful suggestion to Egyptians: Consider adding a constitutional provision for ''recall petitions'' that would force early elections if signed by enough voters.
The existence of such a mechanism would delegitimize military interventions while providing a check against truly bad governments. The validity of a signature list can be verified cheaply and reliably by verifying a small random sample.
ILYA SHLYAKHTER Cambridge, Mass., July 8, 2013
To the Editor:
David Brooks supports the coup in Egypt because he agrees with those who opt for ''substance'' over ''process'' (''Defending the Coup,'' column, July 5). By so doing, he is forced to admit that he does not think that Egyptians are capable of democracy or ready for it.
Whether or not the military overthrow of the duly elected government of President Mohamed Morsi and the Muslim Brotherhood enhances the freedom and prosperity of the Egyptian people and furthers the interests of the United States remains to be seen.
But one wonders how Mr. Brooks's position is different from those who refuse to accept the outcome of any election they don't like.
The removal of Mr. Morsi after only one year may or may not be a good thing, but a step forward for democratic values it is not.
ANTHONY J. DiSTEFANO Lewes, Del., July 5, 2013
To the Editor:
David Brooks insults the will, humanity and democratic aspirations of millions of Egyptians when he writes that for a democratic transition, Egypt ''seems to lack even the basic mental ingredients.''
Orientalist descriptions of Egyptians' lack of intelligence, particularly when it comes to self-rule, are as old as the European colonization of Egyptian peoples.
Writing in the early 20th century, Lord Cromer conceived of the ''Egyptian mind'' as deficient and flawed, and thus incapable of self-governance.
While this is not the first time that writers in the American media have missed the complexity of Egyptian politics, Mr. Brooks's column is particularly outrageous.
SARAH WAHEED Lisle, Ill., July 5, 2013
The writer is a visiting assistant professor of South Asian history at Oberlin College.
To the Editor:
Since democracy in the Middle East and North Africa can flourish only if both secular and religious political parties are given the chance to govern, it would be a shame if the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi led to a renewed widespread repression of the region's Islamists.
Bans on religious parties, including the Muslim Brotherhood, will not generate moderation or democratization. Instead, exclusion will have the opposite effect, encouraging radicalism and empowering those who support violence as the only means to political power.
While the Muslim Brotherhood governed poorly, it would be a mistake to conclude from this that Islamists should now be weakened ''by nearly any means,'' as Mr. Brooks writes.
The fall of Egypt's Islamists provides a sobering reminder to the region's other Islamist politicians and their supporters that they, too, will face Mr. Morsi's fate if they refuse to cooperate and forge alliances with secular parties to deliver viable economic reforms, or if they insist on enacting laws that antagonize women and religious minorities.
The decline of the Brotherhood's political fortunes in Egypt thus provides all the more reason to invite the region's political Islamists to contest elections, and even to win them.
MIRIAM F. ELMAN Syracuse, July 7, 2013
The writer is an associate professor of political science at Syracuse University.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEX NABAUM) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); COUPS (90%); WRITERS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); POLITICS (77%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (76%); PETITIONS (76%); HISTORY (74%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (69%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) EGYPT (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



248 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Pension Proposal Aims to Ease Burden on States and Cities

BYLINE: MARY WILLIAMS WALSH


HIGHLIGHT: A proposal by Senator Orrin Hatch of Utah would enable governments to turn their pension plans over to life insurers. 

 BODY:
As states and cities wrestle with mounting pension woes, some even seeking refuge in bankruptcy, Washington has mostly stayed on the sidelines.
By law, the 50 states are sovereigns, so even though federal officials have regulated company pension plans for decades, they have had little interest in telling the states how to run theirs.
 Now, one United States senator wants to change that. Orrin Hatch of Utah, the senior Republican on the Senate Finance Committee, has devised a way for states and cities to exit the pension business while still giving public workers the type of benefits they want. It involves a tax-law change that would enable governments to turn their pension plans over to life insurers. 
Big players like MetLife and Prudential, to cite just two, might thus step into shoes now occupied by the likes of Calpers, California's giant state pension system. Any such change would be voluntary, said Mr. Hatch, who plans to introduce enabling legislation on Tuesday. He and the Finance Committee's Democratic chairman, Max Baucus of Montana, are committed to working on a tax overhaul package this year, and the public-pension change could be one part of that.
"America cannot continue sleepwalking into the financial disaster that awaits us if we do not get the public-pension debt crisis under control," Mr. Hatch said. "The problem is getting more serious every day."
Working with insurers would not suddenly make trillions of dollars appear, but Mr. Hatch said it would make costs more predictable and protect both retirees and taxpayers. The proposal "does not include an explicit or implicit government guarantee," he said.
Aides said emphatically that insurers did not come up with this idea and talk the senator into promoting it. Mr. Hatch has been concerned about public pensions for some time, having issued his own study of their problems early last year. His report stated, among other things, that state pensions were a valid issue for federal lawmakers because of the likelihood that Washington would be called upon to bail one out at some point. Specialists working for the finance committee's Republicans devised the insurance arrangement after extensive discussions with public-pension stakeholders, particularly unions that represent public workers.
In those talks, a committee staff member said, union officials were adamant about holding onto their members' defined-benefit pensions, the type where workers receive a stream of predetermined monthly payments from retirement to death. In corporate America, many companies have been discontinuing such pension plans, not wanting to bear the investment risk they pose, especially as the population ages. Companies often give their workers 401(k) plans as a replacement, passing the investment risk to them.
Police unions in particular - an important constituency for Republicans - said their workers would not accept anything like that.
That is what prompted finance committee staff members to think about insurance companies. They, too, provide lifelong income to their customers - they just don't call it a pension; they call it an annuity. Annuities can be devised in any number of ways, including precisely duplicating the terms of a worker's pension. Senator Hatch's staff eventually decided that shifting the states' pension business to insurers was the only way to continue providing the monthly checks that public retirees want without forcing local taxpayers to come up with more money every time the stock market plunges. Life insurers would bear the investment risk, shielding both retirees and taxpayers.
Life insurers can also lose money over soured investments. But the states, which regulate insurance, have guarantee programs to protect policyholders in such cases. No backstop like that exists for public pensions, which is why benefits for older retirees in places like Prichard, Ala., and Central Falls, R.I., have been cut sharply after their municipal pension funds ran out of money.
Perhaps more important, state insurance regulators provide a kind of oversight unknown in the world of public pensions. They require insurance companies to meet capital requirements, taking into account the riskiness of their investments. Insurers are also required to hold more assets than they estimate they will need, and if they burn through their surpluses, state regulators can close them down.
Public pensions, by contrast, have no capital requirements and can make themselves look stronger by taking on more risk.
If Senator Hatch's proposal were to become law, a local government that opted for insurance would hold competitive bidding once a year. The winning carrier would give each worker a contract, guaranteeing a retirement-to-death annuity amount for a year's worth of work. Public employees' unions would no longer negotiate the size of their members' pensions; instead, they would negotiate how much the local employer would pay the insurer upfront. The annuity contracts would be portable, meaning workers would take theirs with them when they changed jobs.
This way, a worker retiring at the end of a 40-year career would have 40 annuity contracts, each representing the retirement income earned from a year's work. An aide to Senator Hatch said an administrative body would have to be created to combine the contracts and issue a single check so the retiree would not receive 40 of them every month. But it would be not be a federal entity. The measure does not expand federal powers or impair states' rights.
The real change would be in the federal tax code. The money that local governments set aside in public pension funds now clearly receives preferential tax treatment; money that it might pay an insurer does not. If a city or a state tried it, the Internal Revenue Service could say the money constituted income for the workers and require them to pay taxes on it.
If the bill became law, it would give the same tax preference to insurance premiums.
Insurers and their trade associations have already sent letters telling Senator Hatch they support his goals and will work with him on the legislative proposal. So has the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and the trade association that represents the state guarantee systems. The biggest opposition is likely to come from public pension systems themselves. They now rely on contributions from workers to help close shortfalls and would lose some of that every time a local government shifted its business to the insurance industry. As envisioned by Senator Hatch, the annuity premiums would be paid solely by public employers; no employee contributions would be allowed.

        
Merger Activity Was Down but Not Out in First Half
        
Suit Accuses Corzine of a Failure at the Helm

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); LIFE INSURANCE (90%); PENSION REFORM (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); PENSION & RETIREMENT PLANS (90%); PUBLIC EMPLOYEE RETIREMENT SYSTEMS (90%); INSURANCE (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); LABOR UNIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US 401K PLANS (78%); DEFINED BENEFIT PLANS (78%); PERSONAL FINANCE (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DEBT CRISIS (73%); TAX REFORM (69%) Government Employees; Hatch, Orrin G; Local Government; Pensions and Retirement Plans; Retirement; Senate Committee on Finance; States (US); United States; Financial Services; Legal/Regulatory

ORGANIZATION: Senate Committee on Finance

PERSON: ORRIN HATCH (90%); MAX BAUCUS (56%) Hatch, Orrin G

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



249 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1093 words

HEADLINE: Inflationphobia, Part I

BYLINE: BRUCE BARTLETT


HIGHLIGHT: While inflation has posed no threat in recent years, the Fed still comes under attack from inflation hawks and, in responding, does less for job creation than it might, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Bruce Bartlett held senior policy roles in the Reagan and George H.W. Bush administrations and served on the staffs of Representatives Jack Kemp and Ron Paul. He is the author of "The Benefit and the Burden: Tax Reform - Why We Need It and What It Will Take." 
Generals and admirals are always fighting the last war, it is said, designing weapons and devising strategies that are inherently out of date, rather than planning for the next war. Thus, before World War II, United States naval strategy was based on battleships, which proved largely useless when war came, rather than aircraft carriers and destroyers, which proved to be decisive. 
So, too, with economists. They tend to worry obsessively about the last big national economic problem, seeing its regeneration everywhere, rather than looking at the data and economic conditions objectively, thereby missing new problems that require a different strategy.
The Great Depression was for economists what World War II was for the military - a problem so big that it forced a complete reassessment of traditional thinking. When the depression and the war ended, the new ideas that they led to became the new orthodoxy.
The military learned the importance of air power and that formed the foundation of Cold War strategy, but left the United States vulnerable to guerrilla warfare in Vietnam, for which air power was ill suited.
Economists learned from the Great Depression that easy money and fiscal stimulus could stimulate growth. Pre-Depression classical economics had been based on a rigid balanced budget requirement for government and a gold standard that provided no discretion for the monetary authorities. 
The new economic orthodoxy became associated with the theories of the British economist John Maynard Keynes and came to be called Keynesian economics. Supporters of classical economics were relegated to the sidelines of economic discussion, but they never went away. Throughout the 1950s and 1960s they continued to wage war against Keynesian economics, certain that the abiding truths of classical economics would triumph in the end.
The classical economists thought that inflation was the Achilles' heel of Keynesian economics, and they hammered this point relentlessly. In truth, the Keynesians were vulnerable on that issue, believing that a little inflation was a small price to pay for bringing down the unemployment rate.
One problem for the Keynesians is that as time went by, their theories became increasingly divorced from the economics of John Maynard Keynes, becoming almost a caricature. Moreover, the economic circumstances were vastly different from those of the Great Depression and required different policies. But economists kept advocating more of what had worked in the 1930s and 1940s.
Keynesian economics was essentially reduced to something called the Phillips curve, which showed that there was always a trade-off between inflation and unemployment - more of one would reduce the other. The only question for policy makers was determining which problem, inflation or unemployment, was more important to voters.
Unfortunately, there was a political bias in the calculation; politicians tended to put reducing unemployment above reducing inflation and so inflation ratcheted upward. There was also confusion among economists about the cause of inflation. The Keynesians, whose view was shaped by the experience of the Great Depression, in which deflation or falling prices was the big problem, underestimated the role of the Federal Reserve and monetary policy in generating inflation.
This led to a counterattack by classical economists based mainly at the University of Chicago. By the 1980s, these economists had essentially overthrown the Keynesians by asserting that inflation had one and only one cause - excessive money growth by the Fed. Tight money had broken the back of inflation and the idea of tying the Fed's hands, as the gold standard had done, gained popularity.
Fast forward to 2008. The nation fell into another recession. Initially, economists thought it was not dissimilar to those the economy had faced throughout the postwar era; they were slow to recognize its severity as a depression about one-third the size of the Great Depression.
Fortunately, the Fed was led by Ben Bernanke, whose expertise as an academic economist was the Great Depression. He knew that the Fed's errors had contributed mightily to the depression's origins, length and depth, and resolved not to make the same mistakes twice. Mr. Bernanke opened the monetary floodgates to keep the financial system and the economy from imploding. I believe that what the Fed did saved us from a rerun of the Great Depression or worse.
But the classical economists, whose ranks were much strengthened by the failure of Keynesian economics in the fight against inflation and the apparent triumph of classical policies in the 1980s and 1990s, immediately saw an inevitable replay of the 1970s. They were fighting the last war.
Virtually every classical economist declared that inflation would quickly return. Many urged people to buy gold to protect themselves, which led the gold price to rise, which was then taken as proof of impending inflation. They demanded that the Fed immediately rescind its emergency actions, withdraw the excess money that had been injected into the banking system and nip inflation in the bud.
Unfortunately, this was more than an academic debate, because many of the Federal Reserve's regional bank presidents, five of whom sit on the policy-making Federal Open Market Committee, were inflation hawks who shared the view of the classical economists that high inflation was certain unless the Fed tightened monetary policy as soon as possible. They were supported by Republicans in Congress, who berated Mr. Bernanke in the harshest possible terms at every opportunity, as well as a large number of private economists and pundits with access to wide-circulation publications such as The Wall Street Journal and its editorial page.
While the Fed has generally maintained an easy money policy, inflation has remained dormant; some of the Fed's inflation hawks have even become doves. But the constant drumbeat of attacks on the Fed for fostering inflation has constrained its actions, condemning the economy to slower growth and higher unemployment than necessary.
Next week I will have more to say about inflationphobia.

        
Yes, We Have No Inflation
        
Bernanke: By Unemployment, Not So Good
        
Implications for Monetary Policy
        
To Explain the Fed, Choose a Vice
        
Updates on the Fed Announcement

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); GREAT DEPRESSION (90%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (88%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (86%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); WRITERS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); COLD WAR (76%); NAVIES (76%); JOB CREATION (74%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); VIETNAM WAR (71%); TAX REFORM (57%) Bernanke, Ben S; Federal Reserve System; Inflation (Economics); United States Economy; Today's Economist

ORGANIZATION: Federal Reserve System

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (73%); GEORGE H W BUSH (73%); RON PAUL (73%) Bernanke, Ben S

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); VIET NAM (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



250 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: How Much Does a House Seat Cost?

BYLINE: SARAH WHEATON


HIGHLIGHT: Winning House candidates spent an average of $1.6 million in 2012, two times what it cost in 1986, according to newly released data. 

 BODY:
Winning a House seat in 2012 cost the victor on average twice as much as it did a quarter-century ago: about $1.6 million, compared with about $753,000 in 1986. 
That increase is striking, given that most House races are not as competitive as they once were. The rise in spending is concentrated in a relatively small, and shrinking, number of battlegrounds. The phenomenon is illustrated by comprehensive data released on Tuesday by two Washington research groups.
Republicans and Democrats hold a similar number of safe seats, so it is conceivable that the House could change hands each election, said Thomas E. Mann of the Brookings Institution, who compiled the data with his longtime collaborator, Norman J. Ornstein of the American Enterprise Institute.
"Ironically, as competition for individual seats has declined, competition for the majority has increased," Mr. Mann said. "And we've had more turnover than we had before."
In 2012, the 256 incumbents who were re-elected by more than 60 percent of the vote - meaning they came from a safe district - spent an average of $1.3 million, while their long-shot challengers (171 of them) spent $154,000.
Compare that with the 100 incumbents in swing states who held on to their seats with less than 60 percent: They spent an average of $2.3 million, and their challengers spent $93,000. 
It is more expensive for a House incumbent to lose: the 32 ousted representatives spent an average of $3.1 million trying to keep their seats, while their challengers spent $2.5 million.
All those figures represent money spent by the candidates themselves, without factoring in the ever-rising flood of funds spent by the political parties and independent groups like "super PACs." And the swing-state incumbents are getting plenty of fund-raising help, Mr. Mann said. 
"There's a tremendous redistribution of money from, if you will, safe incumbents to unsafe ones, and that can be done by the parties," Mr. Mann said. Entrenched members of Congress are also urged to donate their unneeded campaign funds to other candidates or to the political parties to spend where they see fit.
Senate seats were also more expensive than ever in 2012: the average cost was $10.4 million for victorious candidates. But since only one-third of the seats are decided in elections every two years, the numbers vary based on the sizes of the states.
So the 2012 number was slightly higher than the earlier record, in 2006, when victorious candidates from a virtually identical batch of states spent an average of $10.1 million, adjusted for inflation. 

        
Bachmann Is Subject of Ethics Investigation
        
Redistricting Likely to Hamper Democratic Efforts in 2014, Study Finds
        
Mark Sanford Won't Get Money From G.O.P. for House Bid
        
Pro-Obama Group Details Fund-Raising and Policy Goals
        
Sanford's South Carolina Campaign Begins With Appeal for Second Chance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RESEARCH INSTITUTES (91%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (86%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (79%); FUNDRAISING (78%); CAUCUSES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); REDISTRICTING (73%); ETHICS (71%) American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research; Brookings Institution; Campaign Finance; Elections, House of Representatives; The Caucus

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (56%)

ORGANIZATION: American Enterprise Institute for Public Policy Research; Brookings Institution

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (56%)

PERSON: MARK SANFORD (55%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



251 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: NYSE EuroNext to Take Over Administration of Libor

BYLINE: NATHANIEL POPPER


HIGHLIGHT: The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange has won a contract to administer and improve the London interbank offered rate, which helps determine the cost of short-term loans around the world. 

 BODY:
 5:30 p.m. | Updated 
The administration of a distinctly British institution is being handed over to an American company.
The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange won a contract on Tuesday to administer and improve the benchmark interest rate known as Libor, long run by the British Bankers' Association.
The move could help provide a fresh start for Libor, or the London interbank offered rate, which is used to determine the cost of short-term loans around the world. The banks that help set the rate each day have been accused of conspiring to rig the rate for their own benefit before and during the financial crisis, leading to billions of dollars in fines and a few arrests. 
 The move is a symbolic blow to a British financial industry that has been rocked by scandals and forced to look to the outside for leadership. Last week, a Canadian, Mark Carney, took over leadership of the Bank of England.
The London Stock Exchange was among the four companies that also bid for the Libor contract, said a person briefed on the process, who spoke on the condition of anonymity ahead of a public announcement.
Regulators are taking a broader look at the integrity of the financial data that the global financial system relies on. Libor has already been substantially changed, but some regulators in the United States have said that Libor is too flawed to be fixed and should be replaced.
The job of fixing Libor will not be an easy one. The benchmark is supposed to represent the rate at which banks lend money to each other on an unsecured basis. This is difficult given that banks have generally been unwilling to make unsecured loans to each other since the financial crisis.
Banks have said that their submissions for Libor are an estimate of what the rate would be if they did lend the money. But Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the United States, has said publicly that financial institutions should move away from Libor - which he calls a "fiction" - and use benchmarks derived from some sort of transaction.
One of Mr. Gensler's fellow commissioners at the C.F.T.C., Bart Chilton, was critical of the decision to continue allowing Libor to be administered by a company in the financial industry.
"We had a fox guarding the henhouse issue here and we should learn from that," Mr. Chilton said. "I firmly believe that having a truly neutral third-party administrator would be the best alternative, and I'm not sure that an exchange is the proper choice."
Administering Libor is more a matter of prestige than a source of big revenue. NYSE Euronext is paying only a nominal £1 fee for the right to the contract, according to a person briefed on the deal.
A few weeks ago, European regulators approved NYSE Euronext's sale to the IntercontinentalExchange, or ICE, an operator of derivatives exchanges based in Atlanta. NYSE Euronext has been trying to diversify its business beyond its traditional stock exchanges as stock trading volumes and revenue have fallen steadily.
Finbarr Hutcheson, the chief executive of NYSE Liffe, a NYSE Euronext subsidiary in London, said in a statement that his group was interested in "continuing the process of restoring credibility, trust and integrity in Libor as a key global benchmark."
Under the new contract, Libor will keep its name and will remain under the oversight of British regulators. NYSE Euronext is setting up a new subsidiary in London that will run the process. NYSE Euronext is set to take over the administration of Libor early next year.
A new subsidiary, NYSE Euronext Rate Administration Ltd., "will be able to leverage NYSE Euronext's trusted brand, long regulatory experience and market-leading technical ability to return confidence to the administration of Libor," according to a statement from the company.
Until now, the daily process through which Libor is set has been run by the British Bankers' Association, an industry group in London. A British government review of Libor led by Martin Wheatley, at the time the managing director of Britain's Financial Services Authority, recommended last fall that the responsibility for formulating Libor should be given to an "independent party."
The company was picked by an independent committee led by Sarah Hogg, chairwoman of the regulator responsible for financial reporting, after a tender process that started in February. The deal will still need to be approved by the Financial Conduct Authority of Britain, now led by Mr. Wheatley.
The so-called Wheatley Review recommended that Libor continue to be set through daily consultations with the world's largest banks. But while those banks now provide estimates of how much they are charging for short-term loans, in the future the administrators of Libor are also supposed to use data from actual short-term loans.
 Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London. 

        
Former Trader Appears in London Court on Libor Fraud Charges
        
Barclays Posts Loss of $1.3 Billion and Plans to Cut 3,700 Jobs

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (93%); STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); PARENT COMPANIES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INTERBANK LENDING (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); FUTURES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SCANDALS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); INVESTMENT BANKING (72%); CONSPIRACY (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); APPROVALS (66%) British Bankers' Association; Libor (London Interbank Offered Rate); London (England); NYSE Euronext; NYSE Euronext|NYX|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: NYSE EURONEXT INC (84%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: British Bankers' Association; NYSE Euronext

TICKER: NYX (PAR) (84%); NYX (NYSE) (84%) NYSE Euronext; NYX; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (90%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%); ENGLAND (73%) London (England)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



252 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 2022 words

HEADLINE: In Tourre Case, a Push to Exclude Details

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: The S.E.C. is trying to exclude details from the case against a former Goldman Sachs trader. | The financial industry is bracing for new scrutiny of services that give trading firms an advance look at market-moving data. | Ronald O. Perelman has begun a legal battle against Michael R. Milken. | Wall Street is not happy about Eliot Spitzer&#8217;s return to politics. 

 BODY:
The case against Fabrice Tourre - a former Goldman Sachs trader who is accused of misleading clients by selling a mortgage securities investment that, the government claims, was designed to fail - is likely to be the most prominent case for the Securities and Exchange Commission stemming from the financial crisis. But if the S.E.C. has its way, the jury may never hear the full account, Andrew Ross Sorkin writes in the DealBook column.
The case, set to begin Monday in a courtroom in downtown Manhattan, rests on whether Mr. Tourre deprived investors of information that the S.E.C. says they needed. The S.E.C. claims that Mr. Tourre deliberately hid the intentions of the billionaire John A. Paulson, who helped choose the assets in the mortgage security and also bet against it. "And so it is a little awkward, in a case that hinges on appropriate disclosure, that the S.E.C., in a bevy of pretrial briefs, appears to be fighting vociferously to exclude troves of evidence from the trial that the defense says is material for the jury to make an informed decision about Mr. Tourre's innocence or guilt," Mr. Sorkin writes. "The S.E.C., for example, has sought to block any mention of news reports that Mr. Paulson was betting against the subprime mortgage market." 
"The S.E.C. has also tried to block references to public statements made by current and former regulators, including Ben S. Bernanke, Henry M. Paulson Jr. and Alan Greenspan, that suggested that the subprime lending problems were overblown," Mr. Sorkin says. In addition, ACA Management, which the S.E.C. has portrayed as a victim of Mr. Tourre's fraud, "was not considered a victim when the government divided the $550 million Goldman Sachs settlement that had been set up to repay victims. The government excluded ACA completely from the list of investors that were paid from the Goldman settlement. How can ACA be a victim for the purpose of Mr. Tourre's case, but not be for the purpose of the recompense?"
SCRUTINIZING SALES OF EARLY DATA | With the data provider Thomson Reuters moving to suspend an early release of a consumer confidence survey to clients who pay extra, the financial industry is bracing for new scrutiny of services that give trading firms an advance look at market-moving data and news, Nathaniel Popper reports in DealBook. Federal securities regulators have, for the most part, been comfortable with arrangements that give traders first access to data. But the New York attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, is potentially in a position to throw them into question, Mr. Popper writes.
The attorney general, armed with broad powers stemming from the Martin Act, has unnerved some on Wall Street. "Where are you going to go with this investigation?" said Chris Malo, the chief financial officer at the high-speed trading firm Sun Trading. "It's a slippery slope. I don't know where you draw the lines." But the inquiry is being cheered by others. "This is a much welcome change," said Eric Hunsader, the founder of the market data provider Nanex. "Somebody needed to take this up."
PERELMAN SUES MILKEN, AN OLD FRIEND | The billionaire deal maker Ronald O. Perelman, no stranger to litigation, has begun a legal battle against a man who helped put him on the map: Michael R. Milken, DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. "One of Mr. Perelman's companies, Harland Clarke Holdings, filed a little-noticed lawsuit last month accusing Mr. Milken of fraud. The case stems from Harland Clarke's 2011 purchase of GlobalScholar, an education technology company backed by Mr. Milken, the fallen financier and philanthropist."
"The lawsuit, filed in state court in San Antonio, was said to have surprised Mr. Milken, who had done business with Mr. Perelman for decades and counts him as a friend, according to a person briefed on the matter who is not authorized to discuss the lawsuit publicly. For Mr. Perelman, people close to him said, the lawsuit is nothing personal against Mr. Milken - just business."
ON THE AGENDA | A House Financial Services subcommittee holds a hearing at 10 a.m. on how the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau collects and uses data. Another House Financial Services subcommittee has a hearing at 2 p.m. on "constitutional deficiencies and legal uncertainties" in the Dodd-Frank Act. Mario Gabelli is on CNBC at 12 p.m. Rich Riley, chief executive of Shazam Entertainment, is on Bloomberg TV at 1 p.m.
ON WALL STREET, DISMAY AT SPITZER'S RUN | Strategy sessions were organized on Monday with the mission of stopping Eliot Spitzer, the former governor and attorney general who has decided to run for the citywide office of comptroller, Michael Barbaro and David W. Chen report in The New York Times. On Wall Street, where Mr. Spitzer once made powerful enemies, executives made little secret of their dismay. Robert T. Zito, the founder of a brand consulting firm and a former executive at the New York Stock Exchange, put it bluntly: "I would love to see his opponent win."
The Times writes: "Those involved in and briefed about the strategy discussions raised the possibility of organizing a super PAC to counter Mr. Spitzer's self-financed campaign. Eyes turned to Mr. Spitzer's most fervent critics on Wall Street, like the billionaire Kenneth G. Langone, a co-founder of Home Depot and a former director of the New York Stock Exchange, who had relished the governor's downfall. According to a person told of his plans, Mr. Langone was mulling independent campaign expenditures against Mr. Spitzer."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
LVMH Buying the Luxury Clothier Loro Piana | LVMH Moët Hennessy Louis Vuitton, the French luxury goods giant, has agreed to pay about $2.6 billion for an 80 percent stake in Loro Piana. DealBook »
Chief of Barnes & Noble Resigns After Losses on E-Readers | The departure of William Lynch Jr., the chief executive of Barnes & Noble, "was part of a series of sweeping changes the company announced as it tries to regain its footing after a failed initiative to build up its Nook division and compete in the increasingly crowded market for e-readers," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Prospective Buyers Circle Hulu | The parties reported to have submitted bids for Hulu included DirecTV and, in a joint bid, the Chernin Group and AT&T, according to Bloomberg News. Time Warner Cable was said to have bid for a stake in the company. Guggenheim Digital Media and K.K.R. have also teamed up on a bid, according to The Wall Street Journal. BLOOMBERG NEWS | WALL STREET JOURNAL
Clearwire Shareholders Support Sprint Offer | 
REUTERS
Big Seal of Approval for Dell Founder's Buyout Bid | Institutional Shareholder Services recommended that Dell investors accept the $24.4 billion offer made by the company's founder and chief executive, Michael S. Dell. Other such firms, including Glass Lewis & Company, made similar recommendations later in the day. DealBook »
Pondering a Drought in Merger Deals | A report from Ernst & Young released on Monday proposes that the deal-making slump may be more than just a passing phase. DealBook »
Why a Cablevision Acquisition May Not Be Likely | Investors betting on a takeover of Cablevision "may be turning a blind eye to major obstacles standing in the way," The Wall Street Journal's Heard on the Street column writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Spaniards Fight to Recover Savings | Many thousands of Spaniards "have seen their life savings virtually wiped out in what critics call a deceptive and possibly fraudulent sales campaign by banks that were threatened by the implosion of Spain's property market," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Buffett Gives $2 Billion to Gates Foundation | Warren E. Buffett distributed 17.5 million Class B shares of Berkshire Hathaway on Monday to the Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation, a gift valued at about $2 billion, based on Friday's closing price. DealBook »
Tesla Motors to Replace Oracle in Nasdaq 100 Index | The change comes after Oracle applied to leave Nasdaq for the New York Stock Exchange. PRESS RELEASE
Citigroup Adds Two New Directors | Gary M. Reiner, former chief information officer for General Electric, and James S. Turley, former chairman and chief executive of the accounting firm Ernst & Young, will join an expanded board. DealBook »
PRIVATE EQUITY »
TPG Capital Said to Bid for MacDon Industries | The private equity firm TPG Capital is "one of the final bidders for MacDon Industries Ltd., a manufacturer of agricultural machinery looking to sell itself for around $1 billion, three people familiar with the matter said on Monday," Reuters reports. REUTERS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Ackman Seeks $1 Billion for Bet on Unidentified Company | William A. Ackman of Pershing Square Capital Management is asking for $1 billion to commit to two new funds that will bet on a single United States company that, Mr. Ackman said, he was not able to identify for all the investors, Reuters reports. REUTERS
A Punishing Period for Paulson's Gold Fund | Reuters reports: "Hedge fund manager John Paulson's gold fund has lost 65 percent of its worth so far this year after the portfolio declined 23 percent last month, two people familiar with the fund said on Monday." REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
Deutsche Annington Tries Again for I.P.O. | The German real estate company Deutsche Annington, which is backed by the private equity firm Terra Firma, has reduced the planned size of an I.P.O. a week after shelving plans to go public, Reuters reports. REUTERS
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Hasbro Invests $112 Million in Game Maker | Hasbro has paid $112 million in cash for a 70 percent stake in Backflip Studios, a Colorado company that makes games like Dragonvale and NinJump, TechCrunch reports. TECHCRUNCH
Layoffs at TaskRabbit Amid Restructuring | 
TECHCRUNCH
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
NYSE Euronext Said to Be Chosen to Run Libor | NYSE Euronext won a contract to administer and improve the London interbank offered rate, a person briefed on the decision said on Tuesday. DealBook »
Pension Proposal Aims to Ease Burden on States and Cities | A proposal by Senator Orrin Hatch, Republican of Utah, would enable governments to turn their pension plans over to life insurers. DealBook »
Madoff Case Puts Focus on Duties of Custodial Banks | A lawsuit brought by investors who lost $60 million in Bernard L. Madoff's huge Ponzi scheme claims that Westport National Bank failed to protect their money. DealBook »
In Detroit, Problems Are Bigger Than Just Debt | "The city is past being a city now; it's gone," said Kendrick Benguche, whose family lives on a block with a single streetlight, near a vacant firehouse that sits beside a burned-out home, The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
Banks May Face 2 Ratios on Capital | The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation is set to vote on a plan that could "set leverage ratios of 5 percent and 6 percent, one for parent companies and another for their U.S.- backed lending units, said a person with knowledge of the plans," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Calendar Is Not Biggest Hurdle in SAC Prosecution | Prosecutors have only a few weeks before the statute of limitations expires on bringing securities fraud charges against Steven A. Cohen and SAC Capital Advisors, but there are ways to charge a violation based on the 2008 trading that would achieve nearly the same result, Peter J. Henning writes in the White Collar Watch column. White Collar Watch »
Britain Backs New Rules to Jail Bankers Over 'Reckless Misconduct' | The British government has backed a set of recommendations to improve standards in the banking industry, including measures that could have bankers in Britain facing jail time for poor business decisions. DealBook »
India to Provide Additional Capital to State-Run Banks | India plans to inject as much as 140 billion rupees ($2.3 billion) in state-run banks by the end of September, Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: JURY TRIALS (90%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); SUBPRIME LENDING (78%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (67%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (92%); HENRY PAULSON (78%); ELIOT SPITZER (58%); RONALD PERELMAN (58%); BEN BERNANKE (53%); ALAN GREENSPAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



253 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bucks)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: YOUR-MONEY

LENGTH: 103 words

HEADLINE: Tuesday Reading: Tough Competition for New York Apartments

BYLINE: ANN CARRNS


HIGHLIGHT: Tight supply spurs bidding wars for New York apartments, becoming the poorest kid in a rich town, possible air delays because of the San Francisco crash and other consumer-focused news from The New York Times. 

 BODY:

        
Tight supply spurs competition for New York apartments. (N.Y./Region)
        
A lesson in evacuating a plane in an emergency. (Business)
        
Staying in a hotel with two names. (Business)
        
What does a birthcost? Hard to tell. (Well)
        
Male infertility linked to cancer. (Well)
        
Culprits in a child's headaches. (Well)
        
Office advancement vs. home duties. (Economix)
        
The limits of Facebook's new search tool. (Bits)
        
Becoming the poorest kidin a rich town. (Motherlode)
        
High disability rates persist in old age. (The New Old Age)
        
A gay grandmotherseeks advice on acceptance. (Booming)
        
Possible air delays because of the San Francisco crash. (In Transit)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (71%); MEN'S HEALTH (70%) Today in Your Money

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (55%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



254 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Diner's Journal)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: What We're Reading

BYLINE: THE NEW YORK TIMES


HIGHLIGHT: A collection of links from reporters and editors of the Dining section. 

 BODY:
Details: Be glad that it's summertime. More than ever, ice cream has become a field of American innovation. - Jeff Gordinier 
The Chuck Cowdery Blog: When and where was that bottle of Old Fitzgerald bourbon bottled? - Robert Simonson 
The Washington Post: Yes, the government maintains a national raisin reserve. Objectors call it a cartel. - Julia Moskin
Eater: New York City Council members propose legislation that restaurant owners will welcome. It would reduce health fines by 15 percent and change the reporting of violation data. Christine Quinn, the Council speaker, said, "We're taking steps to ensure that the restaurant inspection process is fair." - Maria Newman
The Economist: A hot topic in the French Parliament is a consumer-rights bill that would force restaurants to label dishes that they prepare from fresh ingredients in their own kitchens ("fait maison," or homemade), instead of merely ripping open packets and heating up the contents. Almost a third of restaurants do so, many claiming on their menus that their offerings are "façon grandmère," or like grandma used to make. - Glenn Collins
LA Weekly: According to Besha Rodell, vegans should eat oysters ... - Jeff Gordinier 
: ... And "Oysters," this poem by Seamus Heaney, might be enough to persuade anyone. - Jeff Gordinier 
The Wall Street Journal: As Congress continues to eye farm-bill cuts in the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, the use of this food-stamp program grew 2.8 percent in April, so that nearly one in six Americans receives such benefits, despite the increasingly positive economy. - Glenn Collins
The New York Times: The owner of a Brooklyn tortilla factory where a worker died in 2011 after falling into a mixing machine gets a jail sentence after he admits to failing to pay his workers adequate wages and to obtain workers' compensation insurance for them. -Maria Newman
Food & Wine: Recipes for Ramadan. - Jeff Gordinier
The Huffington Post: KFC is threatening to sue a Bangkok restaurateur for appropriating a KFC-ish logo in the signage for his - really - Hitler Fried Chicken shop, depicting a bow-tied Hitler in an apron. - Glenn Collins
The Guardian: Butter is back in vogue; margarine sales are plummeting. Will anyone stand up to defend the lesser spread? - Jeff Gordinier 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FAST FOOD (89%); DAIRY PRODUCTS (89%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); RESTAURANT INSPECTION & LICENSING (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); MEAT FREE DIETS (74%); INSPECTIONS (72%); CARTELS (71%); CITY GOVERNMENT (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (69%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (69%); WORKERS COMPENSATION (68%); FOOD STAMPS (64%); CITIES (56%); SENTENCING (50%); JAIL SENTENCING (50%)

COMPANY: WASHINGTON POST CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%)

TICKER: WPO (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (58%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%)

PERSON: ARIANNA HUFFINGTON (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (76%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



255 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1677 words

HEADLINE: Lies, Damned Lies and the Telegraph

BYLINE: YAEL A. STERNHELL


HIGHLIGHT: How new communication technology actually made Southern news reporting worse during the Civil War. 

 BODY:
The first few days of July 1863 were a time of unmatched excitement for Richmond journalists. In the east, the Army of Northern Virginia invaded Pennsylvania and fought a mammoth battle near the town of Gettysburg; in the west, the long, tense siege of Vicksburg had finally ended with a head-on confrontation between Union and Confederate armies. 
Scrambling to follow these tantalizing developments, journalists in the hub of the Confederacy used one of the greatest technological innovations of their time - the electric telegraph. But rather than improving the quality of news, the invention, at least in the eyes of Southern journalists, actually made it worse. 
On July 10, the editors of The Richmond Enquirer summarized their experience using the device: 
We may as well give up the attempt to know anything about the fate and fortunes of our armies in any quarter whatever; and all in consequence of the infernal invention of the electric telegraph. It is one of the worst plagues and curses that have ever befallen this human race. It covers us all over with lies, fills the very air we breathe and obscures the very sun; makes us doubt of everything we read, because we know that the chances are ten to one it is false; and leaves us uncertain, at last of our own existence. Men say it brings intelligence quick; yet every event announced by it is always so obfuscated by these quick-coming reports, all destroying one another, that the true story is generally longer in being ascertained than it was before. 
Invented in the 1830s, the telegraph is usually hailed as a revolutionary device that annihilated space and transformed the working of politics, economics, and the media. It is a hallmark of 19th-century modernity and an early harbinger of even greater technological change. Wide use of telegraphy is often considered one of the Civil War's famous "firsts," an example of its modern character. Why, then, were heavy telegraph users like the editors of The Richmond Enquirer so bitter? What had gone wrong? 
The telegraph might have been a reliable device for transmitting information in peacetime, but in the Civil War South it was more likely to disseminate falsehoods and sow confusion. This became evident almost as soon as the conflict began. The first major battle of the war lasted less than one day and took place only 100 miles outside of Richmond, yet the first telegraphic reports arriving from Bull Run included, among other rumors, the unfounded story that Jefferson Davis personally commanded the Confederate Army. 
As battles grew in scope and complexity, it became even harder to ascertain which side had won, what territory had been conquered and how many men were killed, wounded and taken prisoner. Reporters who rushed to the wires as soon as the shooting stopped (and sometimes before) often resorted to sending personal impressions, speculation and rumors. 
Arriving in the capital in the guise of "reports from the battlefield," these concocted accounts had an aura of authenticity that prompted both journalists and the reading public to take them at their word. When an authorized narrative finally reached the capital a few days later, it made the earlier stories seem ridiculous and embarrassed the journalists who published them. In the chaotic and sometimes incomprehensible reality of wartime, speed usually came at the expense of accuracy, and often at the expense of truth. 
Thus by the summer of 1863 newsmen were already well aware of the telegraph's fickle nature, yet with two pivotal military campaigns under way, they had little choice but to turn to the wires for updates on the armies' advances and retreats. 
Events in Mississippi posed a particularly formidable challenge. The town of Vicksburg was a strategic stronghold on the Mississippi River that both sides were determined to control. The Union campaign to capture Vicksburg, led by Gen. Ulysses S. Grant, transfixed the public and drove journalists into a frenzy. Yet the thousand-mile distance between Mississippi and Virginia, the poor state of the telegraph network after two years of war and the volatility of the military situation combined to prevent virtually any reliable information from reaching the capital. 
On June 5, The Enquirer's editors attempted to make sense of two contradictory telegraph reports arriving almost simultaneously from the besieged bastion on the Mississippi. "Telegraphic news becomes worse and worse; muddier and unintelligible," they explained. "As it is, we can absolutely make nothing of it all except only that on the day before yesterday Vicksburg was not taken." 
Three days later, The Richmond Dispatch staffers sounded even more desperate: 
The messages from the Southwest relative to the situation of affairs at Vicksburg have for many days been of the vaguest and most confused character. Especially was that of Saturday morning last incredible in some respects and incomprehensible in others. In so much has this been the case with reference to a matter so intensely interesting as that of the siege of Vicksburg, that we have been driven to look for some explanation of our own messages to the lying dispatches of the enemy. Our own editorial comments upon the subject are oftener based upon the confessions of the enemy of the state of the struggle for the redemption of our Mississippi Gibraltar than upon these muddy telegrams from Jackson, Mobile, etc, which are as muddy as the Mississippi itself.
When Vicksburg finally fell, Confederate despair was accompanied by frustration and anger at the deceptive reports that led the public to believe the town would never surrender. Under the headline "Telegraph Lies," the editors of The Dispatch exclaimed that "the unfounded and extravagant stories that have been transmitted recently by the telegraph, occasions widespread complaint. The press and the public have been annoyed past endurance with them. From the Southwest we have had message after message that was, if not incredible upon its face, contradicted by subsequent information." 
Pennsylvania was closer than Mississippi, but reports from the Gettysburg campaign were nearly as convoluted and perplexing. Six days after the battle the editors of The Enquirer were still unsure which side had won. "The report of a fight at Gettysburg on Sunday, in which we captured a large number of prisoners, is confirmed," was all they could say on July 10. Two more days went by, but on July 12 The Richmond Examiner was still relying on ambiguous reports. "We know the battle was begun Wednesday morning and lasted for several days, with the loss of twelve thousand on our side and more than double that on the part of the enemy, but how and when it was brought to conclusion, and what were the subsequent movements of the hostile armies we have no positive information." The editors of The Dispatch were fairly convinced that the battle had ended in a great Confederate victory, but admitted to their readers that the telegraph correspondents they were working with have frequently been forced to depend "on the evidence of persons from the scene of action who are often but imperfectly informed themselves, and sometimes on mere rumor." 
Numbers were a particularly delicate issue. The first telegraphic messages arriving in Richmond after Gettysburg said that the victorious general Robert E. Lee had taken 40,000 Yankee prisoners. Yet by that point, the editors of The Richmond Examiner already knew better: "Forty Thousand is a phrase in telegraphic language equivalent to X in algebra. It means that the reporter does not know how many." The editors of The Richmond Dispatch expressed a similar measure of healthy skepticism toward the appearance of the magic number 40,000 in telegraph messages: "We are informed from Martinsburg that Gen. Lee, by an adroit move, has captured forty thousand of the enemy, and they 'refuse to be paroled!' The number of prisoners are finally reduced to four thousand and some have been charitable enough to imagine that there was a mistake in transcribing the sum."
Yet for all their fiery, critical rhetoric in the summer of 1863, Richmond newsmen could not resist the temptation of instantaneous news. They continued to use reports arriving over the wires and in October 1864 made another attempt to establish an association for telegraph reporting that would improve the quality of news reaching the capital. By that point, both the Confederacy and the telegraph network were falling apart. But the urgent desire to stay abreast of current events and the promise inherent in telecommunications convinced them time and again to try and harness the power of electricity for news gathering. 
The telegraph might have betrayed its users consistently by spurting fictions instead of facts, but faulty information was better than no information at all. Facing the torturous uncertainty of wartime, journalists and their readers were willing to settle for rumors, speculation and mistakes, since they simply could not stand living in the dark. In that sense, they were indeed the forebears of modern news consumers like us. 
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
Sources: Richmond Enquirer, July 10, 1863; Richmond Enquirer, June 5, 1863; Richmond Dispatch, July 8, 1863; Richmond Dispatch, July 11, 1863; Richmond Examiner, July 12, 1863; Richmond Examiner, July 8, 1863; Richmond Dispatch, July 10, 1863; Richmond Enquirer, Oct. 7, 1864; Gary W. Gallagher, ed., "The Third Day at Gettysburg and Beyond"; George C. Rable, "News From Fredericksburg"; J. Cutler Andrews, "The South Reports the Civil War"; Menahem Blondheim, "News "ver the Wires: The Telegraph and the Flow of Public Information in America, 1844-1897."
 Yael A. Sternhell is an assistant professor of history and American studies at Tel Aviv University and the author of "Routes of War: The World of Movement in the Confederate South." 

        
The Pirate-Warden of Richmond
        
The Fall Line's Fault
        
Rashomon at Vicksburg
        
Nursing the Wounded at Gettysburg
        
An Orange Blossom in the Devil's Den

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: NEWS REPORTING (90%); CIVIL WAR (90%); WRITERS (90%); JOURNALISM (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); WAR & CONFLICT (89%); PRODUCT INNOVATION (71%) Civil War (US) (1861-65); News and News Media; Richmond (Va); Rumors; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: RICHMOND, VA, USA (96%) VIRGINIA, USA (96%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (96%) Richmond (Va)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



256 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 476 words

HEADLINE: Front-Running the Release of Market Data

BYLINE: JARED BERNSTEIN


HIGHLIGHT: More daylight is needed &#8212; and perhaps a transaction tax &#8212; to keep early access to financial information from fostering mere arbitrage rather than efficient markets, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Jared Bernstein is a senior fellow at the Center on Budget and Policy Priorities in Washington and a former chief economist to Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. 
A few weeks ago on my blog I saluted Eamon Javers of CNBC for his reporting about some traders who either seemed to be or admittedly were getting an early look at market-moving data. Well, there have been some new developments. 
As The New York Times reports, Attorney General Eric Schneiderman of New York is taking a close look at the practice to gauge the extent to which it creates unfair advantages for some traders.
I tend to think there are two types of early lookers (i.e., traders who get market-moving data anywhere from a few minutes to a few milliseconds before everyone else), though the article suggests that even these lines are blurred. 
One type is a private service, as with the Michigan confidence survey, that releases the data to subscribers a few minutes early. Then there are the flash traders with fat data pipes, or as the article notes, servers that "co-locate" near the data-release servers. All their algorithms need is a millisecond to make some fast - and I'm talkin' fast - money. 
The latter seems wrong in the sense that the data releases are set to come out at a given time but the flashers have found a way to beat the system - call it technological arbitrage. The former case - privileged subscribers - seems legal but also wrong, though perhaps only in the sense that traders incorrectly believe there is untapped market value once the data are broadly released. In fact, that value has been picked over by the early birds.
I'm not a lawyer - though Mr. Schneiderman is a uniquely able, just and ethical member of that trade - but none of this looks like a legal slam dunk to me. The advantaged traders will surely cry foul, saying they have paid good money to get the goods before the rest of us suckers. I'll let the attorney general deal with them.
But until this is fixed, here's the most important thing. Traders need to know the precise vintage of the information they are looking at. The fact that some are getting it before others is itself valuable knowledge. When this broke, a lot of folks claimed, "Oh, everybody knows that." But everybody didn't. So it is important to continue to pursue reporting that exposes such advantages.
And the other important thing is: Really? Millisecond trading advantages are helping our capital markets allocate excess savings more productively? This stuff is mostly froth and millisecond price arbitrage, and I say slow it down with a financial transaction tax (a small tax on trades). It would probably take a tax of just a few basis points to make things right.

        
Memo to Europe: What About T-Bills?
        
Polls vs. Markets
        
Updates on the Fed Announcement
        
For Greece, a Dubious Distinction
        
For the Markets, a Steady Outlook

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BUDGETS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); ETHICS (78%); BONDS (72%) High-Frequency and Flash Trading; Javers, Eamon; Schneiderman, Eric T; Stocks and Bonds; Taxation; Today's Economist

PERSON: JARED BERNSTEIN (74%); JOE BIDEN (73%) Schneiderman, Eric T

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



257 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 776 words

HEADLINE: On Working for Yourself, for More Flexible Hours

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Many readers commented on the usefulness of self-employment in balancing work and family responsibilities. 

 BODY:
I've gotten a lot of e-mails in response to my article about how middle-class mothers balance work and family, raising many interesting and important issues: What about the challenges for workingfathers? What about single parents who don't have much of a support network? Are companies demanding more from childless employees to accommodate employees with children? Should men be encouraged to be more active co-parents so it's not so challenging for women to remain in the work force?
There's only so much I could squeeze into one article about a complicated topic, but I'll address some of these issues in blog posts and follow-up articles. 
One interesting point that came up repeatedly was the attraction of self-employment, which some readers mentioned inFacebookcomments and on the article itself. For example, a reader named Suzanne in New Jersey writes:
I am a lawyer. After many years of working for others, a few years I went to work for myself. My kids are teens now, but I have probably tried every permutation to juggle family and job demands. I had a live-in nanny, a live-out nanny, used an after school program. I have worked full-time and part-time for others. Not only do I have a demanding job, but both my husband and I commute over an hour to work each day. That being said, besides full-time care, we have been dependent on carpools and friends to get our kids to their after school activities. Now that my high school aged child is driving, it is definitely easier as she is able to drive the younger one. The flexibility of working for myself, however, drove the decision to do so. If I want to leave the office early so that I can watch my kids' sports games, I can. I may have to make up the time somewhere else, but I feel like I control things, not someone else.
This resonated with some of the interviews I did while reporting for my article.
I spoke with a lot of middle-class working mothers around the country about the challenges in managing their work and family responsibilities before deciding to focus on the desire for flexible hours or remote work (and on Sara Uttech of Fall River, Wis., as someone who ultimately received more flexible hours). Several of these women made a deliberate decision to work for themselves to have more control over their schedules, like Jordan Sellergren, who does freelance graphic design and marketing in Iowa City. Another mother I spoke with, Leah Dugan, was working at a telehealth start-up in Chicago, where she helped manage a call center. She said her dream job was to become a freelance yoga instructor, partly because of the flexible hours she said she believed such a career would allow her.
What's surprising, then, is the gulf between such sentiments and the actual self-employment data. As of 2009, 7.9 percent of women were self-employed (including incorporated and unincorporated self-employed workers) compared with about 13.7 percent of men.
One drawback of self-employment, of course, is that it's more difficult to get health insurance, and there is evidence that women, particularly mothers of younger children, have a strong preference for receiving such benefits. According to Paul Fronstin's analysis of survey data he wrote up for the Employee Benefit Research Institute, women were more likely than men (78 percent to 61 percent) to report that health benefits were very important when choosing a job. With the creation of the insurance exchanges next year under the Affordable Care Act, perhaps we'll see more women deciding to work for themselves.
As an aside, other career paths that have been described to me as particularly family-friendly include certain medical specialties (which of course require a long and expensive upfront investment) and computer programming. Computer programming could be conducive to more flexible, family-friendly scheduling partly because of the nature of the work itself, and partly because many companies have such a hard time finding highly skilled programmers that such workers have more bargaining power.
But as you probably know, there are relatively few women in computer programming or related fields: Women represent just 22.5 percent of computer programmers and 25.6 percent of workers in all computer and mathematical occupations (which includes Web developers, information security analysts, etc.). Presumably there are other forces at work discouraging women from going into these fields, but that's a topic for another day.

        
Office Advancement vs. Home Duties
        
Comparing the World's Glass Ceilings
        
Incentives for Men, to Help Women to Work
        
In Most Rich Countries, Women Work More Than Men
        
At-Home vs. Employed Mothers: Who's Happier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORK-LIFE BALANCE (92%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (91%); PARENTING (90%); FLEXTIME (90%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (90%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (89%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (89%); WOMEN (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (87%); ADOLESCENTS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); PARENTS (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (77%); CHILDREN (77%); CHILD CARE (76%); LABOR FORCE (76%); SINGLE PARENTS (73%); YOGA (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (72%); BLOGS & MESSAGE BOARDS (69%); TELEHEALTH (68%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (60%); TELEMEDICINE (60%); BUSINESS TELEPHONE SERVICE (50%) Freelancing, Self-Employment and Independent Contracting; Parenting; Women and Girls; Work-Life Balance; Working Hours

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (56%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY, USA (71%) UNITED STATES (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



258 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Ross Douthat)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Rubio-Schumer and the Republican Future

BYLINE: ROSS DOUTHAT


HIGHLIGHT: Would opposing immigration reform consign the G.O.P. to a whites-only future? 

 BODY:
Today's attention-grabbing entry in the immigration debate is the joint editorial by Weekly Standard editor Bill Kristol and National Review editor Rich Lowry urging House Republicans to just say no to the Schumer-Rubio approach to immigration reform. Along with a critique of the Senate bill's substance, the piece includes this passage, offering the G.O.P. political-cum-policy advice:
At the presidential level in 2016, it would be better if Republicans won more Hispanic voters than they have in the past-but it's most important that the party perform better among working-class and younger voters concerned about economic opportunity and upward mobility. Passing this unworkable, ramshackle bill is counterproductive or irrelevant to that task. 
Which prompts Michael Tomasky to snark, on behalf of many liberals:
I like the way they allude to "working-class and younger voters." They had the sense not to be so crass as to put the modifier "white" in front of those nouns, because that would have eaten up all the discussion oxygen, but we all know by simple process of elimination that that's what they really mean.
I think I have enough knowledge of Lowry and Kristol's views on the Republican Party's prospects to say, quite emphatically, that this isn't at all "what they really mean." What they do mean is that it makes much more sense for the G.O.P. to think about its political problems in terms of class and economics rather than ethnicity, and for the party's leaders to first attack its economic vulnerabilities - particularly the perception, often earned, that the party has nothing to offer wage-earning Americans - rather than starting with an issue, immigration, that has the potential to just highlight the G.O.P.'s disconnect from voter priorities, and confirm the impression that the party's Wall Street wing calls all the shots. The core of the Lowry-Kristol thesis isn't that the G.O.P. should necessarily resign itself to a Romney-esque performance among Hispanics in 2016 and beyond; it's that a conservative party with an appealing, populist-inflected economic agenda will ultimately probably win more white votes and more Hispanic votes (and, for that matter, black votes and Asian votes) than a conservative party whose idea of rebranding is just a headlong rush to put President Obama's signature on an immigration bill.
This is also the point suggested by the recent argument, marshaled by Sean Trende of RealClearPolitics and amplified others, that it makes as much sense to see the G.O.P.'s 2012 defeat as a reflection of the party's failure to woo Perot-ish, downscale, disaffected white voters as it does to just pin Romney's defeat on demographic changes and anti-anti-immigration backlash. Liberals have portrayed this thesis as an argument that the Republicans should just double down on their existing, largely white base, but that's not the sensible implication of what Trende is saying. Rather, it's that many of his "missing white voters" are the lowest-hanging fruit for a party trying to rebuild itself, and that the kind of populist arguments that resonate with that constituency might actually offer the Republicans a better chance with minority voters in the longer run as well.
Now of course there are ways to mix and match these points. One could invoke the Trende thesis, as some talk radio figures have done, to justify basically standing pat ideologically on both immigration reform and economic policy writ large. It's not a very plausible argument, but it's one that some conservatives will obviously find appealing. Alternatively, and somewhat more plausibly, one could take the approach of many Bush administration veterans and argue for immigration reform as a necessary signal to Hispanics that requires follow-up on other fronts, and that makes sense as part of a larger, multi-issue shift intended to improve the G.O.P.'s standing with the pan-ethnic working class.
But much of the energy in the immigration fight comes from factions within the Republican tent who regard the Rubio-Schumer bill as a brilliant-and-easy way to avoid any kind of broader rethinking on economics, and who are pressing immigration reform on their co-partisans as the only conceivable alternative to swift political extinction. This is the argument Lowry and Kristol are mostly pushing back against: No, they're saying, there are other paths the party could take. And they're right.

        
Immigration Reform and the Lessons of 2012
        
What Is Reform Conservatism?
        
What Conservative Reformers Don't Like About Immigration Reform
        
The Media, Immigration and G.O.P. Donorism
        
The Great Assimilation Debate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); IMMIGRATION (91%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (76%) Bush, George W; Hispanic-Americans; Immigration and Emigration; National Review; Obama, Barack; Republican Party; United States; Weekly Standard

COMPANY: FORBES INC (50%)

ORGANIZATION: National Review; Republican Party; Weekly Standard

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (78%) Bush, George W; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%) United States

LOAD-DATE: July 9, 2013



259 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Seek Stiffer Bank Rules on Capital

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: The proposal would increase the financial cushion banks must maintain to protect their assets in a crisis. 

 BODY:
Confronted with large and complex banks, financial regulators have spent years drafting rules that are just as complicated.
On Tuesday, though, regulators signaled that the byzantine approach was inadequate. In a significant shift, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, along with the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, proposed stricter banking rules that aim for simplicity.
The agencies' move is part of their continuing efforts to strengthen the financial system and prevent situations where taxpayer-financed bailouts might be required.
The latest regulations focus squarely on capital, the financial cushion that banks have to hold to absorb potential losses. In theory, a bank with higher levels of capital is more likely to weather shocks and less likely to need government aid in a crisis. The proposed rules would raise a crucial requirement for capital held by the largest banks. 
 "This will increase the overall financial stability of the system," said Thomas M. Hoenig, vice chairman of the F.D.I.C. "This is an advantage to the banks over the long run, and to the economy. I am confident of that."
The agencies' latest push could meet fierce resistance, however. As outlined, the new capital requirements could be costly for the largest banks, which have 60 days to comment on the rules.
The F.D.I.C. estimated that the country's eight biggest banks would have to find as much as $89 billion to comply with the proposed rules. An analysis of JPMorgan Chase's books suggested that it might have to bolster its capital position by $50 billion, a number the bank declined to verify.
The added burden for the big banks unnerves some in the industry.
"This goes a little higher than is necessary," said Tony Fratto, a partner at Hamilton Place Strategies, a research and public relations firm that has represented banking trade groups. Mr. Fratto said the new rules could weigh on the economy and undermine the global competitiveness of the largest American banks. "It's our view that there has to be a trade-off with greater restrictions," Mr. Fratto said.
The regulators are acting at a time when some members of Congress are calling for tougher bank regulation because they believe the sweeping overhauls instituted soon after the financial crisis fell short. Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, introduced a bill earlier this year that demanded capital increases exceeding what the agencies are now proposing.
"The Brown-Vitter bill really galvanized the debate about 'too big to fail' and capital ratios," said Camden R. Fine, president of the Independent Community Bankers of America, an industry group that supports the agencies' proposed rules. "It really focused the regulators' attention on these capital issues."
With their latest move, the regulators hope to make the rules clearer and tougher.
After the crisis, American regulators agreed to impose an international banking overhaul known as Basel III. Officials like Mr. Hoenig have criticized Basel regulations because they rely on a method called risk weighting to set capital. With risk weighting, banks estimate the perceived riskiness of assets. They are then allowed to hold less capital, or even no capital, against assets that appear less risky. A bank may have $1 trillion of assets on its balance sheet, for example, but many of those assets could have low risk weightings. As a result, the bank might be able to reduce its total of risk-weighted assets to $500 billion. It would then calculate its needed capital from that lower figure. With a capital requirement of 7 percent, the bank would need $35 billion in capital.
Critics have questioned the risk weighting process, arguing that it can be inconsistent and complex and leave banks short of capital.
The regulations proposed Tuesday are intended to compensate for the shortcomings of risk weighting. Using a yardstick known as the leverage ratio, the proposed rules would not allow the bank with $1 trillion in assets to discount any of that sum. In fact, the bank would have to increase the asset total it uses to calculate capital to reflect risks not readily apparent on its balance sheet.
The agencies estimate that the new calculations would increase the largest banks' asset totals by around 43 percent. The $1 trillion bank would, in essence, become a $1.43 trillion bank.
The proposed rules would also effectively require the largest banks to hold capital equivalent to 5 to 6 percent of their new asset totals. The hypothetical $1.43 trillion bank would therefore have to hold more than $70 billion. "Risk weighting is based on a very arcane and complicated series of ratios and formulas that are immediately gamed," Mr. Hoenig said. "The leverage ratio is a check on that."
Stock market investors appeared to shrug off the tougher requirements. Shares in the largest banks, which have risen sharply in recent months, were mostly up on Tuesday.
"I am surprised by the market reaction," said Richard Ramsden, a bank analyst at Goldman Sachs. "It's a fairly demanding proposal."
Only two big banks, Wells Fargo and Bank of America, appear to already have sufficient capital to meet the proposed leverage ratio requirements, according to an analysis by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
But other big banks may be more strongly affected. JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest bank by assets, has two large subsidiaries with federal deposit insurance. Those subsidiaries would have to hold 6 percent capital, according to the proposed rules. In theory, this could push up their combined capital requirement to $177 billion from the $127 billion they hold today.
Regulators may favor such an outcome because JPMorgan, like some other large banks, uses its insured subsidiaries to hold most of its derivatives. Derivatives, financial instruments that can be used to hedge risks or speculate, can be a source of losses and instability when markets are in severe turbulence.
The banks have until the end of 2017 to comply with the higher requirements. In the next two months, they are likely to push back hard. But with the economy strengthening and bank profits at record highs, the banks may not find sympathetic audiences.
Advocates of higher capital say it can increase confidence in the banking sector and promote lending.
Mr. Fratto, of Hamilton Place Strategies, is skeptical of that viewpoint. "Do we want to conduct that experiment at a time when we've seen banks shedding assets, exiting businesses and pulling back a bit on lending?" he asked.
These days, regulators have more power to press ahead in the face of any opposition. The Dodd-Frank overhaul passed by Congress in 2010 gave regulators added leeway to toughen rules for large banks. The leverage ratio is only one initiative regulators are pursuing. The Federal Reserve, for example, is going to propose a rule that raises capital requirements for banks that borrow heavily in the markets. But even with the flurry of new rules, Mr. Hoenig says he does not think the banks' hands will be tied.
"They have plenty of flexibility to lend and invest," he said.

        
Fed Rebukes Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase Over Capital Plans
        
Regulators Postpone Some Basel Rules

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (92%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%) Bank of America Corporation; Banking and Financial Institutions; Derivatives (Financial Instruments); Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Federal Reserve System; Fine, Camden R; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Hoenig, Thomas M; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Wells Fargo & Company; Bank of America Corporation|BAC|NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company|JPM|NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 2

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: Bank of America Corporation; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Federal Reserve System; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Office of the Comptroller of the Currency; Wells Fargo & Company

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%) Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Bank of America Corporation; BAC; NYSE; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE; JPMorgan Chase & Company; JPM; NYSE; Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (93%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (53%); DAVID VITTER (52%) Fine, Camden R; Hoenig, Thomas M

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



260 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 9, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Hopes for Validation in Goldman Sachs Trader Case

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS and SUSANNE CRAIG


HIGHLIGHT: For Fabrice Tourre, an unfavorable verdict could yield a fine, or a ban from the securities industry. For the S.E.C., the trial is a defining moment that follows one courtroom disappointment after another. 

 BODY:
Three years ago, in the shadow of the financial crisis, some of the biggest banks on Wall Street slipped into the government's cross hairs.
Now, after striking nine-figure settlements with firms like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, the government's campaign to punish Wall Street over risky investments sold before the crisis will culminate in an unlikely way - with the civil trial of a 34-year-old Frenchman, Fabrice P. Tourre.
 In a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan next week, the former midlevel Goldman employee will fight the Securities and Exchange Commission's claim that he was part of a conspiracy to mislead investors when selling a mortgage security that ultimately failed. Mr. Tourre, a trader stationed in the bowels of Goldman's mortgage machine when the S.E.C. thrust him into the spotlight, is one of only a handful of employees at big Wall Street firms to land in court over the crisis. 
The rarity of the trial underpins its importance. For Mr. Tourre, who is now enrolled in a doctoral economics program at the University of Chicago, an unfavorable verdict could yield a fine, or worse, a ban from the securities industry. A victory in court, however, would offer only belated consolation to Goldman, which is paying for his defense. For the S.E.C., an agency still dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis, the trial is a defining moment that follows one courtroom disappointment after another.
When a jury cleared a midlevel Citigroup employee in a mortgage-bond trial, the S.E.C. took measures to buoy its case against Mr. Tourre. For one, it talked to a private jury consultant, people briefed on the matter said, though it is unclear whether the agency hired the firm. The head of the agency's trial team is also leading the Goldman case himself, a surprising move.
"Their reputation for trying cases hangs in the balance," said Thomas A. Sporkin, who was a senior S.E.C. enforcement official until last year when he departed for the law firm Buckley Sandler. "This is their opportunity to show Wall Street that they can prevail against an individual at trial."
Both sides were in court Tuesday sparring over what the jury should - and shouldn't hear. The judge, Katherine B. Forrest, ruled that the defense can question a crucial S.E.C. witness, a woman who was an executive of a company that helped arrange the mortgage security, about the agency's eve-of-trial decision to drop an unrelated investigation against her, a reprieve Mr. Tourre's lawyers have argued might color her testimony.
The S.E.C. also walked away with a major victory: Judge Forrest permitted the agency to argue that Mr. Tourre was part of larger conspiracy at Goldman, a move that will allow evidence beyond Mr. Tourre's actions.
Yet even if it secures a victory at trial, the S.E.C. will probably face scrutiny all the same, as critics question why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre the face of the financial crisis. Rather than take aim at a high-flying executive, the agency filed its most prominent crisis-era case against someone barely known on Wall Street, a concern that also hampered the Citigroup case, when the foreman of the jury asked, "Why didn't they go after the higher-ups rather than a fall guy?"
An S.E.C. spokeswoman declined to comment. But in the past, the agency has defended its actions tied to the crisis, noting that it has sued 66 C.E.O.'s and other senior officers in such cases, including a few executives from Wall Street and major mortgage lenders.
When the S.E.C. filed its case against Goldman and Mr. Tourre in April 2010, the allegations shook the bank. Within months, it agreed to pay a $550 million fine, without admitting or denying guilt, then the largest penalty ever levied on Wall Street.
Mr. Tourre, however, rejected a deal on the eve of Goldman's settlement, people briefed on the matter said. The deal, the people said, would have required Mr. Tourre to face a lifetime ban from the securities industry and a cash penalty - virtually the same punishment he would face if found liable at trial. The agency has not offered to settle since.
At the heart of the agency's case is the contention that in 2007 Mr. Tourre and Goldman sold investors a mortgage security, known as Abacus, without disclosing a crucial fact: a hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson helped construct Abacus and then bet against it. The S.E.C. cited Goldman for "misstating and omitting key facts" about Mr. Paulson's involvement. When the mortgage market soured, a German bank and a handful of other sophisticated investors lost more than $1 billion on the deal.
"The S.E.C. essentially argues that Tourre handed Little Red Riding Hood an invitation to grandmother's house while concealing the fact that it was written by the Big Bad Wolf," Judge Forrest explained in a recent ruling.
To win its case, the S.E.C. must show by a preponderance of the evidence that Mr. Tourre "committed a fraudulent act that was material." The verdict is likely to hinge on whether the S.E.C. can prove what it called two basic acts of "deception" stemming from January 2007, when Mr. Paulson's hedge fund asked Goldman to create an investment worth betting against.
What led to the first misstep, according to the S.E.C., was Goldman's decision to use ACA Management to pick the underlying mortgage bonds for the investment. ACA worked closely with Mr. Paulson's hedge fund in the selection process, the S.E.C. said.
But in a marketing document that Goldman submitted to investors, the bank said the portfolio was "selected by ACA," with no mention of Mr. Paulson.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers, however, are expected to note that it was unheard-of for any Wall Street bank to disclose the name of the hedge fund betting against an investment. And e-mails reviewed by The New York Times suggest that the main investor in Abacus, the German bank IKB Deutsche Industriebank, knew the contents of the deal and possibly even removed certain bonds from its makeup. In the two March 2007 e-mails, Goldman employees sent three "replacement" bonds to an IKB executive, saying "hopefully these will work."
In turn, the S.E.C. is expected to outline a second possible misstep by Mr. Tourre tied to his dealing with ACA. Mr. Tourre, the S.E.C. said, misled ACA into thinking that Mr. Paulson was investing in the bonds rather than betting against it. In a January 2007 e-mail, Mr. Tourre falsely told ACA that one chunk of Abacus was "pre-committed," meaning that an unnamed investor already agreed to buy it. In a deposition, he later acknowledged that his e-mail "could have been more accurate."
ACA, the S.E.C. said, interpreted Mr. Toure's e-mail to mean that Mr. Paulson was the unnamed investor. And when that impression was conveyed to Mr. Tourre in an e-mail, according to the S.E.C., he failed to immediately correct it.
ACA's chief executive later told the S.E.C. that he "would not have voted to approve" his company's involvement in Abacus had he known of Mr. Paulson's strategy.
Yet Mr. Tourre's lawyers will argue that if ACA did not know of Mr. Paulson's bet against Abacus, it should have. ACA, the lawyers note, was a sophisticated player and met separately with Mr. Paulson's team to discuss the Abacus deal. Goldman, the lawyers argue, also sent ACA "a steady stream" of documents correcting Mr. Tourre's misstatement.
"Fabrice Tourre has done nothing wrong. He is confident that when all the evidence is considered, the jury will soundly reject the S.E.C.'s charge," his lawyers, Pamela Chepiga and Sean Coffey, said in a statement.
The defense received additional ammunition on Tuesday when Judge Forrest ruled that the S.E.C. could not fully block mention of newspaper articles from 2007 that discussed Mr. Paulson's penchant for betting against the mortgage market.
The judge has yet to rule on whether to allow the S.E.C. to introduce some of the case's most colorful e-mails, notably one where Mr. Tourre says a friend had nicknamed him "Fabulous Fab," and jokes that he sold toxic real estate bonds to widows and orphans.

        
In Goldman Case, Re-examining Foreign Sales
        
Trader's Day in Court May Lack Some Details

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); VERDICTS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); BONDS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LITIGATION (77%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); WITNESSES (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Mortgage-Backed Securities; Paulson, John A; Securities and Commodities Violations; Securities and Exchange Commission; Suits and Litigation (Civil); Tourre, Fabrice P; Goldman Sachs Group Inc|GS|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (92%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: Goldman Sachs Group Inc; Securities and Exchange Commission

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (92%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%) Goldman Sachs Group Inc; GS; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (92%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (92%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (92%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (92%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (91%) Paulson, John A; Tourre, Fabrice P

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



261 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1367 words

HEADLINE: Edmund S. Morgan, Chronicler of Puritans, Dies at 97

BYLINE: By WILLIAM GRIMES

 BODY:
Edmund S. Morgan, an award-winning historian who illuminated the intellectual world of the Puritans, explored the paradox of freedom and slavery in colonial Virginia and, in his 80s, wrote a best-selling biography of Benjamin Franklin, died on Monday in New Haven. He was 97.
His death was confirmed by his editor, Robert Weil.
Like his mentor and fellow atheist, the Harvard historian Perry Miller, Professor Morgan found his richest material in the religious thought of Puritan New England and endless fascination in the theological debates and spiritual struggles of men like John Winthrop, Roger Williams and Ezra Stiles.
''I think that any group of people who have a system of belief that covers practically everything, and who act upon it, are bound to be interesting to any scholar,'' he said in a 1987 interview with The William and Mary Quarterly. 
His elegantly written, succinct biographies and studies of early New England, respected by specialists but accessible to undergraduates, became required reading for several generations of college students.
''As a historian of colonial and revolutionary America, he was one of the giants of his generation, and a writer who could well have commanded a larger nonacademic audience than I suspect he received,'' said Pauline Maier, a professor of American history at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. ''He characteristically took on big issues and had a knack for conveying complex, sophisticated truths in a way that made them seem, if not simple, at least easily understandable.''
Professor Morgan's book ''The Puritan Dilemma: The Story of John Winthrop'' (1958) was for decades one of the most widely assigned texts in survey courses on American history. His ''Visible Saints: The History of a Puritan Idea'' (1963) showed his unmatched talent for mining primary sources to illuminate an important concept, in this case the change in understanding among New Englanders of what it meant to be the member of a church.
Professor Morgan later became intrigued by colonial Virginia, a slaveholding society that produced some of America's most sophisticated theoreticians of human freedom. This paradox was the subject of ''American Slavery, American Freedom: The Ordeal of Colonial Virginia'' (1975), which won the Francis Parkman Prize in 1976. ''Inventing the People: The Rise of Popular Sovereignty in England and America'' (1988) won the Bancroft Prize in American History in 1989.
A prolific writer well into his 90s, Professor Morgan made a belated appearance on The New York Times's best-seller list in 2002 with the lively, eminently readable ''Benjamin Franklin.''
Based almost entirely on primary documents, it presented a more vigorous, impassioned founding father than the traditional portrait of, as he wrote, ''a comfortable old gentleman staring out at the world over his half-glasses with benevolent comprehension of everything in it.''
''He covered large territories of the past with great clarity, precision and wit,'' said the Harvard historian Bernard Bailyn. ''He brought our understanding of Puritan thought, his first great subject, to a new degree of refinement, and then traced the development of slavery in the upper South in ways that had not been done before.''
Edmund Sears Morgan was born on Jan. 17, 1916, in Minneapolis. His father, Edmund Morris Morgan, served as chairman of the committee that drafted the first uniform code of military justice for the armed forces in 1948.
Edmund grew up in Arlington, Mass., where the family moved after his father began teaching at Harvard's law school. He enrolled in Harvard intending to study English history and literature, but after taking a course in American literature with F. O. Matthiessen, he changed to the newly offered major of American history and literature, with Perry Miller as his tutor. He received a bachelor's degree in 1937, and, at the urging of the jurist Felix Frankfurter, a family friend, he attended lectures at the London School of Economics.
In 1942, he completed a doctorate in Harvard's new program on the history of American civilization under Professor Miller's supervision. His dissertation, on the domestic life of the Puritans, became his first book: ''The Puritan Family: Religion and Domestic Relations in 17th-Century New England'' (1944).
In 1939, he married Helen Theresa Mayer, who died in 1982. He is survived by their two daughters, Penelope Aubin and Pamela Packard; his second wife, the former Marie Caskey, a historian; six grandchildren; and seven great-grandchildren.
Although a pacifist, Professor Morgan became convinced, after the fall of France, that only military force could stop Hitler and withdrew his application for conscientious objector status. During World War II, he trained as a machinist at the M.I.T. radiation laboratory, where he turned out parts for radar installations.
After teaching for a year at the University of Chicago, he accepted a position at Brown University, where he taught until 1955. He was then offered a full professorship at Yale, where he spent the rest of his career. He was named Sterling professor of history in 1965 and retired in 1986.
From the outset, Professor Morgan showed a knack for grounding abstract ideas in specific circumstances and presenting history through the eyes of individuals, whose personalities he captured in a few deft strokes.
''People did not like Thomas Hutchinson,'' he wrote of the colonial governor of Massachusetts in ''The Birth of the Republic, 1763-89'' (1956). ''They did not like his long nose or his long face or the long list of offices he held.''
''The Virginia Company had sent the idle to teach the idle,'' he wrote in ''American Slavery, American Freedom,'' describing the doomed Jamestown colony. ''And they had sent, as it turned out, a quarrelsome band of gentlemen and servants to bring freedom to the free. It was a recipe for disaster.''
In ''The Puritan Dilemma,'' John Winthrop, the first governor of the Massachusetts Bay Colony, served as a window on the social structure, changing political institutions and religious life of early colonial New Englanders.
One of Professor Morgan's most provocative works, ''The Stamp Act Crisis: Prologue to Revolution'' (1953), written with his first wife, used sharply etched biographical sketches to revisit the arguments that the colonists had brought to bear on taxation and representation, which a generation of progressive historians had dismissed as mere propaganda disguising the pursuit of narrow economic interests.
''What Americans said from the beginning about taxation and just government deserved to be taken as seriously as the Puritans' ideas about God and man,'' Professor Morgan wrote in the preface to ''The Genuine Article'' (2004), a collection of his review essays for The New York Review of Books. ''In subsequent books I argued that the American Revolution was really what the revolutionaries said it was.''
This revisionist approach, elaborated by Professor Bailyn -- also a student of Perry Miller -- in ''The Ideological Origins of the American Revolution'' (1967), reshaped the study of colonial history.
After dealing with Winthrop, he went on to write biographies of two other Puritans. Reviewing a batch of books by and about Roger Williams convinced him that he had misunderstood and misjudged the man. He made amends with ''Roger Williams: The Church and the State'' (1967) after writing ''The Gentle Puritan: A Life of Ezra Stiles'' (1962).
In 2006, the Pulitzer Prize jury awarded him a special citation for his work as a historian over the previous half-century. In 2008, the American Academy of Arts and Letters honored him with a gold medal for lifetime achievement.
''I would say that my ideal of writing history is to give the reader vicarious experience,'' Professor Morgan told The William and Mary Quarterly. ''You're born in one particular century at a particular time, and the only experience you can have directly is of the place you live and the time you live in. History is a way of giving you experience that you would otherwise be cut off from.''
Info Box [ Edit ] Author/Article Info
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Edmund S. Morgan in 2002. He was writing well into his 90s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BOB CHILD/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); HISTORY (91%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (90%); RELIGION (90%); SLAVERY (89%); WRITERS (89%); BESTSELLERS (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (88%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (72%)

ORGANIZATION: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NORTHEAST USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%); ENGLAND (77%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



262 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; Dining In, Dining Out / Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2103 words

HEADLINE: Broccoli Reborn

BYLINE: By MICHAEL MOSS

 BODY:
GENEVA, N.Y. -- There it sits, a deep-green beauty at the farmers' market: that sweet, crisp nutritional dynamo we know as fresh local broccoli.
And then there's this: a bitter, rubbery mass that's starting to turn yellow around the tips, all bumped and bruised from its long trip from the field to the supermarket.
Thomas Bjorkman, a plant scientist at Cornell University, examined the store-bought specimen like a diagnostician, unflinchingly but with a certain compassion.
''It's soft, almost limp,'' he said, prodding one of the heads. ''That sharp smell is from the sulfur compounds. Scale of 10, with 10 being broccoli picked the same day you eat it? I'd give this a 2, maybe a 3.'' 
For all the wonders of fresh broccoli, in most parts of the country it is available from local growers only during the cooler weeks at either end of the growing season, nowhere near long enough to become a fixture in grocery stores or kitchens.
Broccoli hates too much heat, which is why 90 percent of it sold in the United States comes from temperate California, which is often bathed by fog. The heads are fine if you live there, but for the rest of us they require a long truck ride (four or five days to the East Coast) and then some waiting time in a warehouse, tarnishing the appeal of a vegetable that health experts can't praise enough.
But Mr. Bjorkman and a team of fellow researchers are out to change all that. They've created a new version of the plant that can thrive in hot, steamy summers like those in New York, South Carolina or Iowa, and that is easy and inexpensive enough to grow in large volumes.
And they didn't stop there: This crucifer is also crisp, subtly sweet and utterly tender when eaten fresh-picked, which could lift the pedestrian broccoli into the ranks of the vegetable elite. Think Asian-style salads of shaved stems, Mr. Bjorkman suggests, or an ultra-crisp tempura with broccoli that doesn't need parboiling.
''If you've had really fresh broccoli, you know it's an entirely different thing,'' he said. ''And if the health-policy goal is to vastly increase the consumption of broccoli, then we need a ready supply, at an attractive price.''
The new broccoli is part of a mad dash by Cornell scientists to remake much of the produce aisle. The goal is to help shift American attitudes toward fruits and vegetables by increasing their allure and usefulness in cooking, while maintaining or even increasing their nutritional loads. In recent months, the Cornell lab has turned out a full-flavored habanero pepper without the burning heat, snap peas without the pesky strings, and luscious apples that won't brown when sliced -- a huge boon to school cafeteria matrons plagued by piles of fruit that students won't eat unless it is cut up.
The Eastern Broccoli Project, based at the university's Agricultural Experiment Station here in this small Finger Lakes city, also aims to maximize the new broccoli's concentration of glucoraphanin, a compound that has been found to aid in preventing cancer.
In this crusade, Mr. Bjorkman, 50, is a hybrid of Mr. Wizard and the Mr. Smith who went to Washington. While developing the new plants, he has lobbied lawmakers on Capitol Hill to include money for vegetable research in the new farm bill. He has reached out to farmers, grocers and economists to ensure the new broccoli finds a mass market, first in the East, then in other parts of the country.
Two years of successful trials involving the largest seed companies have made the hot-weather broccoli plants ready for farming, though it may be several more years before East Coast grocers start selling the local florets.
But while Mr. Bjorkman is a passionate agrarian and vegetarian, his Perfect Broccoli may challenge a purist view of food. Critics are generally fine with his science, which involves fairly traditional forms of biotechnology, like using petri dishes to mate broccoli with radishes and other plants that would never hook up on their own, and selecting genes through this breeding that can minimize production costs and maximize consumer appeal.
Rather, they cringe at his collaboration with large seed companies like Monsanto, whose biotechnology lineup includes squash and sweet corn developed with the far more advanced technology of genetic modification. Neither Monsanto nor Mr. Bjorkman says they have plans to pursue that method in developing better broccoli.
''But it's another example of Monsanto's control of the food supply,'' said Marion Nestle, a New York University nutrition professor and the author of ''Food Politics.'' ''And that is a huge and legitimate question: Should one corporation have that level of control over things people depend on?''
Monsanto was first out of the gate with a heat-loving broccoli. It joined Mr. Bjorkman's planting trials to test some of its varieties for heat tolerance and is now selling these seeds to farmers in Georgia. The company said it was aware of the concerns about consolidation in the industry and was striving to make its seeds available to small farmers and gardeners -- an effort that Mr. Bjorkman embraces.
''To be effective, we have to work with the consolidated seed industry,'' Mr. Bjorkman said. ''But not exclusively. We want to make this as widely available as possible.'' (Some of the project's seeds are already being sold by seed distributors.)
His team realizes that a big part of its job is bringing together the clashing worlds of Big Food and Simple Eating.
''Foodies, I don't think they all understand there is nothing natural about farming, starting with tearing up the soil,'' said Mark Farnham, a federal research geneticist in Charleston, S.C., who joined Mr. Bjorkman in starting the broccoli project. ''Thomas has the ability to help people understand the connection of science and food, and the fact that we don't reach a pinnacle and stop and say everything is good.''
Gangly and soft-spoken, Mr. Bjorkman is an odd frontman for tinkering with produce. He largely abstains from eating processed foods, preferring to cook from scratch. And as his wife, Ann Raffetto, a local winemaker, pointed out, he doesn't just pause when fielding thorny questions. Like the earliest computers, he stops for a full seven seconds; you can almost hear him whirring away. ''It can be disconcerting,'' she said. ''But he's pulling out the answers from many different parts of his brain, and pretty coherently so.''
His affinity for plants has the deepest of roots, in his native Sweden. His mother, Monika, recalls sending him out of their summer cottage alone at age 3 to play; he would come back with fistfuls of the country's entire taxonomy of flowers, learning their names and habits. ''First the yellows, then the whites, and on and on,'' she said over the phone from Palo Alto, Calif.
He took a more pragmatic approach to science than his father, Olle, who is renowned for his work on photosynthesis. At the University of California, Davis, Thomas Bjorkman met with farmers, to help match his research with their real-world needs.
Knowing that smart retailing is essential to success, Mr. Bjorkman designed the broccoli project to include all aspects of its growing and marketing, which helped him secure a $3.2 million grant from the Department of Agriculture in 2010, along with $1.7 million worth of contributions from commercial partners, including the produce-centric Wegmans grocery chain. (A major goal is persuading grocers to promote the broccoli as locally grown and to move it quickly through their warehouses and stores.) He even asked a local chef, Jack Woolfrey, to create recipes to show off the new broccoli's advantages in cooking.
Mr. Bjorkman's expertise in plant physiology helped solve a key riddle: California has hot days, too, in the summer, so why would South Carolina be such a problem for broccoli?
''It's the nights here in the East,'' he said. ''They're so much warmer than those in California. And I found that the broccoli plant seems to be counting the hours.'' Eight or 10 hours of heat is fine. But 24 hours above the mid-60s and the plants decide it would be suicide to flower. No flowering, no broccoli florets. The farmer ends up with a bunch of leaves.
(Another useful thing to know: Even after broccoli's flowering heads are cut for eating, they breathe like crazy, their mitochondria pumping 10 times as fast as those of carrots, and the heat this generates speeds their decay, especially when they are displayed in big piles. This panting also explains why broccoli will dry out in a refrigerator unless wrapped loosely in plastic.)
Eastern farmers may not reap as many pounds per acre as those in California, but they can make up for that gap (and not have to charge more) by avoiding big trucking costs, which Mr. Bjorkman counts as another plus for his broccoli: every new acre planted in the East will mean consuming less diesel fuel, generating less greenhouse gases.
Next up for his team is the shopper. Focus groups are planned for this summer in which 150 or more people will be handed the typical California and the novel Eastern broccoli for comparative eyeing and tasting. In a twist conceived by the Cornell marketing expert Miguel I. Gómez, they'll be asked to bid on the broccoli, using their own cash.
Will shoppers put their money on fresh and local?
''We don't want to be guessing,'' Mr. Bjorkman said of his marketing plans. ''We want to know just how much they are willing to pay.''
Sizing Up a Green Giant
The Cornell project's new broccoli won't be in stores for at least a few years, but for now it can offer shoppers a benchmark for what to expect, and appreciate, in fresh broccoli.
Color
A deep green, which the researchers compare to the Valspar Paint color called Capital Green. Be wary of yellowing, caused by the flowers' opening and revealing the petals.
Texture
Crisp and turgid, reflecting the high water pressure within the cells. A limp head results from age, poor storage and broccoli's high rate of respiration.
Taste
Sweet, but turning more savory with time. A total lack of sweetness, brought on by aging, may be one reason many people dislike the vegetable; the sugar vanishes entirely within 12 hours of picking if broccoli is improperly stored at room temperature. Good broccoli has 6 percent sugar on average, with stems typically sweeter than the florets.
Nutrients
A large dose of vitamin C, when eaten raw, along with vitamin A; minerals like magnesium, calcium and iron; and glucoraphanin, which has been found to have cancer-preventing properties. Boiling and improper storage sharply reduce the vitamin C content.
Storage
Broccoli is best kept just above the freezing mark, at 32.5 to 35 degrees. Unfortunately, grocers often display it at room temperature or in large stacks, where it quickly grows limp.
Stalk
Tender and luscious, when eaten the same day it is picked. Within a few days of harvest, it becomes woody, with a hardened skin.
Crown
Uniformly dome-shaped, which has an umbrella-like effect, repelling rain and the rot it fosters. Researchers avoided creating a top with a more rounded, hemispheric shape, fearing it would look too strange to shoppers.
Florets
The tiny beads that make them up are 1.5 to 2 millimeters in diameter. Heads with larger, smaller or irregular beads have been rejected by produce buyers for supermarkets.
Recipe: Eastern Broccoli Slaw
6 tablespoons tamari
1/4 cup pure sesame oil
1 teaspoon minced fresh ginger
1 tablespoon minced scallion
1/8 teaspoon red pepper flakes
3 tablespoons fresh lemon juice, or to taste
4 medium or 6 small stems (about 1 pound) from 2 to 2 1/4 pounds of broccoli (the freshest you can find), trimmed of dry ends and shredded or finely julienned
3 large carrots, shredded or finely julienned
4 scallions, thinly sliced
2 teaspoons sesame seeds
Cilantro leaves, sesame seeds or sliced scallions, for garnish
1. Make the dressing: In a stand blender or with an immersion blender, combine and purée the tamari, sesame oil, ginger, scallion, red pepper flakes and lemon juice.
2. Make the slaw: In a mixing bowl, combine the shredded broccoli stems, carrots, scallions and sesame seeds. Add just enough of the dressing, about 1/4 cup, to coat the vegetables. Mix well. Cover and refrigerate for at least 1 hour. Cover and refrigerate remaining dressing.
3. To serve, add more dressing to taste, if desired, and garnish with cilantro, sesame seeds or scallions. Serve chilled or at room temperature. Remaining dressing may be used to dress snap peas, roasted beets, beans or radishes, or used as a marinade for tofu, chicken or seafood.
Yield: 4 to 6 servings
Adapted from Jack Woolfrey, Leaf Kitchen, Geneva, N.Y.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Clockwise from top right, Thomas Bjorkman
budding broccoli flowers
seedlings of new hybrids
broccoli seeds
and a flowering plant, all at a Cornell greenhouse in Geneva, N.Y. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HEATHER AINSWORTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (D1)
A new hybrid likes warm nights, so many regions could get fresh local broccoli longer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY PHILLIP GRIFFITHS
 THOMAS BJORKMAN) (D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FRUITS & VEGETABLES (89%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE STORES (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (77%); BOTANY (76%)

ORGANIZATION: CORNELL UNIVERSITY (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (74%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



263 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1370 words

HEADLINE: New Egyptian Government's Transitional Plan Meets With Swift Criticism

BYLINE: By DAVID D. KIRKPATRICK; Sarah Mousa contributed reporting from Cairo, and Rick Gladstone from New York.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Egypt's new military-led government enlisted internationally recognized figures to serve as its public face and promised swift elections on Tuesday, but introduced a transitional plan that was widely criticized as muddled, authoritarian and rushed.
The so-called road map, in the form of a ''constitutional declaration'' by the military-appointed president, elicited immediate opposition from civilian leaders across the political spectrum, including the liberals and activists who sought the ouster of President Mohamed Morsi, the faction of ultraconservative Islamists who joined them and the many thousands protesting to demand his reinstatement.
The declaration, however, made clear that the government drew its authority only from the military commander who executed the takeover, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi. The interim president, Adli Mansour, a senior judge, cited the general's brief statement as the basis of his own authority, and in confirmation the general's words were printed as law in the official Gazette.
''It is now officially a coup,'' Nathan Brown, a political scientist specializing in Egyptian law at George Washington University, wrote in assessing the text. 
The military-led government widened its crackdown on Mr. Morsi's Islamist supporters a day after security forces shot hundreds of them and killed more than 50 at a sit-in to demand his reinstatement. Security officials blamed the Islamists for instigating the lopsided clashes, and as part of its investigation of the episode ordered the arrests of 650 leaders of the Muslim Brotherhood, Egypt's mainstream Islamist movement, and of Gamaa Islamiyya, a more conservative and once-violent group.
The officials said they had also arrested more of the former president's top advisers. Brotherhood officials said they had lost contact with about 250 members of their leadership, in addition to the dozens -- including Mr. Morsi -- known to be detained.
At the same time, Egypt received a crucial financial lifeline from two oil-rich Arab monarchies that have made no secret of their fears of both Arab Spring democracy movements and the Muslim Brotherhood. The United Arab Emirates said it would provide a grant of $1 billion and an interest-free loan of $2 billion, while Saudi Arabia was reportedly working on providing an additional $5 billion. The donations are needed urgently because the turmoil surrounding Mr. Morsi's overthrow has pushed the teetering Egyptian economy closer to the brink of collapse.
The new appointments, including a liberal economist as prime minister and the diplomat Mohamed ElBaradei as a vice president for foreign relations, appeared intended to reassure the Western allies and donors Egypt must depend on.
The new prime minister, Hazem el-Beblawi, is a prominent economist who served as finance minister under an earlier interim government. A founding member of the Social Democratic Party, he has criticized former President Hosni Mubarak and Mr. Morsi as failing to move fast enough to open up the economy, reform Egypt's bloated and unaffordable subsidy programs and provide for the poor.
Mr. Beblawi is ideally suited to negotiate with the International Monetary Fund over a package of changes tied to a pending $4.8 billion loan, a deal that seemed out of reach after Mr. Morsi's ouster but is still considered essential to save the economy. With a Ph.D. from the Sorbonne, Mr. Beblawi has written three books on Middle East economics, worked as a senior official of the United Nations and advised the Arab Monetary Fund. He resigned after four months as finance minister under the previous military-led transitional government -- after Mr. Mubarak's ouster -- after soldiers shot dozens of mostly Coptic Christian demonstrators and the generals blamed them for scaring their troops.
Before the current crackdown, Mr. Beblawi had also welcomed the overthrow of Mr. Mubarak as providing an opportunity for Islamists to enter the democratic process. ''The positive thing that resulted from this was that it gave a chance for the Muslim Brotherhood and political Islam, which have always been persecuted and wrongfully treated for a long time,'' he said in an interview published last month in an English language-newspaper here.
Mr. ElBaradei, who won a Nobel Prize for his work with the United Nations' nuclear watchdog, was the new government's first choice for prime minister. But his appointment was opposed by the ultraconservative Islamist Al Nour party, which had agreed to back Mr. Morsi's ouster. After Mr. ElBaradei's rejection -- while he was on his way to his swearing-in, the Islamist party's leader said -- the government cycled through two other candidates before persuading Mr. Beblawi to take the job.
The new ''constitutional declaration'' laid out an election schedule that analysts called implausibly speedy. The plan calls for a panel of 10 jurists -- 6 judges and 4 law professors -- to present a sweeping package of amendments in just one month. A group of 50 representatives of various government institutions, parties, guilds and social groups -- including 10 who are either women or young -- will then review the text for two months. But it is not clear what power they have to make changes or how they will make their decisions. A national referendum on the charter is set for a month after that, with parliamentary elections within the next month.
Analysts faulted the plan as repeating and even compounding the missteps that botched Egypt's first attempt to build a democracy. The compressed schedule leaves too little time for negotiation and consensus among Egypt's already polarized political factions, they say, and the rush to elections all but ensures that the process will again become caught up in partisan feuds.
But this time the process is even more opaque and unrepresentative. It is unclear who will select the panel of 10 jurists or the 50 who will review their work on the new charter. Nor is the precise role of those 50 explained. Although normally representatives of the public settle on broad principles for experts to draft into a charter, the new plan calls for the experts to finish their work before the debate can begin, said Zaid Ali, an analyst at the International Institute for Democracy and Electoral Assistance, an intergovernmental group.
During the interim period, the declaration puts almost unchecked power in the hands of the president himself, who can issue legislation, constitutional declarations and ill-defined states of emergency. The declaration includes negligible protections for basic rights, including free speech or assembly.
It grants the military autonomy outside the president's control. It appears to preserve provisions grounding the Constitution in specifically Sunni Islamic law -- said to be the priority of the ultraconservative Islamists who backed the military takeover, although they disputed whether those provisions were adequate. And the declaration vests much of the power to shape Egypt's next permanent charter in the highly conservative judges left in place after decades of authoritarianism.
The Muslim Brotherhood denounced the declaration as a crime against democracy. Essam el-Erian, a Brotherhood leader still at large, said it would take Egypt's transition ''back to zero.''
The young organizers of the recent protests that preceded Mr. Morsi's ouster said they were surprised by the charter and rejected it. The National Salvation Front, the coalition formed by Mr. ElBaradei and others in opposition to Mr. Morsi, said it had not been consulted and demanded unspecified changes.
Al Nour, the ultraconservative Islamist party, said the text broke promises it had received before the takeover, including guarantees about preserving provisions touching Egypt's ''identity.'' In a statement denouncing both the mass shooting and the president's provisional charter, Al Nour accused the interim president of acting ''extreme'' and ''dictatorial.'' The party complained that the transition plan allowed him ''to control all tools for amending the Constitution.''
''What, if anything, have the country's new authorities appeared to have learned from the mistakes of the past,'' Mr. Ali wrote in an analysis. ''Not much.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Mohamed Morsi, the ousted president pictured on a banner, rallying near where Egyptian security forces killed dozens of Islamists on Monday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SPENCER PLATT/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); POLITICS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); COUPS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (74%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); JUDGES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (69%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (63%); GRANTS & GIFTS (63%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (60%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: GEORGE WASHINGTON UNIVERSITY (55%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (92%); MOHAMED ELBARADEI (75%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (74%) EGYPT (97%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



264 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 265 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Data Is Significantly Weaker Than Forecast

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER; Chris Buckley contributed reporting.

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Chinese trade data for June came in much weaker than expected on Wednesday, offering up the latest evidence that the Chinese economy has lost much of its previous vigor. 
Exports fell 3.1 percent from a year earlier -- the first drop since early 2012 -- the customs department reported, and imports decreased 0.7 percent, falling for the second month in a row. Both figures were far below the expectations of analysts, who had projected a 4 percent rise in exports and an 8 percent climb in imports.
The weak import data underlined slack demand within China. The export slump reflected weak overseas demand, but analysts said it was also partly attributable to a recent government crackdown on false export reporting by companies that had been seeking to bypass currency controls and move money into the country as a way to place a bet on further appreciation of the currency, the renminbi. The strengthening currency and rising wages in China have helped erode the country's competitiveness at a time when demand from export markets like the United States remains lackluster.
Growth in China has been cooling for many months as the new leadership in Beijing seeks to shift the economy away from a credit-driven and increasingly outdated growth model. For years, China has relied on heavy manufacturing, state-sponsored investment and exports to power growth. Aware of the limits of these growth drivers, China is now seeking to foster more domestic demand and raise productivity.
Policy makers have also been seeking to rein in the rapid credit growth that has built up in recent years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (92%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (76%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (59%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (92%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



265 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1106 words

HEADLINE: Buried Garage to Help Pay For New Park in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
In the film ''Upside Down,'' two worlds exist opposite one another, one looking up and the other down, with the potential for a shared future.
Perhaps that's too whimsical a description for an urban park and a garage below.
But the image loosely fits a new deal to construct Willoughby Square, the long-awaited public space that New York City officials consider Brooklyn's answer to Bryant Park in Midtown Manhattan. An entirely invisible world underneath the park -- in the form of a high-tech, mammoth underground garage -- will in part finance creation of the aboveground square, an agreement negotiated by the city that resurrects a cornerstone of the extensive plans for rezoning the borough's downtown. 
The square will span more than an acre on Willoughby Street, a half-block from the Fulton Street mall, with manicured lawns, walkways and gardens, as well as a site to commemorate the abolitionist movement. Below it, the garage will house about 700 cars at any given time, relying on a system of computers rather than garage attendants. It will be the largest automated parking facility in North America.
''This will be a marquee public space,'' said Tucker Reed, the president of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership, a nonprofit local development corporation that will oversee the park's maintenance. ''From the waterfront to the Barclays Center is the core of the 21st century downtown, and to have a public amenity like this right in the middle ties everything together.''
The square has been in the works for nearly a decade, one piece of the 2004 rezoning of downtown Brooklyn. In that time, the city has spent about $40 million on the project for land acquisition and design work and to relocate families and businesses. But Willoughby Square faltered during the economic downturn, with funding cuts and an inability to find a developer.
After renewing efforts three years ago, the city has finally struck a deal with the Willoughby Operating Company for the joint park and garage project. The Willoughby Operating Company, an affiliate of the American Development Group, will lease the city-owned land. It will use $6 million from city capital, the city's Economic Development Corporation and private contributions from surrounding developers to construct the park.
The Willoughby Operating Company has also agreed to pay for any cost overruns and to finance the excavation and development of the garage. It hired Automotion Parking Systems, which has a principal in common with the American Development Group, to build and run the garage.
''The Willoughby Square project is a critical piece of the Bloomberg administration's ongoing plan to revitalize Downtown Brooklyn -- an effort that has been making progress since 2004,'' Seth W. Pinsky, president of the city's Economic Development Corporation, said in a statement. ''Despite financing challenges associated with the economic downturn of 2008, the administration has remained steadfast in its commitment to the project, working collaboratively with all stakeholders to ensure it became a reality.''
The city hopes to begin preparing the site this summer, with demolition to follow. As part of that effort, the city's Department of Housing Preservation and Development is working to relocate the handful of residents who remain in the area. Forty of the 49 families have been moved, and two additional households are relocating to housing run by the New York City Housing Authority, according to the city. Other properties at the site include three vacant commercial buildings and some parking garages that are on city leases.
The city hopes to open the park in 2016.
The technology for the automated garage is critical in getting the project built, said Ari Milstein, the director of planning for Automotion. The excavation is costly and complex; several buildings need to be protected, and the subways run just four feet from the property line. But Automotion uses limited ramps and driving lanes, significantly reducing the space that must be excavated, the company says. In addition, the machinery that racks its cars can pack more vehicles into a smaller space than a traditional underground lot, increasing efficiency.
''While digging and excavation is expensive, we will be able to eliminate 1.4 million cubic yards because of our technology, which makes the project financially feasible,'' said Mr. Milstein. The company, which was formed in 2005, has built three other automated garages in the city, at 123 Baxter Street and 148 East 24th Street in Manhattan and 100 Wyckoff Avenue in Brooklyn.
To park at the garage, drivers will pull their cars into one of 12 entry rooms, where plasma screens, mirrors and laser scanners help direct the vehicle into the correct position. The driver then locks the car, takes the keys and heads to a kiosk to answer a few safety questions before swiping a credit card or key fob and leaving.
Light sensors measure the car's dimensions and cameras photograph the vehicle from several angles. Once that is complete, the car is lowered into a parking vault, where it is moved into a parking bay. The cars are parked side-to-side and bumper-to-bumper, two levels deep. Special machinery allows access to the cars in narrow and limited spaces. Upon returning, the driver simply swipes the same credit card or key fob at the kiosk, and the car is returned to the entry room, which is supposed to take no more than two minutes.
''We are really proud that New York City has validated automated parking in such a substantial way and that Automotion's innovative technology became the catalyst'' for the park, said Mr. Milstein.
Automotion's equipment costs roughly $25,000 a vehicle, which rises to $50,000 to $60,000 a car when the excavation costs are included, Mr. Milstein said. To build a conventional garage beneath Willoughby Square would run closer to $90,000 for each car, he said.
In addition to speed and efficiency, the technology has environmental benefits, he said. Because cars do not idle, the release of exhaust fumes is limited. The company estimates that the Willoughby Square garage, serving 250,000 customers a year, will prevent significant emissions of carbon, hydrogen and nitrous oxide into the atmosphere.
''Downtown has seen a real explosion of growth on many fronts, particularly residential and retail, and in order to keep apace with all the new investment and people coming to Downtown Brooklyn, an open space like Willoughby Square is immensely important,'' said Mr. Reed, of the Downtown Brooklyn Partnership. ''It has been complicated, with many fits and starts, but this is the realization of Brooklyn's Bryant Park.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A rendering of a garage that is to be built beneath a park in the Willoughby Square project. (B1)
A garage at 148 East 24th Street, Manhattan, run by Automotion Parking Systems, which will build and run the Brooklyn garage.
 The new parking structure will be automated, like the one on 24th Street, above. Ari Milstein, executive director of Automotion Parking Systems, says technology will permit the garage to be much smaller than a conventional one. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY SUZANNE DeCHILLO/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (86%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); CITY LIFE (77%); CITIES (77%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (76%); ZONING (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (73%); RELOCATIONS (67%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (62%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%) NEW YORK, USA (95%) UNITED STATES (95%); NORTH AMERICA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



266 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 495 words

HEADLINE: Jaguar Land Rover Threatened by Potential Strike

BYLINE: By STANLEY REED

 BODY:
LONDON -- A potential strike by workers that the logistics company DHL provides to Jaguar Land Rover's factories could threaten to derail the automaker's fast growth. 
Unite, a big British trade union, said this week that DHL workers in Halewood, where Jaguar Land Rover's best-selling Range Rover Evoque is made, had authorized a strike by an 86 percent vote. DHL staff at the company's two other plants at Solihull and Castle Bromwich in the Midlands had previously voted for action by around 70 percent, according to Ciaran Naidoo, a spokesman for the union.
Mr. Naidoo said that a strike, if it occurred, was probably weeks away. He said the union workers, who seek higher pay, were ''open for negotiation.''
The workers, who number about 2,000, are crucial to the plants' efficient functioning. Among other tasks, they whisk components from logistics centers at the factories to the assembly lines in small electric carts.
Jaguar Land Rover has been key to the revival of the British auto industry in recent years. Since being rescued through a $2.3 billion purchase from Ford Motor by Tata Motors of India in 2008, Jaguar Land Rover has experienced a sharp turnaround with the output of vehicles doubling since 2009, to almost 360,000 last year.
For the fiscal year that ended in March, the unit earned £1.7 billion, or $2.5 billion, on sales of £15.8 billion.
More than 80 percent of the vehicles are exported. China and the United States are the largest markets. Britain is one of the few countries in economically stagnant Europe where car production has been growing.
The potential labor disruption also highlights tensions over outside companies providing staff at factories, an increasingly common practice in Britain and elsewhere in Europe. The workers that Unite has balloted so far are full-time employees of DHL Supply Chain, a division of DHL. The union also plans to ballot temporary workers supplied by DHL through two agencies.
''We are extremely disappointed that Unite has rejected our very generous offer and voted in favor of industrial action,'' DHL said in a statement.
DHL said it had offered its workers a 4.5 percent pay increase for 2013, along with a one-time 1.7 percent cash payment. The company said that this would put its drivers who deliver the parts to the Jaguar factories in the trucking industry's upper quartile and the workers who distribute the parts within those plants in the top 10 percent for the British logistics industry. DHL says Unite is asking for a 20.6 percent increase for drivers and 12.8 percent for other workers.
Mr. Naidoo of Unite said what was at issue was ''pay terms and work conditions'' but declined to go into details.
The union contends its workers are not treated as well as the 14,500 Jaguar Land Rover manufacturing employees.
Jaguar Land Rover said it would ''put several measures into place to minimize the impact of any potential industrial action upon our production schedule and ultimately our customers.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: AUTOMOTIVE MFG (90%); AUTOMAKERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (90%); LABOR UNIONS (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); SUPPLY CHAIN MANAGEMENT (78%); EXPORT TRADE (77%); BALLOTS (76%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%); TEMPORARY EMPLOYMENT (73%); TRUCKING (50%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (90%); TATA MOTORS LTD (90%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (90%); F (NYSE) (90%); TTMT (LSE) (90%); TTM (NYSE) (90%); TATAMTRDVR (NSE) (90%); TATAMOTORS (NSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (90%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS336120 HEAVY DUTY TRUCK MANUFACTURING (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) EUROPE (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (90%); CHINA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); ENGLAND (59%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



267 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 785 words

HEADLINE: I.M.F. Trims Global Growth Forecast as Emerging Markets Lag

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Many major emerging economies have weakened since the spring, the International Monetary Fund said on Tuesday in the latest update to its economic forecasts, while advanced economies, including the United States and Europe, continue to trudge along with subpar growth and the euro area remains mired in recession.
The fund now expects the global economy to grow about 3.1 percent in 2013, the same rate as in 2012 and down from growth of 3.9 percent in 2011. That is 0.2 percentage points lower than the Washington-based fund forecast in April. 
Olivier Blanchard, the fund's chief economist, said in the periodic update that emerging economies were experiencing a ''slowdown in underlying growth,'' and the fund lowered its forecasts for China, India, Brazil, Mexico, South Africa and Russia, among other countries. ''It's clear that these countries are not going to grow at the same rate as they did before the crisis,'' he said.
Given that emerging economies have in no small part powered the global recovery, their slowdown has a significant effect on the rest of the world, the fund said. For instance, Mr. Blanchard said, if growth in the so-called BRICS -- Brazil, Russia, India, China and South Africa -- were 2 percentage points slower than expected, a half-percentage point would be knocked off the United States' growth rate. ''It matters,'' he said.
The fund said that the recession in the euro area had proved deeper than expected in recent months because of the persistent combination of tight credit conditions, low demand and government budget cutting. Next year, the fund's forecasters expect growth to pick up in the 17 countries of the euro zone, but to a slower rate than previously thought -- just 0.9 percent, down from about 1 percent as forecast in April.
Accenting that concern, Standard & Poor's, the credit ratings agency, on Tuesday cut Italy's long-term rating a notch to BBB, just two steps above ''junk'' status, citing the country's falling economic output and weakened financial system. The fund warned, as it has before, that the United States' tax and spending policies were slowing its recovery. Private demand is improving as the turnaround in the housing market helps to repair households' balance sheets and as the Federal Reserve continues its campaign to encourage investors to invest with accommodative monetary policy, the fund said. But tax increases and budget cuts were weighing on growth, it warned.
The fund cut its estimate of United States growth by 0.2 percentage points for both 2013 and 2014. It now sees the country's economy growing 1.7 percent this year and 2.7 percent next year.
Japan is one bright spot in the global economy, the I.M.F. said. The country has been mired in stagnation and deflation for a decade. But since the beginning of the year, the government has been engaged in an athletic effort to spur the economy with aggressive asset purchases by the central bank and a jolt of government spending. The I.M.F. raised its estimate of the country's current-year growth to 2 percent, up 0.5 percentage points from its April forecast.
Among emerging economies, different countries were suffering from different problems, the fund said. In some cases, infrastructure bottlenecks and other capacity constraints were stifling economic activity. In other cases, among big exporters like Russia, lower commodity prices were hurting growth.
Demand is weakening for goods from countries like Nigeria and South Africa, weighing down the whole sub-Saharan region, the fund said. And countries in the Middle East and North Africa continue to see disruptive political transitions, including violent ones.
The prospect of the Federal Reserve tapering its extraordinary asset-buying program -- essentially taking its foot off the accelerator, if not putting it on the brakes -- is sending shudders through the global economy, too. Financial markets have become more volatile and yields have increased in part because of uncertainty about the Fed's policies, the fund said.
The rising yields ''largely reflect a one-time re-pricing of risk,'' it said. ''However, if underlying vulnerabilities lead to additional portfolio shifts, further yield increases and continued higher volatility, the result could be sustained capital flow reversals and lower growth in emerging economies.''
The World Bank, the I.M.F.'s sister institution, has noted that businesses and governments in many lower-income developing economies have engaged in huge infrastructure projects financed with rates pushed down by the Fed. As interest rates rise, it has warned, some of those projects might fail -- revealing financial bubbles and causing economic turbulence in the coming months.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A worker bagging chrysotile, or white asbestos, at a Brazilian plant. Slower growth in developing nations is having a global impact. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UESLEI MARCELINO/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); EURO ZONE (89%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); RECESSION (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); GLOBALIZATION (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (86%); BRICS COUNTRIES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); HOUSING MARKET (73%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (63%); TAXES & TAXATION (63%); CREDIT BUREAUS (61%); TAX LAW (60%); MONETARY POLICY (60%)

ORGANIZATION: INTERNATIONAL MONETARY FUND (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); BRAZIL (93%); EUROPE (93%); INDIA (92%); CHINA (92%); ITALY (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



268 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; THE 30-MINUTE INTERVIEW; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Samuel Schneider

BYLINE: By VIVIAN MARINO

 BODY:
Mr. Schneider, 35, is a managing partner of Imperium Capital, a real estate development and investment company based in New York; its holdings include the Apple Store in SoHo.
Mr. Schneider started the company more than three years ago with Daniel Glaser.
Interview conducted and condensed by 
VIVIAN MARINO
Q. Tell me a little more about your company.
A. Multifamily, retail and office is really what we focus on. Our strategy is to buy in irreplaceable locations and hold for as long as we possibly can.
We started our company in January 2010 with the goal of going out and acquiring all different asset classes. The first property we acquired was on 60 Wooster, a 15,000-square-foot property on the corner of Wooster and Broome; and we bought that for $5.7 million. About a year later we bought the building in SoHo where the Apple Store is.
Q. How big is your portfolio now?
A. It's just under $400 million. We have 11 properties: We have about 750,000 square feet of office, which is one office complex, and that's One SoHo Square -- two buildings on Avenue of the Americas and Spring Street -- and we own the Apple Store at 103 Prince Street. We bought 103 Prince last December; they're the only tenant in the building.
Q. Some might question your decision to start a real estate company during a recession.
A. Yeah. But we thought it was the best time to start a company, because we're very confident and bullish in New York City. There were very few transactions for a couple of years. We knew Manhattan was always going to be a destination for capital around the world and that people wanted to be here.
Q. Where do you get the funds to buy these properties?
A. We have institutions and private individuals that we're partners with. We have different partners for different deals.
Q. Who are some of them?
A. We're partners with Stellar Management, Centurion Realty, Bronstein Properties and some funds. And every one of our deals is structured differently.
Q. I know you also borrow. Has credit loosened since you started out?
A. Yes. Lending has definitely thawed over the last 18 months. But I don't think there's any danger of a lending bubble. The interesting thing now is that there's so much equity being put into deals. We prefer light leverage for our properties. We want to make sure they're stable so we can weather any fluctuations in the market.
Q. Would you describe your business strategy as ''value-added''?
A. Yeah, definitely. Our goal in all of our properties is to add value over time, to improve everything about the property. Some of them involve a lot of physical work and redeveloping, renovating apartments and office space. For the Apple Store, there's nothing to do until the lease is up.
Q. Is the lease with Apple a triple-net where the tenant pays for most of the property expenses?
A. Yeah. And they actually last year put $20 million into their space. Couldn't ask for a better tenant. There's obviously a lot of cachet with them being the tenant.
Q. How long is the lease, and how much does Apple pay?
A. They go out till 2020.
I can't say exactly the rent they pay.
Q. What is the range of rents portfoliowide?
A. It's a completely wide range. We have retail rents that are over $400 a foot and under $50 a foot. We have residential rents that are $20 a foot for rent regulated/stabilized tenants; we have free-market apartments that pay $75 a foot.
Q. What's your occupancy rate portfoliowide?
A. We're over 90 percent.
Q. Let's talk about some of your other properties, like 161 Avenue of the Americas and 233 Spring Street.
A. We bought that a little over a year ago and we love the location. It's sort of on the border of Hudson Square and SoHo. It's office and retail. It's over 90 percent occupied. The location will continue to improve with the residential rezoning; it's going to be much more of a 24/7 community.
We haven't really done anything yet to that property. We have tenants whose leases go out a long time. We'll renovate their spaces as they come up.
Q. Where would you like to see the company in, say, the next five to 10 years?
A. I would love to keep on expanding and acquiring property in Manhattan and Brooklyn. And also in the future in other gateway cities: in Miami, Los Angeles, Chicago, Washington.
Q. Do you own your own home?
A. I rent an apartment on 22nd Street.
Q. Why aren't you buying?
A. It's too expensive.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Interview

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OFFICE PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (78%); RETAIL PROPERTY (78%); BUILDING RENOVATION (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



269 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 651 words

HEADLINE: Netanyahu Names Adviser Israeli Ambassador to U.S.

BYLINE: By JODI RUDOREN

 BODY:
JERUSALEM -- Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu on Tuesday named one of his closest advisers, Ron Dermer, to be Israel's next ambassador to the United States, a long-anticipated pick that had raised some concern in Washington because of Mr. Dermer's ties to Republicans.
Mr. Dermer, 42, a neoconservative who once worked for Frank Luntz, a Republican consultant, was seen by some as questioning President Obama's commitment to Israel during his first term, and of supporting Mr. Obama's Republican opponent, Mitt Romney, in last fall's presidential election. But since November, he has worked to repair his reputation in Washington and has won over many in the White House with the critical roles he played in negotiating a cease-fire after Israel's eight-day operation in the Gaza Strip, reconciling relations between Turkey and Israel and planning Mr. Obama's much-heralded March visit to Israel. 
Now, several people close to the Obama administration said, any suspicions about Mr. Dermer's political leanings are outweighed by the benefit of having an ambassador in Mr. Netanyahu's inner circle. He is expected to start the job in the fall, replacing Michael B. Oren, the outspoken and telegenic New Jersey-born historian who has served in Washington for four years.
''If you have someone you know is well connected to the prime minister it means you can always use that channel, no matter how sensitive the message is, and understand it's going to be communicated the way you want it,'' said Dennis B. Ross, a former Middle East envoy who is now counselor to the Washington Institute for Near East Policy. ''It reduces the prospect of surprise, it reduces the prospect of misunderstanding; that's something that's highly desired.''
Mr. Dermer was raised in Miami Beach, where his father and brother both served as mayor. He likes to point out that they were Democrats, though the family also supported President George W. Bush and his brother Jeb Bush, the Florida governor, both Republicans. He has a bachelor's degree from the Wharton School of Business at the University of Pennsylvania and a master's degree in philosophy, politics and economics from Oxford University.
After immigrating to Israel in 1997, Mr. Dermer wrote a book with Natan Sharansky, the Soviet dissident turned Israeli leader. In 2005, he renounced his American citizenship to take a job in the Israeli Embassy in Washington. When Mr. Netanyahu returned as prime minister in 2009, Mr. Dermer became his chief speechwriter and strategist, summoned frequently -- and at all hours -- for consultations and covert assignments on politics and foreign policy. He has often expressed skepticism about whether Palestinians truly want a state of their own and about their reliability as a peace partner.
A 2011 profile in Tablet, an online magazine, was titled ''Bibi's Brain,'' using Mr. Netanyahu's nickname, and said Mr. Dermer ''comes across as equal parts George Stephanopoulos and Karl Rove.'' In appointing him Tuesday, Mr. Netanyahu said in a statement that Mr. Dermer ''has all the qualities necessary to successfully fill this important post.''
Mr. Dermer, a yarmulke-wearing modern Orthodox Jew, and his wife, Rhoda, a Yale-educated lawyer, have four sons and a daughter born last month. He did not respond to requests for interviews.
Abraham H. Foxman, director of the Anti-Defamation League, said American Jewish leaders and Washington politicians alike would welcome Mr. Dermer's appointment because his ''life epitomizes the relationship between Israel and America,'' and ''most importantly, he's got the ear and trust of the prime minister.''
''The issue of whether or not he would be persona non grata, I think, has dissipated,'' Mr. Foxman said. ''It's important that whoever sits in that seat has a close working relationship with the prime minister. You don't need vacuums in that relationship, because vacuums are mischievous.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ron Dermer 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); ELECTIONS (73%); MAYORS (71%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (65%); CITIZENSHIP (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (60%); IMMIGRATION (60%)

PERSON: BENJAMIN NETANYAHU (90%); BARACK OBAMA (90%); MITT ROMNEY (79%); GEORGE W BUSH (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (90%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%) FLORIDA, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%) ISRAEL (98%); UNITED STATES (97%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



270 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1204 words

HEADLINE: Regulators Seek Stiffer Bank Rules On Capital

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS. 
Eduardo Porter, whose Economic Scene column normally appears on this page, is on vacation.

 BODY:
Confronted with large and complex banks, financial regulators have spent years drafting rules that are just as complicated.
On Tuesday, though, regulators signaled that the byzantine approach was inadequate. In a significant shift, the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, along with the Federal Reserve and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency, proposed stricter banking rules that aim for simplicity.
The agencies' move is part of their continuing efforts to strengthen the financial system and prevent situations where taxpayer-financed bailouts might be required.
The latest regulations focus squarely on capital, the financial cushion that banks have to hold to absorb potential losses. In theory, a bank with higher levels of capital is more likely to weather shocks and less likely to need government aid in a crisis. The proposed rules would raise a crucial requirement for capital held by the largest banks. 
''This will increase the overall financial stability of the system,'' said Thomas M. Hoenig, vice chairman of the F.D.I.C. ''This is an advantage to the banks over the long run, and to the economy. I am confident of that.''
The agencies' latest push could meet fierce resistance, however. As outlined, the new capital requirements could be costly for the largest banks, which have 60 days to comment on the rules.
The F.D.I.C. estimated that the country's eight biggest banks would have to find as much as $89 billion to comply with the proposed rules. An analysis of JPMorgan Chase's books suggested that it might have to bolster its capital position by $50 billion, a number the bank declined to verify.
The added burden for the big banks unnerves some in the industry.
''This goes a little higher than is necessary,'' said Tony Fratto, a partner at Hamilton Place Strategies, a research and public relations firm that has represented banking trade groups. Mr. Fratto said the new rules could weigh on the economy and undermine the global competitiveness of the largest American banks. ''It's our view that there has to be a trade-off with greater restrictions,'' Mr. Fratto said.
The regulators are acting at a time when some members of Congress are calling for tougher bank regulation because they believe the sweeping overhauls instituted soon after the financial crisis fell short. Senator Sherrod Brown, Democrat of Ohio, and Senator David Vitter, Republican of Louisiana, introduced a bill earlier this year that demanded capital increases exceeding what the agencies are now proposing.
''The Brown-Vitter bill really galvanized the debate about 'too big to fail' and capital ratios,'' said Camden R. Fine, president of the Independent Community Bankers of America, an industry group that supports the agencies' proposed rules. ''It really focused the regulators' attention on these capital issues.''
With their latest move, the regulators hope to make the rules clearer and tougher.
After the crisis, American regulators agreed to impose an international banking overhaul known as Basel III. Officials like Mr. Hoenig have criticized Basel regulations because they rely on a method called risk weighting to set capital. With risk weighting, banks estimate the perceived riskiness of assets. They are then allowed to hold less capital, or even no capital, against assets that appear less risky. A bank may have $1 trillion of assets on its balance sheet, for example, but many of those assets could have low risk weightings. As a result, the bank might be able to reduce its total of risk-weighted assets to $500 billion. It would then calculate its needed capital from that lower figure. With a capital requirement of 7 percent, the bank would need $35 billion in capital.
Critics have questioned the risk weighting process, arguing that it can be inconsistent and complex and leave banks short of capital.
The regulations proposed Tuesday are intended to compensate for the shortcomings of risk weighting. Using a yardstick known as the leverage ratio, the proposed rules would not allow the bank with $1 trillion in assets to discount any of that sum. In fact, the bank would have to increase the asset total it uses to calculate capital to reflect risks not readily apparent on its balance sheet.
The agencies estimate that the new calculations would increase the largest banks' asset totals by around 43 percent. The $1 trillion bank would, in essence, become a $1.43 trillion bank.
The proposed rules would also effectively require the largest banks to hold capital equivalent to 5 to 6 percent of their new asset totals. The hypothetical $1.43 trillion bank would therefore have to hold more than $70 billion. ''Risk weighting is based on a very arcane and complicated series of ratios and formulas that are immediately gamed,'' Mr. Hoenig said. ''The leverage ratio is a check on that.''
Stock market investors appeared to shrug off the tougher requirements. Shares in the largest banks, which have risen sharply in recent months, were mostly up on Tuesday.
''I am surprised by the market reaction,'' said Richard Ramsden, a bank analyst at Goldman Sachs. ''It's a fairly demanding proposal.''
Only two big banks, Wells Fargo and Bank of America, appear to already have sufficient capital to meet the proposed leverage ratio requirements, according to an analysis by Keefe, Bruyette & Woods.
But other big banks may be more strongly affected. JPMorgan Chase, the nation's largest bank by assets, has two large subsidiaries with federal deposit insurance. Those subsidiaries would have to hold 6 percent capital, according to the proposed rules. In theory, this could push up their combined capital requirement to $177 billion from the $127 billion they hold today.
Regulators may favor such an outcome because JPMorgan, like some other large banks, uses its insured subsidiaries to hold most of its derivatives. Derivatives, financial instruments that can be used to hedge risks or speculate, can be a source of losses and instability when markets are in severe turbulence.
The banks have until the end of 2017 to comply with the higher requirements. In the next two months, they are likely to push back hard. But with the economy strengthening and bank profits at record highs, the banks may not find sympathetic audiences.
Advocates of higher capital say it can increase confidence in the banking sector and promote lending.
Mr. Fratto, of Hamilton Place Strategies, is skeptical of that viewpoint. ''Do we want to conduct that experiment at a time when we've seen banks shedding assets, exiting businesses and pulling back a bit on lending?'' he asked.
These days, regulators have more power to press ahead in the face of any opposition. The Dodd-Frank overhaul passed by Congress in 2010 gave regulators added leeway to toughen rules for large banks. The leverage ratio is only one initiative regulators are pursuing. The Federal Reserve, for example, is going to propose a rule that raises capital requirements for banks that borrow heavily in the markets. But even with the flurry of new rules, Mr. Hoenig says he does not think the banks' hands will be tied.
''They have plenty of flexibility to lend and invest,'' he said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Thomas Hoenig, a Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation official. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YURI GRIPAS/REUTERS) (B5) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); BANKING LAW (78%); BAILOUTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COMMUNITY BANKS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (66%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (50%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (93%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (91%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (60%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (58%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (91%); JPM (LSE) (91%); 8634 (TSE) (91%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (93%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (93%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (91%)

PERSON: SHERROD BROWN (53%); DAVID VITTER (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



271 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 826 words

HEADLINE: NYSE Euronext to Take Over Administration of Libor

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
5:30 p.m. | Updated The administration of a distinctly British institution is being handed over to an American company.
The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange won a contract on Tuesday to administer and improve the benchmark interest rate known as Libor, long run by the British Bankers' Association.
The move could help provide a fresh start for Libor, or the London interbank offered rate, which is used to determine the cost of short-term loans around the world. The banks that help set the rate each day have been accused of conspiring to rig the rate for their own benefit before and during the financial crisis, leading to billions of dollars in fines and a few arrests. 
The move is a symbolic blow to a British financial industry that has been rocked by scandals and forced to look to the outside for leadership. Last week, a Canadian, Mark Carney, took over leadership of the Bank of England.
The London Stock Exchange was among the four companies that also bid for the Libor contract, said a person briefed on the process, who spoke on the condition of anonymity ahead of a public announcement.
Regulators are taking a broader look at the integrity of the financial data that the global financial system relies on. Libor has already been substantially changed, but some regulators in the United States have said that Libor is too flawed to be fixed and should be replaced.
The job of fixing Libor will not be an easy one. The benchmark is supposed to represent the rate at which banks lend money to each other on an unsecured basis. This is difficult given that banks have generally been unwilling to make unsecured loans to each other since the financial crisis.
Banks have said that their submissions for Libor are an estimate of what the rate would be if they did lend the money. But Gary Gensler, the chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission in the United States, has said publicly that financial institutions should move away from Libor -- which he calls a ''fiction'' -- and use benchmarks derived from some sort of transaction.
One of Mr. Gensler's fellow commissioners at the C.F.T.C., Bart Chilton, was critical of the decision to continue allowing Libor to be administered by a company in the financial industry.
''We had a fox guarding the henhouse issue here and we should learn from that,'' Mr. Chilton said. ''I firmly believe that having a truly neutral third-party administrator would be the best alternative, and I'm not sure that an exchange is the proper choice.''
Administering Libor is more a matter of prestige than a source of big revenue. NYSE Euronext is paying only a nominal £1 fee for the right to the contract, according to a person briefed on the deal.
A few weeks ago, European regulators approved NYSE Euronext's sale to the IntercontinentalExchange, or ICE, an operator of derivatives exchanges based in Atlanta. NYSE Euronext has been trying to diversify its business beyond its traditional stock exchanges as stock trading volumes and revenue have fallen steadily.
Finbarr Hutcheson, the chief executive of NYSE Liffe, a NYSE Euronext subsidiary in London, said in a statement that his group was interested in ''continuing the process of restoring credibility, trust and integrity in Libor as a key global benchmark.''
Under the new contract, Libor will keep its name and will remain under the oversight of British regulators. NYSE Euronext is setting up a new subsidiary in London that will run the process. NYSE Euronext is set to take over the administration of Libor early next year.
A new subsidiary, NYSE Euronext Rate Administration Ltd., ''will be able to leverage NYSE Euronext's trusted brand, long regulatory experience and market-leading technical ability to return confidence to the administration of Libor,'' according to a statement from the company.
Until now, the daily process through which Libor is set has been run by the British Bankers' Association, an industry group in London. A British government review of Libor led by Martin Wheatley, at the time the managing director of Britain's Financial Services Authority, recommended last fall that the responsibility for formulating Libor should be given to an ''independent party.''
The company was picked by an independent committee led by Sarah Hogg, chairwoman of the regulator responsible for financial reporting, after a tender process that started in February. The deal will still need to be approved by the Financial Conduct Authority of Britain, now led by Mr. Wheatley.
The so-called Wheatley Review recommended that Libor continue to be set through daily consultations with the world's largest banks. But while those banks now provide estimates of how much they are charging for short-term loans, in the future the administrators of Libor are also supposed to use data from actual short-term loans.
Julia Werdigier contributed reporting from London.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martin Wheatley led a panel that recommended that Libor be formulated independently. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDY RAIN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (91%); STOCK EXCHANGES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); HOLDING COMPANIES (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONTRACT AWARDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (77%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); FUTURES (77%); CENTRAL BANKS (77%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); SCANDALS (74%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (72%); CONSPIRACY (70%); FINES & PENALTIES (69%); INTERBANK LENDING (68%)

COMPANY: NYSE EURONEXT INC (58%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); BANK OF ENGLAND (56%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (53%)

ORGANIZATION: BRITISH BANKERS' ASSOCIATION (58%)

TICKER: NYX (PAR) (58%); NYX (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (94%); UNITED KINGDOM (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



272 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1105 words

HEADLINE: At Restaurant, Delay Is Help On Health Law

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH

 BODY:
ELLICOTT CITY, Md. -- Eric King has worked diligently to keep his family's 35-year-old seafood restaurant here viable, most recently by expanding the menu beyond its well-loved crab cakes and other traditional dishes to draw a younger, freer-spending crowd.
The restaurant, Shanty Grille, is on track to make a profit this year -- about $80,000, Mr. King predicts -- for the first time since the economic downturn. Yet the prospect of providing health insurance to every full-time worker or paying a penalty starting in January, a provision of the Obama health care law, has overshadowed the good news.
Businesses with the equivalent of more than 50 full-time employees are subject to the rule, and Shanty Grille hovers right around that threshold. 
Then came last week's announcement that the mandate would be delayed a year after business owners begged the Obama administration for more time. Mr. King, who had been fretting for three years about whether the restaurant would be subject to the mandate and how it would affect the bottom line, was thrilled.
''It gives us another year to plan,'' he said Friday, sitting in the Grille's sleek, newly expanded pub as customers cracked crabs at the bar. ''If we fall below the 50, fantastic. If we're above, then we'll have another year to figure out how to offset these costs.''
Shanty Grille already provides health insurance to 9 of its 85 employees, paying part of the premium for each at a total cost of about $26,000 a year. The chosen group includes the restaurant's managers and chefs -- skilled workers, Mr. King said, whom ''I really want to take care of and retain.''
Others can opt into the plan, but only if they pay the full cost, about $4,700 this year. Only one, a waitress in her 50s, has done so. (Mr. King and his wife and children are insured through a smaller family business across the street, a fish market that does not employ enough people to have to comply with the mandate.)
If Mr. King had the equivalent of 50 full-time employees under the health care law, which uses a complex formula to determine precisely who is eligible for coverage, he estimates that would have to cover a total of 22 employees. That would bring his costs to about $62,000 a year if premiums did not rise, he said.
''If there's no return on your investment,'' he said, ''there's not really a point anymore. I put in 70, 75 hours a week. Is it really worth it?''
Restaurant owners have been among the most vocal critics of the employer mandate, saying it could hurt them more than other businesses in part because their profit margins tend to be low. Some have said they will lay off workers or shift more of them to part-time status to avoid having to comply.
Mr. King thinks his current system is fair -- he offers insurance to his most valuable employees, who are also the most likely to stick around -- and points to low turnover as evidence that his uninsured servers, busboys, dishwashers, line cooks and hosts are content. Most are young and in good health.
He said ''not a soul'' among the employees at Shanty Grille had asked him to comply with the mandate.
''Most of my servers are 25 to 30 years old,'' he said. ''They'd rather take the $200 a month and put it in a bar bill as opposed to insurance.''
Yet at least one of Mr. King's young, uninsured employees is anxious about not having medical coverage -- so much that this week, he is starting a second job that comes with health benefits. The employee, Vince Ritter, a bartender, started working at Shanty Grille a decade ago, when he was 16. The health care law allowed him to be covered under his parents' insurance plan for the last few years. But next week, when he turns 26, he will by law lose that coverage.
That makes him nervous, he said, because he plays sports and has seen uninsured friends -- including a colleague at Shanty Grille who tore a knee ligament on the basketball court -- have to pay thousands of dollars for urgent care.
''I'll be honest with you, if I could have gotten it through here I probably would have just stayed,'' Mr. Ritter said. ''I love this place.''
Good coverage has always been important to Faye McConnell, the pantry chef, one of the few who get health insurance through the restaurant. She worries that if the restaurant has to cover all full-time workers, her own plan could become more expensive or not as good.
''A business can only put out so much,'' said Ms. McConnell, 62, who has worked at Shanty Grille for 15 years. ''It might help people, but it seems like it's also going to hurt people. That's what I'm totally afraid of.''
Under the health care law, most Americans will be required to have insurance as of January 2014 or face tax penalties. The decision to delay the employer mandate does not affect this broader requirement, the cornerstone of Mr. Obama's plan to reduce the ranks of the uninsured by 25 million over the next decade.
People who were likely to gain coverage through their employers next year, including Shanty Grille employees, must now either pay the tax penalty -- 1 percent of their household's taxable income or $95 per adult in the household, whichever is greater, in 2014 -- or buy their own insurance through newly created markets in their states known as exchanges.
Businesses that do not comply with the mandate will also face penalties. Some employers have said they would prefer paying penalties to providing insurance, which would be more costly. But Mr. King said he could not live with that choice if it meant no longer covering anyone.
''We'd probably close first,'' he said. ''Even if I only earned a $20,000 profit, I couldn't look at my employees who helped us get to where we are and say, 'I'm putting $20,000 in my pocket but I can't put it toward you guys.' ''
On Monday, with an adding machine and an Excel spreadsheet, Mr. King determined that he had the equivalent of only 47 full-time employees in the year that ended June 30, according to the complex formula that the law relies on. That was down from 54 for the 2012 calendar year. Mr. King said he had cut back some busboy hours in recent months and had not replaced several employees who left. Meanwhile, he said, some servers worked just below the 130 hours per month that the law considers full time.
Mr. King said he had been trying ''to run a little bit sleeker,'' not to dodge the employer mandate but to reduce what he said were above-average labor costs for the restaurant industry. Still, he said he was greatly relieved that he might not have to provide insurance to more workers after all. The only drawback is that the restaurant could not grow.
''No more expansion,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: From left, Eric King, owner of Shanty Grille, is happy to have another year to determine how much health coverage he will be obliged to offer. Vince Ritter, a bartender, has started working a second job that comes with health benefits. Faye McConnell, one of the few employees who get health insurance through the restaurant, worries that if it has to expand coverage, her benefits may suffer. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY MATT ROTH FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEALTH CARE LAW (90%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (90%); RESTAURANTS (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); FAMILY COMPANIES (78%); FAMILY (78%); INSURANCE COVERAGE (75%); PERSONAL FINANCE (75%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (71%); RETURN ON INVESTMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



273 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1332 words

HEADLINE: Egypt Is Arena For Influence Of Arab Rivals

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Two of the Persian Gulf's richest monarchies pledged $8 billion in cash and loans to Egypt on Tuesday, a decision that was aimed not only at shoring up a shaky transitional government, but also at undermining their Islamist rivals and strengthening their allies across a newly turbulent Middle East.
The robust financial aid package announced by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates came a day after the Egyptian military killed dozens of Muslim Brotherhood members protesting last week's military ouster of Egypt's Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi. The aid package underscored a continuing regional contest for influence between Saudi Arabia and Qatar, one that has accelerated since the Arab uprising upended the status quo and brought Islamists to power.
Qatar, in alliance with Turkey, has given strong financial and diplomatic support to the Muslim Brotherhood, but also to other Islamists operating on the battlefields of Syria and, before that, Libya. Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, by comparison, have sought to restore the old, authoritarian order, fearful that Islamist movements and calls for democracy would destabilize their own nations. 
The promise to provide so much assistance also highlighted the limits of American leverage: the United States provides Egypt $1.5 billion in annual aid, a small fraction of what the gulf states have promised. But the gulf intervention contrasted sharply with the Obama administration's uncertainty about how to respond to the military takeover, and more broadly, how to wield influence across an increasingly chaotic and fragmented Arab world where American interests are hard to define.
The White House has said it is reviewing the circumstances of the takeover before making a decision on the annual aid to Egypt -- which some in Congress, notably Senator John McCain of Arizona, have said should be suspended, calling the takeover a coup d'état. But on Tuesday, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, struck a somewhat different tone, saying the administration was encouraged by the timetable provided by Egypt's interim authorities for a transition to elections and a fully civilian government.
The Saudis and Emiratis were nearly buoyant at the military's move to oust Mr. Morsi. Both are deeply hostile to the Brotherhood's Islamist-cum-democratic agenda, which they see as a threat both to their own monarchical legitimacy and to regional stability. Qatar, by contrast, provided about $8 billion in aid to Mr. Morsi's government during his yearlong tenure, and Turkey offered loans of $2 billion.
The tensions between Qatar and Saudi Arabia are older and broader than the Arab uprisings that began in 2011. Saudi Arabia, which prefers to work its checkbook diplomacy quietly and behind the scenes, sees itself as the regional leader. But the Qataris have for years fashioned an outsize foreign policy, often rebuffing Saudi Arabia's perceived interests, using its wealth and Al Jazeera, the television network it built, to play a decisive role in some of the region's most volatile and important events.
Qatar, host to the largest American military base in the Middle East, has also eagerly financed Islamists in Tunisia, Libya, Syria and Egypt, often siding with the Muslim Brotherhood or its affiliates, like Hamas. Qatar angered the Saudis (and the Obama administration) by supporting Islamist rebels in Syria and providing some heavier weapons, like shoulder-fired missiles, against American advice.
Suddenly, some of the tables have turned on Qatar.
With the rise of the Brotherhood, the Saudis had largely cut off aid to Mr. Morsi's government and ignored American requests to help Egypt manage a worsening economic crisis. After Mr. Morsi was ousted by the Egyptian military, the Saudi and Emirati governments were quick to issue strong statements of support for the transition. On Friday night, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia personally called Egypt's army chief, Gen. Abdel-Fattah el Sisi, to reinforce his backing for the caretaker government, The Associated Press reported.
''This is clearly a setback for the ideology that Qatar and Turkey support and encourage,'' said one Arab official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to antagonize two powerful nations. ''If political Islam was a stock, it would have gone down dramatically over the past week.''
Qatari officials declined to comment on the rivalry. But one Qatari official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Qatar's financial aid in the past had been to the Egyptian people, not any individual figure or party.
The Qataris suffered two other, lesser setbacks in recent days: on Monday, 22 journalists at Al Jazeera resigned en masse, citing what they said was the station's biased coverage of the Brotherhood. Al Jazeera's bias in favor of the Islamist group has often been cited as a grievance against Qatar's rulers, who are accused of using the station as an arm of their activist foreign policy.
Also on Tuesday, Ghassan Hitto, the prime minister of the main Syrian exile opposition group -- who was seen as favorable to Qatar -- resigned. Although the reasons for his resignation were not clear, it was generally viewed as a concession to Saudi Arabia, which had signaled its discontent with him.
Some analysts say Qatar has already begun to rein in its aggressive and eclectic foreign policy, which has included a willingness to engage with Iran that infuriated its Saudi neighbors. Last week, Qatar's government joined Saudi Arabia and others in issuing a message of support to the transitional government installed by the Egyptian military, even as its allies in the Brotherhood protested furiously against what they called a military coup.
''It's starting to look as if the Qataris have ceased playing the role of troublemaker and freelancer in the region, and falling in behind the Saudis,'' said Peter Harling, an adviser with the International Crisis Group. ''Events are allowing the Saudis to assume a regional leadership role that no one else can play right now.''
Despite Qatar's strong financial support for Mr. Morsi's government, some analysts say Qatari officials had privately become very critical of his many blunders over the past year. ''The Qataris were not happy with the decision to take Morsi out, but they were not so happy with Morsi, either,'' said Mustafa Alani, an analyst with the Dubai-based Gulf Research Center.
The shift in Qatar's role may also be related to the accession last month of the new Qatari emir, Sheik Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, Mr. Alani said. The emir led a joint Saudi-Qatari committee formed in 2007 to reduce tensions between the two countries, and he is widely thought to take a less aggressive approach to foreign policy than his father, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the former emir.
Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood was seen by some analysts as a policy based on pragmatism rather than ideology -- it was viewed as a populist group that could deliver results, unlike its more secular and often more fractious rivals. That perception, too, may change now that the Brotherhood has been deposed in Egypt. Turkey's support for Brotherhood affiliates was more a matter of shared principles: Turkey's governing party is a mildly Islamist and populist group. But Turkey's own struggles with a domestic protest movement in the past two months is likely to curtail its appetite for foreign adventures.
The Qatari and Turkish financial aid to Mr. Morsi's government last year helped him to avert painful economic reforms being urged by the International Monetary Fund as the price for its own $4.8 billion aid package. The United States believes those changes -- including a reduction of food and electricity subsidies -- are necessary to help bring Egypt out of its crushing deficit and economic malaise.
But the Saudi and Emirati aid may serve the same purpose, staving off unpopular decisions and limiting another potential avenue of American influence over Egypt's next government.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The interim Egyptian president, Adli Mansour, center, met with officials of the United Arab Emirates in Cairo on Tuesday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EGYPTIAN PRESIDENCY/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A8) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); COUPS (76%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (66%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (55%); JOHN MCCAIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (79%) INDIAN OCEAN (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) EGYPT (99%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (94%); GULF STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); TURKEY (92%); SYRIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



274 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1202 words

HEADLINE: Frenchman With Wide-Ranging Résumé Returns to Cup

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY

 BODY:
ALAMEDA, Calif. -- ''I like to be a free electron,'' Loïck Peyron said.
At 53, Peyron has certainly bounced around the sailing world and its challenges: from the single-handed privations of the Vendée Globe round-the-world race to the intense teamwork required to claim the Jules Verne Trophy to the hundreds of other races in the multihulls that he understands as well as any other sailor.
It has been a remarkably eclectic run, and the albatross-size wingspan of Peyron's career is perhaps wider than that of any of the other men who will try to win the America's Cup between now and September.
Peyron first dreamed of the Cup when he was a boy on summer vacation in the south of France in 1970. The Frenchman Baron Marcel Bich was challenging for it in Newport, R.I., and Peyron built himself a small dinghy with a sheet stolen from his mother for a sail. Peyron said his father jokingly wrote on the sail, ''le pessimiste, Newport.'' 
It would take nearly 40 years for Peyron to make it into the America's Cup itself, serving as co-helmsman with Ernesto Bertarelli, the owner of the Swiss team Alinghi, which was beaten by BMW Oracle in a contentious giant multihull duel in Valencia, Spain, in 2010.
''The way Larry won it on the water was impressive; the way in which they invited themselves into the final was not,'' said Peyron, referring to Oracle's billionaire owner, Larry Ellison, and the legal machinations that preceded the event that year. ''But that was another problem, a legal problem. After that, the way in which they reacted and tried to revolutionize and give a face-lift to this old grandmother of an event was superb.''
The odds at this stage are heavily against him and his latest employer, Artemis Racing, which is struggling to recover from the loss of its first boat in a capsizing that resulted in the death of a British crew member, Andrew Simpson.
The surprise and disappointment is that Peyron, a star in his native France, is not running his own team in this Cup. When it became clear that it was going to be contested in 72-foot catamarans, it seemed as if France, with its long-established taste for multihulls, finally might play a central role in a sport historically dominated by English-speaking nations.
But instead of uniting forces, as Team New Zealand has done with tens of millions of dollars in governmental support, the leading French sailors started competing challengers: Aleph and Energy Team. Energy Team was founded by Peyron and his older brother Bruno, also a prominent offshore sailor in France. But even the Peyrons' star power was not enough to generate the financing from home necessary to mount a viable challenge for the 34th Cup.
Neither French team made it to the starting line, and the Peyron brothers' failure was also, in some fashion, a failure of the America's Cup organizers to limit costs and encourage participation. Only three challengers are involved in the Louis Vuitton Cup, the winner of which will face Oracle Team USA in September for the America's Cup, and none of the challenging syndicates is from Asia. It is quite a comedown from the 11 challengers in the last Louis Vuitton Cup, in 2007.
Peyron said Energy Team's goal was to raise about $52 million, well below the reported operating budgets of Artemis and the defender, Oracle Team USA.
''We were very far away financially,'' Peyron said in a recent interview at Artemis's base.
''It was complicated, and it still is,'' he said. ''The explanation is simple. It's because France is a bit of an exception in the world of sailing. It has been so well nourished by other events for so many years: the Vendée Globe, the Route du Rhum, the Transat. The French sailing heroes are not the sailors who have been in the America's Cup. Never. The America's Cup has always been a game that did not interest people.''
The high-speed approach embraced this time has given the Cup a more adventurous edge, clearly more in line with the extreme sailing events that the French relish. But it still was not enough to open the commercial gates.
''We are 100 percent commercial; we need sponsors,'' Peyron said. ''If companies are going to invest euros, we have to give them a guaranteed return, and today, politically in France, it would be difficult. There is already the timing in terms of politics and the economy, and there is also a cultural problem in France, a very French problem. We don't like the rich.''
Three of the four teams in this Cup are owned by extremely wealthy men: Luna Rossa Challenge by Patrizio Bertelli, the chief executive of the fashion brand Prada; Artemis by Torbjorn Tornqvist, a Swedish oil trader with strong Russian business connections; and Oracle by Ellison, the technology mogul who has been ranked by Forbes as the world's fifth-richest individual, with a net worth estimated at $43 billion.
But Peyron does not sound bitter about the failure of his team to make the financial cut.
''There's no frustration at all; none; truly,'' he said. ''I much prefer to be here with people where I can exploit 100 percent of my potential rather than losing energy with my brother or someone else trying to scramble for the means to pull this off.''
Though Artemis apparently remains well financed, it is scrambling to get its second and now only boat ready to take part in the Louis Vuitton Cup.
Peyron is quite accustomed to danger at sea. He has raced around the world alone, finishing second in the first edition of the Vendée Globe in 1989-90 and then failing to finish on two other occasions. In the first Vendée Globe, he provided emergency assistance to the sailor Philippe Poupon in the open ocean, righting his ketch after it had been knocked on its side during a storm.
Last year, he was captain of the crew of 14 that won the Jules Verne Trophy on the 130-foot Banque Populaire V, the world's largest racing trimaran. The trophy is awarded to the crew that sails around the world fastest, and Peyron's team finished in 45 days 13 hours and just under 43 minutes to return the trophy to the Peyron family. (Bruno Peyron was the one who helped conceive the event and first won the trophy in 1993.)
After icebergs and the perils of the southern ocean, San Francisco Bay would seem a much less daunting prospect, but it was where Simpson died May 9, with Peyron, one of the two helmsmen, following the team's AC72 in a chase boat when the capsizing occurred, trapping Simpson under the wreckage.
''The danger was known in this case,'' Peyron said. ''We've already seen one capsizing a few months ago, and we know these boats are not very stable because the wing sails are too big. The pity is that with smaller wings, they could be safer and faster.''
Peyron, married with four children, has chosen to keep taking the risks, chosen to remain one of professional sailing's free electrons. It is a passion as much as a profession, and when his America's Cup duties with Artemis are finished, he plans -- unsurprisingly -- to try something new by competing in his first Moth world championships in October in Hawaii.
Then, in November, he and his wife, Christine, plan to cross the Atlantic in a catamaran.
''She's never sailed across,'' Peyron said. ''It will be just the two of us, en amoureux.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Loïck Peyron, the skipper of Energy Team, celebrating after a victory in Italy in May 2012. He raced in the 2010 America's Cup. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ANDREA MEROLA/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SAILING (90%); BOAT RACING (90%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (64%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (60%)

COMPANY: ORACLE CORP (67%)

TICKER: ORCL (NYSE) (67%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (67%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (67%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (67%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (67%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (67%)

PERSON: ERNESTO BERTARELLI (54%); LAWRENCE J ELLISON (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEWPORT, RI, USA (90%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (74%) RHODE ISLAND, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (74%) UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (91%); SPAIN (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



275 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1356 words

HEADLINE: S.E.C. Hopes for Validation in Goldman Trader Case

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS and SUSANNE CRAIG

 BODY:
Three years ago, in the shadow of the financial crisis, some of the biggest banks on Wall Street slipped into the government's cross hairs.
Now, after striking nine-figure settlements with firms like Goldman Sachs and JPMorgan Chase, the government's campaign to punish Wall Street over risky investments sold before the crisis will culminate in an unlikely way -- with the civil trial of a 34-year-old Frenchman, Fabrice P. Tourre.
In a federal courtroom in Lower Manhattan next week, the former midlevel Goldman employee will fight the Securities and Exchange Commission's claim that he was part of a conspiracy to mislead investors when selling a mortgage security that ultimately failed. Mr. Tourre, a trader stationed in the bowels of Goldman's mortgage machine when the S.E.C. thrust him into the spotlight, is one of only a handful of employees at big Wall Street firms to land in court over the crisis. 
The rarity of the trial underpins its importance. For Mr. Tourre, who is now enrolled in a doctoral economics program at the University of Chicago, an unfavorable verdict could yield a fine, or worse, a ban from the securities industry. A victory in court, however, would offer only belated consolation to Goldman, which is paying for his defense. For the S.E.C., an agency still dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis, the trial is a defining moment that follows one courtroom disappointment after another.
When a jury cleared a midlevel Citigroup employee in a mortgage-bond trial, the S.E.C. took measures to buoy its case against Mr. Tourre. For one, it talked to a private jury consultant, people briefed on the matter said, though it is unclear whether the agency hired the firm. The head of the agency's trial team is also leading the Goldman case himself, a surprising move.
''Their reputation for trying cases hangs in the balance,'' said Thomas A. Sporkin, who was a senior S.E.C. enforcement official until last year when he departed for the law firm Buckley Sandler. ''This is their opportunity to show Wall Street that they can prevail against an individual at trial.''
Both sides were in court Tuesday sparring over what the jury should -- and shouldn't hear. The judge, Katherine B. Forrest, ruled that the defense can question a crucial S.E.C. witness, a woman who was an executive of a company that helped arrange the mortgage security, about the agency's eve-of-trial decision to drop an unrelated investigation against her, a reprieve Mr. Tourre's lawyers have argued might color her testimony.
The S.E.C. also walked away with a major victory: Judge Forrest permitted the agency to argue that Mr. Tourre was part of larger conspiracy at Goldman, a move that will allow evidence beyond Mr. Tourre's actions.
Yet even if it secures a victory at trial, the S.E.C. will probably face scrutiny all the same, as critics question why the agency chose to make Mr. Tourre the face of the financial crisis. Rather than take aim at a high-flying executive, the agency filed its most prominent crisis-era case against someone barely known on Wall Street, a concern that also hampered the Citigroup case, when the foreman of the jury asked, ''Why didn't they go after the higher-ups rather than a fall guy?''
An S.E.C. spokeswoman declined to comment. But in the past, the agency has defended its actions tied to the crisis, noting that it has sued 66 C.E.O.'s and other senior officers in such cases, including a few executives from Wall Street and major mortgage lenders.
When the S.E.C. filed its case against Goldman and Mr. Tourre in April 2010, the allegations shook the bank. Within months, it agreed to pay a $550 million fine, without admitting or denying guilt, then the largest penalty ever levied on Wall Street.
Mr. Tourre, however, rejected a deal on the eve of Goldman's settlement, people briefed on the matter said. The deal, the people said, would have required Mr. Tourre to face a lifetime ban from the securities industry and a cash penalty -- virtually the same punishment he would face if found liable at trial. The agency has not offered to settle since.
At the heart of the agency's case is the contention that in 2007 Mr. Tourre and Goldman sold investors a mortgage security, known as Abacus, without disclosing a crucial fact: a hedge fund run by the billionaire John A. Paulson helped construct Abacus and then bet against it. The S.E.C. cited Goldman for ''misstating and omitting key facts'' about Mr. Paulson's involvement. When the mortgage market soured, a German bank and a handful of other sophisticated investors lost more than $1 billion on the deal.
''The S.E.C. essentially argues that Tourre handed Little Red Riding Hood an invitation to grandmother's house while concealing the fact that it was written by the Big Bad Wolf,'' Judge Forrest explained in a recent ruling.
To win its case, the S.E.C. must show by a preponderance of the evidence that Mr. Tourre ''committed a fraudulent act that was material.'' The verdict is likely to hinge on whether the S.E.C. can prove what it called two basic acts of ''deception'' stemming from January 2007, when Mr. Paulson's hedge fund asked Goldman to create an investment worth betting against.
What led to the first misstep, according to the S.E.C., was Goldman's decision to use ACA Management to pick the underlying mortgage bonds for the investment. ACA worked closely with Mr. Paulson's hedge fund in the selection process, the S.E.C. said.
But in a marketing document that Goldman submitted to investors, the bank said the portfolio was ''selected by ACA,'' with no mention of Mr. Paulson.
Mr. Tourre's lawyers, however, are expected to note that it was unheard-of for any Wall Street bank to disclose the name of the hedge fund betting against an investment. And e-mails reviewed by The New York Times suggest that the main investor in Abacus, the German bank IKB Deutsche Industriebank, knew the contents of the deal and possibly even removed certain bonds from its makeup. In the two March 2007 e-mails, Goldman employees sent three ''replacement'' bonds to an IKB executive, saying ''hopefully these will work.''
In turn, the S.E.C. is expected to outline a second possible misstep by Mr. Tourre tied to his dealing with ACA. Mr. Tourre, the S.E.C. said, misled ACA into thinking that Mr. Paulson was investing in the bonds rather than betting against it. In a January 2007 e-mail, Mr. Tourre falsely told ACA that one chunk of Abacus was ''pre-committed,'' meaning that an unnamed investor already agreed to buy it. In a deposition, he later acknowledged that his e-mail ''could have been more accurate.''
ACA, the S.E.C. said, interpreted Mr. Toure's e-mail to mean that Mr. Paulson was the unnamed investor. And when that impression was conveyed to Mr. Tourre in an e-mail, according to the S.E.C., he failed to immediately correct it.
ACA's chief executive later told the S.E.C. that he ''would not have voted to approve'' his company's involvement in Abacus had he known of Mr. Paulson's strategy.
Yet Mr. Tourre's lawyers will argue that if ACA did not know of Mr. Paulson's bet against Abacus, it should have. ACA, the lawyers note, was a sophisticated player and met separately with Mr. Paulson's team to discuss the Abacus deal. Goldman, the lawyers argue, also sent ACA ''a steady stream'' of documents correcting Mr. Tourre's misstatement.
''Fabrice Tourre has done nothing wrong. He is confident that when all the evidence is considered, the jury will soundly reject the S.E.C.'s charge,'' his lawyers, Pamela Chepiga and Sean Coffey, said in a statement.
The defense received additional ammunition on Tuesday when Judge Forrest ruled that the S.E.C. could not fully block mention of newspaper articles from 2007 that discussed Mr. Paulson's penchant for betting against the mortgage market.
The judge has yet to rule on whether to allow the S.E.C. to introduce some of the case's most colorful e-mails, notably one where Mr. Tourre says a friend had nicknamed him ''Fabulous Fab,'' and jokes that he sold toxic real estate bonds to widows and orphans.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Fabrice Tourre, formerly of Goldman, faces claims that he was part of a conspiracy to mislead investors on a mortgage security. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MIKE SEGAR/REUTERS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (89%); JURY TRIALS (89%); CONSPIRACY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BONDS (78%); LAWYERS (77%); LEGAL SERVICES (77%); EVIDENCE (76%); VERDICTS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); TESTIMONY (76%); INVESTIGATIONS (60%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

ORGANIZATION: SECURITIES & EXCHANGE COMMISSION (91%); UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO (55%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (55%) NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (55%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



276 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; SQUARE FEET; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1237 words

HEADLINE: Mormon-Backed Mall Breathes Life Into Salt Lake City

BYLINE: By CAITLIN KELLY; Cadence Woodland contributed reporting from Salt Lake City.

 BODY:
Across the street from Tiffany and other luxury stores at the City Creek Center, the Salt Lake Temple stands as a symbol of the commercial investment of the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints.
The mall, which opened a little more than a year ago, is the centerpiece of a mixed-use development that was financed entirely by the church, which spent, by any estimate, hundreds of millions of dollars. Although the combination of commerce and religion in this case may seem unusual, business leaders and developers credit the mall with spurring new business and enlivening what had been the faded core of Salt Lake City, home to 189, 900.
''The center has added 2,000 jobs and brought more than 16 million visitors into downtown,'' according to the Economic Benchmark Report of 2013, paid for by the real estate firm CBRE. Taking into account the improving economy, the report credits the mall, at 50 South Main Street, with helping downtown retail sales increase by 36 percent, or $209 million, in 2012.
The ''mall is the single most important thing to happen to Salt Lake City in 50 years, maybe more,'' said Bruce Bingham, a partner with Hamilton Partners, a Chicago-based real estate developer. ''It revitalized downtown.'' 
Mr. Bingham's company has since completed a $135 million, 425,000-square-foot office building nearby, at 222 South Main Street, leasing office space to Goldman Sachs, law firms, financial services businesses and others. ''We're pushing 85 percent leased,'' Mr. Bingham said.
Early next year, Hamilton Partners will break ground at 111 South Main Street for a 24-story, 450,000-square-foot building, estimated to cost $150 million.
Thanks to the success of City Creek Center, and its backing by the Mormon Church, banks considering commercial lending for Hamilton Partners' newest projects feel ''comfortable and safe'' when discussing major loans, Mr. Bingham said. The church ''will never let downtown fail,'' he said. ''It's just too important to let it go awry.''
How much the mall actually cost is still a mystery. Was it, as rumored, $1.5 billion, even $3 billion, in cash?
''As a private organization, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints and its affiliates do not release financial information,'' said Dale Bills, a spokesman for City Creek Reserve, a real estate arm of the church. ''Total investment in the City Creek redevelopment has not been disclosed. The project was privately funded without public subsidies and without debt.''
Mark Gibbons, president of City Creek Reserve, said in 2009 that the church planned to spend ''hundreds of millions of dollars'' as construction began. ''We set aside reserves to build this project, we counted the cost before we started, and we have the resources to complete it.''
The development includes 111 rental apartments, which are fully leased, Mr. Bills added. ''Sales of the project's 424 condominiums are steady, with increased interest in recent months as recovery in the residential real estate market brings prospective buyers,'' he said.
Babs De Lay, a local real estate broker, estimates the condominiums are ''about 50 percent sold out.''
''It's hard to get data from the L.D.S. church,'' she said. Ms. De Lay said she sold a two-bedroom apartment in the complex for $486,000 in June and a 634-square-foot studio for $213,000 in May.
She said she had sold several apartments to buyers from China and Russia, some intended for their children, who are studying at area colleges.
Aside from Tiffany, other luxury retailers at the mall include Nordstrom, Michael Kors and Hugo Boss. More affordable stores like Gap, The Limited and H&M also are leasing in the two-story shopping center. Its retractable roof is open in the summer and a central, artificial stream is stocked with fish and lined with trees and shrubs. It straddles Main Street, connected by street-level crosswalks and a bridge with etched-glass panels.
Linda Wardell, the general manager of City Creek Center, said the mall had a 98 percent occupancy rate, with 104 stores, seven restaurants and a 1,000-seat food court. ''There was a real pent-up demand for shopping in this market,'' Ms. Wardell said. ''Some people were already buying from these retailers online and they were eager to come here.''
Convention visitors also have been vital to the mall's success, providing 25 to 35 percent of its sales, she said. The city benefits from year-round visitors to nearby ski resorts, five national parks and, of course, to the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, she said.
For some, the juxtaposition of the mall and the temple is odd, given the temple's cultural, historical and spiritual significance for adherents. The temple, the first building planned when the Mormons settled Utah, took 40 years to build, work that required great dedication and sacrifice.
But unlike most shopping centers around the country, religious observance does affect this mall, where the shops, except for the restaurants, are closed on Sundays.
Derek Staffanson, 39, a Mormon and a local resident, said he had mixed feelings about the mall project. ''In theory, I find nothing wrong with the idea of a religious institution developing the area,'' he said. ''Churches have a long history of contributing to the civic amenities of their communities.''
''But in practice, I'm very disappointed with the manner in which the L.D.S. church chose to develop the area, the use to which they put it, and what that implies about the church's priorities,'' Mr. Staffanson said. ''If they had really been concerned about the local community and ending the blight, they would have built a mixed-income, mixed-use community, focusing on developing local entrepreneurship, community centers and resources, a playground, more like the true walkable urban communities in Europe. That would have truly revitalized the local community, creating more prosperity for all.
''For this huge sum of money to be spent on an edifice for commerce and conspicuous consumption seems at best misguided.''
Franziska Patterson, 35, a Mormon from Burney, Calif., visits Salt Lake City every year but said she would never visit the mall. ''I definitely think that, both economically and religiously, this was a very bad decision,'' Ms. Patterson said. ''If it takes a temple of consumerism to attract potential converts, I feel we are headed in a direction completely opposite to the direction the gospel encourages.''
Kevin Barney, 54, a Mormon who lives in Chicago and has visited the mall twice, expressed a different view. ''The church put a whole bunch of people to work during a deep recession,'' he said. ''For another thing, downtown Salt Lake City had become blighted, and that area is sort of like the Mormon Vatican. I think the church had a responsibility to do something about it if it could.''
Jason Mathis, executive director of Salt Lake City's Downtown Alliance, a business development group, acknowledged that the church-backed development had drawn a spectrum of opinions.
''In this community,'' where about 40 percent of the city's residents are Mormon, ''the L.D.S. is such a powerful large entity, it will be more controversial and evoke strong feelings,'' he said. ''But they're an interesting landlord. They're not worried about the next quarter. They have a much longer perspective than many other investors would have had. They want to know what the city will look like in the next 50 or 100 years.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: City Creek Center, a mall at the core of a mixed-use project, has been credited with bringing 2,000 jobs and 16 million visitors to downtown Salt Lake City.
 A 425,000-square-foot office building near City Creek Center is attracting financial and law firms. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFFREY D. ALLRED FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); RELIGION (91%); MORMONS & MORMONISM (90%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); MIXED USE DEVELOPMENTS (78%); COMMERCIAL & RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (78%); COMMERCIAL MORTGAGES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (75%); SALES FIGURES (75%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (74%); PROPERTY LEASES (73%); RETAIL SALES (73%); RENTAL PROPERTY (73%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (73%); LEGAL SERVICES (73%); LAWYERS (72%); BENCHMARKING (70%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (64%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (62%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: THE CHURCH OF JESUS CHRIST OF LATTER-DAY SAINTS (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (94%) UTAH, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



277 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 580 words

HEADLINE: The Decline of North Carolina

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Every Monday since April, thousands of North Carolina residents have gathered at the State Capitol to protest the grotesque damage that a new Republican majority has been doing to a tradition of caring for the least fortunate. Nearly 700 people have been arrested in the ''Moral Monday'' demonstrations, as they are known. But the bad news keeps on coming from the Legislature, and pretty soon a single day of the week may not be enough to contain the outrage.
In January, after the election of Pat McCrory as governor, Republicans took control of both the executive and legislative branches for the first time since Reconstruction. Since then, state government has become a demolition derby, tearing down years of progress in public education, tax policy, racial equality in the courtroom and access to the ballot. 
The cruelest decision by lawmakers went into effect last week: ending federal unemployment benefits for 70,000 residents. Another 100,000 will lose their checks in a few months. Those still receiving benefits will find that they have been cut by a third, to a maximum of $350 weekly from $535, and the length of time they can receive benefits has been slashed from 26 weeks to as few as 12 weeks.
The state has the fifth-highest unemployment rate in the country, and many Republicans insulted workers by blaming their joblessness on generous benefits. In fact, though, North Carolina is the only state that has lost long-term federal benefits, because it did not want to pay back $2.5 billion it owed to Washington for the program. The State Chamber of Commerce argued that cutting weekly benefits would be better than forcing businesses to pay more in taxes to pay off the debt, and lawmakers blindly went along, dropping out of the federal program.
At the same time, the state is also making it harder for future generations of workers to get jobs, cutting back sharply on spending for public schools. Though North Carolina has been growing rapidly, it is spending less on schools now than it did in 2007, ranking 46th in the nation in per-capita education dollars. Teacher pay is falling, 10,000 prekindergarten slots are scheduled to be removed, and even services to disabled children are being chopped.
''We are losing ground,'' Superintendent June Atkinson said recently, warning of a teacher exodus after lawmakers proposed ending extra pay for teachers with master's degrees, cutting teacher assistants and removing limits on class sizes.
Republicans repealed the Racial Justice Act, a 2009 law that was the first in the country to give death-row inmates a chance to prove they were victims of discrimination. They have refused to expand Medicaid and want to cut income taxes for the rich while raising sales taxes on everyone else. The Senate passed a bill that would close most of the state's abortion clinics.
And, naturally, the Legislature is rushing to impose voter ID requirements and cut back on early voting and Sunday voting, which have been popular among Democratic voters. One particularly transparent move would end a tax deduction for dependents if students vote at college instead of their hometowns, a blatant effort to reduce Democratic voting strength in college towns like Chapel Hill and Durham.
North Carolina was once considered a beacon of farsightedness in the South, an exception in a region of poor education, intolerance and tightfistedness. In a few short months, Republicans have begun to dismantle a reputation that took years to build.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (89%); TAX LAW (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); EDUCATION FUNDING (88%); TEACHER COMPENSATION (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (74%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (74%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); MEDICAID (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (73%); PARAEDUCATORS (70%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (69%); SALES TAX (69%); CHILDREN (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (68%); DISABLED PERSONS (68%); ARRESTS (57%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (50%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (50%); INCOME TAX (50%); ABORTION (50%)

PERSON: PAT MCCRORY (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



278 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: Taxing Employers and Employees

BYLINE: CASEY B. MULLIGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The Affordable Care Act will disrupt and distort labor markets in a variety of ways, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Casey B. Mulligan is an economics professor at the University of Chicago. He is the author of "The Redistribution Recession: How Labor Market Distortions Contracted the Economy." 
The delay of the Affordable Care Act's employer mandate is a favorable development for the labor market, but the employer mandate is only the tip of the iceberg in terms of the labor-market distortions that the law has scheduled to come on line next year.
The Affordable Care Act's employer mandate will eventually levy a penalty on large employers that do not offer affordable health insurance to their full-time employees. The penalty is based on the number of full-time employees and adds about $3,000 to the annual cost of employing each person. 
Employers have been complaining about the penalty, saying it will reduce the number of people they hire and cause them to reduce employee hours. Even economists and commentators supporting the law acknowledge that per-employee penalties reduce hiring by raising the cost of employment.
Economists have traditionally recognized that it hardly matters whether a tax is levied on employers or on employees, especially in the long run. In the employee-tax case, the employee pays the tax directly. In the employer-tax case, the employee pays the tax indirectly through reduced pay, because employer penalties reduce the willingness of employers to compete for people (Jonathan Gruber of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology has provided some good evidence in support of this widely accepted economic proposition).
Among other things, employment, employer costs and employee take-home pay would be essentially the same if the government levied a $3,000 fine on workers for having a full-time job with a large employer that does not offer health benefits, rather than levying the fine on employers on the basis of their full-time personnel, as the Affordable Care Act does.
But the political optics of the two policies are dramatically different. Large businesses can supposedly afford $3,000 per employee, while many employees could not afford another $3,000 bite out of their paychecks. Like it or not, economics' equivalence results tells us employees will have to afford what amounts to a tax on them beginning in 2015, pursuant to the Treasury Department's decision to begin collecting the employer penalty in that year.
For the purposes of understanding the state of the labor market, it doesn't really matter whether individuals would be paying a tax for having a full-time job or receiving a subsidy for not having a full-time job. Either policy would reduce the gap between the income of full-time employees and everybody else. The ultimate result will be less full-time employment, in an amount commensurate with the size of the tax or subsidy.
The Affordable Care Act offers subsidies for people without work or in part-time positions that far exceed $3,000 per employee per year, which makes the employer mandate only a small piece of the law's employment effects.
The law's other new work-disincentive provisions, still on schedule for next year, include (i) a sliding income scale that sets premiums for people who buy health insurance on the new marketplaces, (ii) a plan for premium assistance that essentially resurrects the Recovery Act's subsidy for what are known as Cobra benefits, allowing employees who have left a job to continue to participate, for a limited time, in their former employer's health plan, in a more comprehensive form and (iii) hardship relief from the individual mandate.
As an example of these provisions, I explained last week how, even without the employer penalties, the premium assistance plan sharply penalizes full-time employment in favor of part-time employment. In combination, the provisions going into effect next year are two or three times larger than the employer mandate by itself, depending on the type of worker and the industry of employment.
Proponents of the Affordable Care Act, including a number of economists, have yet to acknowledge that so many provisions of the act have, from a labor economics perspective, so much in common with the employer mandate. But labor-market distortions are a common feature of several significant parts of the act and are an important part of what has happened in our labor market.
Whatever labor market benefits accrue from delaying the employer mandate could be had many times over by delaying the entire Affordable Care Act.

        
The New Economics of Part-Time Employment
        
What Job-Sharing Brings
        
Hidden Costs of the Minimum Wage
        
Health Reform, the Reward to Work and Massachusetts
        
Older Workers Could Benefit if Companies Drop Insurance

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: TAX LAW (90%); RECESSION (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); US PATIENT PROTECTION & AFFORDABLE CARE ACT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (89%); WRITERS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); HEALTH INSURANCE (77%); FINES & PENALTIES (75%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (73%) Economics (Theory and Philosophy); Labor and Jobs; Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (2010); Today's Economist

GEOGRAPHIC: CHICAGO, IL, USA (88%) ILLINOIS, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



279 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: For the S.E.C., an Important Trial

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: For the S.E.C., the case against a former Goldman trader follows one courtroom disappointment after another. | The F.D.I.C. has proposed stricter banking rules. | An American company won a contract to run Libor. | European Union officials have a plan to deal with failing banks, but Germany is skeptical. 

 BODY:
The government's campaign to punish Wall Street over risky investments sold before the financial crisis is culminating next week with the trial of Fabrice P. Tourre, a former midlevel employee at Goldman Sachs, in a rare case against an individual. For Goldman, a victory in court would be only belated consolation. But for the Securities and Exchange Commission, dogged by its failure to thwart the crisis, the trial is a defining moment that follows one courtroom disappointment after another, DealBook's Ben Protess and Susanne Craig write.
"Their reputation for trying cases hangs in the balance," said Thomas A. Sporkin, who was a senior S.E.C. enforcement official until last year when he departed for the law firm Buckley Sandler. "This is their opportunity to show Wall Street that they can prevail against an individual at trial."
The S.E.C. took steps to bolster its case against Mr. Tourre after a jury cleared a midlevel Citigroup employee in a mortgage-bond trial. The agency talked to a private jury consultant, people briefed on the matter said, though it is unclear whether the agency hired the firm. In addition, the head of the agency's trial team is leading the Goldman case himself, a surprising move. On Tuesday, the two sides were in court sparring over what the jury should - and should not - hear. 
STIFFER PROPOSAL ON BANK CAPITAL | The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation on Tuesday proposed stricter banking rules that, in a departure from a byzantine approach, aim for simplicity, DealBook's Peter Eavis writes. Focusing on capital, the financial cushion banks have to hold to absorb potential losses, the latest regulations raise that crucial requirement for the largest banks.
"This will increase the overall financial stability of the system," said Thomas M. Hoenig, vice chairman of the F.D.I.C. "This is an advantage to the banks over the long run, and to the economy. I am confident of that." But the latest push could meet fierce resistance. As outlined, the new capital requirements could be costly for the largest banks, which have 60 days to comment on the rules, Mr. Eavis says.
LIBOR'S NEW MASTER | 
The parent company of the New York Stock Exchange won a contract on Tuesday to administer and improve the benchmark interest rate known as Libor, long run by the British Bankers' Association, handing the administration of a British institution to an American company. "The move is a symbolic blow to a British financial industry that has been rocked by scandals and forced to look to the outside for leadership," Nathaniel Popper writes in DealBook. "The job of fixing Libor will not be an easy one. The benchmark is supposed to represent the rate at which banks lend money to each other on an unsecured basis. This is difficult given that banks have generally been unwilling to make unsecured loans to each other since the financial crisis."
ON THE AGENDA | The Securities and Exchange Commission holds an open meeting at 10 a.m. to consider new rules about fund advertising that stem from the JOBS Act. Minutes from the recent meeting of the Federal Reserve's policy-making committee are released at 2 p.m. Yum Brands reports earnings after the market closes. Eliot Spitzer is on CNBC at 8:30 a.m. Laurence D. Fink of BlackRock is on Bloomberg TV at 10 a.m. John Legere, chief executive of T-Mobile USA, is on CNBC at 4:20 p.m. and on Bloomberg TV at 6 p.m.
EUROPEAN BANK PLAN, BUT GERMANY IS SKEPTICAL | "European Union officials are expected on Wednesday to unveil a detailed plan for dealing with failing banks, which will include centralized decision making and an emergency fund," James Kanter writes in The New York Times. "But Germany's skepticism about giving authority to a group overseen by the European Commission, as well as other concerns, could bog the proposal down in months of rancorous negotiations."
"On Wednesday, Michel Barnier, the commissioner overseeing financial services, is expected to call for consolidating decisions under a group supported by around 300 staff members and creating a pool of money funded by mandatory levies on banks. The system, which was described ahead of the formal announcement, would rely on the European Central Bank to signal when a financial institution in the euro area was facing severe difficulties."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Bumi Approaches a Deal to Split With Bakries | Bumi, "the Indonesian coal producer at the center of an ownership dispute, is close to completing a deal valued at more than $500 million to sever its ties with co-founders the Bakrie Group after relations soured," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Kroger Buys Rival Grocer Harris Teeter, Citing Potential for Growth | Kroger, the nation's second-largest retailer, announced on Tuesday that it would buy Harris Teeter, an upscale grocer known for fresh foods and produce, in a deal valued at $2.5 billion. DealBook »
Investors Like Even Ho-Hum Mergers | The value of savings from combining Kroger and Harris Teeter equals about half the premium being paid. Yet investors added about $500 million to Kroger's market value, Robert Cyran of Reuters Breakingviews writes. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Health Management Said to Attract Prospective Buyers | Reuters reports: "Health Management Associates Inc. has attracted interest from Community Health Systems Inc. and other rivals about buying the $4 billion hospital operator, three people familiar with the matter said on Tuesday." REUTERS
Barnes & Noble's Fork in the Road | With the departure of the chief executive, William Lynch, Barnes & Noble is left "without a clear path forward, reviving fears among publishers, authors and agents - who are deeply dependent on a viable Barnes & Noble - about its future," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Shell's Choice for C.E.O. Surprises Investors | Royal Dutch Shell named Ben van Beurden to succeed Peter Voser as chief executive on Jan. 1, passing over some better-known candidates, The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
BlackBerry Chief Says Release of Phones in U.S. Was Flawed | 
NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING »
JPMorgan Review Said to Find Errors in Debt-Collection Suits | An internal review at JPMorgan Chase showed that "errors occurred as the bank sued its credit-card users for the delinquent amounts," The Wall Street Journal reports. "The bank studied roughly 1,000 lawsuits and found mistakes in 9 percent of the cases, said people familiar with the review." WALL STREET JOURNAL
A.I.G. and GE Capital Deemed 'Systemically Important' | After the American International Group and GE Capital chose not to appeal the designation, the companies will now be subject to greater oversight. BLOOMBERG NEWS
With Assets Rising, UBS Reaches a Milestone | UBS is once again the largest private bank in the world, according to the wealth management consultant Scorpio Partnership, Reuters reports. REUTERS
Fannie Mae Said to Be Selling $1 Billion of Mortgage Bonds | Fannie Mae plans to sell home mortgage bonds without government backing, according to Bloomberg News. BLOOMBERG NEWS
Investors Continue to Withdraw Money From Municipal Bond Funds | 
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
K.K.R. Raises $6 Billion Asian Fund | The private equity group's second regional fund ranks as the largest such fund to date and will seek to capitalize on rising demand among Asian consumers. DealBook »
HEDGE FUNDS »
A Label for Activist Investors That No Longer Fits | Studies have shown that "short-term" hedge funds can actually create long-term value for a company, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. Deal Professor »
F.B.I. Nominee Nods to Former Employer, Bridgewater | James B. Comey, President Obama's nominee for F.B.I. director, said he would "carry those values" from the hedge fund Bridgewater Associates, including transparency, and "try and spread them as far as I can within" the F.B.I., HedgeFund Intelligence reports. HEDGEFUND INTELLIGENCE
A Rough Month for Hedge Funds | 
ABSOLUTE RETURN
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
A Rush to Go Public in Japan | Even as I.P.O.'s slow down elsewhere in Asia, Japanese companies are coming to market in large numbers, spurred by the policies of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe that have fueled gains in the stock market, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Flipkart, an Indian E-Commerce Site, Raises $200 Million | Flipkart raised the money from its existing investors, including Tiger Gobal and Accel Partners, The Economic Times reports. ECONOMIC TIMES
Satellite Antenna Company Raises $50 Million | Kymeta raised the financing round from investors including Bill Gates and Lux Capital, VentureBeat reports. VENTUREBEAT
Path Expands Use of Stickers, With Eye on Revenue | 
CNET
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
Cyprus Currency Controls Stoke Worries About Euro System | "Tangled in restrictions imposed in March as part of a bailout for the country's ailing banks, a euro in Cyprus is no longer the same as one in France, Germany or Greece," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
U.S. Vows to Battle Abusive Debt Collectors | Federal regulators are cracking down on some of the nation's biggest banks and other lenders, accusing them of aggressive practices like hounding debtors with repeated phone calls. DealBook »
Lawyers in SAC Case Question Coverage of News Media | Lawyers for Michael S. Steinberg, a former portfolio manager at SAC Capital Advisors accused of insider trading, said coverage of the case had been extensive and biased, which they said raised the question of whether Mr. Steinberg could get a fair trial. DealBook »
The Unseen Costs of Cutting Law School Faculty | Cutting untenured faculty positions is shortsighted and encroaches on academic freedom, Victor Fleischer writes in the Standard Deduction column. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); BANK FAILURES (90%); JURY TRIALS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); LONDON INTERBANK OFFERED RATES (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION (79%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); BONDS (78%); STOCK EXCHANGES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); HOLDING COMPANIES (74%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (69%); CONTRACT AWARDS (64%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (91%); CITIGROUP INC (90%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (52%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (91%); C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (91%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (91%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (91%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (91%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (91%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: FABRICE P TOURRE (88%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); GERMANY (92%); EUROPE (90%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



280 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Bits)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: TECHNOLOGY

LENGTH: 611 words

HEADLINE: Coursera, an Online Education Company, Raises Another $43 Million

BYLINE: TAMAR LEWIN


HIGHLIGHT: The new investors in Coursera, which offers online courses, include the investment arm of the World Bank. 

 BODY:
Coursera, a year-old company offering free online courses, has raised another $43 million in venture capital from investors active in both domestic and international education.
The new investors include the International Finance Corporation, the investment arm of the World Bank, and Laureate Education, an international higher education company with dozens of profit-making universities around the world, as well as GSV Capital, Learn Capital and Yuri Milner, an individual entrepreneur.
"We hope it's enough money to get us to profitability,'' said Daphne Koller, a co-founder of Coursera. "We haven't really focused yet on when that might be.'' 
Coursera, based in Mountain View, Calif., previously raised $22 million from Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers; New Enterprise Associates; and the University of Pennsylvania and California Institute of Technology, two of its university partners.
Over the next few months, Coursera plans to double its employees to about 100, and expand in several areas, including mobile apps and its Signature Track offerings, which charge a fee to students who want an identity-verified certificate upon successful completion of Coursera's free courses. Since January, when the Signature Track option was first offered in five courses, Signature Track fees have produced more than $800,000, Ms. Koller said - and in the long run, she said, such revenue may be enough to make the company sustainable.
The company also plans to invest in international expansion, through localization, translation and distribution partnerships, and techniques for blended learning, in which Coursera's online materials are used alongside classroom sessions with a professor.
"We see great potential for using some of the Coursera materials in our universities, so there is a strategic element to this investment,'' said Douglas L. Becker, chairman and chief executive officer of Laureate. "The I.F.C. made the largest education investment they ever made in Laureate, and they're joining us in this investment. Coursera allows us to invest in something we see as a rising technology impacting higher education, and gives us access to their content and curriculum."
Coursera has grown with stunning speed since it began in April 2012, with four university partners. Now, the company works with 83 educational institutions on four continents, offering about 400 free college-level courses to more than four million students from every country in the world.
But after the initial burst of enthusiasm last year about massive open online courses, or MOOCs, and their potential for democratizing higher education worldwide, this year has brought some pushback. Faculty members at several institutions have expressed concern about how the courses may change higher education, how quickly university administrators signed on to work with MOOC providers, and whether the aim is more to save money than improve the quality of education.
So far, most of the students who have completed Coursera MOOCs have been college graduates, and it is still unclear how well the format will work to help students without degrees earn college credit for their online work. Coursera has recently started to market its materials for use by public universities in blended on-campus classes. Universities that use the materials will pay licensing fees, which Coursera will share with the universities that produce the courses.

        
Yoga Instructors, Tile Layers, Others Get New Outlet for Web Lessons
        
A Vocabulary Site Shows How to Tailor Online Education
        
Beware of the High Cost of 'Free' Online Courses
        
Measuring the Success of Online Education
        
Daily Report: College of the Future May Be on the Internet

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); DISTANCE LEARNING (90%); ONLINE SCHOOLS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (89%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (78%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); CURRICULA (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (73%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (72%); EXECUTIVES (62%); MOBILE APPLICATIONS (53%) Coursera Inc; E-Learning; Policy

COMPANY: KLEINER PERKINS CAUFIELD & BYERS (70%); LAUREATE EDUCATION INC (58%); GSV CAPITAL CORP (57%)

ORGANIZATION: Coursera Inc

TICKER: GSVC (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (70%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (70%); NAICS611710 EDUCATIONAL SUPPORT SERVICES (58%); NAICS611430 PROFESSIONAL & MANAGEMENT DEVELOPMENT TRAINING (58%); SIC8299 SCHOOLS & EDUCATIONAL SERVICES, NEC (58%); NAICS525990 OTHER FINANCIAL VEHICLES (57%); SIC6726 UNIT INVESTMENT TRUSTS, FACE-AMOUNT CERTIFICATE OFFICES, & CLOSED-END MANAGEMENT INVESTMENT OFFICES (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



281 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 439 words

HEADLINE: The Global Economy Is Worse Than We Thought

BYLINE: VIKAS BAJAJ


HIGHLIGHT: A new report from the International Monetary Fund shows struggle all around. 

 BODY:
Over the last several years, as major advanced markets like the United States and Europe struggled, fast-growing countries like China and India provided a vital boost to the global economy. Well, so much for that. 
In a new report released on Tuesday, the International Monetary Fund says that China, India, Brazil, Mexico and other developing countries are growing more slowly than previously thought. That weakness, combined with Europe's enduring recession and middling growth in the United States, means the global economy will grow at 3.1 percent this year, about the same as last year and down from the I.M.F.'s April forecast of 3.3 percent.
Developing economies are struggling for a variety of reasons. Some, like Brazil and Russia, are hurting because there is less demand for their exports in the United States, Europe and elsewhere. China is trying to reduce its reliance on exports and investments while increasing the importance of domestic consumer spending. Some countries are also under pressure as foreign investors start moving money out of emerging markets to invest it in the United States, where interest rates have risen in recent days.

Sadly, the I.M.F.'s report should come as no surprise. Economists at the Fund and elsewhere have been warning for months that the global economy is weak, but policy makers around the world have responded with what can be best described as a collective shrug. They have been either unconcerned or unwilling to do anything to revive growth.
In Washington, Republicans are adamantly opposed to ending the sequester or considering proposals that might stimulate the economy. European policy makers are committed to austerity and are throwing up new roadblocks to the creation of banking union that could help clean up its financial system. And leaders of developing countries like India and Brazil have been unable to muster the courage to enact difficult economic and political reforms.
The only major country that is doing better than previously thought is Japan, where the government of Prime Minister Shinzo Abe has been trying to revive the economy through aggressive monetary and fiscal policies. The I.M.F. now says Japan will grow 2 percent this year, up from its April forecast of 1.5 percent. Last year, Japan's economy grew 1.9 percent.
While important, Japan alone cannot make up for the weakness in the rest of the world. Based on what it knows now, the Fund says its forecast is more likely to be too optimistic than too pessimistic. "Policymakers everywhere need to increase efforts to ensure robust growth," the Fund said in its report.
Is anybody listening?

        
The Despair Index

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); EMERGING MARKETS (90%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); GLOBALIZATION (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); RECESSION (79%); TRENDS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (68%); PRIME MINISTERS (68%); MONETARY POLICY (66%); INTEREST RATES (52%) Economic Conditions and Trends; International Monetary Fund; Featured Posts

ORGANIZATION: International Monetary Fund

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); INDIA (94%); BRAZIL (94%); CHINA (94%); EUROPE (94%); JAPAN (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



282 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(The Caucus)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: US; politics

LENGTH: 789 words

HEADLINE: Obama and Bush Promote Benefits of Immigration

BYLINE: PETER BAKER


HIGHLIGHT: President Obama and former President George W. Bush found themselves on the same side of a public policy debate on Wednesday as they promoted the virtues of immigration at a time when Congress is considering rewriting the rules to accept millions here illegally. 

 BODY:
President Obama and former President George W. Bush found themselves on the same side of a public policy debate on Wednesday as they promoted the virtues of immigration at a time when Congress is considering rewriting the rules to accept millions here illegally.
Mr. Obama's White House released a new report arguing that a bill passed by the Senate creating a pathway to citizenship for many of the 11 million immigrants in the illegal shadow economy would spur job growth, innovation and productivity while strengthening Social Security. 
"America has always been a nation of immigrants, and throughout the nation's history, immigrants from around the globe have kept our work force vibrant, our businesses on the cutting edge, and helped to build the greatest economic engine in the world," the White House report said. Mr. Obama planned to meet Wednesday morning with the Congressional Hispanic Caucus to discuss immigration legislation.
The report was released as Mr. Bush led a naturalization ceremony at his new presidential center just outside Dallas and used the opportunity to likewise tout the benefits of welcoming foreigners into the United States. Although Mr. Bush said he would not take a position on specific legislation, his speech was a reminder to Republicans that he has long believed it was necessary to overhaul the system in a way much like the Senate bill outlined.

"America can be a lawful society and a welcoming society at the same time," Mr. Bush said at the ceremony, broadcast live over the Internet. "We can uphold our traditions of assimilating immigrants and honoring our heritage as a nation built on the rule of law.
"But we have a problem," he added. "The laws governing the immigration system aren't working. The system is broken. We're now in an important debate in reforming those laws. And that's good. I don't intend to get involved in the politics or the specifics of policy. But I do hope there is a positive resolution to the debate, and I hope during the debate that we keep a benevolent spirit in mind and we understand the contributions that immigrants make to our country."
Mr. Bush's speech came hours before House Republicans were scheduled to meet behind closed doors on Capitol Hill for a long discussion of how to handle immigration. While the Senate passed its bill creating a pathway to citizenship and toughening border enforcement on a bipartisan vote, House Republican leaders have made clear that they do not accept it. The session Wednesday could help the party's leadership take the temperature of its caucus and formulate its approach going forward.
Representative Eric Cantor of Virginia, the Republican majority leader, said he was worried that the administration might enforce the sections easing rules for illegal immigrants while not following through on the tougher border security provisions. "We need to go and make sure that there are definite matrixes, if you will, of accountability - how we can ensure that the border is secure, and that the law is being enforced," Mr. Cantor told Sean Hannity of Fox News. He added: "We're a country of laws, and it ought to be applied evenly and fairly to all."
Whether Mr. Bush's voice will be influential with House Republican critics is uncertain, but he does not have the same sway he once did in his own party. He made a big push for legislation similar to the Senate bill while he was president only to be thwarted in part by opposition from conservative Republicans and he viewed it as one of his biggest disappointments.
Mr. Bush has resisted delving too directly into current public policy debates, but the event at his presidential center not only added his voice to the debate, it teamed him up directly with Mr. Obama. After 20 immigrants were sworn in as new citizens while Mr. Bush watched, a video from Mr. Obama was played welcoming them. "You can help write the next great chapter in our American story and together we can keep the beacon that is America burning for all the world to see," Mr. Obama said in the video. "I'm proud to welcome you as a new citizen of this country."
After the ceremony, the Bush center was holding three panel discussions, one on how immigration has benefited Texas, another on the broader national economic benefits of immigration and the last on how immigrants serve the United States in military and civic spheres.
The Obama White House tried to quantify those benefits. It argued that in 2033, the American economy would be 5.4 percent larger if the Senate bill is passed by the House, productivity would be up by 1 percent, real wages would be up by 0.5 percent, deficits would be reduced by $850 billion and the solvency of the Social Security system would be extended by two years.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (79%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); NATURALIZATION (77%); BORDER CONTROL (77%); CITIZENSHIP (77%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (76%); SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (72%); UNOFFICIAL ECONOMY (71%); HISTORY (70%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); INTERNET BROADCASTING (50%) The Caucus

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); ERIC CANTOR (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



283 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 589 words

HEADLINE: State Regulator Opens Inquiry Into Products Sold to Older Investors

BYLINE: NATHANIEL POPPER


HIGHLIGHT: The top financial regulator in Massachusetts, William F. Galvin, has asked 15 brokerage firms, including Merrill Lynch and LPL Financial, about the way they have marketed &#8220;high-risk, esoteric products&#8221; to older investors. 

 BODY:
The top financial regulator in Massachusetts has subpoenaed 15 brokerage firms as part of a new investigation into the marketing of complicated financial investments to older people.
The Massachusetts secretary of the commonwealth, William F. Galvin, asked the firms - including Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and LPL Financial - about the way they have sold "high-risk, esoteric products" to older citizens. 
Several regulators have previously expressed concern about the rising number of opaque products that have been pitched to unsophisticated investors looking for higher returns in an era of low interest rates. Brokers like selling the products because they frequently offer higher commissions than traditional investments like mutual funds.
"These things are accidents waiting to happen when they are sold to inexperienced investors," Mr. Galvin said on Wednesday.
Mr. Galvin recently collected $11 million in fines from five broker-dealers for selling illiquid real estate investment trusts, or REITs, to investors in his state. Unlike publicly traded REITs, the illiquid products are not easy to sell when a consumer wants to get out of the investment.
In the course of his office's investigation of those REITs, Mr. Galvin said that his staff noticed that many brokers were selling a number of other complex financial products that even they did not understand, with little oversight from their parent companies.
"It's the whole methodology by which these products are sold - that's the bigger problem," Mr. Galvin said.
In addition to the REITs, Mr. Galvin's office will be looking into the selling of structured products, oil and gas partnerships and private placement deals - all of which disclose less public information than public stocks and bonds.
These investments used to be restricted only to sophisticated investors with a net worth of at least $1 million. Now, regulators say that they are being opened up to less wealthy investors, as well as a growing number of wealthy but less l sophisticated investors.
The sales of these products has become more prominent since the financial crisis, because many older Americans are trying to make up for losses they suffered in their retirement portfolios. The low yields on bank accounts and bonds in recent years has also made investors more willing to look at riskier products that promise better returns.
Richard G. Ketchum, the chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the industry regulatory group, said in a recent speech that over the last two years his organization had noticed an uptick in "the sale of complex products and speculative products with low liquidity, to unsuitable customers by financial advisers who often don't fully understand the risks of the products."
The Massachusetts investigation began on the same day that the Securities and Exchange Commission agreed to lift its ban on public advertisements for some of the same complex investments Mr. Galvin is examining. Mr. Galvin and other state securities regulators have criticized the S.E.C. decision, arguing that even with advertising banned, too many unsophisticated investors have ended up learning about and buying products that are unsuitable for their investment goals.
Mr. Galvin's office emphasized that the investigation was just beginning. He added that being on the list of banks and brokerages receiving subpoenas "is not an indication of wrongdoing at this time."

        
Brokerage Firm to Pay $7.5 Million Fine to Regulators
        
Hong Kong Broker Fined for Hyping Undisclosed Trades

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); SENIOR CITIZENS (90%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); BONDS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); US STATE SECURITIES REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%) Elderly; Financial Brokers; Galvin, William F; LPL Financial; Merrill Lynch & Co; Stocks and Bonds; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

ORGANIZATION: LPL Financial; Merrill Lynch &amp; Co

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (72%)

PERSON: Galvin, William F

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



284 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 620 words

HEADLINE: Lawmakers Have Concerns Over Chinese Takeover of Smithfield

BYLINE: EDWARD WYATT


HIGHLIGHT: The acquisition of America&#8217;s largest pork producer by Shuanghui International could result in the transfer of food-production technologies that endanger the United States economy and, perhaps, national security, two experts tell the Senate Agriculture Committee. 

 BODY:
WASHINGTON - The proposed acquisition of America's largest pork producer by a Chinese company could result in the transfer of food-production technologies that endanger the United States economy and, perhaps, national security, two food and foreign-investment experts told the Senate Agriculture Committee on Wednesday.
Those technologies - including genetic strains of hogs, advanced meat processing technology and manure management techniques - were developed with the support of United States taxpayers and their transfer could result in long-term damage to American agriculture, the experts said. 
The Senate Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition and Forestry summoned the witnesses to discuss the implications ofthe $4.7 billion offer for Smithfield Foods by Shuanghui International of China. The purchase would be the largest acquisition to date of a United States company by a Chinese company.
A third witness, however, played down the strategic concerns.
"There is nothing inherently worrisome or unusual" about the transaction, said Matthew J. Slaughter, a professor at the Dartmouth business school.
Smithfield's president and chief executive, C. Larry Pope, said in his prepared testimony that the deal would have "no impact on U.S. food supply and therefore no impact on food security." Nor, he said, would it results in in any imports of food to the United States from China, as some opponents of the deal have said.
"Shuanghai is committed to investing in Smithfield to produce more food, more jobs and more value in the U.S.," Mr. Pope said.
The question of whether foreign acquisition of domestic companies affects national security is one that the United States has struggled with for years. In 2012, the Obama Administration blocked the purchase of four American wind-farm companies by a Chinese-owned firm, citing national security concerns. And in 2006, Congress effectively blocked a deal under which Dubai Ports World, owned by the Dubai government, was to take over the management of six United States ports.
The Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, an interagency government panel, is reviewing the Smithfield acquisition.
Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat and chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, said in a statement that the premium offered by Shuanghui for Smithfield "raises questions about the economic motivations of the purchase," including whether the United States would lose technological advantages in the deal.
"In the short term, I know this deal looks good for our producers," Ms. Stabenow said. "But it's our job to be thinking about the big picture and the long-term for American food security and economic security."
Senator Thad Cochran of Mississippi, the committee's ranking Republican, also called for a review of "the full range of national security interests, including food safety."
Two witnesses called by the committee - Usha C.V. Haley of West Virginia University and Daniel Slane of the Chamber of Commerce - expressed multiple doubts about the transaction.
"The Chinese want Smithfield's very valuable technology and hog genetics," Mr. Slane said. "This deal has been promoted as a way to facilitate U.S. pork exports to China, but ultimately Shuanghui could export pork back to us."
Ms. Haley said that pork is a "strategically important industry for China" as the growing tanks of the middle class demand more sources of high-quality protein. "The same patterns that occurred in other strategically important industries," she said, "will repeat in this sector and the United States will lose its competitive edge in food, becoming dependent on China."

        
China's Pork Deal May Hinge on the Risk for an Uproar
        
Needing Pork, China Is to Buy a U.S. Supplier

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (91%); FOOD INDUSTRY (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); AGRICULTURE (90%); FOOD MFG (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); PORK (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); WITNESSES (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); AGRICULTURE FORESTRY & FISHING LAW (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); TESTIMONY (77%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (77%); POLITICS (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); FOOD SAFETY (73%); DIVESTITURES (73%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (67%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (56%); WIND ENERGY (50%) China; Dubai Ports World; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Pork; Senate; Shuanghui International; Smithfield Foods Inc; United States Politics and Government; Food & Beverage; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (81%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: Dubai Ports World; Senate; Shuanghui International; Smithfield Foods Inc

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (81%); SFD (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (81%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (81%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (81%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (56%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (56%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (57%); THAD COCHRAN (57%); C LARRY POPE (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%) UNITED STATES (99%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); CHINA (94%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



285 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1000 words

HEADLINE: China's Growth Woes Could Force Government Response

BYLINE: BILL BISHOP


HIGHLIGHT: The Chinese government&#8217;s response to weak economic data will be a test of the nation&#8217;s new leadership, the author writes. 

 BODY:
This week, China enters the "sanfu days" of the lunar calendar, similar to what are known in the west as the dog days of summer. Some areas of the country are battling huge floods, and the weather will most likely get worse before it gets better.
The same can be said about China's economy. The June trade data released on Wednesday was a huge disappointment as both imports and exports unexpectedly fell year over year. The decline in monthly exports was the first in a non-holiday month since the financial crisis. 
Several economists wrote on Wednesday that the weak trade data could spur Beijing to devalue the renminbi, a move that would be problematic for United States-China relations. The topic is in focus as the fifth meeting of the U.S.-China Strategic and Economic Dialogue opened in Washington on Wednesday. 
Economists reacted quite negatively to the trade data, and while several have recently cut their forecasts for economic growth, the new data could spur a new round of downward forecast revisions. A recent Morgan Stanley report included a slide titled "China 'Super Bear' Scenario," which discussed the possibility that growth in the nation's gross domestic product could slow to 5.5 percent later in 2013 and 4.5 percent in 2014. In its report, Credit Suisse wrote that "All the Main Drivers of Chinese Growth Are Sharply Diminished."
The full toll of the liquidity squeeze that hit China in June has yet to flow through the real economy. According to a Bloomberg News survey of economists, that squeeze "is likely to reduce credit growth this year by 750 billion yuan (about $121 billion)."
Sentiment in and about the country seems to be more negative than I have ever seen it.
Bad macroeconomic news can often be positive for the stock market. On Wednesday the Shanghai composite was up the most in three months, apparently on hopes that the poor data would push Beijing to undertake policy actions to stimulate the economy.
 A LOOK AHEAD AT NUMBERS 
On Monday, the Chinese government will report how its second-quarter G.D.P. growth fared. The government does not appear to be panicking. "Macro controls should keep the economy's performance in a reasonable range, keep the growth rate and employment level from falling under a floor and keep inflation from rising above an upper bound," Premier Li Keqiang said on Tuesday. 
Barclays Capital recently coined the term "Likonomics" to describe the policies of Premier Li. The three pillars, according to Barclays, are "no stimulus, deleveraging and structural reform." 
The Barclays report reflects the hopeful case for what is going on with the Chinese economy. In this version, the new leadership means it when it says, as it has repeatedly, that it is willing to tolerate slower, better-quality growth. And to achieve that better-quality growth, Beijing is engineering a slowdown, including intentionally causing the June interbank pain, as part of an overall plan to quicken long-discussed and much-needed structural reforms. The economist Stephen Roach is another vocal proponent of this view, as he laid out in a recent article for Foreign Policy. 
The more bearish case argues that there is no serious plan, that the June liquidity tightness was unexpected, that the credit growth is so out of control that a crash is imminent. Both sides now agree that China faces at least a significant, near-term deceleration of growth. 
What matters now is whether the leadership can tolerate the pain that has spread throughout much of the economy, and looks to get much worse, as overcapacity continues, domestic and external demand weaken, and debts come due. One test case may be Rongsheng, the country's largest private shipyard, which has laid off thousands and is lobbying local governments for a bailout. All the talk about dealing with overcapacity sounds nice, but if even Rongsheng is not subject to market discipline then it will be hard to be optimistic about the tolerance for the deep dislocations needed to restructure the economy.

THE GOVERNMENT'S NEXT MOVE 
This column has argued several times that Beijing does have a plan and is serious about economic reform. Economists inside the Chinese government, and certainly Premier Li, understand very clearly what the challenges are.
In August 2012, Li Zuojun, deputy director of the Institute of Resources and Environmental Policy Research at the Development Research Center of the State Council, published an article detailing nine major challenges the Chinese economy faces. His article received a fair amount of notice.
During the interbank crisis in June, Li Zuojun became an Internet sensation, not for that 2012 article but for a talk he gave in 2011 that predicted an economic crisis in July or August 2013. In that talk, Mr. Li said that China was in the midst of a bubble that would pop by 2015 or 2016. 
Mr. Li argued that the new leadership that would be in place by 2013 would have the choice of either taking on the bubble and letting it run, in which case they would be responsible, or popping it soon after they took power in 2013, in which case they could blame the previous administration.
In addition, the new leaders could reset the benchmarks to a lower base and, assuming they could manage through the social challenges of an economic dislocation, would be able to show strong growth through the remainder of their term. 
The Development Research Center is an influential government policy research group, one that worked with the World Bank to write the "China 2030" report, a road map for ambitious economic reforms released last year. Premier Li is widely believed to have supported the center in its work with the World Bank.
Transparency is not a strength of the Chinese government, so while there are signs that bigger things are going on it is difficult to be certain. Regardless, the long, hot summer is just getting started and the economy has more weakness ahead. 

        
Urban Smog and Hazy Economic Prospects in China
        
Tamping Down Expectations on China's Growth

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (90%); EXPORT TRADE (90%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (90%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (90%); EMERGING MARKETS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); BANKING & FINANCE (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); IMPORT TRADE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); TRENDS (75%); WRITERS (75%); DEVALUATION (75%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (71%) China; Economic Conditions and Trends; Gross Domestic Product; International Trade and World Market; Li Keqiang; World Bank; China &#20013;&#22269; Insider; Financial Services

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY (57%); CREDIT SUISSE GROUP AG (54%); BLOOMBERG LP (54%); BARCLAYS CAPITAL INC (51%)

ORGANIZATION: World Bank

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (57%); CSGN (SWX) (54%); CS (NYSE) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (57%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (57%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (54%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (54%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (54%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (54%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (54%); NAICS511120 PERIODICAL PUBLISHERS (54%)

PERSON: LI KEQIANG (92%) Li Keqiang

GEOGRAPHIC: SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); BEIJING, CHINA (73%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); EAST CHINA (79%) CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (93%) China

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



286 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 728 words

HEADLINE: Adventures Abroad Could Hurt U.S. Companies

BYLINE: CARSON C. BLOCK


HIGHLIGHT: It is astounding, the author writes, how little risk the markets are pricing into public companies that have poured shareholder money into emerging markets over the last several years through acquisitions and start-up projects. 

 BODY:
 Carson C. Block is the director of research for Muddy Waters, an investment firm.
Analysts across Wall Street are just beginning to warn investors about trouble brewing in emerging markets. The International Monetary Fund this month downgraded its global growth forecast for the rest of 2013 and next year, citing a big slowdown in emerging market economies because of higher interest rates, asset price volatility, weaker domestic activity and currency depreciation. 
We have been outspoken about the risks in emerging markets for some time, most recently reflecting on Standard Chartered's large exposure to China, India and Southeast Asia, and the fact that credit-default swap pricing on the company was implying that lending to Standard Chartered was less risky than lending to JPMorgan Chase. While that imbalance has now corrected itself, we continue to see instability in Brazil, Egypt, Turkey and South Africa, and severe corrections in Latin American and Indian currencies. 
Despite all the instability, it is astounding how little risk the markets are currently pricing into public companies that have poured shareholder money into emerging markets over the last several years through acquisitions and start-up projects. Artificially low interest rates in the United States have driven many management teams to make investments abroad based on higher expected returns without incorporating the local risks. In many cases, local divisions tend to be run on the ground and are subject to all the same local risks, including inflation, fraud, nationalization, political whims of the local governments (which often emerge as "taxes") and legal issues. 
These are countries that tend not to be the transparent democratic and capitalist systems that Western investors are used to. 
We believe both the companies themselves and the analysts covering them have made overzealous assumptions about the safety and the expected earnings growth for these acquisitions. In the United States, too many analysts price growth at high multiples without thinking about where that growth is coming from. Many companies have made acquisitions that we think will ultimately generate returns lower than those of local market bond yields. In these situations, management would have actually created more value for shareholders by just buying local currency government bonds. What is more, many of these acquisitions were purchased by issuing debt in United States dollars and failing to hedge the currency exposure of the emerging market country - essentially doubling down on their bet. 
Indeed, you do not have to look far to find American companies that underestimated the risks of investing in emerging markets. Caterpillar discovered this firsthand earlier this year when it found "deliberate, multiyear, coordinated accounting misconduct" at a Chinese company it had recently acquired. The company was forced to write-down its entire $500 million investment. 
How did that happen, especially when the fraud could have been discovered by simply looking at the records the subsidiary filed with the Chinese government? A former Caterpillar board member told Reuters that the board was "distracted" at the time by a larger acquisition. 
There are plenty of other examples. Wal-Mart Stores has faced bribery accusations in Mexico. Vodafone is fighting an egregious tax bill in India. Brookfield Asset Management was recently shown to have badly miscalculated the risks of investing in Brazil.
Calculating the risks of making an acquisition in an emerging market is often more art than science. Still, many American companies seem to plug overzealous growth assumptions into their models, and then assume a dangerously low weighted-average cost of capital that does not reflect the myriad emerging market risks, which not only put their growth projections at risk, but also can lead to total loss. We suspect such model antics will become more apparent and dangerous as the air continues to come out of emerging markets. Investors would be wise to understand the true exposure they have to emerging markets through their investments in American companies before it's too late. 
As Warren E. Buffett has famously said: "Only when the tide goes out do you discover who's been swimming naked." 

        
Muddy Waters Offers to Pay for Olam Debt Rating
        
Muddy Waters Deals Blow to a Chinese Education Company

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EMERGING MARKETS (91%); BONDS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (87%); SWAP TRANSACTIONS (78%); CORPORATE WRONGDOING (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); NATIONALIZATION (78%); COMPANY EARNINGS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US DOLLAR (77%); MISCONDUCT (76%); CREDIT DEFAULT SWAPS (76%); FINANCIAL RISK MANAGEMENT (76%); PRICE INCREASES (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (71%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (69%); ACQUISITIONS (66%); WRITERS (62%) Block, Carson C; Waters, Muddy; Another View

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%)

PERSON: Block, Carson C; Waters, Muddy

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (92%); INDIA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); EGYPT (79%); LATIN AMERICA (79%); ASIA (79%); TURKEY (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



287 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Working Parents, Wanting Fewer Hours

BYLINE: CATHERINE RAMPELL


HIGHLIGHT: Why an article focused on the work-family balance challenges for working mothers, and what working fathers face as well. 

 BODY:
On Monday I wrote an article (the first in a series about work-life balance) profiling a middle-class working mother who persuaded her employer to give her a more flexible schedule. I've gotten a lot of questions about why the article focused on mothers and not fathers.
The main reason is that, for this first article, we were interested in exploring the ways that the advice offered by high-profile books and articles aimed at women, like "Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead" and "Why Women Still Can't Have It All," translates to the situations of middle-class women, who have fewer resources and less bargaining power than the high-powered women who have been most vocal about these issues. We were also interested in whether the assumptions underlying the public conversation about the challenges for working mothers - about what women actually want from their careers - held up. 
Much of the public conversation has been about the barriers, both internal and external, that women face in getting to leadership positions. But after interviewing dozens of middle-class women and mothers around the country and looking at survey data about women's desired work arrangements, I found that a lot of mothers were yearning for more flexibility and time at home, not a more direct path up the career ladder. So I decided to shadow a middle-class working mother who had recognized those as her own priorities and who had been proactive about implementing them in her own life. 
None of this is to say, of course, that working fathers don't have their own challenges in juggling work and family responsibilities, especially as gender roles have changed. As I wrote on Monday, men are doing more child care and other household duties than they did in the past, and survey data indicate that men are experiencing more work-family conflict than ever. 
A future article about work-family balance, in fact, is likely to focus on the barriers that men face in requesting things like paternity leave and flex time, which may imply to their bosses that they're not sufficiently "serious" about their careers. (As I have written before, other countries have been more successful in reducing the stigma associated with taking paternity leave.)
Survey data show that there are plenty of men out there who want to work fewer hours than they currently are, after all.
I wrote in Monday's article that "among all mothers with children under 18, just a quarter say they would choose full-time work if money were no object and they were free to do whatever they wanted, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. By comparison, about half of mothers in the United States are actually working full time, indicating that there are a lot out there logging many more hours than they want to be." On Twitter and elsewhere, people have asked me what the results were for fathers, so I'll share here: Just over half of all fathers with children under 18 say their ideal situation would be to work full time, if money were no object. Another 30 percent of these fathers would prefer to work part time, and 16 percent would stay at home.
The share of fathers who would ideally work full time is about twice that for mothers. But on the other hand, if you look at the even larger share of fathers who are actually working full time - about 84 percent, according to 2012 Labor Department data - you'll notice that a lot of fathers are working more hours than they'd like to.
Here's a look at how these poll results for desired work status line up with the most directly comparable data we have on actual work status, which are for fathers who share a household with their minor children:
As you can see nearly a third of surveyed fathers with minor children would like to be working part time, but as of 2012, just 5 percent actually were.
What barriers - financial, cultural, psychological - do you think keep so many fathers from working the shorter hours they say they would ideally like to work?

        
On Working for Yourself, for More Flexible Hours
        
Office Advancement vs. Home Duties
        
Comparing the World's Glass Ceilings
        
Incentives for Men, to Help Women to Work
        
Yes, the Sequester Is Affecting the Job Market

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORKING MOTHERS (92%); WORK-LIFE BALANCE (92%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PARENTING (90%); PARENTS (90%); MEN (90%); PATERNITY LEAVE (89%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); FLEXTIME (78%); WOMEN WORKERS (78%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (78%); WOMEN (78%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (77%) Labor and Jobs; Men and Boys; Parenting; Part-Time Employment; Women and Girls; Work-Life Balance; Working Hours

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2013



288 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1071 words

HEADLINE: Deal Reached to Rein In Overseas Trading

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: After a rift, members of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission have agreed on a plan to curb risky overseas trading as a Friday deadline approaches. The agency and European regulators also announced a broad &#8220;path forward&#8221; for how to jointly approach cross-border trades. 

 BODY:
 9:40 a.m., July 11 | Updated 
Regulators in Washington have agreed in principle on a plan to rein in risky trading by banks overseas, according to people briefed on the matter, a truce that follows a messy split at the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The potential deal, subject to final approval by the agency, would be reached with only hours to spare before a deadline on Friday. The commission had established the deadline when it set out to decide how to regulate trading by American banks in London and beyond - a chief factor in the 2008 financial crisis. 
 Until now, the trading commission seemed destined to miss the date. Some officials at the agency, which oversees trillions of dollars in Wall Street activity, had warned that a compromise was proving elusive as tension mounted.
The dispute traced largely to the agency's Democratic chairman, Gary Gensler, and Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak. While Mr. Gensler was adamant that the agency complete its plan on time, Mr. Wetjen recently called the deadline "arbitrary." And with the agency's Republican commissioner pushing for a delay, Mr. Wetjen holds the swing vote.
But in recent days, they showed signs of progress. Mr. Gensler and Mr. Wetjen have been meeting in person throughout the week, the people briefed on the matter said, and had struck a preliminary deal by Wednesday.
While both are likely to claim victory, the deal does not come without sacrifice for each side.
The contours of the plan, the people briefed on the matter said, suggest that firms like Goldman Sachs International and Citigroup's London branch will face a wave of new scrutiny, a sticking point for Mr. Gensler.
In a move likely to appease Mr. Wetjen, Mr. Gensler is expected to phase in the cross-border oversight. And in a concession to Wall Street and foreign finance ministers, the plan would defer to European regulators if they ultimately agree to scrutinize banks in a way that is similar to the monitoring by the trading commission.
Wall Street, while objecting to the new oversight, would exhale at the prospect of a deal being reached by Friday. If the agency fails to produce the guidelines but declines to extend the deadline, some banks feared widespread confusion would ensue.
The people briefed on the matter, who insisted on anonymity to discuss private negotiations, cautioned that the deal was not final. The agency's lawyers must now draft the plan to reflect compromises hashed out in recent days. If either side makes last-minute changes, the people said, the deal could collapse.
If the deal is approved, it is unclear when the agency might announce the decision. It tentatively scheduled a public meeting for Friday to vote on the plan, though the agency could also vote in private over the next few days.
The agency's spokesman, Steven Adamske, declined to say whether the commissioners had struck a deal. Instead, he said that "progress is being made," adding that "we remain hopeful for a vote on Friday."
On Thursday, the agency and European regulators announced a broad "path forward" for how to jointly approach cross-border trades. The announcement could subdue cross-border tensions among the various regulators.
"Our discussions have been long and sometimes difficult, but they have always been close, continuous and collaborative talks between partners and friends," Michel Barnier, the European commissioner overseeing financial services, said in a statement. Mr. Gensler added that, "With these joint understandings, together, we've taken another significant step in our mutual journey to bring transparency and lower risk." 
The financial crisis highlighted the risk of overseas trading.
Trades by a London unit of the insurance giant American International Group, for example, nearly toppled the company. And JPMorgan Chase's $6 billion trading loss in London last year reignited concerns that risk-taking could come crashing back to American shores.
The blowups by A.I.G. and others spurred the Dodd-Frank Act, a law that mandated a sweeping overhaul of the $700 trillion marketplace for derivatives, financial contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond or an interest rate. Under that 2010 law, the trading commission is supposed to extend new derivatives changes - including tougher capital standards - if overseas trading has "a direct and significant connection with activities" of the United States.
That broad template left it up to the agency to draft a plan for how Dodd-Frank applies to everyday trading overseas. Ever since, Wall Street lobbyists have complained to the agency that certain requirements could drive trading business away from United States banks.
In a statement on Wednesday, the co-authors of the law, Christopher J. Dodd and Barney Frank, called on the trading commission to resist Wall Street's talking points. The former lawmakers, Mr. Frank, a Congressman from Massachusetts who retired in January year, and Mr. Dodd, a Democratic senator from Connecticut who left office in 2011, cited the chaos of 2008 as the impetus for the crackdown.
"Only people who have never heard of A.I.G. can deny that overseas failures by large domestic entities have direct impacts here," Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank said in the statement. "The failure to regulate derivatives as their role in our financial system expanded greatly was one of the most serious weaknesses in the regulatory system which we sought to correct."
The former lawmakers also said they weighed in with the hope of speeding the agency along.
"I respect that getting it right is not easy, but the fact that it's taken three years sort of stuns me," Mr. Dodd, who is now chairman and chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America, said in an interview on Wednesday. "What do you need to know?"
Mr. Gensler echoed Mr. Dodd's concerns in a meeting last month with Wall Street lobbyists , who urged the agency to extend its deadline past Friday. Mr. Gensler, summoning into his office a pregnant speechwriter at the agency whose due date was Friday, asked her what she thought of the deadline. In reply, she exclaimed, "No delay."
The speechwriter, Stephanie Allen, gave birth a week later. Some people said that was a positive omen Mr. Gensler and Mr. Wetjen would make their deadline.

        
An Architect of Wall Street Reform Prepares for Life After Politics
        
For Obama, No Easy Fix for Convoluted Regulatory System

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); FUTURES (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (88%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); APPROVALS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); EURO CRISIS (75%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (74%); CONSUMER LAW (73%); INVESTMENT BANKING (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); DEREGULATION (64%) Dodd, Christopher J; Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (2010); Frank, Barney; Obama, Barack; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (86%); BARACK OBAMA (69%) Dodd, Christopher J; Frank, Barney; Obama, Barack

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



289 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1743 words

HEADLINE: The Decline of Black Power in the South

BYLINE: THOMAS B. EDSALL


HIGHLIGHT: The Republican takeover of state legislatures has left African-Americans without effective representation. 

 BODY:
To understand the depth of the damage that the Supreme Court's June 25 decision, Shelby County v. Holder, has inflicted on the voting rights of African-Americans, you have to measure it against the backdrop of the takeover of state legislatures, primarily in the South, by the Republican Party.
Since the enactment of the Voting Rights Act in 1965, the number of blacks elected to Southern state legislatures has grown from fewer than five to 313, all but a handful as Democrats. While blacks rose in the once dominant Democratic Party, Southern whites defected. Now, in theformer Confederacy, Republicans have gained control of all 11 state legislatures. 
Despite their growing numbers, the power of Southern blacks has been dissipated. African-American Democratic officials - according to data compiled from academic research and the Web sites of state legislatures - have been relegated to minority party status. Equally important, an estimated 86 African-Americans who spent years accumulating seniority have lost their chairmanships of state legislative committees to white Republicans.

The loss of these committee positions has meant the loss of the power to set agendas, push legislation to the floor, and call hearings. At the state level, "black voters and elected officials have less influence now than at any time since the civil rights era," wrote David A. Bositis, a senior research associate at the Joint Center for Political and Economic Studies, in a 2011 paper, "Resegregation in Southern Politics?"
The 2010 midterm elections, in which Republicans took over state legislatures across the country, were devastating to Southern blacks. But the Republican surge in the South, in fact, began in an earlier election: the Gingrich-led revolution of 1994.
Bositis charts growing Republican strength in the South in Figure 1, which shows that before the 1994 election, only one out of 202 black elected officials in Southern legislatures was in the minority party. After the 1994 contest, the number of Southern blacks in the minority party grew to 46 out of 260. In the aftermath of the 2010-11 elections, the proportion of Southern blacks serving in the majority - that is, the party controlling the state legislature - dropped to just 15 out of 313. In less than 20 years, the percentage of black legislators in the South serving in the majority fell from 99.5 percent to 4.8 percent.
The transition from Democratic to Republican hegemony in the South reached completion in 2012 when the Arkansas Legislature turned Republican, putting every Southern Democratic legislator in the minority.
Republicans are currently entrenched, backed by decisive majorities of white voters. Republican legislators in the South have, in turn, moved aggressively on two fronts to secure their power: by designing legislative and Congressional districts minimizing Democratic prospects and by moving ahead with legislation designed to suppress voting under the guise of combating voter fraud.
What stands out, looking at the data, is how effective, in purely political terms, the Republican's "white" strategy has turned out to be at the state level. Nationally, the party is enmeshed in an often bitter debate between those who argue that future success lies in building margins and turnout rates among whites, making little effort to woo minorities - or in fact actively scorning them; and those, on the other hand, who believe that this strategy can no longer work as the population of minority voters grows.
Republicans in control of redistricting have two goals: the defeat of white Democrats, and the creation of safe districts for Republicans. They have achieved both of these goals by increasing the number of districts likely to elect an African-American. Black voters are gerrymandered out of districts represented by whites of both parties, making the Democratic incumbent weaker and the Republican incumbent stronger.
Take Mississippi. In the state's 2012 redistricting, all of the decisively black legislative districts - where 60 percent or more of the voters are African-American - have been preserved, and four new majority-black districts have been created. This, in turn, has allowed Republicans to reduce the percentage of blacks in districts where Republican incumbents had close contests in Mississippi's 2011 off-year elections.
While increasing the number of blacks elected to state legislatures, Republicans have been effectively implementing their long-range goal of decimating the number of white Democrats. Depending on local demographics, this has been achieved in two ways.
Where possible, Republican redistricting strategists have reduced the number of blacks in white Democratic legislative districts in order to render the incumbent vulnerable to Republican challenge. In other areas of the state, where it has not been not possible to "bleach" a district, Republicans have sharply increased the percentage of blacks to over 50 percent in order to encourage a successful black challenge to the white Democratic incumbent.
In private discussions, Republicans in the South talk explicitly about their goal of turning the Democratic Party into a black party, and in many Southern states they have succeeded. African-American legislators make up the majority of state House and Senate Democratic caucuses in most of the Southern states.
The attack by Republicans on black political power has not, however, been limited to the South. Republican takeovers of either or both branches of the State Legislatures in Pennsylvania, Indiana, Wisconsin, Ohio and Michigan have pushed black elected officials into the minority and out of committee chairmanships and leadership posts.
All of the legislation - voter IDs, restriction of early voting and reduced polling hours - seeking to suppress turnout among blacks, Hispanics and the poor emanates overwhelmingly from Republican legislatures and has been approved over the angry objections of black legislators and Democrats generally.
Voter suppression and redistricting are simply mechanisms with which to gain and hold power. What is ultimately important is what is done with that power.
North Carolina has, in this respect, become a Tea Party test tube, a state where intensely conservative Republicans wrested full control of the Legislature in 2010.
On June 16, Rob Christensen, a reporter at the Raleigh News and Observer, summarized the major Republican legislative actions of 2012-2013. These included:

        
Repeal of a state Earned Income Tax Credit program providing tax benefits to the working poor.
        
Cuts in Medicaid eligibility for poor women from 185 percent of poverty to 133 percent of the poverty level.
        
Reduction of eligibility for unemployment benefits from 26 weeks to 12 to 20 weeks, depending on circumstances.
        
Repeal of the 2009 Racial Justice Act allowing those sentenced to death to use statistical evidence of discrimination in death penalty appeals.
Legislation like this has particularly harsh consequences for blacks, Hispanics and the poor generally, and reflects what the loss of political power means.
After the censuses of 1990, 2000 and 2010, Republicans demonstrated superior skill in controlling the election of the state legislators who draw new district lines - and superior deftness in the mechanics of creating new districts.
"Republicans had a years-long strategy of winning state houses in order to control each state's once-a-decade redistricting process," Pro Publica reported in December 2012. 
The approach paid off. In 2010 state races, Republicans picked up 675 legislative seats, gaining complete control of 12 state legislatures. As a result, the G.O.P. oversaw redrawing of lines for four times as many Congressional districts as Democrats.
The long-term importance of Republican success controlling the redistricting process is that it provides the party with a tool to counter the growing strength of black, Hispanic and Asian-American voters. Republican control of Congressional district lines in 2012 allowed the party to maintain a 34-seat majority in the United States House of Representatives while winning one million fewer votes than the Democrats over all.
As the United States moves inexorably toward becoming a minority majority country, the Republican Party needs every available weapon to survive what it perceives as a siege. The Shelby County v. Holder decision issued by the five conservative members of the Supreme Court gives Republicans even wider latitude to use the manipulation of district lines through "bleaching," "packing" and "cracking," in order to maintain its control over state legislatures. This, in turn, grants Republicans control of the House of Representatives.
For Republicans deeply afraid that the 47 percent will soon be the 51 percent, the House is the last line of defense. The party and its backers have immense financial resources that have proved of mixed value in presidential and senatorial races. These resources, according to Pro Publica, were put to highly effective use in legislative races that are individually much cheaper and more susceptible to cash from the "dark money" conservative tax-exempt organizations, now major players in these less closely observed races.
As Karl Rove wrote candidly in The Wall Street Journal on March 10, 2010, "He who controls redistricting can control Congress." The Republican Party will fight tooth and nail to maintain and expand its domination of state legislatures, a battle Democrats have not fully engaged. Insofar as Republicans fight harder than Democrats, the biggest losers will be black Democratic legislators who remain on the periphery as programs serving their constituencies get axed.
Democrats often sound gleeful about the idea of Republicans' becoming the white party. They have successfully elected and re-elected the nation's first black president. But in the South and in some Northern states, the Republican takeover of state legislatures has left black and Hispanic citizens without effective representation - representation that can come only from the majority party. The racialization of the two parties, most noticeable in the South, will work to keep minority Americans at the margins of power, hindered from shaping the policies that determine social and economic mobility and the overall quality of life.

        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency
        
Governor Morton's 'Finance Bureau'
        
A Republican Left Turn?
        
The Republican Autopsy Report
        
In the South and West, a Tax on Being Poor

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (94%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (94%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (93%); POLITICS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); ELECTION LAW (78%); SUPREME COURTS (78%); MIDTERM ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (77%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (73%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (73%); ELECTION FRAUD (71%) Blacks; Minorities; Republican Party; Southern States (US); State Legislatures; States (US); United States Politics and Government; Thomas B. Edsall

ORGANIZATION: Republican Party

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTHEAST USA (94%); ARKANSAS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%) Southern States (US)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



290 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Dot Earth)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: More Signs of 'Peak Us' in New Study of 'Peak Oil Demand'

BYLINE: ANDREW C. REVKIN


HIGHLIGHT: A new study foresees declining demand for oil both through thriftier use and new fuel options. 

 BODY:
Back in 2010, I asked this question: "Which Comes First - Peak Everything or Peak Us?" My focus was whether humans could use the gift of foresight to curb resource appetites in ways that would avoid having the peak imposed on us by shortages or human-induced environmental shifts like climate disruption.
There are growing signs the answer is yes. First came work pointing to "peak travel." Then I wrote about a study foreseeing "peakfarmland" - an end to the need to keep pressing into untrammeled ecosystems to expand agriculture. 
Now comes this fascinating paper in Environmental Science & Technology: "Peak Oil Demand: The Role of Fuel Efficiency and Alternative Fuels in a Global Oil Production Decline." I asked the lead author, Adam R. Brandt of Stanford University, to write an "abstract for the common man" and he kindly complied. Here it is, with a followup question and answer: 
Oil depletion studies commonly focus on the supply of conventional petroleum without as much attention to the other side of the equation, which is petroleum demand. In this study, we examine the trends affecting demand for conventional oil in the future to see under what conditions "peak demand" for oil might arise. We find that historical trends in oil use lead to a peak in demand for oil by well before mid-century. If concerted effort is made to shift to oil alternatives and promote efficiency, a demand decline may arise even sooner. 
This may seem counter-intuitive, due to seemingly ever-growing demand for oil in Asia and other developing regions. However, a number of trends are underway that will mitigate this demand increase. First, demand for land transport does not grow consistently with wealth. Consumers in developed regions such as the US, Europe and Japan have reached "saturation" for land travel demand, even if we grow wealthier. That is, other factors (time, traffic congestion) limit our demand for land travel, even if we are wealthy enough to travel more. While demand in Asia is currently growing rapidly, that is because they are on the steep part of a "s-shaped" demand growth curve. Current trends should not be extrapolated. At the same time, global fuel economy standards are finally picking up again after some decades of stagnation. Fuel economy regulations across the globe mean that in 10-15 years, the average new consumer vehicle will get milage similar to today's hybrids. Lastly, alternatives to conventional oil in the transport sector are growing rapidly, including oil sands, biofuels, electric vehicles, and natural gas vehicles. Obviously, not all of these ways to mitigate peak oil have the same climate consequences (more on this below).
Despite this general optimism about shifting away from conventional oil, some sources of demand remain robust. For example, there is no evidence in historical data for saturation of demand for air travel. As people get wealthier, they fly more. No exceptions were found to this trend. Also, oil use in freight and shipping (both domestic and international) does not show saturation effects in our datasets. Thus, these needs grow in importance over time.
We also find that the particular path taken away from conventional oil will strongly affect the climate consequences of our future energy system. A shift to wind and solar powered EVs will obviously have climate benefits. A shift to coal-based synthetic fuels may mitigate the need for conventional oil but will exacerbate climate change. The complex social and ecological challenges of biofuels are well known. For this reason, we argue that focus on oil futures should shift away from attention on oil as purely a scarcity problem toward a focus on managing the impacts (both social and environmental) of oil substitution. 
Readers are welcome to download the model used in our study and to explore the issues using an easy-to-use interface.
I sent this followup question:
In considering climate change implications, it would seem that this work identifies priority areas for developing lower-carbon fuels - i.e., biofuels for aviation or, say, Qatar's process for turning natural gas into a jet fuel. Is that fair to say?* 
Here's Brandt's reply:
Yes, definitely. Historical data show robust demand for air and freight energy use as a function of wealth. That is, we like to keep flying and buying things even if we are not wanting to spend more time in traffic. Therefore, substitutes with climate benefits in these sectors would be strategically very important. Air is a well-known challenge due to the required energy densities of fuels. Freight seems to have more options in the near-term (e.g., electrification of rail or LNG for long-haul trucking).
In considering this work, of course, it's important to keep in mind the track record of energy forecasts, more generally. But there's an interesting theme here to watch.

        
With a Big If, Science Panel Finds Deep Cuts Possible in Auto Emissions and Oil Use
        
A Reality Check on a Plan for a Swift Post-Fossil Path for New York
        
In Gas-Drilling Fight, Opposites Attract, and Distract
        
Can Wind, Water and Sunlight Power New York by 2050?
        
Kerry Proposes U.S.-India Push on Carbon and Climate

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (90%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL RESEARCH (90%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (90%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (90%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (90%); BIOFUELS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (90%); BIOMASS (90%); TRENDS (89%); ALTERNATIVE FUEL VEHICLES (88%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (88%); ENERGY DEMAND (78%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); ENERGY & ENVIRONMENT (77%); EMISSIONS (77%); CLIMATE CHANGE (77%); HISTORY (76%); RENEWABLE ENERGY (74%); NATURAL GAS (74%); GLOBAL WARMING (74%); WRITERS (71%); OIL SANDS (69%); OIL PRODUCTION STATISTICS (69%); TRANSPORTATION SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (68%); AUTOMOTIVE TECHNOLOGY (63%); GREENHOUSE GASES (62%); ELECTRIC VEHICLES (60%) Alternative and Renewable Energy; Bioenergy and Biofuels; Environmental Science & Technology (Journal); Freight (Cargo); Fuel Efficiency; Global Warming; Greenhouse Gas Emissions; Japan; Natural Gas; Oil (Petroleum) and Gasoline; Qatar; Stanford University; Trucks and Trucking; Climate Change; consumption; energy; fossil fuels; oil; peak

ORGANIZATION: Environmental Science &amp; Technology (Journal); Stanford University

GEOGRAPHIC: ASIA (91%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%) Japan; Qatar

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



291 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(ArtsBeat)

PUB-DATE: July 10, 2013

SECTION: ARTS

LENGTH: 413 words

HEADLINE: Antiquity Exhibit at Cleveland Museum Is Canceled

BYLINE: PATRICIA COHEN


HIGHLIGHT: The Cleveland Museum of Art will not host an exhibition of ancient treasures from Sicily this September, as had originally been planned. 

 BODY:
A traveling exhibition of ancient treasures from Sicily that was scheduled to open at the Cleveland Museum of Art in September was canceled on Wednesday after officials from the Italian island complained that the art loan was hurting its economy, The Plain Dealer in Cleveland, Ohio, reported. 
 "It's very disappointing," said David Franklin, the museum's director. "These things don't happen very often in the art world. This is unprecedented for me and I think unprecedented for all of us."
The exhibition, "Sicily: Art and Invention between Greece and Rome," which opened on April 3 at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, includes 145 items that celebrate the Greek culture that flourished on the island between the fifth and third centuries, B.C. In a statement, Mr. Franklin said that despite the intervention of the United States embassy in Rome and the Italian embassy in Washington, the autonomous Sicilian government would not budge.
Culture officials on the island were particularly concerned that two of the exhibition's major attractions, a six-foot-tall statue of a charioteer and a gold libation bowl, popular tourist attractions, had been missing for so long from Italy. 
Last month, in response to questions from The New York Times, Mariarita Sgarlata, Sicily's highest cultural official, had asked, "How would an American tourist react who, trusting his Frommer's travel guide, has gone out of his way to visit the island of Mozia to admire this work of art in its original setting, only to discover that the statue is in Tokyo or St. Petersburg?" 
She has already noted that Sicilian officials never signed a contract formally authorizing the exhibitions, although the items were allowed to leave Italy for the Getty. 
Ms. Sgarlata was not immediately available for comment Wednesday.
In response to a list of questions from The Plain Dealer about the possibility of the cancellation that was e-mailed on Tuesday, Emiliano Colomasi, Ms. Sgarlata's spokesman, told the newspaper that he had forwarded the questions to her and that he hoped she would respond soon.
"The assessor these days is very busy and wants to respond in person without delegating to anyone," Mr. Colomasi said. 

        
Turkey Steps Up Demands for Antiquities in U.S. Museums
        
Sicilian Exhibition at Cleveland Museum Is Off Again After Talks Fail
        
Getty Museum's Rembrandt Acquisition Hits a Snag
        
Italian Police Recover Trove of Etruscan Antiquities
        
Getty Museum Acquires Paintings by Rembrandt and Canaletto

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (94%); EXHIBITIONS (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); PAINTING (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); TOURISM (67%) Cleveland Museum of Art; Getty, J Paul, Museum; Italy; Antiquities; art & design; arts general; ArtsBeat; museums

ORGANIZATION: Cleveland Museum of Art; Getty, J Paul, Museum

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (96%); ROME, ITALY (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (53%) OHIO, USA (96%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); ITALY (93%); TURKEY (79%); GREECE (76%); JAPAN (53%) Italy

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2013



292 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 897 words

HEADLINE: Broken Promises

BYLINE: By BYRON L. DORGAN. 
Byron L. Dorgan, Democrat of North Dakota, served in the House from 1981 to 1992 and in the Senate from 1992 to 2011. He is a senior fellow at the Bipartisan Policy Center.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- WHEN I retired in 2011 after serving 30 years in Congress, there was one set of issues I knew I could not leave behind. I donated $1 million of unused campaign funds to create the Center for Native American Youth at the Aspen Institute, because our country has left a trail of broken promises to American Indians.
As chairman of the Senate Committee on Indian Affairs, I once toured a school near an Indian reservation where I encountered a teacher who told me that when she asked a young Indian student what she wanted for Christmas, she said she wanted the electricity turned on in her house so she could study at night. 
That type of story is all too familiar. I believe that American Indian children are the country's most at-risk population. Too many live in third-world conditions. A few weeks ago, I traveled to the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota. It's hard just to get there. A two-hour drive from Rapid City brings you to Shannon County, the second poorest county in the United States.
The proud nation of Sioux Indians who live there -- like many of the 566 federally recognized tribes -- have a treaty with the United States, the 1868 Treaty of Fort Laramie, which promised that their health care, education and housing needs would be provided for by the federal government.
Tribal leaders, parents and some inspiring children I've met make valiant efforts every day to overcome unemployment, endemic poverty, historical trauma and a lack of housing, educational opportunity and health care.
But these leaders and communities are once again being mistreated by a failed American policy, this time going under the ugly name ''sequestration.'' This ignorant budget maneuvering requires across-the-board spending cuts to the most important programs along with the least important. American Indian kids living in poverty are paying a very high price for this misguided abandonment of Congressional decision-making.
When we pushed American Indians off their tribal lands, we signed treaties making promises to provide services in exchange for that land. On my visit to Pine Ridge, I saw how we continue to cheat them. Sequestration, which should never have applied to sovereign Indian reservations in the first place, only compounds the problem.
It's easy for many to believe those who say that automatic budget cuts aren't hurting anybody much. But that's wrong. And I can introduce you to the kids who will tell you why.
At a round-table discussion I had with students of Pine Ridge High School, I met a young man who qualified for the state wrestling tournament this year. The school and tribe had no money to send him. So the wrestling coach spent $500 out of his own pocket to pay for travel and food. The student slept on the floor of the gymnasium because there was no money for a motel room.
When I asked a group of eight high school students who among them had had someone close to them take their own life, they all raised their hands. More than 100 suicide threats or attempts, most by young people, have been reported at Pine Ridge so far this year.
The rate of suicide among American Indian youth is nearly four times the national average, and is as high as 10 times the average in many tribal communities across the Great Plains. At the same time, mental health services are being cut as a result of sequestration, with Pine Ridge losing at least one provider this year.
The youth center on the reservation is closed because of lack of funding. Money for the summer youth program, which pays high school students to work during their break, has also been eliminated.
I met a 12-year-old homeless girl at the emergency youth shelter. Her mother is dead. She doesn't know the identity of her father. She's been in multiple foster homes and been repeatedly sexually abused. She found safety in the shelter, but its funding is being cut because of sequestration -- an indiscriminate budget ax, I might add, that was thought of as so unconscionable when I was in the Senate that it would never have been seriously considered.
The very programs that we set up to provide those basic life necessities on reservations are the same ones feeling the indiscriminate, blunt cuts of sequestration. How can we justify such a thoughtless policy?
While I was at Pine Ridge I also met with the Tribal Council, whose members described a severe housing crisis. In one district more than 200 homes are without electricity. Throughout the reservation, I saw many dilapidated homes missing windows and doors.
Pine Ridge students told me that many of their friends and families were homeless. ''Our friends sleep in tents,'' one student said.
Even in normal times, the Indian Health Service operates with about half the money it needs. Tribal Council members told me that some of their health funds last only until May. If you get sick after May, too bad. Now these health care programs, already rationing care, are subject to the sequester. The Indian Health Service estimates that as a result it will have 804,000 fewer patient visits this year.
Congress should hold a series of investigative hearings on our unfulfilled treaties with American Indians. Add up the broken promises, make an accounting of the underfunding, all of it, and then work with tribes to develop a plan to make it right. In the meantime, we must exempt Indian country from sequestration -- right now.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY MICHELA BUTTIGNOL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIVE AMERICANS (92%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); CHILDREN (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); CHILD POVERTY (77%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (76%); POOR POPULATION (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (73%); HIGH SCHOOLS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (67%); TOURNAMENTS (60%); WRESTLING (60%)

ORGANIZATION: ASPEN INSTITUTE (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (56%) SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



293 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 529 words

HEADLINE: Gun Group to Hold Concert As Part of Fund-Raising Push

BYLINE: By JESSE McKINLEY

 BODY:
ALBANY -- Hoping to find support and money among country music fans, a group of gun rights supporters and other grass-roots organizations in New York have announced a new addition to the summer festival circuit: Freedompalooza. 
The concert, planned for Aug. 24 in Altamont, outside Albany, was announced on Wednesday by Assemblyman Bill Nojay, a Pittsford Republican, and Tom King, the president of the New York State Rifle and Pistol Association.
Mr. King said organizers were planning to hire a yet-to-be-announced roster of big-name country music stars to help raise money for a new nonprofit advocacy group, Freedom Coalition. Its goal is to register voters for the 2014 elections who believe in ''economic and individual freedoms,'' Mr. Nojay said.
The organizers are unhappy about a measure the Legislature passed in January, with support from Democrats and Republicans, that imposed new restrictions on the ownership of assault weapons and the size of gun magazines. They said they hoped to energize potential voters who would support candidates more sympathetic to gun rights and eager to lower taxes.
''People in upstate New York need to have their freedoms reinforced,'' Mr. King said at a news conference here, adding that there were a ''whole spectrum of constitutional rights being infringed on.''
And apparently sung about. Country music is often strongly patriotic, and initial glimpses of Freedompalooza seem to be so as well: A banner promoting the event featured an American flag, an image of the Constitution and the tag line ''Our First Shot at Liberty.''
The event will be overseen by David Sieling, a promoter and self-described constitutionalist based in Rochester, who said he had never put together an outdoor show like this.
''I usually do indoors,'' Mr. Sieling said.
Local gun rights supporters are not the first to seize upon the name, Freedompalooza -- for example, an identically named event was held last week in Bucks County, Pa., and advertised as ''a traveling freedom festival,'' devoted to ''influential patriot speakers on Freedom/Truth/Conspiracies.''
The Altamont event is casting a wide net for support, and several supporters spoke on Wednesday, including the Shooters Committee on Political Education, a Rochester-area Tea Party group and the Frederick Douglass Foundation, a public policy group based in Washington that is made up of Christians and Republicans.''The government is proving that it's not our friend anymore,'' Stephen J. Aldstadt, of the Shooters Committee, said.
Mr. Sieling, who says he once volunteered for Carl P. Paladino, the 2010 Republican candidate for governor, said he hoped to get major Nashville performers to upstate New York, and to announce several of them by Friday. Tickets, at $35 each, went on sale on Wednesday, and Mr. Sieling said his goal was to get as many as 15,000 people to attend.
Assemblyman Nojay said the new group's mission would be nonpartisan, and would be a success if ''elections are influenced'' by new voters. As for the concert itself, he had no comment on whether he liked country music, noting that he was more of a Led Zeppelin fan (his ringtone is ''Kashmir,'' one of the group's hits).

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GUN CONTROL (92%); FIREARMS (91%); FUNDRAISING (90%); COUNTRY MUSIC (90%); RIGHT TO BEAR ARMS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MUSIC (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (78%); EVENT MARKETING (77%); ELECTIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (76%); PUBLIC POLICY (76%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (71%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (71%); GOVERNORS (71%); RELIGION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ROCHESTER, NY, USA (92%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



294 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: Differences On Cybertheft Complicate China Talks

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Vice President Joseph R. Biden Jr. opened annual strategic talks with senior Chinese leaders here on Wednesday by repeating the United States' accusation that the electronic theft of American intellectual property could undermine the relationship between the world's two largest economies.
And to no one's surprise, the Chinese had an answer ready: that the publication of secret documents showing the extent of American surveillance of Chinese universities and other institutions undercuts the Obama administration's case. 
That friction, American officials conceded in private, underscores how difficult it will be for the United States to make progress on what President Obama and his top aides have said is now a central issue between two countries whose economies are intertwined and whose militaries are in competition.
And at a time when the Chinese economy is showing signs that it is headed into a period of slower growth, the administration's hopes of persuading Chinese leaders to crack down on the daily barrage of theft and espionage over the Internet -- considered crucial to keep China competitive -- is likely to be even more difficult.
''We both will benefit from an open, secure, reliable Internet,'' Mr. Biden said at the opening of the talks, the Strategic and Economic Dialogue, an annual effort to bring together top Chinese and American cabinet and subcabinet officials on a range of problems. ''Outright cyber-enabling theft that U.S. companies are experiencing now must be viewed as out of bounds and needs to stop.''
Mr. Biden was making the same point that Mr. Obama repeated in recent weeks, including during a meeting with China's new president, Xi Jingping, in California. To the Americans, China's cybertheft -- often directed by units of the People's Liberation Army -- is different, and far more corrosive, than standard government espionage.
An American official who was sent out to brief reporters after the first day of talks said that when it came to the theft of intellectual property -- including the designs of commercial products and military aircraft -- ''we don't do it, and we don't think any country should do it.''
China has always viewed the issue differently, seeing far less of a distinction involving what it regards as issues of economic and military security.
''For many Chinese, it is bizarre that how Washington can continue to pose as the biggest cyberespionage victim and demand others behave well,'' China Daily, a government-influenced publication, wrote before the meeting, ''after former U.S. intelligence contractor Edward Snowden revealed that U.S. spy agencies hacked deep into China and other countries' computer networks, including those of government, military, research, educational and business organizations.''
It concluded that ''by dividing cyberespionage into 'bad' and 'good' activities, Washington is trying to dictate the rules for global cyberdomain, which is a public space.''
American and Chinese cyberexperts met Monday for the first time in a working group intended to address the issue. That alone was progress: when the United States asked Chinese officials to discuss cybertheft, cyberespionage and cybersecurity at a meeting several years ago, there was almost no give and take. But new attention focused on the activities of the Chinese military, notably Unit 61398 of the People's Liberation Army, has made it harder for Mr. Xi's government to ignore the United States' protests.
Mr. Snowden's revelations may be a gift to the Chinese, because they shift the focus from China's covert activities to Washington's. And even American scholars say the Chinese have a good argument. ''It is not true that 'unwritten rules' prohibit economic espionage,'' said Jack Goldsmith, a Harvard law professor and cyberexpert who served in the Bush administration. ''Economic espionage is expressly prohibited by U.S. domestic law but is not prohibited by international law, written or unwritten, and it is widely practiced.''
The most fruitful part of the conversations, American officials indicated in a briefing late on Wednesday, dealt with North Korea and climate change, two areas where the governments have been moving into alignment.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CYBERCRIME (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); PROPERTY CRIMES (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (77%); NATIONAL SECURITY (73%); INTERNET & WWW (72%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (62%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (62%); DEFENSE RESEARCH (62%)

PERSON: JOE BIDEN (89%); XI JINPING (79%); BARACK OBAMA (78%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (65%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



295 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1293 words

HEADLINE: Drones in Niger Reflect New U.S. Tack on Terrorism

BYLINE: By ERIC SCHMITT

 BODY:
NIAMEY, Niger -- Nearly every day, and sometimes twice daily, an unarmed American drone soars skyward from a secluded military airfield here, starting a surveillance mission of 10 hours or more to track fighters affiliated with Al Qaeda and other militants in neighboring Mali.
The two MQ-9 Reapers that are based here stream live video and data from other sensors to American analysts working with French commanders, who say the aerial intelligence has been critical to their success over the past four months in driving jihadists from a vast desert refuge in northern Mali.
The drone base, established in February and staffed by about 120 members of the Air Force, is the latest indication of the priority Africa has become for the United States at a time when it is winding down its presence in Afghanistan and President Obama has set a goal of moving from a global war on terrorism toward a more targeted effort. It is part of a new model for counterterrorism, a strategy designed to help local forces -- and in this case a European ally -- fight militants so American troops do not have to. 
But the approach has limitations on a continent as large as Africa, where a shortage of resources is chronic and regional partners are weak. And the introduction of drones, even unarmed ones, runs the risk of creating the kind of backlash that has undermined American efforts in Pakistan and provoked anger in many parts of the world.
The increase in the number of potential threats in the region was made clear to Mr. Obama during his visit to Africa last week.
''We need in Africa -- not just in Senegal but the whole of Africa -- to have the military capacity to solve this problem, but we need training, we need materials, we need intelligence,'' President Macky Sall of Senegal said after meeting with Mr. Obama in Dakar to discuss fears of a growing violent Islamist threat in the Sahara, according to Reuters.
The United States military, however, has only one permanent base in Africa, in Djibouti, more than 3,000 miles from Mali, as well as a constellation of small airstrips in places that include Ethiopia and Burkina Faso, for surveillance missions flown by drones or turboprop planes designed to look like civilian aircraft. The challenge for the United States, with little experience in Africa, is a difficult one.
''The U.S. is facing a security environment in Africa that is increasingly more complex and therefore more dangerous,'' said Michael R. Shurkin, a former Central Intelligence Agency analyst who is now at the RAND Corporation. ''Effective responses, moreover, require excellent knowledge about local populations and their politics, the sort of understanding that too often eludes the U.S. government and military.''
And the threats facing Niger are typical of the ones that worry Mr. Sall. The government of President Mahamadou Issoufou is struggling to stem a flow of insurgents across Niger's lightly guarded borders with Mali, Nigeria and Libya. On May 23, terrorists using suicide car bombs attacked a Nigerien military compound in Agadez and a French-operated uranium company in Arlit, both in the country's north.
Two groups claimed credit for the bombings, which the authorities in Niger say killed at least 24 soldiers and one civilian, as well as 11 militants. One is led by the Algerian militant Mokhtar Belmokhtar and attacked a large gas field in Algeria in January, and the other is a regional offshoot of Al Qaeda called the Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa, or Mujao.
The terrorist attacks in May, combined with an escape from Niamey's biggest jail last month by 32 detainees, including many suspected militants, have left Mr. Issoufou's government vulnerable to criticism that it cannot provide security, despite allowing American drones on Nigerien soil.
The government in Niger has defended that decision, and it is concerned enough about the threat it perceives from extremist fighters pushed out of Mali that it initially wanted the drones to be armed, a former senior American official said. But Obama administration officials thought that was unnecessary and politically unwise.
To experts on Africa, the possibility that the drones will yet cause a backlash remains real, especially if Islamic radicals make it an issue.
''The concern would be that a lot of the blowback would be through channels we can't easily perceive, such as Salafist mosques,'' said Alexis Arieff, an Africa analyst with the Congressional Research Service in Washington.
The United States acknowledged the drone deployment here in February -- initially sending a single Predator aircraft and later faster, more capable Reapers -- but since then it has released virtually no information about their missions, presumably to avoid raising their public profile. The Pentagon denied a request to interview the Air Force flight crews, logistics and maintenance specialists, and security personnel assigned here at a military airfield on the opposite side of the commercial airport in Niger's capital.
French, American and Nigerien officials all have a say in the daily missions of the drones, a Pentagon official said, but clearly the priority has been supporting the French campaign in Mali. The United States has flown more than 200 missions in support of the French, with the possibility that it could expand its operations to support a United Nations force largely composed of African troops that assumed control of the peacekeeping mission in Mali on July 1.
In some of the fiercest fighting between French-led forces and the Islamist fighters in early March, the drones hovered over a rugged mountainous region in Mali, giving allied forces targeting information for airstrikes. French and African officials say that perhaps 700 fighters, out of about 2,000 insurgents in all, were killed in the fighting.
As surviving fighters have melted back into the desert and mountains in recent weeks, the Reapers have been surveilling vast reaches of the north for signs of militant infiltration or secret new redoubts -- a daunting task that one American official described as ''looking through a soda straw'' across the Sahara. At Niger's request, American officials said, the drones may also conduct surveillance along the border before entering Mali.
Despite the gains, J. Peter Pham, the director of the Atlantic Council's Africa Center in Washington, said the French were not fully using the information from the drones. The French forces, fearing attack from surface-to-air missiles looted from Libyan stockpiles, have curtailed helicopter gunship missions in Mali, and they instead rely on higher-flying but less precise fighter-bombers for any airstrikes, Mr. Pham said. But a French official said France had not carried out airstrikes in weeks and played down the missile threat. The official said that the intelligence was still being used to support ground operations.
The American missions have not been without incident. On April 9, one of the drones crashed in a remote part of northern Mali, presumably because of a mechanical failure. ''It was a total loss,'' one Air Force officer said of the wreckage.
Pentagon officials say the drone missions will continue even as France reduces its force in Mali to about 1,000 troops by year's end, from 3,500 now, ''because we see a continued need for intelligence collection in that region,'' said Amanda Dory, deputy assistant secretary of defense for Africa.
France has been impressed enough with the Reapers that it intends to buy at least two of the aircraft from the United States. ''They've been absolutely necessary for us because we don't have enough drones to protect our troops and to get permanent visibility about what's happening on the ground,'' said a French defense official in Paris.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The United States uses Reaper drones like this one nearly every day to track militants in Mali. (PHOTOGRAPH BY ETIENNE LAURENT/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TERRORISM (91%); MILITARY SURVEILLANCE (90%); ARMED FORCES (90%); TERRORIST ORGANIZATIONS (90%); AIRPORTS (89%); AIR FORCES (78%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (77%); WAR ON TERROR (77%); AL-QAEDA (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (73%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (60%)

ORGANIZATION: AL-QAEDA (58%); US AIR FORCE (57%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (60%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (75%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DAKAR, SENEGAL (55%) SAHARA DESERT (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); AFRICA (97%); NIGER (94%); MALI (94%); SENEGAL (92%); AFGHANISTAN (79%); DJIBOUTI (79%); PAKISTAN (79%); ETHIOPIA (79%); BURKINA FASO (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



296 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1114 words

HEADLINE: Fallout From Apple's Loss on E-Books

BYLINE: By BRIAN X. CHEN and JULIE BOSMAN

 BODY:
For Apple, the words of Steven P. Jobs were often used to win negotiations. But after his death, they have proved damaging.
A federal judge on Wednesday said that some of Mr. Jobs's words helped persuade her that Apple had violated antitrust law in conspiring with publishers to raise prices of e-books. Although it appears unlikely that the ruling will have an immediate effect on the book-buying public, it could affect how Apple cuts deals with media companies that provide the music, books and movies that help make its iPhones and iPads compelling.
Charles E. Elder, an antitrust lawyer at Irell & Manella, said that the ruling could lead Apple and other technology companies negotiating with media companies to ''proceed with extreme caution'' to avoid any appearance of collusion.
On Wednesday, Apple continued to assert it had done nothing wrong, and said it would appeal the decision. A trial to determine damages will follow. 
''Apple did not conspire to fix e-book pricing and we will continue to fight against these false accusations,'' Tom Neumayr, an Apple spokesman, said. ''When we introduced the iBookstore in 2010, we gave customers more choice, injecting much needed innovation and competition into the market, breaking Amazon's monopolistic grip on the publishing industry.''
In her ruling, Denise L. Cote of United States District Court in Manhattan said Apple had taken advantage of the publishers' ''fear of and frustration'' over Amazon.com's control of e-book pricing, and the tight window of opportunity in the weeks leading up to the iPad's introduction in 2010, to get the publishers to agree to its terms. ''Apple seized the moment and brilliantly played its hand,'' she wrote.
Five major publishers had also been named in the suit, but they all settled before the trial. Apple continued to fight the charges despite what increasingly looked like uphill odds. Publicly, the company said it refused to settle as a matter of principle because it had done nothing wrong.
The Justice Department said the judge's decision was a victory for people who buy e-books.
''Companies cannot ignore the antitrust laws when they believe it is in their economic self-interest to do so,'' the Justice Department said in a statement. ''This decision by the court is a critical step in undoing the harm caused by Apple's illegal actions.''
The main reason e-book prices will probably not move sharply in the near term is that the publishers who settled are operating under the settlement's terms, which prohibit publishers from restricting a retailer's ability to discount books.
''The changes to the industry have already happened,'' said Mike Shatzkin, the founder and chief executive of the Idea Logical Company, a publishing consultant.
Since those settlements have gone into effect, prices on many newly released and best-selling e-books have gone down. One New York Times best-seller, ''And the Mountains Echoed,'' by Khaled Hosseini, is sold on Amazon.com for $10.99. But other e-books seem to have held closer to presettlement prices: ''The Ocean at the End of the Lane,'' by Neil Gaiman, is listed for $12.80 on Amazon.com.
The antitrust suit underscored the turmoil in the book industry as readers shift from ink and paper to electronic devices like tablets and smartphones, where they can buy books with the push of a button. The publishers want to embrace new media, but they are also trying to protect their profits and retain control of their businesses.
A recent survey of the publishing industry revealed that in the United States, e-books account for 20 percent of publishers' revenue, more than $3 billion, up from 15 percent the year before. Amazon.com dominates the e-book market.
The outcome will probably inflict some damage to Apple's reputation. The judge's decision casts Apple as a cold and manipulative bully whose actions have harmed consumers, contrary to the way the company markets itself, as a maker of products that improve people's lives.
Apple's brand has already been under attack. Even though the company remains wildly successful, with iPhones and iPads flying off the shelves all over the world, its stock price is sagging and its tax practices and manufacturing processes have been under public scrutiny. Its stock fell 0.4 percent on Wednesday.
Judge Cote said e-mails and spoken statements by Mr. Jobs, the company's charismatic leader, who died in 2011, made clear he knew publishers were unhappy with Amazon's pricing of $9.99 for e-books, and that Apple's entry would drive up prices across the industry.
In one instance, Mr. Jobs made comments to a reporter after he introduced the iPad and the iBookstore in January 2010. When asked why consumers would buy an e-book from Apple's store instead of Amazon.com, Mr. Jobs replied, ''The prices will be the same.''
The Justice Department said Apple's deal with the publishers left Amazon.com with no choice but to raise prices. When Apple entered the e-book market, it changed the way publishers sold books by introducing a model called agency pricing, where the publisher -- not the retailer -- sets the price, and Apple took a cut of each sale. As a result, the publishers were able to set e-book prices higher than $9.99, the price many new books sold for on Amazon.com. Apple proposed caps of $12.99 and $14.99.
An e-mail written by Mr. Jobs that referred to the agency model was frequently brought up at the trial. In the e-mail, sent to Eddy Cue, Apple's senior vice president for Internet software and services, Mr. Jobs wrote of the contracts negotiated with publishers: ''I can live with this, as long as they move Amazon to the agent model too for new releases for the first year. If they don't, I'm not sure we can be competitive.''
The Justice Department said this showed Apple's intent to help the publishers push Amazon.com to the agency model so they could raise e-book prices. Apple's lead counsel, Orin Snyder of Gibson, Dunn & Crutcher, contended that the note written by Mr. Jobs was a draft. But the version presented by the Justice Department indicated that it was written at a later time and was signed ''Steve,'' suggesting that it was the final draft.
''Apple has struggled mightily to reinterpret Jobs's statements in a way that will eliminate their bite,'' Judge Cote wrote. ''Its efforts have proven fruitless.''
Apple's battle with the Justice Department is far from over, because antitrust trials are typically two- or three-round fights. The next step of the trial will involve a hearing on damages and relief.
Then if Apple goes forward with an appeal of the judge's 160-page decision, the arguments will take place in the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Apple's app for electronic books is displayed on an iPad. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (90%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); PUBLISHING (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); CONSPIRACY (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (89%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (89%); JUDGES (89%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LITIGATION (78%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (78%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); BOOKSTORES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (73%); SMARTPHONES (73%); MAJOR US LAW FIRMS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (73%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); TABLET COMPUTERS (70%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: APPLE INC (97%); IRELL & MANELLA LLP (58%); AMAZON.COM INC (55%)

TICKER: AAPL (NASDAQ) (97%); AMZN (NASDAQ) (55%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS423430 COMPUTER & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (97%); NAICS334112 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC5045 COMPUTERS & COMPUTER PERIPHERAL EQUIPMENT & SOFTWARE (97%); SIC3572 COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICES (97%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (97%); NAICS541110 OFFICES OF LAWYERS (58%); SIC8111 LEGAL SERVICES (58%); NAICS454111 ELECTRONIC SHOPPING (55%); SIC5961 CATALOG & MAIL-ORDER HOUSES (55%)

PERSON: STEVEN JOBS (90%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



297 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 316 words

HEADLINE: Shrinking Stockpiles Hint At Future Economic Growth

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Wholesalers cut back on restocking in May even as sales rose, indicating that economic growth could pick up later this year as they rebuild their stockpiles.
The Commerce Department said on Wednesday that wholesale stockpiles shrank 0.5 percent in May, the most in 20 months. That followed a 0.1 percent decline in April, which was revised lower. 
Sales at the wholesale level increased 1.6 percent in May and 0.7 percent in April.
A reduction in stockpiles may prompt economists to cut their growth forecasts for the April-June quarter. But the steady gain in sales suggests companies may have to order more goods in the coming months to keep up with demand. That could bolster factory production and drive more economic growth in the second half of the year.
Auto sales jumped 3 percent in May, yet stockpiles were unchanged. And sales of durable goods, items meant to last at least three years, rose 0.3 percent, while inventories of those goods fell by the same amount.
Sales of nondurable goods rose 2.8 percent, the most in more than two years. The gain was caused by large increases in sales of clothing, groceries and pharmaceuticals. Stockpiles of those goods declined 0.8 percent.
Stockpiles of farm goods fell sharply for the second straight month, dropping 6 percent. That most likely reflected the impact of a severe drought last year, which has resulted in lower stockpiles this spring.
Overall wholesale stockpiles totaled $500.9 billion in May, 3.3 percent higher than a year ago.
Much of the recent data suggest the second half of the year could be stronger, helped by steady job growth, a resilient consumer and a sustained recovery in housing.
Employers have added 202,000 jobs a month through the first six months of the year. That is up from 180,000 in the previous six months.
More Americans are earning paychecks, which increases overall income and supports more spending.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (90%); SALES FIGURES (90%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (73%); DURABLE GOODS (72%); WAGES & SALARIES (68%); DROUGHT (50%)

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



298 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1238 words

HEADLINE: A Shifting Debate at Fed On When to End Stimulus

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The Federal Reserve Chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday that the Fed was likely to extend the centerpiece of its campaign to bolster the economy -- keeping short-term interest rates close to zero -- even as it prepares to wind down another key stimulus program that faces mounting internal opposition.
Mr. Bernanke has begun to prepare the way for the Fed to scale back on its effort to cut borrowing costs for businesses and consumers through the monthly purchase of vast quantities of Treasuries and mortgage-backed securities. Although a growing number of Fed officials want the bond buying to end more quickly, Mr. Bernanke sought on Wednesday to emphasize that an end to bond buying would not signal a broader change in the Fed's commitment to support economic expansion and reduce unemployment.
''The overall message is accommodation,'' Mr. Bernanke told a gathering of economists in Cambridge, Mass. ''There is some prospective, gradual and possible change in the mix of instruments, but that shouldn't be confused with the overall thrust of policy.'' 
The Fed has said that it plans to hold short-term interest rates near zero at least as long as the unemployment rate remains above 6.5 percent. Mr. Bernanke echoed recent remarks by other Fed officials in suggesting that the Fed was likely to maintain its suppression of short-term interest rates for some time after unemployment dropped below that threshold, and that officials were considering lowering the threshold.
Mr. Bernanke and other Fed officials have not fully explained this emerging shift in their strategy, in part because they do not seem to agree. Some officials say that asset purchases have been effective but are no longer necessary. Other officials say the purchases have failed to meet expectations. Still others say they are worried that the purchases could destabilize financial markets.
The Fed began last September to expand its holdings of Treasuries and mortgage bonds by $85 billion a month, the third major expansion of its investment holdings since the financial crisis. It now owns more than $3 trillion in bonds.
Mr. Bernanke said last month, after the most recent meeting of the Fed's policy-making committee, that the central bank planned to gradually taper its monthly bond purchases starting later this year and ending in the middle of next year, so long as economic growth continues.
But ''about half'' of the 19 officials who participated in the policy meeting said in an internal survey beforehand ''that it likely would be appropriate to end asset purchases late this year,'' according to an account of the meeting that the Fed released Wednesday after a standard delay.
The account does not imply an earlier endpoint to the bond-buying program. Only 12 of the 19 officials vote each year, and proponents of a later end date still command a majority of the votes. Moreover, officials have said repeatedly that the timing will depend on economic conditions, in particular on evidence that the labor market outlook has improved substantially.
That is a standard the economy has yet to meet, at least to the satisfaction of the majority that backs the bond-buying program, known as quantitative easing. The account underscored that a decision to decelerate later this year still hangs in the balance.
''Many members indicated that further improvement in the outlook for the labor market would be required before it would be appropriate to slow the pace of asset purchases,'' the account said. ''Some added that they would, as well, need to see more evidence that the projected acceleration in economic activity would occur, before reducing the pace of asset purchases.''
Mr. Bernanke's earlier announcement that the Fed intended to dial back the pace of its purchases later this year unsettled investors who have staked vast sums on the Fed's plans. Longer-term borrowing costs rose, in part because of the assertion that the economy was doing better and in part because of the suggestion that the central bank intended to provide less help than investors had expected.
The average rate on a 30-year home mortgage has increased from 3.35 percent in early May to 4.29 percent last week, according to Freddie Mac, causing refinancing to diminish and raising questions about whether higher rates might soon start affecting home buying.
A flurry of follow-up speeches by Fed officials helped to stabilize markets, but did not reverse the initial rise in interest rates.
The impact of the latest information remains to be seen. The stock market fell in the hour after the Fed released the meeting account; the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index ended the trading day almost exactly where it started. As Mr. Bernanke took questions after the markets closed, stocks rose and interest rates fell in limited after-hours trading.
The minutes of last month's meeting make clear that opposition to the bond-buying program has steadily increased as officials who initially supported the purchases have concluded that the program should come to an end. But the diversity of views about the proper timetable makes it harder to predict when tapering of quantitative easing is likely to begin or end.
''Ambiguities abound,'' wrote Ian Shepherdson, chief economist at Pantheon Macroeconomics. Eric Green, global head of rates and commodities research at TD Securities, called it ''the Rorschach minutes,'' because it confirmed preconceptions of all kinds.
''The minutes do not provide a clearer understanding of when the Fed will taper,'' Mr. Green wrote. ''However, it does demonstrate the appetite for QE is demonstrably lower though each meeting and on this front makes the minutes feel less dovish than we expected.''
Officials are concerned that bond buying could destabilize financial markets, although the account said that so far, ''The system's purchases of longer-term assets do not appear to have had an adverse effect on the functioning of markets.''
Still officials argue that asset purchases have uncertain benefits and uncertain consequences, and it is best to move cautiously in dark rooms.
''The claim that the Fed is responding insufficiently to the shocks hitting the economy rests on the assumption that policy is made with complete certainty about the effects of policy on the economy,'' John Williams, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco, wrote in a research paper published on Tuesday. ''Nothing could be further from the truth. Once one recognizes uncertainty, some moderation in monetary policy may well be optimal.''
Extending the suppression of short-term interest rates may help the Fed convince investors that it is not staging a broader retreat.
Narayana Kocherlakota, president of the Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis, said in a recent speech that the Fed should declare an intention to suppress interest rates so long as unemployment tops 5.5 percent.
''This additional clarity about future policy actions will tend to push downward on a variety of market interest rates and provide needed current stimulus,'' he said.
Many Fed officials, according to the meeting account, also are worried about the sluggish pace of inflation, trundling along at 1 percent a year, well below the 2 percent pace the Fed considers healthy. Extending low interest rates could help lift inflation.
''We are all very much committed to defending our inflation target from below as well as from above,'' Mr. Bernanke said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, Wednesday in Cambridge, Mass. He said the Fed would work to keep interest rates low. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JOSH REYNOLDS/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); INTEREST RATES (91%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (89%); BONDS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (75%); MORTGAGE BACKED SECURITIES (75%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (75%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (91%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



299 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; GREEN COLUMN; Pg. 

LENGTH: 959 words

HEADLINE: Attitudes on Crops Are Modifying

BYLINE: By KATE GALBRAITH

 BODY:
AUSTIN, Texas -- On the subject of genetically modified foods, the United States and Europe could hardly be farther apart. U.S. grocery stores are well stocked with genetically modified cereals and other products, while Europeans have found ways to keep them off the shelves.
But recently, a few fissures have appeared on both sides of the Atlantic. 
In pockets of the United States, momentum is building behind the concept of labeling genetically modified foods (crops whose genetic makeup is altered to increase yields and to more effectively resist problems like pests and drought). Such labels are already required in the European Union and Australia.
In Europe, concern about genetically modified foods remains entrenched, but the British government has recently signaled a new openness. In a forceful speech last month, Owen Paterson, the secretary of state for the environment, food and rural affairs, said that the government was prepared to ''roll out the red carpet'' for research and development of new agricultural technologies, including genetically modified crops, so that Britain could contribute to bolstering of global food supplies.
''When it comes to developing and benefiting from G.M. technology, I want the U.K. to be at the forefront of the global race, not watching from the sidelines,'' said Mr. Paterson, whose speech indeed incited a vigorous debate in Britain. (Another member of Parliament told The Independent newspaper that Mr. Paterson had ''swallowed the industry line hook, line and sinker without talking to anyone with a different view.'')
Whether these developments will be followed by a narrowing of trans- Atlantic policy differences relating to genetically modified products remains to be seen. This week, U.S. and E.U. officials have been meeting in Washington to begin work on a far-reaching trade agreement. Genetically modified crops are one of the most complicated issues under discussion, according to William A. Reinsch, president of the National Foreign Trade Council, a U.S. group that advocates for lower trade barriers.
''Because it will be such a deeply felt issue on both sides, it will probably be one of the last things to be resolved,'' Mr. Reinsch said.
More substantive discussion of issues involving genetically modified foods will probably be deferred until the next round of trade talks, in the autumn, he said.
American farmers, a politically powerful group, want more access to European markets for genetically modified crops. But Europe, where genetic modification is common in animal feeds but not in supermarket foods, is certain to resist. The E.U. has approved only one genetically modified crop for cultivation over the past 14 years, according to Mr. Paterson, the British official.
The E.U.'s strict labeling requirements, enacted in 1997, are among the frustrations for American farmers, who say labels discourage consumers from buying a product that is safe and has been in the U.S. food system for decades. Partly for that reason, according to Richard Wilkins, the treasurer of the American Soybean Association, soybean exports from the United States to E.U. member states fell by 82 percent between 1998 and 2012.
''The G.M.O. labeling requirements in the E.U. are egregious,'' Mr. Wilkins said -- a statement that would elicit sharp disagreements from opponents of genetically modified organisms, who are concerned about matters like allergens, potential cross-contamination of other species and overuse of pesticides and weed-killing herbicides.
Yet even as the labeling debate resurfaces in the trade talks, the practice is starting to take root within the United States.
Whole Foods, a national supermarket chain based in Austin, plans to begin requiring labels for foodstuffs containing genetically modified organisms by 2018. Connecticut recently became the first state to approve a provisional labeling law, though it will take effect only if four other states do the same. The Legislature in Maine passed a similar bill (it awaits the governor's signature), and a number of other states, including Massachusetts and Illinois, are also considering labeling requirements.
''Activists have been working on this labeling issue for a long time because they see it as a way to influence industry behavior,'' said Rachel A. Schurman, a sociology professor at the University of Minnesota. ''And they haven't had a lot of success in the United States otherwise.''
The labeling initiatives, Ms. Schurman said, have grown out of a rising general interest in food and dietary issues in the United States, thanks to a number of movies on the topic, as well as popular writers like Michael Pollan, who focuses on responsible eating.
''Now food is really on the agenda in the U.S. in the way it wasn't before, so I think there's a lot more momentum around labeling,'' Ms. Schurman said.
The labeling initiatives will increase Americans' awareness of genetically modified foods, said Brian Wynne, a professor of sociology at Lancaster University in Britain.
''It is going to be interesting to see where this leads,'' Mr. Wynne wrote in an e-mail. ''I think that U.S. attitudes are typically less cleanly positive than they are assumed to be from surveys, and the same goes for E.U. ones, in the other direction.''
Still, others said Europe's longstanding hostility to genetically modified foods would prove tough to overcome.
''Europe is extremely cautious -- even irrationally cautious,'' said Louise Fresco, a professor at the University of Amsterdam and a former assistant director general for agriculture at the U.N. Food and Agriculture Organization.
It will be interesting to see, she said, whether the new moves by officials in Britain will result in ''breaking through the deadlock, perhaps, in Europe.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (92%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED CROPS (90%); AGRICULTURAL BIOTECHNOLOGY (90%); GENETIC ENGINEERING (90%); FOOD LABELING (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); FARMERS & RANCHERS (89%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (89%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (89%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (88%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); ANIMAL FOODS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); LIVESTOCK FEED (77%); PRODUCT LABELING (77%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (73%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (72%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (71%); AGRICULTURAL EQUIPMENT (71%); APPROVALS (70%); FOOD CHARITIES (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (62%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTIN, TX, USA (92%) TEXAS, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (97%); UNITED KINGDOM (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



300 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: China's Trade Data Are Significantly Weaker Than Forecast

BYLINE: By BETTINA WASSENER

 BODY:
HONG KONG -- Chinese trade data for June came in much weaker than expected on Wednesday, offering the latest evidence that China has lost much of its economic vigor as Beijing seeks to steer the economy toward steadier, but slower, expansion.
Exports fell 3.1 percent from the same period a year earlier -- the first drop since early 2012 -- the customs department reported, and imports decreased 0.7 percent, falling for the second month in a row. Both figures were far below the expectations of analysts, who had projected a 4 percent increase in exports and an 8 percent climb in imports, according to Reuters. 
The weak import growth reflected slack domestic demand within China, where a cash crunch engineered by the central authorities last month has weighed on bank lending.
The slump in exports in recent months, meanwhile, is partly attributable to a government crackdown on false export reporting by companies that had been seeking to bypass currency controls and move money into the country as a way to place a bet on further appreciation of the renminbi, analysts said.
But while that effect may now have been largely squeezed out of the data, several other factors are likely to continue to weigh on Chinese exports in the longer term.
Demand from markets like the United States and Europe remains lackluster, for example, while rising wages and a gradual increase in the value of the renminbi mean China is no longer as competitive as it once was. The renminbi has risen more than 10 percent against the U.S. dollar since mid-2010, when the authorities allowed the currency to fluctuate more widely against the dollar.
The weakness in the trade data, some analysts said Wednesday, could prompt Beijing to stop the renminbi from rising much further. Yao Wei, China economist at Société Générale in Hong Kong, said she expected the renminbi to weaken slightly, to 6.17 per dollar by the end of this year, from about 6.13 now.
Over all, however, the new leadership in Beijing appears ready to tolerate some economic pain while it pursues the longer-term gain of a more balanced economy. Growth in China has been cooling for many months as the authorities seek to shift the economy away from a credit-driven and increasingly outdated growth model. For years, China has relied on heavy manufacturing, state-sponsored investment and exports to power growth. Aware of the limits of those growth drivers, Beijing is now seeking to foster more domestic demand and to raise productivity.
Policy makers have also been seeking to rein in a big expansion in credit, which has generated concerns about asset price bubbles and possible loan defaults. Last month's cash crunch within the banking sector, for example, appeared aimed at getting lenders to adopt more prudent lending practices.
The cost of the overhaul is slower growth, however, and a growing number of analysts say that China will struggle to meet its growth targets this year.
China is unlikely to achieve its target for this year of 8 percent growth in trade, Liu Li-Gang, a China economist at Australia & New Zealand Banking in Hong Kong, wrote in a note. ''This will not only bring about downside risk to the G.D.P. growth for this year but also place severe pressure on employment,'' Mr. Liu wrote, referring to gross domestic product.
So far, however, Beijing appears comfortable with the economy's performance and is unlikely to revert to stimulating growth again unless the job market deteriorates sharply, Ms. Yao of Société Générale said. ''They seem pretty determined right now. The key thing to watch is the labor market, but this is still looking O.K.''
Comments from the prime minister, Li Keqiang, at a meeting in southern China on Tuesday reinforced the view that Beijing appeared prepared to press ahead with its economic overhaul.
''This year, economic activity has in general stayed stable, and the main indicators are still within reasonable bounds for the annual forecasts,'' Mr. Li said, according to the state-run Xinhua news agency.
''But economic conditions have become more complex and changeable,'' he added. ''There are both favorable and unfavorable factors, and the economy has both momentum for growth and downward pressures.''
China must maintain steady growth while also carrying out adjustments needed to ensure healthy development in the long-term, he said. ''Macro adjustment must be both grounded in the present and take a long-term view, so that economic activity is within reasonable bounds, and the rate of economic growth and employment levels do not slip below the lower limit.''
Chris Buckley contributed reporting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXPORT TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); EXPORT PRICES (77%); ECONOMIC BUBBLE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); US DOLLAR (73%); CREDIT REGULATION (73%); LOAN DEFAULTS (60%)

COMPANY: SOCIETE GENERALE SA (56%)

TICKER: GLE (PAR) (56%); GLE (BIT) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (90%) NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%) CHINA (99%); HONG KONG (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



301 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1230 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. In House Resists Overhaul For Immigration

BYLINE: By ASHLEY PARKER and JONATHAN WEISMAN; Julia Preston contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Meeting for the first time as a group to hash out their approach to immigration, House Republicans on Wednesday came down overwhelmingly against a comprehensive overhaul of the nation's immigration laws, putting in jeopardy the future of sweeping legislation that includes a path to citizenship for undocumented immigrants.
Despite the resistance, Speaker John A. Boehner warned about the steep price of inaction, telling House Republicans that they would be in a weaker political position against a bipartisan Senate coalition and President Obama if they did nothing to answer the immigration measure passed by the Senate last month.
House Republicans huddled in a crucial two-and-a-half-hour session in the basement of the Capitol as their leaders tried to devise some response to the demand for immigration legislation, especially the Senate provision that would grant a path to citizenship for the 11 million undocumented immigrants already in the country. The bill also mandates tough border security provisions that must be in place before the immigrants can gain legal status. 
The bottom line was clear: The Republican-controlled House does not plan to take up anything resembling the Senate bill, which many believe is bad policy and smacks of an amnesty strongly opposed by the conservatives who hold sway over much of the rank and file. The House also does not intend to move very quickly, and some Republicans are wary of passing any measure at all that could lead to negotiations with the Senate, talks that could add pressure to the House to consider a broader plan.
The Republicans met just hours after former President George W. Bush added his voice to the immigration debate during a naturalization ceremony at his new presidential center outside Dallas. His speech was a reminder to Republicans that he had long believed it necessary to overhaul the system in a way much as the Senate bill outlined.
''The laws governing the immigration system aren't working,'' Mr. Bush said. ''The system is broken. We're now in an important debate in reforming those laws. And that's good.'' Mr. Bush said he did not intend ''to get involved in the politics or the specifics of policy. But I do hope there is a positive resolution to the debate, and I hope during the debate that we keep a benevolent spirit in mind and we understand the contributions that immigrants make to our country.''
House Republican leaders struck a defiant tone after the meeting, issuing a joint statement declaring the Obama administration ''cannot be trusted to deliver on its promises to secure the border and enforce laws as part of a single, massive bill like the one passed by the Senate.'' Mr. Boehner repeatedly reassured Republicans that he would pass nothing through the House that did not have the support of a majority of his party, and lawmakers left the meeting certain that nothing significant would move through the House until September -- and possibly much later.
'' 'Comprehensive' has always been a swear word in the House of Representatives, but having a step-by-step approach that deals with the issue comprehensively, I don't think that's dead,'' said Representative Raúl Labrador, Republican of Idaho, a Hispanic legislator who until recently had been part of a bipartisan group in the House working on a broad immigration proposal.
Instead, House Republicans will consider a piecemeal approach, passing several individual bills rather than one large package, as the Senate did. Any immigration proposal, members said, is likely to concentrate on border security and enforcement; a path to legalization or citizenship, they stressed, must come later -- if at all.
Though they may pass one or two modest bills before the August recess, many members said they felt no urgency to deal with an immigration overhaul, with the fall likely to be dominated by fights over the budget and the federal debt ceiling.
House Republicans find themselves in a difficult spot on immigration, caught between the needs of the national party to broaden its appeal to Hispanics, and the views of constituents in gerrymandered, largely safe conservative districts.
Many returned to Congress this week after hearing from constituents in their districts who do not trust the federal government to overhaul the nation's immigration laws, as well as mounting evidence that conservative opinion is beginning to harden against a broad immigration push.
House Republicans largely believe that the concerns of their national party elite are overblown, and that their political future and 2016 prospects do not hinge on passing an immigration bill this year.
''Is this an issue that people care about? Yes. Is it one that keeps them up at night? Probably not,'' said Representative Charlie Dent, Republican of Pennsylvania, who is among the more moderate Republicans who could be part of a compromise.
Representative Paul D. Ryan of Wisconsin, a respected voice in the Republican Party who has been working behind the scenes to help push an immigration overhaul, spoke during the meeting in favor of immigration generally. He said fixing the nation's broken system would be good for both economic growth and national security.
Emotions ran high, with members lining up 10 deep at each of two microphones waiting to speak their piece. Representative Mo Brooks, Republican of Alabama, read an obscure line from ''America the Beautiful'' to make his point that respect for the rule of law must be inviolable: ''Confirm thy soul in self control, thy liberty in law,'' he intoned.
Participants portrayed a Republican conference still divided over the question of citizenship. Some said they were open to a path to citizenship, or at least legal status; others said they worried about even going to negotiations with the Senate, where, they fear, any bill to emerge would constitute amnesty.
Representative Steve King, Republican of Iowa, took the lead for stalwart opponents of any legislation that could lead to what they view as amnesty. ''You can't separate the Dream Act kids from those who came across the border with a pack of contraband on their back, and they can't tell me how they can do that,'' Mr. King said, referring to the undocumented immigrants brought here by their parents as young children and known as ''Dreamers.''
''Once you start down that line you're destroying the rule of law.'' But the response to his pitch was not as robust as it had been in the past: ''It was not a standing ovation,'' he conceded.
In fact, the one area where the legislators showed signs of some consensus was around the ''Dreamers,'' who many agreed should not be punished for the mistakes of their parents. Hours before the meeting, hundreds of young immigrants who had grown up in the country without legal papers held a mock citizenship ceremony on a Senate lawn. ''We have come today to claim our citizenship,'' said Lorella Praeli, a leader of United We Dream. But she insisted young immigrants would not agree to any plan that included only them and not all undocumented immigrants. ''2013 is not the time for separate but equal.''
Representative James Lankford of Oklahoma, a member of the Republican leadership, said after the meeting that whatever the House did would not mirror the Senate's bill: ''They will both deal with the topic of immigration,'' he said. ''That may be the only common ground they have.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Former President George W. Bush with two American servicemen who became citizens at a ceremony Wednesday in Dallas. (PHOTOGRAPH BY LARRY W. SMITH/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) (A1)
Union leaders and members of groups favoring immigration reform demonstrated in Washington on Wednesday as House Republicans considered the issue.
 A mock citizenship ceremony in Washington on Wednesday. Right, Speaker John A. Boehner with other House Republicans. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (95%); LEGISLATION (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (90%); CITIZENSHIP LAW (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); NATURALIZATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); CITIZENSHIP (77%); POLITICS (76%); HOME PRICES (73%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%)

PERSON: JOHN BOEHNER (78%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



302 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 665 words

HEADLINE: Rift Among Democrats Stalls Effort to Reverse Rise in College Loan Rates

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A bipartisan Senate coalition on Wednesday blocked a Democratic proposal to retroactively cut interest rates on higher education loans in half, leaving any student loan rescue in doubt and laying bare divisions among Democrats about how to resolve the dispute.
The bill pushed by the Democratic leadership would have renewed a subsidized 3.4 percent interest rate on Stafford loans, whose rates doubled to 6.8 percent on July 1. But a bipartisan group of senators -- led by Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia; Angus King, independent of Maine; and Richard M. Burr, Republican of North Carolina -- had forged what they saw as a compromise measure that would have tied student loan rates to federal borrowing costs. 
Democratic leaders refused to give the coalition a vote on its plan, and Mr. Manchin and Mr. King voted with Republicans to filibuster the Democratic plan, which received 52 votes, 8 short of the number needed to break the delay. Senator Harry Reid of Nevada, the majority leader, switched his vote to ''no'' for parliamentary reasons, leaving the final tally 51 to 49.
The student loan issue was supposed to be a political bonanza for Democrats, who were convinced that Republicans would yield on legislation extending the subsidized rate. Instead, it has revealed the kinds of divisions usually on display with Republicans -- splitting rank-and-file Democrats from an emerging centrist group that has become increasingly willing to buck its leaders.
Democratic leaders dug in to protect the subsidized rate, even after President Obama drafted a plan to tie student loan rates to the interest rates on 10-year Treasury bonds. House Republicans latched on to the president's plan and passed a measure in May that was similar enough to the White House proposal to give Republicans solid political cover against Democratic attacks.
Then Mr. Manchin, Mr. King and Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware, drafted a compromise that they thought would ease liberal concerns over the House bill. The compromise measure would neither raise money for the government nor cost it any money, and interest rates each year would be fixed for the life of the loan. The House bill would raise money for the Treasury and would allow rates to fluctuate with Treasury rates.
''Many say this is a Republican bill,'' Mr. Manchin said. ''On this side, it's not. It's a bipartisan bill.''
More liberal senators, led by Tom Harkin, Democrat of Iowa, who leads the Senate Health, Education, Labor and Pensions Committee, said that as the economy improved and interest rates rose, the proposal could lead to higher rates than if the 6.8 percent rate remained in force. They argued that a long-term resolution of the issue should be drafted over the coming year in a broad rewriting of federal higher education policy that is under negotiation.
Both sides said Wednesday that the failure of the Democratic bill would lead to last-ditch negotiations that could still yield a deal. But time for a breakthrough is slipping away for more than seven million students who receive subsidized Stafford loans. Most new loans for the coming school year will be issued at the beginning of August.
''The differences here are relatively small,'' said Justin Draeger, the president of the National Association of Student Financial Aid Administrators. ''This is what our country was designed to do, work out our differences, right?''
Regardless, Democratic divisions in the Senate may have handed House Republican leaders a rare victory in the fight for younger voters.
''Republicans acted to protect students from higher interest rates and make college more affordable, yet Senate Democratic leaders let student loan interest rates double without passing any legislation to address the issue,'' Speaker John A. Boehner said after the Senate vote. ''It's long past time for President Obama to lead, address the divisions within his own party, and bring everyone together to enact a permanent solution.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (92%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (92%); FILIBUSTER (90%); STUDENT LOANS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); FUNDRAISING (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); LIBERALISM (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (88%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); BONDS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (74%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); TREASURY SECURITIES (57%)

PERSON: ANGUS KING (79%); JOE MANCHIN (79%); TOM HARKIN (78%); RICHARD BURR (58%); HARRY REID (58%); TOM CARPER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%); NEVADA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



303 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section D; Column 0; House & Home/Style Desk; ON LOCATION | LOTTSBURG, VA.; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 464 words

HEADLINE: Rubbing Out the Footprints

BYLINE: By ELIZABETH EVITTS DICKINSON

 BODY:
There are places that immediately feel sacred: something about the air, the view, the way the landscape resonates with your soul.
This is how William H. Dean felt when he discovered the Northern Neck, a coastal region in Virginia. It was 2008 and Mr. Dean was looking for waterfront property near his home in Washington. As the chief executive of M. C. Dean, an electrical engineering company in Dulles, Va., he had a stressful professional life and wanted a weekend refuge. 
Mr. Dean, now 48, was ''shocked at the beauty of it,'' he said. ''I'm like a real estate stalker when I find what I want, and I kept going back.''
The stalking paid off. A developer had acquired a peninsula there known as Honest Point, with plans to turn it into a subdivision, but when the economy collapsed, Mr. Dean bought all 16 acres at the juncture of the Potomac River and the Chesapeake Bay. He was ''overtaken by the openness of the land, the beauty of the water, and the wildlife,'' he said. ''The people are the smallest part of the ecosystem.''
Even so, they had left their mark. The land had been deforested and the soil depleted from decades of farming, and at the tip of the peninsula, an abandoned oyster processing plant was crumbling onto the shore.
Today, after a $4 million investment, a four-bedroom house floats above the water on wood pilings, just off the shore where the plant once stood. Mr. Dean calls it the Oyster House as a nod to the building it replaced.
The 4,145-square-foot home, designed by Dale Overmyer Architects, consists of two structures, one for entertaining and the other for the private quarters, connected by a glass-enclosed bridge. A boardwalk links the house to two garages on the mainland with more living space upstairs; another connects to a dock with six boat slips. (Mr. Dean and his friends often travel from Washington by boat.) But nearly a quarter of the budget went to restoring the land, a project overseen by Oehme, van Sweden landscape architecture, which brought in truckloads of fresh soil with the nutrients necessary to cultivate native plants, grasses, shrubs and trees.
Because Mr. Dean's company specializes in electric and communications technology, the Oyster House has touch screens that control temperature, lighting and media in every room, and live video feeds that allow him to monitor the house from afar. ''I can be in my office,'' he said, ''and still keep an eye on things.''
But it's hard to imagine the home sitting empty for long. It has become such a hub of activity for friends and family, Mr. Dean said, that he plans to build more houses on his property. Recently, he offered a lot to one of his brothers, but he turned it down.
Mr. Dean recalled: ''He laughed and said, 'Why would I build my own house, when I can come to yours?' ''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: 1. William Dean's house rests on wood pilings above the Chesapeake Bay and is connected to land by a boardwalk. The home, which he calls Oyster House, consists of two structures joined by a glass-enclosed bridge. Mr. Dean uses the one on the left for entertaining
the one on the right is the private living space.
2. The tub in the master bathroom is from Jason International
the faucets are from the Hansgrohe Axor Starck collection. The light is from Moooi.
3. Elizabeth Hague, Mr. Dean's interior designer, chose Matouk linens in ivory for the beds and had the headboards custom made. The Wickman Swing Arm Sconces are from Palmer Hargrave
the bedside tables are from Bungalow 5.
Dale Overmyer Architects designed the walnut and stainless-steel dining table. The fireplace surround is made from oyster shell-encrusted concrete slab salvaged from the oyster processing plant that once stood on the site. The sofa is from the Charles Stewart Company
 the Snowflake Pendant Light is by David Trubridge. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LANDSCAPE ARCHITECTURE SERVICES (78%); MARINAS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); ARCHITECTURAL SERVICES (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); FRESHWATER ECOSYSTEMS (75%); BUDGETS (73%); COASTAL AREAS (72%); WILDLIFE (71%); ELECTRICAL ENGINEERING (71%); ENGINEERING (71%); DEFORESTATION (66%); EXECUTIVES (56%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%); NUTRITION (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA, USA (91%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



304 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 517 words

HEADLINE: Honoring Humanities And Arts In Capital

BYLINE: By ERIN BANCO

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama awarded the nation's highest honors in the arts and humanities on Wednesday to two dozen people -- among them Joan Didion, Tony Kushner, George Lucas and Elaine May -- whose work, he said, represented ''a lasting contribution to American life.'' 
In an East Room ceremony, the president lauded the recipients of the National Medal of Arts and the National Humanities Medal for teaching us ''about ourselves and our world'' and for making a difference in his own life.
''This is just fun for me because I feel like I know you all because I have enjoyed your performances, and your writings have fundamentally changed me,'' Mr. Obama said.
The National Medal of Arts, given annually, is regarded as the nation's ultimate award for artists, art patrons and groups. Since its inception in 1984, more than 300 people have been honored.
The current winners include men and women who contribute to the fine arts, writing, music, film, dance, theater, sculpture and architecture.
Among them was Allen Toussaint, a composer, producer and performer from New Orleans. ''After his hometown was battered by Katrina and Allen was forced to evacuate, he did something more important for his city -- he went back. And since then, Allen has devoted his musical talent to lifting up and building up the city,'' Mr. Obama said.
Mr. Lucas, the producer, screenwriter, director and creator of the ''Star Wars'' sagas, also received an arts award, as did Mr. Kushner, the Pulitzer Prize-winning playwright, and the writer, director and comedian Elaine May. Other winners were the arts philanthropist Lin Arison, the trumpeter Herb Alpert, the soprano Renée Fleming, the author Ernest J. Gaines, the artist Ellsworth Kelly, the ballerina Joan Myers Brown, the architect Laurie Olin, and the Washington Performing Arts Society.
The National Humanities Medal is given to people or groups whose work is judged to deepen the nation's understanding of the humanities or expand Americans' access to the humanities. The crowd in the East Room erupted for Ms. Didion, the novelist and essayist, who needed assistance in getting to the stage. Mr. Obama walked to the edge of the stage to help her. Ms. Didion ''has rightfully earned the distinction,'' he said of the author of ''The Year of Magical Thinking,'' about the death of her husband.
Frank Deford, a sportswriter and novelist best known for his appearances on National Public Radio and ''Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel'' on HBO, also won the award, as did Kay Ryan, a former poet laureate of the United States. Other winners were Robert B. Silvers, a co-founder of The New York Review of Books; the writers Robert Putnam and Marilynne Robinson; the playwright and actress Anna Deavere Smith; the photographer Camilo José Vergara; the historians Edward L. Ayers, Jill Ker Conway and Natalie Zemon Davis; and the economist William G. Bowen.
''For all their differences, today's honorees have one thing in common,'' Mr. Obama said. ''And that is that they were teachers, whether they realize it or not. They have taught us about ourselves and about our world.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama on Wednesday presented the 2012 National Medal of Arts to the ''Star Wars'' filmmaker George Lucas, one of 24 to receive top honors. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (93%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); AWARDS & PRIZES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); DRAMA LITERATURE (89%); CELEBRITIES (89%); WRITERS (89%); THEATER & DRAMA (89%); ENTERTAINMENT & ARTS AWARDS (89%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (87%); FILM DIRECTORS (87%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (86%); SCULPTURE (78%); BALLET (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); DANCE (78%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (74%); DANCERS (74%); FILM (73%); MUSIC (72%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (67%); POETRY (67%); MUSIC INDUSTRY (67%); THEATER (54%)

COMPANY: NATIONAL PUBLIC RADIO INC (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515111 RADIO NETWORKS (51%); SIC4832 RADIO BROADCASTING STATIONS (51%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); GEORGE LUCAS (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



305 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 779 words

HEADLINE: China and Russia, in a Display of Unity, Hold Naval Exercises

BYLINE: By JANE PERLEZ; Bree Feng contributed research.

 BODY:
BEIJING -- An armada of Chinese and Russian warships sailed in ceremonial formation in the Sea of Japan, off the port of Vladivostok, on Wednesday in what was the high point of joint naval exercises intended to show the growing unity between two countries with a historically uneasy relationship.
China hailed the exercises as its military's largest deployment for maneuvers with a foreign country. State-run news media gave widespread coverage to the action, which included live firing drills. 
The commander of the Chinese fleet, Maj. Gen. Yang Junfei, told Chinese reporters that the goal was to strengthen ''strategic trust'' and improve coordination between the two navies.
From Beijing's point of view, there was a message for Washington, too: As China rapidly builds its maritime power and the United States begins to deploy more of its naval and air assets back to the Pacific Ocean as part of its new focus on Asia, China will not stand alone.
The Obama administration's decision to send more military power to Asia is widely interpreted in China as a containment policy, leading in part, some Chinese analysts say, to China's seeking stronger military and economic relations with Russia, a country it has long regarded with suspicion.
''This shows unprecedented good relations between China and Russia,'' said Professor Wang Ning, director of the Center for Russian Studies at the Shanghai International Studies University. ''It shows that the two countries will support each other on the global stage.''
Both countries want a more multipolar world in which the United States is less dominant, he said.
After being named China's president in March, Xi Jinping made his first foreign visit to Russia, where he held talks that culminated in the announcement last month of a $270 billion deal for Rosneft, the Russian state-owned oil company, to double oil supplies to China.
For the exercises in the Japan Sea, China sent seven warships, including a guided-missile destroyer with Aegis-type radars that track and guide weapons to destroy enemy targets, and missile frigates with antisubmarine abilities, the Chinese Navy said. The Russian lineup included the flagship of its Pacific fleet, the guided-missile cruiser Varyag, and a Kilo-class submarine.
''This is our strongest lineup ever in a joint naval drill,'' General Yang said. ''Our forces come from two fleets -- the North Sea Fleet and the South Sea Fleet -- and include seven ships, three helicopters and one special warfare unit.''
The diversity of vessels and the more sophisticated exercises illustrated a sudden deepening of the military cooperation between Russia and China, said Nan Li, associate professor in the strategic research department at the United States Naval War College in Newport, R.I.
In a joint naval exercise last year between the two countries, maneuvers were restricted to counterterrorism and piracy, he said. This time the exercises included fleet air defense, antisubmarine warfare and surface warfare.
But there are limitations on how close the two countries are militarily, Mr. Li said. The planning for the joint exercise seemed to be ad hoc, he said. Russia and China are well short of being formal allies and would not come to the help of the other in a ''real contingency,'' Mr. Li said.
Still, he said, the exercise off Vladivostok was comparable in number and size of ships to naval exercises the United States conducts with countries that are not allies.
The drills by the Russian and Chinese warships were watched closely by Japan, a treaty ally of the United States now in a serious maritime and political dispute with China over the sovereignty of islands known as the Diaoyu in China and Senkaku in Japan.
Indeed, undermining the United States' alliance with Japan was one of the goals of the joint exercise, according to the Russian-language version of a news portal, China.org, that is run by China's State Council Information Office.
''We can assume that they are an attempt to resist the ongoing U.S.-Japan alliance,'' a report on the news portal said last week before the exercises began. ''Strictly speaking, most of the forces of the Russian Pacific Fleet are aimed at blocking the U.S.-Japanese island chain of primary defense.''
China had a similar aim, the report said. But because neither China nor Russia is strong enough on their its to break the U.S.-Japan alliance, they had chosen to intensify a ''deep strategic cooperation'' toward that goal.
Last month, the United States Navy and Marine Corps held joint amphibious exercises with Japan's Self Defense Force off the coast of Southern California, maneuvers that were treated with skepticism in the Chinese news media.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Chinese sailors mooring the destroyer Shenyang last week upon their arrival in Vladivostok for joint drills with Russia. (PHOTOGRAPH BY EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MILITARY OPERATIONS (90%); MILITARY VESSELS (90%); NAVAL VESSELS (89%); NAVIES (89%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (87%); MARINE VESSELS (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (76%); US PRESIDENTS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (71%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (71%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); ETHNIC & CULTURAL STUDIES (65%); HELICOPTERS (50%)

COMPANY: OAO ROSNEFT OIL CO (53%)

TICKER: ROSN (RTS) (53%); ROSN (LSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (53%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (53%)

PERSON: XI JINPING (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BEIJING, CHINA (89%); SHANGHAI, CHINA (79%); NEWPORT, RI, USA (79%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (93%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTH SEA (79%); EAST CHINA (79%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (79%); LIAONING, CHINA (58%) CHINA (99%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (93%); ASIA (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



306 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: Poll Shows Complexity of Debate on Trade-Offs in Government Spying Programs

BYLINE: By SCOTT SHANE

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- When Edward J. Snowden risked prison to go public with classified documents about National Security Agency surveillance, he said he wanted to give the public a chance to weigh in on what he considered an excessive intrusion on the privacy of Americans.
It is still unclear whether Mr. Snowden, the 30-year-old former N.S.A. contractor now holed up at a Moscow airport, will escape punishment. But he has succeeded in opening the government spying's trade-offs between civil liberties and security to the broadest and best-informed public debate in many years, even as intelligence officials are horrified at the exposure of their methods and targets. 
Gregory F. Treverton, former vice chairman of the National Intelligence Council, said he found Mr. Snowden's leaks ''reprehensible.'' But he said there had been nothing in the past quite comparable to the recent national discussion on government eavesdropping and data collection.
''It is kind of paradoxical that it took Snowden to get to this debate,'' said Mr. Treverton, now with the RAND Corporation. ''I'm disappointed that neither the intelligence committees nor the administration pushed this debate sooner.''
While both Republicans and Democrats in Congress have labeled Mr. Snowden a traitor, the American public apparently disagrees. In a national poll from Quinnipiac University released Wednesday, voters said by 55 percent to 34 percent that he was a whistle-blower, not a traitor.
The poll showed that the view of Mr. Snowden as a whistle-blower predominated among nearly every subgroup, regardless of political party, gender, income, education or age. The concerns about privacy and government power raised by the N.S.A. disclosures do not break down along conventional ideological lines, with libertarian-leaning Republicans and Democrats alike questioning the surveillance.
The poll showed continuing division, and perhaps some confusion, in the views of Americans about the surveillance programs Mr. Snowden revealed. In the same poll, for instance, 54 percent of the voters questioned said the security agency's collection of data on Americans' phone calls ''is necessary to keep Americans safe.'' But in a separate question, 53 percent said the same program ''is too much intrusion into Americans' personal privacy.''
''Americans' views on antiterrorism efforts are complicated,'' said Peter A. Brown, assistant director of the Quinnipiac University Polling Institute. ''They see the threat from terrorism as real and worth defending against, but they have a sense that their privacy is being invaded and they are not happy about it at all.''
Peter D. Feaver, a political-science professor at Duke who studies public opinion and foreign policy, said that ''it would be a mistake to say that the public has a settled and coherent view'' on the surveillance programs a month after they were disclosed. But he said that sympathy for Mr. Snowden appeared to be growing.
''You could say that Obama has gotten the debate he said he wanted,'' Professor Feaver said, referring to a remark President Obama made when the news of Mr. Snowden's disclosures first broke. ''But he is not prevailing, and he has not really engaged in the debate.''
Mr. Obama ''doesn't want to spend his political capital on this,'' said Professor Feaver, who served in the George W. Bush White House. ''He wants to spend it on immigration.''
While intelligence officials have tried to explain and defend the N.S.A. programs, their efforts have been seriously handicapped by accusations of inaccuracy.
James R. Clapper, the director of national intelligence, was forced to admit publicly that his previous assurance in Senate testimony that the N.S.A. was not collecting data on millions of Americans was false. A fact sheet was withdrawn after two senators charged that it contained errors. And officials who testified about terrorist plots uncovered with the help of the N.S.A. programs got the details of some cases wrong.
The Snowden disclosures, meanwhile, have prompted a flood of discussion, including Congressional hearings, research organization panels and newspaper editorials and opinion articles, both supportive and critical of the security agency. At least five federal lawsuits have been filed challenging the programs.
The debate culminated in Tuesday's all-day ''workshop'' of the Privacy and Civil Liberties Oversight Board, an independent federal panel that invited former government officials and civil libertarians to discuss two of the security agency programs: the collection of data on nearly all telephone calls made in the United States and the interception of e-mail and other messages sent by foreigners overseas using major Internet companies like Google, Yahoo, Facebook and Skype.
A former judge of the Foreign Intelligence Surveillance Court, which oversees eavesdropping orders and programs in secret, said he thought the debate was overdue. The retired federal judge, James Robertson, argued for several changes, including adding a privacy advocate to the court's closed hearings to allow an adversarial process.
Intelligence officials have expressed concern about damage done by the leaks to the N.S.A.'s collection efforts, as terrorism suspects and others have tried to switch communications methods to avoid detection. They have also noted that Mr. Snowden's revelations have gone far beyond programs touching on the rights of Americans.
While Mr. Snowden initially explained his leaks to The Guardian as a defense of American privacy, he has made it clear that he opposes surveillance of foreign citizens, as well. By exposing a range of operations by the N.S.A. and its British equivalent against China, Russia, Brazil and the European Union, he has gone far beyond the debate over American privacy and set off a series of international disputes.
Mr. Snowden, who has asylum offers from Venezuela and other countries but has not yet found a way to leave Moscow, spoke again with The Guardian in recent days to defend his actions. In interviews with Glenn Greenwald, a Guardian columnist, Mr. Snowden denied widespread speculation that he had shared the thousands of N.S.A. documents he reportedly has on four laptops with Chinese or Russian intelligence, either deliberately or unwittingly.
''I never gave any information to either government, and they never took anything from my laptops,'' Mr. Snowden told the newspaper. He did not explain how he could be certain that intelligence officers of the two countries, which have very sophisticated electronic spying abilities, had not gotten access to the information on his laptops.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: A rally last month for Edward J. Snowden, whose disclosures of government surveillance have prompted a national discussion. (PHOTOGRAPH BY MARIO TAMA/GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (92%); POLLS & SURVEYS (92%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); NATIONAL SECURITY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); ESPIONAGE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (79%); COUNTERTERRORISM (78%); PRIVACY RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (75%); WHISTLEBLOWERS (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (71%); POLITICS (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (65%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%); TERRORISM (50%)

COMPANY: RAND CORP (68%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (90%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8732 COMMERCIAL ECONOMIC, SOCIOLOGICAL, & EDUCATIONAL RESEARCH (68%)

PERSON: EDWARD SNOWDEN (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



307 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Senators Question Chinese Takeover of Smithfield

BYLINE: By EDWARD WYATT

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Members of the Senate Agriculture Committee raised questions on Wednesday about the economic and national security implications of a Chinese company's proposed acquisition of Smithfield Foods, the nation's largest pork producer.
While the chief executive of Smithfield, C. Larry Pope, said the $4.7 billion acquisition would have ''no impact on the U.S. food supply and, therefore, no impact on food security,'' several senators said they feared that promises by the Chinese company, Shuanghui International, would not be honored over the long term.
That could result, they said, in China eventually exporting pork to the United States that did not meet American safety standards or taking away sales by American companies in other overseas markets, like Japan. 
Other senators raised questions about whether the acquisition would harm American interests by transferring food production technologies, including high-value genetic strains of hogs, advanced meat processing technology and manure management techniques, that were developed with the support of United States taxpayers.
The question of whether foreign acquisition of domestic companies affects national security is one that the United States has struggled with for years.
In 2012, the Obama administration blocked the purchase of four American wind farm companies by a Chinese-owned firm, citing national security concerns -- the first time in 22 years that a president had done so.
And in 2006, Congress effectively blocked a deal under which Dubai Ports World, owned by the Dubai government, was to take over the management of six United States ports.
The Committee on Foreign Investments in the United States, an interagency government panel, is reviewing the Smithfield acquisition, which would be the largest acquisition to date of a United States company by a Chinese company.
Still, it is far from clear that the concerns expressed by the senators will carry enough weight to affect that review. Senator Debbie Stabenow, a Michigan Democrat who is the chairwoman of the Agriculture Committee, and 15 other committee members signed a letter asking the Treasury Department, which oversees the foreign investments committee, to include the Agriculture Department and the Food and Drug Administration on their review panel to consider food safety and security.
While the Treasury Department responded to the letter, it did not address the request, but instead cited restrictions on the confidentiality of the review.
Both Smithfield, based in Virginia, and Shuanghui have emphasized the mutual benefits of the deal. With Americans eating less pork than they once did, Smithfield is eager to increase its exports to China, where meat consumption has skyrocketed as the country's economy has boomed. But Chinese producers have had trouble keeping up with that rapidly growing appetite.
Mr. Pope told the senators that the benefits of the acquisition would flow not only to Smithfield but also to other American pork producers and their employees. ''This means increased capacity for producers, more jobs in processing and more exports for the U.S. economy,'' he said. ''Shuanghui is committed to investing in Smithfield to produce more food, more jobs and more value in the U.S.''
Two witnesses called by the committee -- Usha C.V. Haley, an expert on Chinese business strategy at West Virginia University, and Daniel Slane, a member of the U.S.-China Economic and Security Review Commission, a group appointed by Congress -- expressed multiple doubts about the transaction.
Ms. Haley said that pork was a ''strategically important industry for China'' as the growing ranks of the middle class demand more sources of high-quality protein. ''The same patterns that occurred in other strategically important industries,'' like paper, steel and glass, she said, ''will repeat in this sector and the United States will lose its competitive edge in food, becoming dependent on China.''
Mr. Slane said that the fact that Shuanghui was effectively controlled by the Chinese government meant that it presented a national security threat to the United States.
The top executive at Shuanghui ''is a high-ranking member of the Chinese Communist Party,'' Mr. Slane said, and he was appointed to that job by the party. ''If he does not do what they say, they will remove him or worse.''
In addition, the transaction is being financed in part by the Bank of China, Mr. Slane said. ''The Bank of China does not finance any transaction unless it is told to do so by the Chinese government,'' he said. ''By any measure, this is a Chinese-controlled company.''
Those opinions drew some skepticism from some senators, however. ''Did you realize you were the victim of a Chinese communist plot?'' Senator Pat Roberts, a Kansas Republican, asked Mr. Pope.
Noting that plenty of companies in other industries received investments from foreign companies, Mr. Pope said that the cornerstone of the transaction for the American economy was that it would help an industry that has struggled to continue to grow.
''Without the opportunity to grow outside the U.S., there is no opportunity for us to grow as an industry,'' he said.
Matthew J. Slaughter, an associate dean at the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth who specializes in the politics of globalization, supported Mr. Pope's view. ''There is nothing inherently worrisome or unusual'' about the transaction, he said.
Ms. Stabenow said a major source of her suspicion about the transaction lies in the fact that if Smithfield Foods wanted to buy Shuanghui, it would not be allowed to do so.
''We need to evaluate how foreign purchases of our food supply will affect our economy broadly, and frankly, whether there is a level playing field when it comes to these kinds of business purchases,'' Ms. Stabenow said.
''In the short term, I know this deal looks good for our producers,'' she added. ''But it's our job to be thinking about the big picture and the long term for American food security and economic security.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: C. Larry Pope, chief executive of Smithfield Foods, told the Senate committee that the acquisition would help the meat industry. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DANIEL ROSENBAUM FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 A Shuanghui pork processing plant in China. The $4.7 billion deal is awaiting review by the foreign investment committee. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JIN YUEQUAN/EUROPEAN PRESSPHOTO AGENCY) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NATIONAL SECURITY (91%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); EXPORT TRADE (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); FOOD SECURITY (89%); PORK (89%); HOG & PIG FARMING (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (79%); FOOD SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (78%); AGRICULTURE DEPARTMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); AGRICULTURE (78%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); MEATS (78%); AGRICULTURAL COMMODITY REGULATION (78%); FOOD SAFETY (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); PRODUCT SAFETY (77%); MEAT EXPORTS & IMPORTS (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); WORKPLACE HEALTH & SAFETY (74%); MEAT PROCESSING & PRODUCTS (68%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (68%); WIND ENERGY (51%)

COMPANY: DP WORLD LTD (82%); SMITHFIELD FOODS INC (58%)

TICKER: DPW (LSE) (82%); SFD (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS488310 PORT & HARBOR OPERATIONS (82%); NAICS483112 DEEP SEA PASSENGER TRANSPORTATION (82%); SIC4225 GENERAL WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (82%); NAICS311612 MEAT PROCESSED FROM CARCASSES (58%); NAICS311611 ANIMAL (EXCEPT POULTRY) SLAUGHTERING (58%); NAICS112210 HOG & PIG FARMING (58%)

PERSON: C LARRY POPE (77%); BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DUBAI, UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (93%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



308 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1014 words

HEADLINE: Deal Reached to Rein In Overseas Trading

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Regulators in Washington have agreed in principle on a plan to rein in risky trading by banks overseas, according to people briefed on the matter, a truce that follows a messy split in the Commodity Futures Trading Commission.
The potential deal, subject to final approval by the agency, would be reached with only hours to spare before a deadline on Friday. The commission had established the deadline when it set out to decide how to regulate trading by American banks in London and beyond -- a major factor in the 2008 financial crisis.
Until now, the trading commission seemed destined to miss the date. Some officials at the agency, which oversees trillions of dollars in Wall Street activity, had warned that a compromise was proving elusive as tension mounted. 
The dispute traced largely to the agency's Democratic chairman, Gary Gensler, and Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak. While Mr. Gensler was adamant that the agency complete its plan on time, Mr. Wetjen recently called the deadline ''arbitrary.'' And with the agency's Republican commissioner pushing for a delay, Mr. Wetjen holds the swing vote.
But in recent days, they showed signs of progress. Mr. Gensler and Mr. Wetjen have been meeting in person throughout the week, the people briefed on the matter said, and had struck a preliminary deal by Wednesday.
While both are likely to claim victory, the deal does not come without sacrifice for each side.
The contours of the plan, the people briefed on the matter said, suggest that firms like Goldman Sachs International and Citigroup's London branch will face a wave of new scrutiny, a sticking point for Mr. Gensler.
In a move likely to appease Mr. Wetjen, Mr. Gensler is expected to phase in the cross-border oversight. And in a concession to Wall Street and foreign finance ministers, the plan would defer to European regulators if they ultimately agree to scrutinize banks in a way that is similar to the monitoring by the trading commission.
Wall Street, while objecting to the new oversight, would exhale at the prospect of a deal being reached by Friday. If the agency fails to produce the guidelines but declines to extend the deadline, some banks feared widespread confusion would ensue.
The people briefed on the matter, who insisted on anonymity to discuss private negotiations, cautioned that the deal was not final. The agency's lawyers must now draft the plan to reflect compromises hashed out in recent days. If either side makes last-minute changes, the people said, the deal could collapse.
If the deal is approved, it is unclear when the agency might announce the decision. It tentatively scheduled a public meeting for Friday to vote on the plan, though the agency could also vote in private over the next few days.
The agency's spokesman, Steven Adamske, declined to say whether the commissioners had struck a deal. Instead, he said that ''progress is being made,'' adding that ''we remain hopeful for a vote on Friday.''
The agency and European regulators are also poised to announce a framework for collaborating in the coming years the people briefed on the matter said. The deal, which is expected to be announced this week, could subdue cross-border tensions among the various regulators.
The delicacy reflects the importance of a plan that took shape after the financial crisis highlighted the risk of overseas trading.
Trades by a London unit of the insurance giant American International Group, for example, nearly toppled the company. And JPMorgan Chase's $6 billion trading loss in London last year reignited concerns that risk-taking could come crashing back to American shores.
The blowups by A.I.G. and others spurred the Dodd-Frank Act, a law that mandated a sweeping overhaul of the $700 trillion marketplace for derivatives, financial contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond or an interest rate. Under that 2010 law, the trading commission is supposed to extend new derivatives changes -- including tougher capital standards -- if overseas trading has ''a direct and significant connection with activities'' of the United States.
That broad template left it up to the agency to draft a plan for how Dodd-Frank applies to everyday trading overseas. Ever since, Wall Street lobbyists have complained to the agency that certain requirements could drive trading business away from United States banks.
In a statement on Wednesday, the co-authors of the law, Christopher J. Dodd and Barney Frank, called on the trading commission to resist Wall Street's talking points. The former lawmakers, Mr. Frank, a Congressman from Massachusetts who retired in January year, and Mr. Dodd, a Democratic senator from Connecticut who left office in 2011, cited the chaos of 2008 as the impetus for the crackdown.
''Only people who have never heard of A.I.G. can deny that overseas failures by large domestic entities have direct impacts here,'' Mr. Dodd and Mr. Frank said in the statement. ''The failure to regulate derivatives as their role in our financial system expanded greatly was one of the most serious weaknesses in the regulatory system which we sought to correct.''
The former lawmakers also said they weighed in with the hope of speeding the agency along.
''I respect that getting it right is not easy, but the fact that it's taken three years sort of stuns me,'' Mr. Dodd, who is now chairman and chief executive of the Motion Picture Association of America, said in an interview on Wednesday. ''What do you need to know?''
Mr. Gensler echoed Mr. Dodd's concerns in a meeting last month with Wall Street lobbyists , who urged the agency to extend its deadline past Friday. Mr. Gensler, summoning into his office a pregnant speechwriter at the agency whose due date was Friday, asked her what she thought of the deadline. In reply, she exclaimed, ''No delay.''
The speechwriter, Stephanie Allen, gave birth a week later. Some people said that was a positive omen Mr. Gensler and Mr. Wetjen would make their deadline.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: President Obama, with Chris Dodd, center, and Barney Frank, then lawmakers, after signing the Dodd-Frank Act into law. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); APPROVALS (79%); FUTURES (79%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); EURO CRISIS (75%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%)

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER DODD (69%); BARNEY FRANK (65%); BARACK OBAMA (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



309 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 587 words

HEADLINE: State Inquiry Into Sale Of Risky Investments

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL POPPER

 BODY:
The top financial regulator in Massachusetts has subpoenaed 15 brokerage firms as part of a new investigation into the marketing of complicated financial investments to older people.
The Massachusetts secretary of the commonwealth, William F. Galvin, asked the firms -- including Merrill Lynch, Morgan Stanley and LPL Financial -- about the way they have sold ''high-risk, esoteric products'' to older citizens. 
Several regulators have previously expressed concern about the rising number of opaque products that have been pitched to unsophisticated investors looking for higher returns in an era of low interest rates. Brokers like selling the products because they frequently offer higher commissions than traditional investments like mutual funds.
''These things are accidents waiting to happen when they are sold to inexperienced investors,'' Mr. Galvin said on Wednesday.
Mr. Galvin recently collected $11 million in fines from five broker-dealers for selling illiquid real estate investment trusts, or REITs, to investors in his state. Unlike publicly traded REITs, the illiquid products are not easy to sell when a consumer wants to get out of the investment.
In the course of his office's investigation of those REITs, Mr. Galvin said that his staff noticed that many brokers were selling a number of other complex financial products that even they did not understand, with little oversight from their parent companies.
''It's the whole methodology by which these products are sold -- that's the bigger problem,'' Mr. Galvin said.
In addition to the REITs, Mr. Galvin's office will be looking into the selling of structured products, oil and gas partnerships and private placement deals -- all of which disclose less public information than public stocks and bonds.
These investments used to be restricted only to sophisticated investors with a net worth of at least $1 million. Now, regulators say that they are being opened up to less wealthy investors, as well as a growing number of wealthy but less l sophisticated investors.
The sales of these products has become more prominent since the financial crisis, because many older Americans are trying to make up for losses they suffered in their retirement portfolios. The low yields on bank accounts and bonds in recent years has also made investors more willing to look at riskier products that promise better returns.
Richard G. Ketchum, the chief executive of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority, the industry regulatory group, said in a recent speech that over the last two years his organization had noticed an uptick in ''the sale of complex products and speculative products with low liquidity, to unsuitable customers by financial advisers who often don't fully understand the risks of the products.''
The Massachusetts investigation began on the same day that the Securities and Exchange Commission agreed to lift its ban on public advertisements for some of the same complex investments Mr. Galvin is examining. Mr. Galvin and other state securities regulators have criticized the S.E.C. decision, arguing that even with advertising banned, too many unsophisticated investors have ended up learning about and buying products that are unsuitable for their investment goals.
Mr. Galvin's office emphasized that the investigation was just beginning. He added that being on the list of banks and brokerages receiving subpoenas ''is not an indication of wrongdoing at this time.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INVESTIGATIONS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); NEW ISSUES (89%); BONDS (89%); SENIOR CITIZENS (89%); WEALTH MANAGEMENT (85%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); SUBPOENAS (78%); SECURITIES LAW (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (78%); MUTUAL FUNDS (78%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (74%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (73%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); REAL ESTATE (73%); FINES & PENALTIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); LPL FINANCIAL CORP (72%); MORGAN STANLEY (58%)

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (72%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



310 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1351 words

HEADLINE: Egypt Is Arena for Influence of Arab Rivals

BYLINE: By ROBERT F. WORTH

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Three of the Persian Gulf's richest monarchies have pledged $12 billion in cash and loans to Egypt, a decision aimed not only at shoring up a shaky transitional government, but also at undermining their Islamist rivals and strengthening their allies across a newly turbulent Middle East.
The robust financial aid packages of $8 billion announced Tuesday by Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates, and $4 billion announced on Wednesday by Kuwait, followed the Egyptian military's killing on Monday of dozens of Muslim Brotherhood members and sympathizers protesting last week's military ouster of Egypt's Islamist president, Mohamed Morsi. The aid package underscored a continuing regional contest for influence between Saudi Arabia and Qatar, one that has accelerated since the Arab uprising upended the status quo and brought Islamists to power.
Qatar, in alliance with Turkey, has given strong financial and diplomatic support to the Muslim Brotherhood, but also to other Islamists operating on the battlefields of Syria and, before that, Libya. Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait, by comparison, have sought to restore the old, authoritarian order, fearful that Islamist movements and calls for democracy would destabilize their own nations. 
The promise to provide so much assistance also highlighted the limits of American leverage: the United States provides Egypt $1.5 billion in annual aid, a small fraction of what the gulf states have promised. But the gulf intervention contrasted sharply with the Obama administration's uncertainty about how to respond to the military takeover, and more broadly, how to wield influence across an increasingly chaotic and fragmented Arab world where American interests are hard to define.
The White House has said it is reviewing the circumstances of the takeover before making a decision on the annual aid to Egypt -- which some in Congress, notably Senator John McCain of Arizona, have said should be suspended, calling the takeover a coup d'état. But on Tuesday, the White House spokesman, Jay Carney, struck a somewhat different tone, saying the administration was encouraged by the timetable provided by Egypt's interim authorities for a transition to elections and a fully civilian government.
The Saudis and Emiratis were nearly buoyant at the military's move to oust Mr. Morsi. Both are deeply hostile to the Brotherhood's Islamist-cum-democratic agenda, which they see as a threat both to their own monarchical legitimacy and to regional stability. Qatar, by contrast, provided about $8 billion in aid to Mr. Morsi's government during his yearlong tenure, and Turkey offered loans of $2 billion.
The tensions between Qatar and Saudi Arabia are older and broader than the Arab uprisings that began in 2011. Saudi Arabia, which prefers to work its checkbook diplomacy quietly and behind the scenes, sees itself as the regional leader. But the Qataris have for years fashioned an outsize foreign policy, often rebuffing Saudi Arabia's perceived interests, using its wealth and Al Jazeera, the television network it built, to play a decisive role in some of the region's most volatile and important events.
Qatar, host to the largest American military base in the Middle East, has also eagerly financed Islamists in Tunisia, Libya, Syria and Egypt, often siding with the Muslim Brotherhood or its affiliates, like Hamas. Qatar angered the Saudis (and the Obama administration) by supporting Islamist rebels in Syria and providing some heavier weapons, like shoulder-fired missiles, against American advice.
Suddenly, some of the tables have turned on Qatar.
With the rise of the Brotherhood, the Saudis had largely cut off aid to Mr. Morsi's government and ignored American requests to help Egypt manage a worsening economic crisis. After Mr. Morsi was ousted by the Egyptian military, the Saudi and Emirati governments were quick to issue strong statements of support for the transition. On Friday night, King Abdullah of Saudi Arabia personally called Egypt's army chief, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi, to reinforce his backing for the caretaker government, The Associated Press reported.
''This is clearly a setback for the ideology that Qatar and Turkey support and encourage,'' said one Arab official, who spoke on the condition of anonymity so as not to antagonize two powerful nations. ''If political Islam was a stock, it would have gone down dramatically over the past week.''
Qatari officials declined to comment on the rivalry. But one Qatari official, speaking on condition of anonymity, said Qatar's financial aid in the past had been to the Egyptian people, not any individual figure or party.
The Qataris suffered two other, lesser setbacks in recent days: on Monday, 22 journalists at Al Jazeera resigned en masse, citing what they said was the station's biased coverage of the Brotherhood. Al Jazeera's bias in favor of the Islamist group has often been cited as a grievance against Qatar's rulers, who are accused of using the station as an arm of their activist foreign policy.
Also on Tuesday, Ghassan Hitto, the prime minister of the main Syrian exile opposition group -- who was seen as favorable to Qatar -- resigned. Although the reasons for his resignation were not clear, it was generally viewed as a concession to Saudi Arabia, which had signaled its discontent with him.
Some analysts say Qatar has already begun to rein in its aggressive and eclectic foreign policy, which has included a willingness to engage with Iran that infuriated its Saudi neighbors. Last week, Qatar's government joined Saudi Arabia and others in issuing a message of support to the transitional government installed by the Egyptian military, even as its allies in the Brotherhood protested furiously against what they called a military coup.
''It's starting to look as if the Qataris have ceased playing the role of troublemaker and freelancer in the region, and falling in behind the Saudis,'' said Peter Harling, an adviser with the International Crisis Group. ''Events are allowing the Saudis to assume a regional leadership role that no one else can play right now.''
Despite Qatar's strong financial support for Mr. Morsi's government, some analysts say Qatari officials had privately become very critical of his many blunders over the past year. ''The Qataris were not happy with the decision to take Morsi out, but they were not so happy with Morsi, either,'' said Mustafa Alani, an analyst with the Dubai-based Gulf Research Center.
The shift in Qatar's role may also be related to the accession last month of the new Qatari emir, Sheik Tamim bin Hamad al-Thani, Mr. Alani said. The emir led a joint Saudi-Qatari committee formed in 2007 to reduce tensions between the two countries, and he is widely thought to take a less aggressive approach to foreign policy than his father, Sheik Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, the former emir.
Qatar's support for the Muslim Brotherhood was seen by some analysts as a policy based on pragmatism rather than ideology -- it was viewed as a populist group that could deliver results, unlike its more secular and often more fractious rivals. That perception, too, may change now that the Brotherhood has been deposed in Egypt. Turkey's support for Brotherhood affiliates was more a matter of shared principles: Turkey's governing party is a mildly Islamist and populist group. But Turkey's own struggles with a domestic protest movement in the past two months is likely to curtail its appetite for foreign adventures.
The Qatari and Turkish financial aid to Mr. Morsi's government last year helped him to avert painful economic reforms being urged by the International Monetary Fund as the price for its own $4.8 billion aid package. The United States believes those changes -- including a reduction of food and electricity subsidies -- are necessary to help bring Egypt out of its crushing deficit and economic malaise.
But the Saudi, Emirati and Kuwaiti aid may serve the same purpose, staving off unpopular decisions and limiting another potential avenue of American influence over Egypt's next government.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (75%); COUPS (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (74%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (73%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (65%)

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (57%)

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (57%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (57%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (79%); BARACK OBAMA (54%); JOHN MCCAIN (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIAN OCEAN (90%); ARIZONA, USA (79%) EGYPT (97%); SAUDI ARABIA (95%); UNITED ARAB EMIRATES (94%); UNITED STATES (94%); QATAR (94%); GULF STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); KUWAIT (92%); TURKEY (92%); SYRIA (79%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



311 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 542 words

HEADLINE: Clouds Darken Over Egypt

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
The military proved disastrously inept when it tried to govern Egypt after the overthrow of Hosni Mubarak in 2011. Now, a week after ousting Mohamed Morsi, the first freely elected president, the military is orchestrating an even more dangerous maneuver. We are deeply fearful that Egypt could devolve into civil war, which would add new trauma to a region already in turmoil. 
On Wednesday, the general prosecutor's office issued formal arrest warrants for some of Mr. Morsi's political allies in the Muslim Brotherhood -- the top spiritual leader and at least nine other senior figures -- who were accused of inciting the deadly protests that occurred on Monday. That is an outrageous move given that at least 51 protesters were killed by soldiers and police officers, and hundreds more wounded, most of them unarmed as they demanded Mr. Morsi's release from detention and his reinstatement as president.
On Wednesday, Amnesty International said it had evidence showing that security forces used excessive force against Mr. Morsi's supporters. Gunning down Morsi supporters and attacking an entire group could destroy hope for the democratic process and could well push the Brotherhood into violent extremism.
There are also plenty of reasons to be alarmed about the military's plan, put forward on Tuesday, to transition from a military-appointed interim civilian government to an elected one. The ''constitutional declaration'' issued by Adli Mansour, the newly installed president, made clear that the government's authority comes only from the top commander, Gen. Abdul-Fattah el-Sisi.
Experts say it repeats many mistakes of the last transition, including shielding the military from civilian oversight and promising to follow Shariah law. The plan was written in secret; much of the language is vague and concepts like protection of civil rights are ignored. Moreover, the timetable for amending the constitution, putting it to referendum and holding new elections seems too fast to allow for consensus-building among Egypt's polarized factions. This rush may well make the process even less democratic and representative of all Egyptians than the last transition from military rule to Mr. Morsi's government.
At this point, Mr. Morsi's reinstatement seems virtually impossible. Still, Egypt needs to move from military control to an elected civilian government, but it has to be done in a more thoughtful, inclusive and durable way.
Saudi Arabia and other Gulf states, who oppose the Brotherhood and favor an authoritarian order, are making their influence felt by providing billions of dollars in aid to Egypt and its collapsed economy. It is suspicious that fuel shortages and other problems plaguing Egypt under Mr. Morsi have now mysteriously cleared up.
The United States, which provides $1.5 billion annually, needs to keep nudging Egypt along a peaceful democratic path. Delivering an order of American-made F-16 jets to Egypt anytime soon would be provocative.
There is a special burden on liberals and secularists, the driving force behind the 2011 revolution and Mr. Morsi's ouster, to move beyond protests to make themselves a functioning political force. That will require more organization and political smarts than they have shown so far.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ARMED FORCES (78%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); POLICE MISCONDUCT (76%); FALSE IMPRISONMENT (76%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); RELIGION (75%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); APPOINTMENTS (73%); ARREST WARRANTS (71%); ARRESTS (71%); REFERENDUMS (70%); SHOOTINGS (69%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: AMNESTY INTERNATIONAL (56%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (92%); HOSNI MUBARAK (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: EGYPT (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); SAUDI ARABIA (79%); GULF STATES (72%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



312 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1308 words

HEADLINE: Federal Reserve's Easing of Stimulus Could Hamper a European Recovery

BYLINE: By JACK EWING

 BODY:
VLOTHO, Germany -- The European economy has many problems. One is out of the region's control: the United States Federal Reserve.
Recent fears that the Federal Reserve could begin withdrawing its economic stimulus have prompted interest rates to rise around the world, putting business loans further out of reach for companies in Spain, Italy and France.
For the United States, the Fed easing on stimulus efforts would signal that the American economic rebound has enough momentum to continue on its own. But for most of Europe, still struggling through a recession, the Fed's moves could make a recovery even harder to achieve.
The problem is evident to companies like Herbert Kannegiesser, which makes equipment here for large commercial laundries. It is the kind of niche industrial business that has continued to grow even during the economic crisis and helped sustain German exports. But laundry systems costing hundreds of thousands of euros are a tougher sell when loans are more expensive. 
''Europe is our home market,'' Martin Kannegiesser, son of the company's founder, said in an interview in this rural corner of northwestern Germany. ''Banks, especially outside of Germany, are very reluctant to give loans and financing to small and medium-size businesses. That is a problem.''
The Kannegiesser problem is a microcosm of the broad issue confronting Mario Draghi, president of the European Central Bank. He must keep trying to find ways to steer the euro zone out of recession even as his American counterpart at the Fed, Ben S. Bernanke, contemplates how soon to take his foot off the accelerator of the United States economy.
Unfortunately for European executives and central bankers, what happens in Washington does not stay in Washington. Rising yields, or market interest rates, on United States Treasury bonds have had worldwide repercussions.
The yield on the 10-year Treasury bond is now 2.66 percent, compared with 2.19 percent before remarks by Mr. Bernanke on June 19 raised expectations that the Fed would soon begin to taper off its stimulus program of buying government securities.
The better return available on American debt draws money away from Europe and pushes up rates for euro zone government bonds as well as commercial loans. Yields on Spanish and Italian government bonds rose sharply after Mr. Bernanke's remarks. Euro zone yields have retreated somewhat since but are still higher than they were before June 19. The Spanish 10-year bond is at 4.79 percent, compared with 4.5 percent in early June.
''From the European point of view, the worst thing that could happen is an increase in long-term interest rates, which is what the Fed action is threatening to do,'' said Charles Wyplosz, a professor of international economics at the Graduate Institute in Geneva.
The timing is terrible for Europe. The European Central Bank is still fighting a severe credit crisis in Southern Europe, which is making it difficult for countries like Spain to emerge from a prolonged recession that has pushed the unemployment rate to 27 percent.
Even before Mr. Bernanke mentioned the word ''taper,'' lending in Europe had been in a slump. In May, the most recent month for which data is available, loans to corporations excluding banks fell at an annual rate of 3.1 percent, according to European Central Bank data.
The central bank in early May cut its main interest rate to 0.5 percent, a record low. Last week, in an unprecedented step, Mr. Draghi assured investors that the rate would not rise above 0.5 percent for an extended period and could be cut further.
European political leaders are a long way from addressing the causes of the euro zone crisis and need all the help they can get from low interest rates. On Wednesday, European Union officials announced a plan to deal with failing banks that would include centralized decision making and an emergency fund. But the plan, considered essential to prevent bank failures from taking down entire nations, could face resistance from Germany and other countries wary of giving up control over their banks.
In countries like Italy and Greece, leaders have been slow to dismantle bloated civil services that burden businesses with red tape and stifle growth. And elected officials have been unwilling to dismantle labor regulations that discourage hiring and firing.
Many euro zone governments, including France, are still struggling to get debt under control. For them, higher interest rates are toxic. France's 10-year bond was at 2.24 percent Wednesday, up from 2.08 percent in early June.
''The effects in Europe are pretty ominous,'' Mr. Wyplosz said. ''Rising interest rates are the best way to bring a budget to disaster.''
In the private sector, higher rates on commercial loans threaten to strangle business investment and private consumption. Even blue-chip borrowers could begin to suffer, said Erik Berglöf, chief economist of the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, an institution supported in part by the United States that encourages economic development in former Communist states, as well as North Africa.
''Banks were throwing credit lines at their best clients while not lending to the more risky, small and medium-size enterprises,'' Mr. Berglöf said in an interview in Frankfurt on Wednesday. ''Now I think we're going to see less availability for the better clients as well.''
In the past, the European Central Bank refused to commit itself on the future direction of interest rates. Last week's break from that tradition was at least partly an attempt by Mr. Draghi, in remarks at a news conference, to push back against higher rates exported from America. But analysts doubt whether mere words will be enough to withstand the power of the Fed and the gravitational pull of the enormous Treasury market.
''Whether it can be a credible shield, we have some doubts,'' said Nick Matthews, an economist at Nomura in London. For Mr. Draghi's strategy to work, Mr. Matthews said, the central bank might have to be more specific about how long it will keep rates low and what indicators might cause it to begin raising rates.
Not all the news from the United States is bad for Europe. A stronger United States economy should be good for European exporters like the German carmaker Volkswagen, which is in the midst of a revival in America. A stronger dollar is also good for many European companies. The dollar has risen about 4 percent against the euro since June 19 as money flowed into United States assets. The cheaper euro makes European products less expensive when purchased with dollars and gives exports an extra nudge.
But Mr. Wyplosz of the Graduate Institute said a much more drastic decline in the euro would be needed to compensate for the negative effects of higher interest rates.
Germany has escaped the worst of the euro zone downturn so far. Growth is at a standstill, but unemployment is at only 5.3 percent. Germany could even benefit from higher interest rates. Low rates on mortgages have contributed to rising home prices in cities like Frankfurt and stirred fears of a bubble.
But the case of Herbert Kannegiesser, the commercial laundry supplier, illustrates how problems elsewhere in Southern Europe could disturb the German idyll.
For now, Kannegiesser seems to be holding up well, partly because of orders from outside Europe. In June, a special 42-container freight train left a rail yard near Vlotho bound for Sochi, Russia. It was loaded with 10 million euros ($13 million) worth of equipment for the laundry that will serve the Winter Olympics in February, Martin Kannegiesser said.
Mr. Kannegiesser said he worried, though, about the insecurity prevalent among businesses in the euro zone. Sometimes his company has gone so far as to help customers get credit when their own banks are reluctant.
''But,'' he said, ''there are limits.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Martin Kannegiesser said his company had gone so far as to help customers get credit when their own banks were reluctant. (PHOTOGRAPH BY OLIVER LANG/DAPD, VIA ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); EURO ZONE (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); MONETARY UNIONS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS (77%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (77%); INDUSTRIAL LAUNDRIES (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); INTERVIEWS (72%); BOND MARKETS (72%); DRY CLEANERS & LAUNDRIES (69%); LAUNDRY & LINEN SUPPLY SERVICES (69%)

COMPANY: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (67%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN CENTRAL BANK (54%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (99%); EUROPE (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); GERMANY (94%); ITALY (93%); FRANCE (92%); SPAIN (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



313 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section E; Column 0; Style Desk; UP CLOSE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 784 words

HEADLINE: Where Beauty Is as Beauty Does

BYLINE: By DWYER GUNN

 BODY:
Cameron Russell, like most fashion models, knows how to pose for the camera, a skill she demonstrated on a recent Friday at the Brooklyn studio of her media consulting company.
Dressed in dark skinny jeans, black hoodie and bright purple socks, Ms. Russell sat on a stool as she communed with the camera lens at a three-quarters pose, arched her back just so and artfully tousled her hair. Her eyes were contoured with bright purple eye shadow, her lips a comical shade of hot pink.
''I feel like I should say something really serious right now,'' Ms. Russell said. She lowered her voice an octave and furrowed her brow. ''This video is about changing the hetero norms of our society,'' she added, before bursting out laughing. 
Ms. Russell, 25, has been modeling since she was 16. She has posed for Vogue and Elle, and has walked the runway for Chanel and Versace. Last November, she put on some lingerie and a pair of thigh-high yellow rain boots, and walked in the Victoria's Secret fashion show.
On this particular Friday, she wasn't selling lingerie. She was shooting a promotional video for Interrupt, a new webzine that seeks to give a platform to women who feel marginalized by mainstream media. Ms. Russell, as one of the site's founders, was appearing in a before-and-after video in which she undergoes two transformations: one as a sexy model, another as a muscular man.
''We thought it would be fun to play with the way fashion can influence gender perceptions,'' she said, before the shoot began.
''So we'll do one super-femme shot,'' she said, and then ''one masculine shot with stubble, ripped arms and armpit hair.''
If Ms. Russell doesn't sound like a typical fashion model, it's because she's not. The daughter of Robin Chase, a Zipcar founder, she grew up in Cambridge, Mass., and has a bachelor's degree in economics and political science from Columbia. She signed with Ford Models at 15 after being scouted on the street several times while visiting New York with her mother.
''I thought it was going to be like two jobs and a funny experience,'' she said. ''Around the same time, I went to the Naval Academy in Annapolis for their summer seminar. I thought, 'Oh, maybe I'll go into the Navy.' Then the next week it was, 'Oh, I'm shooting French Vogue.' ''
A more recent claim to fame is a widely viewed TED talk she gave last year, advising young girls not to pursue modeling and bluntly explaining the secret to her success. ''I am on this stage because I am a pretty, white woman, and in my industry we call that a sexy girl,'' she said onstage.
The TED talk rapidly went viral -- and was quickly followed by an op-ed for CNN and a segment on ABC's ''Nightline.'' Interrupt is Ms. Russell's attempt to transform her newfound celebrity into something meaningful and long lasting. ''I felt like I was getting a ton of press, and not for fantastic reasons,'' she said. ''I wanted to share the press with some women who really are doing fantastic things.''
So Ms. Russell, a self-described ''Internet nerd'' and avid Twitter user, posted an open letter online with a simple question for women: ''What would you say if you had access to mass media?''
The resulting site, which went live in March, features high-quality photo spreads of glammed-up female activists, interviews with female directors and readers' responses to her open letter.
''If mass media only responds to cute outfits, nice smiles and high gloss,'' the Web site asks, ''what would happen if we put these amazing women on camera wearing high fashion, glamorous hair and tons of makeup?''
A second issue, focused on body image, was uploaded on May 2 and featured essays and artwork on Afros, eyebrows, bra challenges faced by transgendered women, and Kim Kardashian's armpit fat. Future issues may focus on fashion, health, race, L.G.B.T. issues and women in sports.
Back in the Jay Street studio, Ms. Russell's makeup artist applied gloss to her arms and chest while she joked about her appearance on CNN's ''Starting Point'' earlier that day.
''I was super awkward on it,'' she said, laughing. ''I felt like I was watching tennis the whole time. And then someone totally tweeted '@CameronCRussell, you look like you're watching tennis.' ''
Makeup completed, Ms. Russell stood and braced her hands on the stool, flipping her head over and submitting her hair to a few more rounds of spraying and teasing by her hairstylist.
''Oh, we also need a shot with cleavage,'' Ms. Russell said, eyeing the camera strategically and tugging her tank top down before offering up a few sultry poses.
Her photographer handed her the camera so she could see the final shots.
''That is insane,'' she said happily. ''I look crazy. I look perfectly crazy.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Victoria's Secret model Cameron Russell wants to shift the media spotlight to ''women who really are doing fantastic things.'' She recently became known for a TED talk that went viral advising young girls not to pursue modeling. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHESTER HIGGINS JR./THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FASHION SHOWS (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (77%); CONSULTING SERVICES (77%); MILITARY SCHOOLS & ACADEMIES (60%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (50%)

COMPANY: VICTORIA'S SECRET CATALOG (55%); ZIPCAR INC (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS532111 PASSENGER CAR RENTAL (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (73%); ANNAPOLIS, MD, USA (66%) NEW YORK, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (72%); MARYLAND USA (66%) UNITED STATES (73%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



314 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 768 words

HEADLINE: In Flight: The Golden Age, and Now

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Class Struggle in the Sky'' (Sunday Review, July 7):
What James Atlas recounts about the experience of flying, then and now, is right on the mark.
As an employee of Pan American World Airways from 1968 to 1978, I was part of the ''old days'' of flying. As ground personnel, we, like the stewardesses, were as polished as the marble counters of the flagship Counter Vanderbilt office in which we worked.
When our passengers talked to one of us in preparation for their travel plans, we knew everything there was to know about their destinations. We had probably been there, and they were grateful for our expertise. 
The frustrations of travel today begin even before one gets to the airport. Trying to navigate through confusing Web sites for schedules, fares and accommodations and paying for numerous add-on services are enough to make you want to stay home forever.
I never imagined in those halcyon days that flying would change so drastically for the worse.
ELEANOR M. IMPERATO Manhasset, N.Y., July 7, 2013
To the Editor:
James Atlas betrays his own well-off background by virtue of his flying to the Bahamas at 13 in the 1960s. At that time, most families did not fly at all, much less internationally. My very middle-class mother grew up in the '50s and had never been on a commercial flight in her entire life.
Further, my parents never took our family on a vacation that involved leaving the ground or the United States -- sorry, we went to Niagara Falls, the Canadian side!
The reason flying was so luxurious in the 1960s was that most people couldn't afford it. Flying is much more attainable for the middle class today. If you aren't fixated on those who are better off, you'd realize that you're lucky to be flying, period.
CHRIS SEGEDY Brooklyn, July 7, 2013
To the Editor:
Alas, the ''statusization'' that James Atlas talks about is proceeding at full throttle in the skies and on the ground.
I was waiting to board my plane at Dallas-Fort Worth a few weeks ago as the gate attendant ran through the sequential list of boarding categories -- in descending order of preference, with adequate time pauses between -- ultimately making her way down to the unvarnished and unalloyed group-number designations.
The man standing next to me said, ''I guess we're in the 'dirt' category.''
I sniffed, ''So much for our egalitarian society,'' and we chuckled to ourselves in that moment of sweet solidarity.
BARBARA ALLEN KENNEY Santa Fe, N.M., July 7, 2013
To the Editor:
I know several well-traveled people who have declared that they will never travel by airplane again. We all agree that the annoyances of flying have made conditions not merely unpleasant but unacceptable as well. These include ticket-pricing games, intrusive security searches, bags stuffed into overhead bins, overcrowding, no food, long delays and high prices.
Refusing to rectify these problems just might cause airlines to lose customers, and vacation destinations to lose revenue.
Traveling by air, I've visited 10 countries, 33 states and 26 national parks, but my last two vacations were on cruise ships. Though not ideal, at least the vacations began as soon as we got out of the cab and onto the ship.
Two previous vacations were spent driving to Newport, R.I., and the Boston area, and we're considering train travel. We've decided that any mode of transportation is preferable to airplanes that are like cattle cars.
LINDA IMHAUSER Whitestone, Queens, July 8, 2013
To the Editor:
What James Atlas is seeing is not the emergence of a new aristocracy in the sky but rather the democratization of flying.
Those people up front, far from lording it over the economy passengers, are subsidizing their travel.
The fact that the plane looks more like a bus terminal than a magic carpet means that regular people are going places that their parents and grandparents saw only in the pages of National Geographic. The world is a better place for it.
STANDISH M. FLEMING San Diego, July 8, 2013
To the Editor:
We take safety in the air for granted until a crash landing, like that of Asiana Airlines. I still thank God when I have a safe flight, the most important issue in flying.
RUTH COHEN New York, July 7, 2013
To the Editor:
The next time you find yourself inclined to whine about the conditions in the dreaded coach cabin midway through a flight from New York to Los Angeles, try imagining the experiences of the settlers traveling for months in their covered wagons to reach their destinations.
All of a sudden, flying coach doesn't seem so bad. It works for me.
''I'll have a Diet Coke, please ...''
ED WASIL Plymouth, Mich., July 7, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM ENTHOVEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AIRLINES (77%); AIRPORTS (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); COMMERCIAL & GENERAL AVIATION AIRCRAFT (75%); FAMILY (70%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

COMPANY: PAN AM CLIPPER CONNECTION (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (58%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SANTA FE, NM, USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); FORT WORTH, TX, USA (52%) TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW MEXICO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (90%); BAHAMAS (55%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



315 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: A Call to Battle on Bank Leverage

BYLINE: SIMON JOHNSON


HIGHLIGHT: Public pressure on the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation to tighten banking standards might offset the Federal Reserve&#8217;s inclination to side with the largest banks, an economist writes. 

 BODY:
Simon Johnson, former chief economist of the International Monetary Fund, is the Ronald A. Kurtz Professor of Entrepreneurship at the M.I.T. Sloan School of Management and co-author of "White House Burning: The Founding Fathers, Our National Debt, and Why It Matters to You." 
On Tuesday, federal banking regulators opened an important new phase of the debate on how safe very large financial institutions should become. The next round of argument will be intense; the focus has shifted to the specific and high-stakes question of how much leverage big banks can have - i.e., how much of each dollar on their balance sheet they should be allowed to fund with debt rather than with equity. 
The people who run global megabanks would rather fund them with relatively more debt and less equity. Equity absorbs losses, but these very large companies are seen as too big to fail - so they benefit from implicit government guarantees. A higher degree of leverage - meaning more debt and less equity - means more upside for the people who run banks, while the greater downside risks are someone else's problem (the central bank, the taxpayer or, more broadly, you).
A key regulator on this issue is the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, which was created in 1933 to insure banking deposits - and hence serves as a crucial underpinning for public confidence in the financial system. The F.D.I.C. has a responsibility to financial institutions that pay insurance premiums; the goal is to avoid using federal tax dollars, so any losses are absorbed by the insurance fund. 
Small banks have been pointing out for some time that while they pay a great deal in insurance premiums, the main dangers in the financial system arise from the excessive leverage and more generally mismanaged risk-taking of big banks. The Independent Community Bankers of America has an excellent set of materials on ending too big to fail, in which it asserts, 
The U.S. will not have a robust and truly competitive market for financial services until the too-big-to-fail problem is definitively resolved.

I highly recommend the white paper put out by the association on this issue.
On the F.D.I.C. board, the strongest voices for limiting leverage by big banks have been the two Republican appointees, Thomas Hoenig and Jeremiah Norton. If either were in charge, my guess is that we would end up with a leverage ratio closer to 10 percent than 5 percent. (The way "leverage ratio" is defined in this debate is confusing - a higher ratio actually means more equity is required relative to debt, so a higher ratio implies less debt and a safer system, all other things being equal. As with all discussions of financial transactions, you need to check the fine print.)
Martin J. Gruenberg, the chairman of the F.D.I.C., has also been good on the leverage issue (I'm a member of the F.D.I.C.'s Systemic Resolution Advisory Committee, but I'm not involved in any of their work on bank capital or leverage). In its official announcement of the proposed rule-making, the F.D.I.C. said:
A strong capital base at the largest, most systemically significant U.S. banking organizations is particularly important because capital shortfalls at these institutions have the potential to result in significant adverse economic consequences and contribute to systemic distress both domestically and internationally. Higher capital standards for these institutions will place additional private capital at risk before the federal deposit insurance fund and the federal government's resolution mechanisms would be called upon, and reduce the likelihood of economic disruptions caused by problems at these institutions.
The problem appears to be the board of governors of the Federal Reserve Board, which once again appears to have given in to industry pressure.
The big banks swear up and down that to subject them to a tougher leverage requirement (less debt, more equity for them) would somehow derail the economic recovery or even crater the global economy.
This is a complete fabrication - read the independent bankers' report or look at the recent paper by Anat Admati and Martin Hellwig, "The Parade of the Bankers' New Clothes Continues: 23 Flawed Claims Debunked," which goes in detail through all the fallacious arguments that have surfaced in response to their recent book, "The Bankers' New Clothes."
Plenty of smaller banks are willing and able to lend to companies and individuals in the real (i.e., nonfinancial) economy. The bankers' association, Mr. Hoenig, Mr. Norton and other current and former officials (such as Sheila Bair, the former head of the F.D.I.C.) want to end the subsidies received by too-big-to-fail banks. Create an even playing field by removing - or at least reducing - the advantages enjoyed by the very largest banks, which benefit not just from an implicit subsidy but can borrow on advantageous terms from the central bank and obtain other privileged forms of official support not available to anyone else.
The Fed's board, unfortunately, has sided with the megabanks, resisting attempts by the F.D.I.C. to set an interim final rule on leverage (which would be more definite and harder to lobby than the proposal put on the table) and pushing back against the idea that the leverage ratio for megabanks should be at least 6 percent.
So what we have instead is a proposal, which will now receive comments, for the leverage ratio to be 5 percent for the largest eight or so financial companies (at the holding company level; debt levels would need to be slightly lower at insured bank subsidiaries). At the same time, this does present an opportunity. There is a split of opinion within officialdom, and the F.D.I.C. still wants to do the right thing - put a tougher cap on leverage. The comment period can cut both ways; representatives of the big banks will argue for 4 percent or even 3 percent (the minimum under the Basel III capital accord), but those more concerned with financial stability can still push for 10 percent or even higher (i.e., allowing less debt and insisting on more equity).
The F.D.I.C. has made some progress but now needs help. With encouragement from their constituents, Congressional representatives might be persuaded to push for tougher limits on the leverage at big banks. 

        
Multinational Corporations' Support for Big Banks Is Not Persuasive
        
Choosing the Next Head of the Federal Reserve
        
The Treasury's Mistaken View on Too Big to Fail
        
The London Whale, Richard Fisher and Cyprus
        
Filling a Fed Vacuum in Bank Supervision

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ENTREPRENEURSHIP (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); WRITERS (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (76%); REGULATORY COMPLIANCE (76%); DEREGULATION (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); NATIONAL DEBT (72%); COMMUNITY BANKS (71%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (70%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Federal Reserve System; Gruenberg, Martin J; Regulation and Deregulation of Industry; Today's Economist

COMPANY: FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (83%); INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY BANKERS OF AMERICA (64%)

ORGANIZATION: Federal Deposit Insurance Corp; Federal Reserve System

INDUSTRY: NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (83%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (83%)

PERSON: Gruenberg, Martin J

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



316 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1892 words

HEADLINE: An Accord on Regulating Overseas Trading

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: Regulators have agreed in principle on a plan to rein in risky trading by banks overseas. | Federal regulators have lifted a ban on advertising by hedge funds, buyout firms and start-up companies seeking capital. | Senators raise questions about the implications of the takeover of Smithfield Foods by a Chinese company. | Larry Page, Google&#8217;s chief, is conspicuously absent from a media and tech conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. 

 BODY:
Regulators in Washington have agreed in principle on a plan to rein in risky trading by banks overseas, after a messy split in the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, DealBook's Ben Protess reports. The potential deal, subject to final approval by the agency, would be reached with hours to spare before a deadline on Friday, according to people briefed on the matter.
"The dispute traced largely to the agency's Democratic chairman, Gary Gensler, and Mark Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak," Mr. Protess writes. "But in recent days, they showed signs of progress. Mr. Gensler and Mr. Wetjen have been meeting in person throughout the week, the people briefed on the matter said, and had struck a preliminary deal by Wednesday. While both are likely to claim victory, the deal does not come without sacrifice for each side." 
"The contours of the plan, the people briefed on the matter said, suggest that firms like Goldman Sachs International and Citigroup's London branch will face a wave of new scrutiny, a sticking point for Mr. Gensler. In a move likely to appease Mr. Wetjen, Mr. Gensler is expected to phase in the cross-border oversight. And in a concession to Wall Street and foreign finance ministers, the plan would defer to European regulators if they ultimately agree to scrutinize banks in a way that is similar to the monitoring by the trading commission," Mr. Protess writes. "The people briefed on the matter, who insisted on anonymity to discuss private negotiations, cautioned that the deal was not final."
S.E.C. LIFTS AN ADVERTISING BAN | 
"Federal regulators on Wednesday lifted an 80-year-old ban on advertising by hedge funds, buyout firms and start-up companies seeking capital, a move that will fundamentally change the way that many issuers raise money in the private marketplace," DealBook's Peter Lattman reports. "The Securities and Exchange Commission voted to approve a rule that Congress included in last year's Jumpstart Our Business Start-Ups Act, a law meant to help bolster small businesses and create jobs after the financial crisis."
"The move allows start-ups and small businesses to use advertising to raise money through private offerings. Hedge funds and buyout firms, whose investment vehicles fall under regulations for private offerings, will also be able to promote their products to the general public, though restrictions remain on who can invest in them. Some regulators, lawmakers and consumer protection groups faulted the S.E.C.'s decision. Luis A. Aguilar, the lone dissenter among the S.E.C.'s five commissioners, called the adoption of the rule reckless. He said it was being approved without appropriate investor safeguards and worried that it would lead to abuse."
SENATORS QUESTION CHINESE TAKEOVER OF SMITHFIELD | Members of the Senate Agriculture Committee raised questions on Wednesday about the economic and national security implications of the takeover of Smithfield Foods, the nation's largest pork producer, by Shuanghui International, a Chinese company. While the chief executive of Smithfield, C. Larry Pope, said the $4.7 billion acquisition would have "no impact on the U.S. food supply and, therefore, no impact on food security," several senators said they feared that promises by Shuanghui would not be honored over the long term, Edward Wyatt reports in DealBook. That could result, they said, in China eventually exporting pork to the United States that did not meet American safety standards or taking away sales by American companies in other overseas markets, like Japan.
ON THE AGENDA | 
Texas Industries reports earnings in the morning. Infosys reports earnings after the market closes. Barry Silbert, chief executive of SecondMarket, is on CNBC at 8:10 a.m. Marc Andreessen of Andreessen Horowitz, is on Bloomberg TV at 3 p.m.
A CONSPICUOUS ABSENCE IN SUN VALLEY | Many prominent deal makers have descended on the Allen & Company media and technology conference in Sun Valley, Idaho. But one of the most-mentioned individuals is absent: Larry Page, the chief executive of Google. "The search giant is well represented by a number of senior executives, to be sure. Eric Schmidt, the company's executive chairman, is here. So are Nikesh Arora, its chief business officer, and Salar Kamangar, the chief executive of its YouTube division," DealBook's Michael J. de la Merced writes. "But it's Mr. Page, whom several attendees said they had been hoping to hear speak on Wednesday morning, whose name cropped up an awful lot. The chief executive has disclosed that he suffers from a chronic illness that affects his vocal cords and breathing."
Still, other chief executives were milling about. Leslie Moonves of CBS said that he was not looking to buy TV stations, but "If they fit, we would" take a look. Jeffrey L. Bewkes, chief of Time Warner, said he thought Aereo, a streaming TV service, is "irrelevant" and that the best buyer of Hulu is Hasbro.
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions 
Sprint Completes Its Deal With SoftBank | Sprint said its deal to sell a controlling stake to SoftBank of Japan closed on Wednesday, after a drawn-out bidding process. Sprint is shedding "Nextel" from its corporate name, AllThingsD notes. ALLTHINGSD
Inside Lampert's Sears | Many of the troubles at Sears can be linked to an organizational model that Edward S. Lampert, the chairman, implemented five years ago, Mina Kimes writes in Bloomberg Businessweek. BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Noble Group Said to Weigh Bid for Australian Miner | The Noble Group is considering a bid for Western Desert Resources, "in what would be one of the biggest deals for an Australian iron-ore miner since prices weakened last year, according to people familiar with the matter," The Wall Street Journal reports. WALL STREET JOURNAL
Icahn's Latest Gamble at Dell: Appraisal Rights | Carl C. Icahn's call for shareholders to exercise their appraisal rights is in some ways a surprising shift, since he has pushed them to reject the takeover bid. But it may be a last-ditch effort to seek a higher payout even if the deal goes through. DealBook »
Tribune to Split Newspapers and TV | The Tribune Company announced on Wednesday that it would spin off its newspapers and broadcasting properties into separate companies. DealBook »
Why Italy Could Be Fertile Ground for Deal Makers | Italy's shaky state should not be an insurmountable obstacle to foreign investment, Quentin Webb of Reuters Breakingviews writes. Foreign deal makers just need to find ways to coax Italy's aging entrepreneur-owners to the table. REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
INVESTMENT BANKING 
At Deutsche Bank, Loans That Are Less Than Transparent | Deutsche Bank "made billions of dollars of loans to banks worldwide since 2008 and accounted for them in a way that obscured their continuing risk to investors," Bloomberg News reports. BLOOMBERG NEWS
An Improvement in How Banks Are Perceived by Consumers | Perceptions of Goldman Sachs, Bank of America, JPMorgan Chase and Morgan Stanley have improved in the first half of year compared with a year earlier, according to the YouGov BrandIndex. YOUGOV
Evercore to Start a Private Capital Advisory Business | Evercore Partners, an investment banking advisory firm, said on Wednesday that it was starting a private capital advisory business and had hired two UBS bankers to lead it. DealBook »
Barclays Wins Dismissal of Lawsuit Over Sale of Securities | A judge dismissed a lawsuit from the National Credit Union Administration, which regulates credit unions, over the sale of more than $555 million of mortgage-backed securities to two credit unions, Reuters reports. REUTERS
PRIVATE EQUITY
A Bleak Outlook for Private Equity in India | Nikhil Raghavan, a principal at Bain Capital in Mumbai, predicted that private equity investments in India would probably fall this year because of a lack of opportunities, The Wall Street Journal writes. WALL STREET JOURNAL
HEDGE FUNDS
Hedge Fund Glory Days May Be Over | "After a decade as rock stars, hedge fund managers seem to be fading just as quickly as musicians do," Sheelah Kolhatkar writes in the Bloomberg Businessweek cover story. BLOOMBERG BUSINESSWEEK
Adventures Abroad Could Hurt U.S. Companies | It is astounding how little risk the markets are pricing into public companies that have poured shareholder money into emerging markets over the last several years through acquisitions and start-up projects, writes Carson C. Block, the director of research for the investment firm Muddy Waters. DealBook »
LightSquared to Go to Trial With Lenders | 
REUTERS
I.P.O./OFFERINGS
Royal Mail Employees to Get Free Shares in I.P.O. | The British government's plans to sell a majority stake in Royal Mail would be the biggest privatization in the country since the railroads 20 years ago. DealBook »
VENTURE CAPITAL
With a Silicon Valley Fortune, a Hunt for Political Office | Sean Eldridge, the husband of the Facebook co-founder Chris Hughes, has relocated in a quest for a congressional seat in New York, The New York Times writes. "But his ambitions have puzzled some residents among the farmers, mill workers and small-business owners who populate this district, which rises through the Catskills and rolls north through cornfields and apple orchards to the Vermont border." NEW YORK TIMES
LEGAL/REGULATORY 
At Fed, Diverging Debate on When to End Stimulus | The New York Times reports: "The Federal Reserve chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, said on Wednesday that the Fed was likely to extend the centerpiece of its campaign to bolster the economy - keeping short-term interest rates close to zero - even as it prepares to wind down another key stimulus program that faces mounting internal opposition." NEW YORK TIMES
Fed's Easing of Stimulus Could Hamper European Recovery | "Recent fears that the Federal Reserve could begin withdrawing its economic stimulus have prompted interest rates to rise around the world, putting business loans further out of reach for companies in Spain, Italy and France," The New York Times writes. NEW YORK TIMES
Massachusetts Regulator Opens Inquiry Into Products Sold to Older Investors | The top financial regulator in Massachusetts has asked 15 brokerage firms, including Merrill Lynch and LPL Financial, about the way they have marketed "high-risk, esoteric products" to older investors. DealBook »
The Consequences of Apple's Loss on E-Books | A federal judge on Wednesday ruled that Apple had violated antitrust law in conspiring with publishers to raise prices of e-books. "Although it appears unlikely that the ruling will have an immediate effect on the book-buying public, it could affect how Apple cuts deals with media companies that provide the music, books and movies that help make its iPhones and iPads compelling," The New York Times reports. NEW YORK TIMES
What Is Bank Capital, Anyway? | Though capital is a centerpiece of Wall Street regulation, it resists a simple definition.
DealBook »
China's Growth Woes Could Force Government Response | The Chinese government's response to weak economic data will be a test of the nation's new leadership, Bill Bishop writes in the China Insider column. DealBook »
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); SECURITIES LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); STARTUPS (89%); APPROVALS (89%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING REGULATION (89%); HEDGE FUNDS (86%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (86%); CONSUMER LAW (79%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); FUTURES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); SMALL BUSINESS (72%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (70%); PRODUCT PROMOTION (64%); PUBLIC RELATIONS (60%); CONSUMER PROTECTION (60%); JOB CREATION (50%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (84%); CITIGROUP INC (58%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (84%); C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (84%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (84%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (84%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (84%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%)

PERSON: LARRY PAGE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: IDAHO, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



317 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1474 words

HEADLINE: Holland's Plan for America's Slaves

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DOUMA


HIGHLIGHT: New evidence explains why the Netherlands tried to get freedmen to colonize Suriname. 

 BODY:
In 1863, American blacks were not the only enslaved people with emancipation on the mind. On the northeastern coast of South America, in the Dutch colony of Suriname, some 30,000 slaves also prepared for their day of freedom, which would arrive with the government's emancipation mandate of July 1, 1863, six months after Lincoln issued the Emancipation Proclamation. 
As in the United States, a certain nervousness prevailed. The Surinamese planter class feared a resulting decline in agricultural production in the Dutch colony and hoped to recruit additional laborers from abroad to aid the post-emancipation economy. Meanwhile, many whites in the United States feared emancipation and a post-slavery society for both economic and racist reasons. And for many, including Congress and President Lincoln, colonization was a popular alternative. 
It makes sense that in light of these twin anxieties, the Dutch and the Americans might try to work out some sort of grand, post-slavery bargain. But it is only in recent years that evidence scattered across archives in Europe and the Caribbean has come to light documenting the resulting web of trans-Atlantic diplomatic correspondence - including, most notably, a cache of documents from the Netherlands' national archives in The Hague showing how the Dutch made a serious attempt to acquire American freedmen. 
The earliest correspondence took place well before the Emancipation Proclamation. In July 1862, the Netherlands approached the American government with a plan to colonize freed American blacks in Suriname, where they would serve five-year labor contracts before receiving free agricultural lands and citizenship. Secretary of State William Seward redirected the Dutch inquiry to Caleb Smith, the secretary of the interior. Smith responded with a terse but inconclusive phrase that reverberated across the Atlantic: "the Government is not, at present, prepared to make any arrangements to that end." For the moment, the Dutch seemed to have lost their chance. Yet, only a few weeks later, Lincoln authorized Seward to direct the American minister in the Netherlands, James Pike, to enter into negotiations with the Dutch for exactly this purpose. 
Pike, and the improbably named P. Th. van der Maesen de Sombreff, the Dutch minister of foreign affairs, hammered out the terms of convention over a drawn-out 14 months, signing it in The Hague on Dec. 15, 1863. The convention gave the United States the power to supervise all emigration and guarantee the civil rights of the emigrants. A treaty was sent to the American Senate for ratification. 
In Washington, the popular Dutch minister to the United States, Roest van Limburg, did not learn about the signing of the convention until a month and a half later, when a German acquaintance handed him a newspaper report. Van Limburg was justifiably upset and embarrassed. At the time, the average delivery time for mail from The Hague to Washington was 16 days; yet news of a convention between the country van Limburg represented, and the country he had been stationed in, had reached him by newspaper well before official diplomatic correspondence. Van Limburg had opposed the deal from the beginning, deeming it infeasible, which may be why he was left out of the loop. 
By early 1864, the proper paperwork for the eventual ratification of the colonization treaty appeared to be set, though the Senate declined to establish a date for considering it (perhaps because Pike, who secretly supported a plan to redistribute freedmen domestically, offered only halfhearted support for the colonization plan). 
To promote the effort, the Dutch would need reliable reports about the character of the freed slaves and the prevailing conditions in the United States. They would also need recruiting agents on the ground. With the hopes that the treaty would eventually be ratified by the Senate, the Dutch Ministry of Colonies urged van Limburg to prepare his consuls for action. A series of royal decrees in the Netherlands also established regulations and instructions for supplying free laborers to Suriname, copies of which were sent to van Limburg.
Despite being shunted aside during the negotiations, van Limburg dove into the project, readying his network of subordinate diplomats - a dozen unpaid, generally underappreciated consuls stationed in major American port cities. In response to an inquiry from his superiors in The Hague, he proposed Baltimore, New Orleans, New York and Philadelphia as possible ports of embarkation for freed blacks bound for Suriname. Yet when van Limburg inquired to the respective consuls about the suitability of these possible jumping-off points, he discovered that most of them would rather resign their posts than dirty their hands with "negro emigration." Van Limburg learned, meanwhile, that two of these consuls could not even read Dutch (a consequence, he complained, of the failure of his government to pay for competent help), and that instructions forwarded from The Hague had fallen on deaf ears. 
Although van Limburg's relationship with his government appeared to sour at times because of his cautious opposition to the project, he worked to find a way to satisfy the Dutch government and the Surinamese planter class. He suggested waiting for improved circumstances, paying the consuls and either employing special recruiting agents from the Netherlands or letting the Surinamese administrators handle the hard work themselves. It's unclear how seriously he intended his proposals; van Limburg must have known that any mention of financial contribution on behalf of the Dutch government would discourage the project, since the Dutch treasury was already stretched thin.
However, it seemed that no matter what van Limburg wrote to discourage the colonization project, his superiors in The Hague continued to promote it. They took every development in the conflict - a battlefield victory, news of refugees fleeing to Gen. Ulysses S. Grant's camps - as an opportunity to again engage the American government on the matter. Part of the trouble was a revolving door that landed four separate men in charge of the Dutch Ministry of Foreign Affairs between 1862 and 1865, four men who seldom questioned the desirability of colonization in Suriname and who pressed van Limburg to continue despite his objections against the project. 
As 1865 arrived and the Americans had yet to ratify the treaty, the Dutch sought other ways to recruit black laborers. The government transitioned from organizing a large-scale colonization to promoting a voluntary emigration. In this context, the distinction between colonization and emigration was not always clear, although the former generally meant heavier government involvement in the process. Instead of dreaming of receiving a few thousand freed blacks as laborers, the Dutch Minister of Colonies and the Surinamese planters now hoped for a few hundred, any in fact, who might limit the costs of importing workers from Asia. 
Although the Senate never ratified the treaty, the executive branch, even after Andrew Johnson took over from the slain President Lincoln, hardly presented any clear obstacles to colonization. In a letter from Nov. 13, 1865, van Limburg referenced a discussion with interim Secretary of State William Hunter, who "let it slip that nothing hinders the intended colonization." Perhaps Hunter and others in the cabinet had realized that no treaty was necessary if the only requirement for emigration was that it be of a voluntary nature. 
Freed from the regulations of any potential treaty on the matter, the Dutch provided a Boston merchant with a letter of recognition, allowing him to recruit and transport free slaves from anywhere in the United States. By 1866, agents working on behalf of the Netherlands were actively recruiting African-Americans for resettlement in Suriname.
Whether any freed slaves left for Suriname is another question that has not yet been answered. In the United States, colonization died out because few freedmen were willing to go. Though they faced a perilous future at home, nothing offered by the Dutch or others could alleviate concerns that they would not be treated any better abroad. 
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Sources: Collection 2.05.13, American Legation, Folder 142, and Collection 2.05.01, No. 3230-3231, "Pieces relating to the emigration of laborers to Suriname", 1858-1870, in the Netherlands National Archives; Diplomatic Instructions from the Department of State, 1801-1906, Vol. 14, Jan. 29, 1833 to Sept. 12, 1864. 
 Michael J. Douma is an assistant professor of history at James Madison University. 

        
Breaking Medicine's Color Barrier
        
The Sacking of Darien
        
Organizing Black Soldiers
        
Fighting for the Union - and Equal Pay
        
Rape and Justice in the Civil War

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SLAVERY (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); EVIDENCE (87%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (74%); ARCHIVE COLLECTIONS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); AGRICULTURE (71%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (69%); CITIZENSHIP (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (65%); IMMIGRATION (65%) Blacks; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Hague (Netherlands); Immigration and Emigration; Suriname; United States International Relations; Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: THE HAGUE, NETHERLANDS (88%) ATLANTIC OCEAN (78%) NETHERLANDS (99%); UNITED STATES (99%); SURINAME (95%); BELGIUM (93%); SOUTH AMERICA (92%); GERMANY (79%); EUROPE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%) Hague (Netherlands); Suriname

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



318 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 192 words

HEADLINE: Even More About Whites and the Safety Net

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: Libertarian populism looks even sillier. 

 BODY:
A couple of days ago I pointed out that there is a big problem with the notion of "libertarian populism", which is supposed to rally GOP support among "downscale" whites. Namely, a large part of the GOP agenda these days involves tearing down the social safety net - read the blistering Times editorial on North Carolina - and strange to say, downscale whites actually make use of that net. 
I pointed out in the original post that a solid majority of the recipients of unemployment benefits are white. Readers have now directed me to better data on food stamps, from the American Community Survey. These show that in 2011, nationally, 48.7 percent of food stamp recipients were white. In swing states the number was higher: for example, 65 percent in Ohio.
Oh, and what about Medicaid, our other big means-tested program? According to the Census data, in 2011 there were 51 million people on Medicaid; 67 percent of them were white.
The point, again, is that it's going to be hard to sell a libertarian program as populist when the core of that program is a direct assault on programs that help the very people who will supposedly be rallied by the new slogan.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (75%); MEDICAID (75%); CENSUS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH CAROLINA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



319 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Wheels)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: AUTOMOBILES

LENGTH: 555 words

HEADLINE: Wheelies: The Holy Roller Edition

BYLINE: BENJAMIN PRESTON


HIGHLIGHT: Pope Francis asks Catholic clergy to choose more humble cars, and former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is to address automobile dealers in January. 

 BODY:
In which we bring you motoring news from around the Web:
 Pope Francis has made his position on clerical wheels quite clear: Drive if you must, but keep a low profile. The new pope, who was elected in March, told his clergy that their personal consumption choices should be more austere. "A car is necessary to do a lot of work, but please, choose a more humble one. If you like the fancy one, just think about how many children are dying of hunger in the world," he said last week, according to Reuters. (Reuters)
 In other papal news, Pope Francis met with Dieter Zetsche, chairman of Daimler AG and head of Mercedes-Benz. The pontiff was presented with the newest Mercedes-Benz M Class popemobile. But the pope, who has been an outspoken proponent of more environmentally friendly motor vehicles, also received a Smart electric-assist bicycle. (E.V. World) 
 Former Secretary of State Hillary Clinton is scheduled to deliver the keynote speech at the annual National Automobile Dealers Association convention in New Orleans at the end of January. Ms. Clinton was serving as secretary of state when the Obama administration bailed out General Motors and Chrysler in 2009. Other convention speakers include Steve Forbes, editor in chief of Forbes Media, and David Westcott, chairman of N.A.D.A. (Automotive News)
http://www.youtube.com/watch?feature=player_embedded&v=Ss3FpDy3bD4
 The revival of Indian Motorcycles by Polaris Industries has been made up of a series of information releases. This week Polaris released a professionally produced film featuring its recreation of Burt Munro's land-speed record-holding motorcycle. The bike Munro of New Zealand rode into history was a highly modified 1920 Indian Scout, but the tribute motorcycle has Indian's new Thunder Stroke 111 engine inside a high-speed fairing similar to the one Munro used at the Bonneville Salt Flats in 1967. (Popular Mechanics)
 In an effort to sell more Focus EVs, Ford has decided to reduce its price by $4,000, to $35,200, for 2014. But the competition in the slow-selling E.V. market is tough. Nissan's Leaf still has a starting price less than $30,000, and General Motors has reduced the price of its plug-in hybrid Chevrolet Volt by $4,000, to $35,145. Monthly lease rates for most E.V.'s, from the Honda Fit EV to the Leaf, are in many cases being lowered well below $300. (The Detroit News)
 Remember when Toyota Camrys and Honda Civics sold briskly? Although still strong sellers, the perennial econocar favorites are beginning to slip in favor of cars from Detroit, like the Ford Fusion and Chevrolet Cruze, among others. One result has been that Toyota and Honda inventories are rising as supply eclipses demand. (The Detroit News)
 In a test using a Honda Accord, a Toyota RAV4 and three different varieties of the Ford Fusion, Consumer Reports found that reducing highway speed from 75 miles per hour to 55 m.p.h. increases fuel economy by an average of 14 miles per gallon. The magazine calculated that driving 75 m.p.h. instead of 55 m.p.h. yields a cumulative fuel loss of seven to 10 gallons over 1,000 miles. (Consumer Reports)

        
Wheelies: The Electric Phantom Edition
        
A Little Lesson in Electric Vehicles
        
Recall Roundup: Honda, Chrysler, G.M., Mercedes and Yakima Issue Recalls
        
Concept Cars From the Shanghai Auto Show
        
Wheelies: The Blame-Game Edition

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (93%); NEW CAR DEALERS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (91%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (91%); MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); MOTORCYCLES (86%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); CONSUMPTION (72%); HUNGER IN SOCIETY (70%); ENVIRONMENTAL TECHNOLOGY (68%); PRICE CUTTING (65%); PRICE CHANGES (60%); CHILDREN (56%) automobiles; Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Francis; Fuel Efficiency; General Motors; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Mercedes-Benz; Motorcycles, Motor Bikes and Motorscooters; National Automobile Dealers Assn; Nissan Motor Co; Polaris Industries; Roman Catholic Church; Toyota Motor Corporation; Zetsche, Dieter; Automobiles; General Motors|GM|NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd|HMC|NYSE; Toyota Motor Corporation|TM|NYSE

COMPANY: HONDA MOTOR CO LTD (85%); DAIMLER AG (70%); NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (55%); FORBES INC (55%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (55%); POLARIS INDUSTRIES INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: General Motors; Honda Motor Co Ltd; Mercedes-Benz; National Automobile Dealers Assn; Nissan Motor Co; Polaris Industries; Roman Catholic Church; Toyota Motor Corporation

TICKER: HMC (NYSE) (85%); 7267 (TSE) (85%); DAI (FRA) (70%); DAI (BIT) (70%); 7201 (TSE) (55%); GM (NYSE) (55%); PII (NYSE) (54%) General Motors; GM; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE; General Motors; GM; NYSE; Honda Motor Co Ltd; HMC; NYSE; Toyota Motor Corporation; TM; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (70%); SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); NAICS336999 ALL OTHER TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (54%); SIC3799 TRANSPORTATION EQUIPMENT, NEC (54%); SIC3751 MOTORCYCLES, BICYCLES, & PARTS (54%)

PERSON: DIETER ZETSCHE (93%); POPE FRANCIS I (92%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BARACK OBAMA (51%) Clinton, Hillary Rodham; Francis; Zetsche, Dieter

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%); NEW ZEALAND (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



320 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Taking Note)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: The 51st State?

BYLINE: ANDREW ROSENTHAL


HIGHLIGHT: There&#8217;s a movement afoot to create a new state called North Colorado. 

 BODY:
In 1969, Norman Mailer and Jimmy Breslin ran for mayor and City Council speaker of New York City on a platform of making the city the 51st state. The movement went nowhere. 
But at least it made some sense. New York City is huge, bigger than many other states in terms of population.
What makes no sense is the current movement by 10 counties in northern Colorado and a few in Nebraska and Kansas to band together to make a new state called North Colorado. Their reasons are fairly ridiculous - they want to make a state that doesn't regulate oil companies or guns or promote alternative energy industries.

They would be forming a state without a major city - and no, I don't count Greeley, which is the seat of Weld County, the leader of this secession movement. It would be a state without a functioning economy and without many actual people.
The Weld County commissioners said rather grandly that their county is bigger than Delaware and Rhode Island, which is not saying much. (They're the two smallest states.) It also has a population of 252,825, which makes it only the ninth most populous county in Colorado, which only has a handful of counties with populations of any serious size.
The other nine range from 2,379 residents to 28,159, for a grand total of 333,741. That's like a medium-size outdoor rock festival in the Northeast. It would also make North Colorado - you guessed it - the 51st most populous state.
It's not like the would-be founding fathers of North Colorado are completely obsessed with oil drilling and concealed carry permits. They have other major complaints - like the quality of Interstate 76, which is definitely not in as good shape as, say, Interstate 25 or Interstate 70, which serve the Denver metropolitan area (population 2.7 million).
They gripe that the rural areas of Colorado (which is pretty much everywhere except the Denver metropolitan area) are not given enough attention at the statehouse in Denver. That's certainly true. It's also not a reason to create a state.
There has long been a separatist movement in Quebec that makes about as little economic or political sense as the North Colorado movement. At least the people there speak French.
This post originally misstated the name of the highway that serves metropolitan Denver. It's Interstate 70, not 80.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COUNTIES (90%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SEPARATISM & SECESSION (89%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (78%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (77%); CONCEALED WEAPONS (75%); GUN CONTROL (75%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (75%); OIL EXTRACTION (70%) Featured Posts

GEOGRAPHIC: DENVER, CO, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) COLORADO, USA (98%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEBRASKA, USA (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (98%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



321 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1415 words

HEADLINE: Potential for Deals Drives a Big Surge in the Biotech Sector

BYLINE: ARLENE WEINTRAUB


HIGHLIGHT: The rise of personalized medicine has spurred giant pharmaceutical companies to home in on small biotechnology firms. 

 BODY:
 8:28 p.m. | Updated 
When Onyx Pharmaceuticals, a cancer drug developer, turned down a $10 billion acquisition bid by Amgen last month and put itself up for sale, its share price soared more than 50 percent, touching off an investor frenzy in biotechnology.
Among the beneficiaries was Epizyme, a newly public Massachusetts company that some Wall Street analysts predict could also become a takeover target. Shares of Epizyme, which is working on drugs to treat types of leukemia and lymphoma, have risen 20 percent since July 1, and they have more than doubled since the company's initial public offering on May 31.
Six other biotechnology companies completed I.P.O.'s in June, and five or so are lined up behind them - an incredible run considering the window for biotech offerings had been all but slammed shut since the 2008 financial crisis. The hot streak has been driven largely by the potential for deal-making in the industry, investors and analysts said. 
The feared "patent cliff" for brand-name drugs has caused billion-dollar blockbusters like Pfizer's cholesterol drug Lipitor and Bristol-Myers Squibb's blood thinner Plavix to lose ground to generic competition, so the pharmaceutical industry has been hunting for innovation among small biotechnology companies, as both takeover targets and licensing partners. There were five acquisitions of venture capital-backed biotech companies in the second quarter alone, according to data from Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association.
"I think the big pharma companies are going to continue to look outside to find the next wave of innovative therapies," said Dennis Purcell, senior managing partner of Aisling Capital, a life sciences venture capital firm based in New York. On June 17, an Aisling portfolio company in San Diego, Aragon Pharmaceuticals, which has a prostate cancer treatment in midstage human trials, was bought by Johnson & Johnson for $650 million up front, plus the potential for an additional $350 million in payments tied to research milestones.
Still, biotechnology is more prone to disappointments than perhaps any other industry - a risk that came to light not long before this recent run of I.P.O.'s. In May, shares of a former high flyer, Aveo Pharmaceuticals, fell nearly 50 percent when an advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration urged the agency to reject the company's kidney cancer drug because of questions about its efficacy.
That so many investors have been able to overlook such uncertainty and jump into a new class of companies with unproved science shows a new tolerance for risk on the public market, some experts say. The robust deal-making environment helps.
"People are hungry for growth," said Erik Gordon, a professor specializing in life sciences entrepreneurship at the University of Michigan's business school. "When you see something like Onyx telling Amgen" its offering price is too low, "you have to ask, what's the downside? The downside is bad news, but if that doesn't happen, the company you've invested in could be taken out at a huge gain."
The 16 biotechnology companies that have gone public this year are up 48 percent on average from their offering prices, according to data provided by Nasdaq. As of Tuesday, four of the top 10 performing companies on the Nasdaq year-to-date were biotechs: Stemline Therapeutics, Bluebird Bio, Epizyme and Prosensa Holding.
"The fact that these companies can get out reloads the capacity of the venture funders" to turn to the public markets, said Samuel Isaly, managing partner of OrbiMed Advisors, which manages the Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences Fund in addition to private equity and hedge funds. "We're back to the good old days of before the financial crash."
The biotechnology I.P.O. market is so frothy, in fact, that some companies are not waiting to take advantage of it. Hans Schikan, the chief executive of the Dutch biotech company Prosensa, said he and his management team originally planned their I.P.O. for a week or so after the Fourth of July holiday, but when they saw the positive investor response to Epizyme and others, they rushed out on June 28 instead. "When the window's open, you'd better use it," Mr. Schikan said. Prosensa's shares opened $7 above its $13 offering price and are up 102 percent so far. It closed up 1.1 percent in trading Thursday on the Nasdaq, closing at $26.26.
One gateway for acquisitions in the biotech sector is research partnerships, and those are increasing as well.
Epizyme did not start human testing of its lead drug until late last year, but it attracted plenty of interest from big pharmaceutical companies long before that. The company formed research partnerships with GlaxoSmithKline, Celgene and Eisai, which together were worth $125 million in nonequity financing.
Simos Simeonidis, an analyst at Cowen & Company, predicts that if one of Epizyme's two leading cancer drugs shows even a hint of success in clinical trials, "a lot of big pharmas or big biotechs are going to want to own the platform. The possibility of an acquisition in my mind would be very high," he said.
Several other members of this year's biotech I.P.O. class have rich partnerships. Bluebird Bio of Massachusetts signed a three-year oncology research deal with Celgene in March, which included a $75 million upfront payment. Bluebird's I.P.O. was on June 19, and its stock has climbed 78 percent.
PTC Therapeutics, a New Jersey company that went public the next day and raised $114 million, has a $30 million deal with Roche to study treatments for spinal muscular atrophy, and an oncology partnership with AstraZeneca that included an undisclosed upfront payment. Both deals included the potential for milestone bonuses. Its shares have risen 9 percent. On Thursday, they rose 3.4 percent to close at $16.34. 
Robert J. Gould, the chief executive of Epizyme, said he was aware that research partnerships often blossomed into full-blown buyout offers. But "we have no intention of positioning ourselves to be acquired," he said. Bluebird and PTC, both still in post-offering quiet periods, declined to comment.
Venture capitalists in life sciences predict that both the pace and the value of licensing deals will accelerate. "Pharma certainly is evaluating every single asset of every single company that's out there and acting on it," said Noubar Afeyan, managing partner and chief executive of Flagship Ventures, an investor in Agios Pharmaceuticals of Massachusetts, which announced its intention on June 10 to raise $86 million in an I.P.O. Agios has a $150 million cancer drug development deal with Celgene.
It is not just cancer treatment that is generating excitement among investors. Prosensa is developing drugs to treat Duchenne muscular dystrophy and other muscle disorders. PTC has its own treatment for muscular dystrophy and is also developing drugs to fight cystic fibrosis and infectious disease. The one unifying theme in all the companies that have generated excitement on Wall Street is the rise of personalized medicine, said Christoph Westphal, a longtime biotechnology entrepreneur and a founder and partner of the Longwood Fund. "Many companies that have done well recently have a specific molecular-medicine approach to a serious disorder that has no other therapies," he said.
Prosensa's two lead drugs for muscular dystrophy, for example, are being tested in small groups of patients whose disease is caused by specific genetic mutations, which can be detected with diagnostic devices that the company is using with the drugs.
Another factor in the biotech industry's favor is that regulators have become more supportive of drugs that address high unmet medical needs. In July 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act established the "breakthrough therapy" designation, which gave the agency the authority to speed its review of drugs to treat life-threatening ailments.
"The regulators, notably the F.D.A., have been particularly willing to come up with new strategies to enable the rapid development of drugs for which there is a dramatic effect in a defined patient population," said Robert Tepper, a partner at Third Rock Ventures, an investor in both Bluebird and Agios. "If you can stratify the patient population you want to treat through genetic analysis, for example, you can move quite quickly through early-stage trials."

        
Venture Capital's Rocky Road for Entrepreneurs
        
Venture Capital Fund-Raising Tumbles in Third Quarter

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (95%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (93%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (91%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CANCER (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); PERSONALIZED MEDICINE (78%); LEUKEMIA (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); LYMPHOMA (73%); KIDNEY CANCER (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); KIDNEY DISEASE (73%); ANTICOAGULANTS (73%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); PATENTS (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (70%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%) Biotechnology; Initial Public Offerings; Venture Capital; Healthcare; Legal/Regulatory; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (92%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (58%); PFIZER INC (58%); AVEO PHARMACEUTICALS INC (52%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (92%); JNJ (NYSE) (64%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); AVEO (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (92%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



322 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 498 words

HEADLINE: Valiant Leads Investment Round in Brazilian Pharmacy Benefits Firm

BYLINE: VINOD SREEHARSHA


HIGHLIGHT: Valiant Capital Management, a San Francisco-based hedge fund, and Aberdare Ventures have jointly acquired a 45 percent stake in a pharmacy benefits company, ePharma, for an estimated 169 million reais ($74.6 million). 

 BODY:
SÃO PAULO, Brazil - Valiant Capital Management, a San Francisco-based hedge fund started by Chris Hansen, and Aberdare Ventures have jointly acquired a 45 percent stake in a pharmacy benefits company, ePharma. 
The deal was a signal that despite Brazil's current economic woes and looming inflation, health care here remains an attractive industry for investors. 
Even though growth has slowed and inflation is looming in Brazil, health care remains a strong sector. In February, CVS Caremark said it had acquired Drogaria Onofre, a Brazilian drug store chain, and last year UnitedHealth Group acquired Amil Participacoes, an insurer and hospital operator.
EPharma, founded in 1999, has sought to tap into the Brazilian equivalent of pharmacy benefit management firms in the United States. EPharma serves as an intermediary between health insurance companies, employers and pharmaceutical companies. Its customers include Motorola, Petrobras, Unilever and ArcelorMittal.
The value of the Valiant and Aberdare investment is an estimated 169 million reais ($74.6 million). EPharma's chief executive, Luiz Carlos Silveira Monteiro, said the purchase price was about 13 times ePharma's expected earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization. The investment was a combination of primary and secondary transactions. 
A pharmacy company, Pague Menos, still holds 26.21 percent of total shares after the new investment. Until now it had been the controlling shareholder. Mr. Silveira Monteiro now holds 10 percent.
Valiant, which led the financing round, and Aberdare were drawn to ePharma because of the large network it had with Brazilian pharmacy companies, according to a person briefed on the negotiations. Several of them were ePharma shareholders in its early years. This person, who asked to be unnamed because the talks were confidential, said that this new investment was intended to make ePharma less beholden to specific pharmacies and thereby providing greater growth potential.
In Brazil, pharmacy benefit managers have about 2 million members according to Vitor Paschoal, an analyst with Itau BBA. But there are expectations that the sector will grow.
Late last year Brazil's National Health Insurance Agency, the main regulatory body, started allowing private insurance companies to offer separately priced prescription drug plans and offered them financial incentives to do so. In Brazil, private health plans do not typically include prescription drugs. 
"This was the first sign that they will give more incentives in the future," Mr. Paschoal said. "They want to make it happen." 
A second promising sign for sector in Brazil was UnitedHealth Group's purchase of Amil Participacoes. Mr. Paschoal says that, "United knows how to operate P.B.M.'s and they could bring the knowledge to Brazil."
EPharma's main competitors here are Orizon, Vidalink and Funcionalcard. 

        
Despite Stumbles, a Promising Path for Start-Ups in Brazil
        
Paul Capital Takes Stake in Brazilian Venture Fund

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: PHARMACY BENEFITS (94%); HEDGE FUNDS (92%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (90%); HEALTH CARE (90%); FINANCING ROUNDS (90%); ACQUISITIONS (90%); RETAIL PHARMACEUTICALS (90%); PRESCRIPTION DRUG INSURANCE (90%); PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (89%); PHARMACIES (89%); INSURANCE (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); EQUITY FINANCING (78%); EBITDA (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (77%); PRIVATELY HELD COMPANIES (77%); DRUG PRICES (75%); INSURANCE AGENCIES & BROKERAGES (75%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (74%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); SHAREHOLDERS (71%); COMPANY EARNINGS (71%); GOVERNMENT HEALTH INSURANCE (69%); TALKS & MEETINGS (69%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (68%) Brazil; Drugs (Pharmaceuticals); Hansen, Christopher R; Venture Capital; Healthcare; Hedge Funds; I.P.O./Offerings

COMPANY: AMIL PARTICIPACOES SA (92%); PETROLEO BRASILEIRO SA (PETROBRAS) (90%); CVS CAREMARK CORP (84%); ARCELORMITTAL SA (69%); BANCO ITAU BBA SA (65%); UNITEDHEALTH GROUP INC (57%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (56%); UNILEVER PLC/NV (56%)

TICKER: AMIL3 (BOVESPA) (92%); PETR3 (BOVESPA) (90%); PBR (NYSE) (90%); CVS (NYSE) (84%); MTS (MCE) (69%); MT (PAR) (69%); MT (NYSE) (69%); MT (AMS) (69%); UNH (NYSE) (57%); MSI (NYSE) (56%); UNIA (AMS) (56%); UNA (BIT) (56%); UNA (AMS) (56%); UN (NYSE) (56%); ULVR (LSE) (56%); UL (NYSE) (56%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS621491 HMO MEDICAL CENTERS (92%); SIC8011 OFFICES & CLINICS OF DOCTORS OF MEDICINE (92%); NAICS324110 PETROLEUM REFINERIES (90%); NAICS221210 NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); NAICS211111 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS EXTRACTION (90%); SIC1311 CRUDE PETROLEUM & NATURAL GAS (90%); NAICS446110 PHARMACIES & DRUG STORES (84%); SIC5912 DRUG STORES & PROPRIETARY STORES (84%); NAICS331221 ROLLED STEEL SHAPE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS331110 IRON & STEEL MILLS & FERROALLOY MANUFACTURING (69%); SIC3316 COLD-ROLLED STEEL SHEET, STRIP & BARS (69%); SIC3312 STEEL WORKS, BLAST FURNACES (INCLUDING COKE OVENS) & ROLLING MILLS (69%); NAICS524114 DIRECT HEALTH & MEDICAL INSURANCE CARRIERS (57%); SIC6324 HOSPITAL & MEDICAL SERVICE PLANS (57%); SIC6321 ACCIDENT & HEALTH INSURANCE (57%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (56%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311411 FROZEN FRUIT, JUICE & VEGETABLE MANUFACTURING (56%); NAICS311225 FATS & OILS REFINING & BLENDING (56%)

PERSON: Hansen, Christopher R

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (90%) BRAZIL (99%); UNITED STATES (90%) Brazil

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



323 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: Senators Introduce Bill to Separate Trading Activities From Big Banks

BYLINE: PETER EAVIS


HIGHLIGHT: Senator Elizabeth Warren and Senator John McCain are sponsoring a 21st-century version of the Glass-Steagall Act from the 1930s, to break up large banks. 

 BODY:
Senator Elizabeth Warren on Thursday introduced an aggressive piece of legislation that intends to take the financial industry back to an era when there was a strict divide between traditional banking and speculative activities.
The bill, which is also sponsored by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and two other senators, is named the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act. Its intention is to create a modern version of the seminal Glass-Steagall legislation from the 1930s, which placed firm limits on what regulated banks could do. It was fully repealed in 1999, laying the groundwork for the mergers that created some of the biggest banks of today. If passed, it could force many of those banks to let go of their trading operations.
 Senator Warren's bill is one of several that have aimed to add far more bite to the overhauls that have been put in place since the financial crisis. The bill serves as a jarring reminder to Wall Street of why it feared her election to the Senate last year. 
"Over the past five years, we've made real progress," said Senator Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts. But, she added, "The biggest banks continue to engage in dangerous high-risk practices that could once again put our economy at risk."
Similarly stringent banking bills introduced in the last few years have struggled to gain sufficient votes in Congress, and this one may be no different. In addition, a move as radical as splitting up large banks is highly unlikely to gain the support of top regulators like the Federal Reserve or the Treasury Department. 
"It seems mainly symbolic," Phillip L. Swagel, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, said. "This is a handle that people can grab to move the debate toward more regulation."
Senator Warren seemed to acknowledge the battle ahead, but she said that having Senator McCain as an ally was an advantage. "He's a fighter, and it's going to take a fighter to get this Glass-Steagall bill through," she said in a news conference.
Nostalgia for the original Glass-Steagall Act might help the new bill gain interest. Its supporters say the former law had several straightforward benefits, in contrast to the complex regulations that have been put in place since the crisis, like the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. Glass-Steagall, which had 37 pages, was simple and so easy to put into practice, they say. 
The act also kept banks that use federal deposit insurance out of potentially volatile Wall Street activities, like trading. As a result, problems at investment banks were less likely to infect regulated banks. Losses at the Wall Street operations of Citigroup and Bank of America weighed heavily on those banks during the 2008 crisis.
"For about 70 years, Glass-Steagall managed to keep the riskier, more damaging part of Wall Street away from what should be the boring, straightforward side of finance," Barry L. Ritholtz, chief executive of FusionIQ, an asset management and research firm, said. "It was the height of stupidity repealing Glass-Steagall."
During the era of Glass-Steagall, there were no systemic banking crises like the one that occurred in 2008. The restrictions the bill put on the financial sector did not seem to do much wider harm. According to analysis of government gross domestic product statistics, the American economy grew an average of 4 percent a year from 1933 until 1999, when Glass-Steagall was in effect. Even some who championed repealing the act, like the former Citigroup chairman Sanford I. Weill, have since called for the breakup of the bank behemoths.
Still, critics have a full arsenal of arguments to deploy against reintroducing it.
One is that Glass-Steagall would not have stopped the 2008 crisis. The act, for instance, would not have prohibited the growth of Lehman Brothers, which collapsed and spread panic through the financial system. 
Another argument is that the American economy actually benefits from large banks that can make ordinary loans as well as trade securities and derivatives, the financial instruments that are used for hedging risks and speculation. 
 "On the whole, there are benefits to having diversified financial institutions," said Mr. Swagel, who was an assistant secretary for economic policy under Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
Others say there are much better tools to make the banks safer than a new Glass-Steagall, like requiring them to hold more capital. 
 "It is a very crude tool to be used to downsize the large banking organizations," Charles M. Horn, a partner at the law firm Morrison & Foerster, said.
The new bill aims to update the old Glass-Steagall for innovations that have taken place since it was enacted. The new bill would force deposit-taking banks to cease most of their trading of derivatives. Today, banks keep most of their derivatives in entities that have deposit insurance, allowing them to benefit from an effective subsidy. 
The bill would give banks five years to comply with its requirements. 
The other two senators sponsoring the bill are Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, and Angus King, independent of Maine. 
On Thursday, Senator Warren said she was not convinced that banks needed to be on Wall Street as well as in traditional business to properly serve the economy. 
"I'd like to see the data on that, because I haven't," she said. 
The bill should not be seen as a cure-all, the senator cautioned. 
"The bill by itself will not end 'too-big-to-fail' and implicit government subsidies, but it will make financial institutions safer and smaller and move us in the right direction," she said.

        
Senators Question Chinese Takeover of Smithfield
        
Recent Ex-Senators Find Soft Landings on Corporate Boards

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING LAW (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); POLITICS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%) McCain, John; United States Politics and Government; Warren, Elizabeth; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (93%); JOHN MCCAIN (90%) McCain, John; Warren, Elizabeth

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



324 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 889 words

HEADLINE: The Charade of Darrell Issa

BYLINE: TIMOTHY EGAN


HIGHLIGHT: The California congressman is the monster that Washington has created for our times. 

 BODY:
So, this guy who made a stink-pile of money in the car alarm business, and had some youthful trouble with the law over auto-related liberties, gets the break he's been waiting for after Republicans win control of the House in 2010. He's given the keys to the biggest Caddie in Congress: the main oversight committee. It's loaded with everything - subpoena power, an overhead cam worth of auditors and investigators, a hyperkinetic staff devoted to keeping shine on the boss.
He's got plans, lots of plans. He's going to stage television-ready hearings and investigations of the White House. He will bring Barack Obama to his knees. "I want seven hearings a week, times 40 weeks," he says. Don't worry about substance, he says of one subject field, "it'll be good theater." 
For Fox News, Rush Limbaugh and Glenn Beck, it's a dream come true, all the things they've been ranting about, finally getting the imprimatur of official business. For Darrell Issa, the congressman given free rein to free range in half-truths and conspiracies, it's what he's always wanted. He's a player! He exists to give Fox and friends programming. 
But then, after millions of dollars in investigative forays, the wheels come off the ride. Fast and Furious - that gunrunning scheme into Mexico by federal agents, known to conservatives as a vast conspiracy by Obama to bring on gun control - is traced to the White House, just as Issa predicted. Except, it was George W. Bush's White House, where the practice of letting guns cross borders originated in a similar program called Operation Wide Receiver. Move along.
Solyndra, the subsidizing of a money-losing solar energy company, and the tragedy of Benghazi - Watergate-level cover-ups, yes? They both sank with truth that was much more banal and sad. Next.

In May, Issa hit it big with a story about Internal Revenue Service field agents questioning the nonprofit claims of Tea Party groups. This was "a targeting of the president's political enemies," said Issa. Again, don't worry about facts, he could trace it to Washington somehow - "we're getting to proving it," he said.
He never proved "it," of course. Just the opposite. Upon closer examination, it was found that the I.R.S. was aggressively targeting liberal groups, as well, flagging those with "progressive" or "medical marijuana" in their names. D'oh! 
By now, it should be obvious that Representative Issa, a Republican from California who is one of the wealthiest members of Congress, is not the least bit interested in governing, a sentiment shared by a majority of his fellow nihilists in the House. Immigration reform - the most significant thing lawmakers could do in this decade - is a critically ill patient in the emergency room of the Republican House. 
Issa made his governing intentions clear three years ago, when he told Rush Limbaugh that President Obama "has been one of the most corrupt presidents in modern times." He later took back the comment, but his motive was exposed for the method that would follow: he would exercise all of his official power to prove a sinister narrative. He would do exactly what he accused Obama of doing, using government muscle to harass his political enemies. Anything that disproves his narrative - e.g. I.R.S. targeting of liberals - is swept aside. He starts with a conclusion and works his way back.
That he has been laughably inept, firing one blank after the other, is beside the point. Issa, as my colleague Mark Leibovich chronicles in his new book, "This Town," is the monster that Washington has created for our times. As Kurt Bardella, Issa's über-opportunistic aide, a Sammy Glick with a BlackBerry, says in the book: "I am completely focused on making Darrell Issa a household name."
Bardella got in trouble for speaking the truth, the Michael Kinsley definition of a gaffe, when he called the focus of Issa's investigations "this crap." The characterization prompted a senior Democrat on Issa's committee to write a letter inquiring why so many millions in taxpayer dollars, and countless weeks of Congressional attention, were being spent on "this crap."
I should say, by way of anticipating pushback from Issa's apologists, that nobody from the White House contacted me about the congressman. In his book, Leibovich notes that Obama's people were peddling dirt on Issa, particularly the time he was under investigation for grand theft auto, charges that were dropped long ago. 
I live in the other Washington, more than 2,700 miles from That Town, but even in this far corner I can smell the tidal stench this summer. In Leibovich's book, the capital is a swamp of sycophants, vacuity and soullessness. Those new to power aspire to join the permanent class - a "political herd that never dies or gets older, only jowlier, richer and more heavily made-up."
The rest of us, I suppose, could take a schadenfreude moment while considering the freaks who populate "This Town." Or we could just laugh at the madness. But it's not slip-on-the-banana-peel-funny when one of the three main branches of a venerable democracy falls apart. In Darrell Issa, for the age of dysfunctional politics, we have the government we deserve.

        
The Decline of Black Power in the South
        
You Say You Want a Revolution
        
An Orphan Jackpot
        
The Up-in-the-Air President
        
The New Economic Risk: Complacency

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); GUN CONTROL (78%); CONSERVATISM (77%); TEA PARTY MOVEMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); SUBPOENAS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (75%); IMMIGRATION LAW (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (73%); SOLAR ENERGY (71%); LIBERALISM (69%); POLITICS (65%); IMMIGRATION (63%); MEDICAL MARIJUANA (50%) Issa, Darrell E; United States Politics and Government; Timothy Egan

COMPANY: FOX ENTERTAINMENT GROUP INC (84%); SOLYNDRA INC (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (84%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (84%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (53%)

PERSON: DARRELL E ISSA (90%); BARACK OBAMA (57%); GLENN BECK (54%); GEORGE W BUSH (54%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (52%) Issa, Darrell E

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2013



325 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Motherlode)

PUB-DATE: July 11, 2013

SECTION: STYLE

LENGTH: 994 words

HEADLINE: What Do Parents Mean When They Say They Want to Work Part Time?

BYLINE: KJ DELL'ANTONIA


HIGHLIGHT: Does striving for workplace flexibility mean you don&#8217;t strive at work as well? 

 BODY:
What's the ideal work situation for a parent?
For the first article in a series about work-life balance for the Business section, "Coveting Not a Corner Office, but Time at Home," New York Times economics reporter Catherine Rampell profiled Sara Uttech, a married mother with a full-time, flexible job running member communications for an agricultural association, who works from home on Fridays, because she asked, and because she proved it could work. 
Ms. Rampell took a lot offlak for the piece - not for the profile itself, but for the title, the description of Ms. Uttech's husband's contribution to running the household as "help" (which appears to be Ms. Uttech's wording) and for what many read as the assumption that the problems of work-family balance are those of women alone (an assumption that wechallengeat Motherlode regularly). 
Ms. Rampell respondsthat the focus on women is not without reason. She writes: "Among all mothers with children under 18, just a quarter say they would choose full-time work if money were no object and they were free to do whatever they wanted, according to a recent New York Times/CBS News poll. By comparison, about half of mothers in the United States are actually working full time, indicating that there are a lot out there logging many more hours than they want to be." Forty-nine percent of those mothers indicated that they would work part time. 
After interviewing dozens of middle-class women and mothers around the country and looking at survey data about women's desired work arrangements, I found that a lot of mothers were yearning for more flexibility and time at home, not a more direct path up the career ladder. So I decided to shadow a middle-class working mother who had recognized those as her own priorities and who had been proactive about implementing them in her own life.
But if mothers are truly yearning for more time at home, it's important to ask why, and what kind of part time they envision. And we need to ask the same of fathers; as Ms. Rampell also notes in response to the same survey question, 30 percent said that if money were no object, they would work part time, and the percentage of both mothers and fathers who want more responsibility at work has fallen in recent years.
Those mothers and fathers of children under 18 say they would choose part-time work if "money were no object." What if child care were no object - if it were affordable, readily available, and societally the norm? What if flexible hours were no object, or sabbaticals were no object, or slowing down work hours (with ample employer notice, knowledge and support) during intense family times and then ramping back up as things got on a more even keel, without being branded as, say, "not seeking a corner office"? Why shouldn't those things (a reality for a fortunate few) have a place in a hypothetical that's already based on a lottery win? 
And what is "part time"? Part time in the no health care, no benefits sense? (I suppose if money is no object, health care isn't either, and the Affordable Care Act will change this for many.) Part time forever? Part time with the possibility of returning to work full time, or taking on more challenges? Is part time about hours, or about flexibility and bandwidth? Presumably we're not dreaming of part-time work in the kind of low-wage position with inflexible hours that leaves mothers who work in restaurants spending about 35 percent of their monthly income on unreliable child care. Money may be no object in the survey question, but when we paint part-time work as desirable, we need to also recognize what part-time work looks like across much of the country.
When we explore the question of what mothers and fathers want from the workplace, we need to consider all the assumptions we bring to those seemingly simple questions. 
Ms. Rampell also writes that one of the goals of her work is to consider how books like Sheryl Sandberg's "Lean In: Women, Work, and the Will to Lead," apply to middle-class women. Her profile of Ms. Uttech succeeds. After all, here is someone who, when the lack of after-school care threatened her ability to work full time, helped "persuade her children's school to start an affordable after-school program ($2.50 per half-hour for the first child; $1.25 per half-hour for each additional sibling), which allowed her to continue working full time rather than dart out for pickup by 3:15, or pay to have them bused to a day care center across town." 
When she thought her family would benefit from her spending more time at home, she asked for what she needed - the flexibility to work at home on Fridays during the summer - and once she proved she could make it work, she asked that it be extended year-round. By doing so, she became a pioneer for her organization's now formal work-at-home arrangement, which allows several other employees to work remotely full time.
And now, as her children grow older, she is "raising her hand to travel more for trade shows and conferences" and planning to do more to promote her career while keeping the flexibility she prizes. 
As Ms. Rampell writes: "Not everyone aspires to be an executive at Facebook, like Ms. Sandberg, or to set foreign policy, like Anne-Marie Slaughter" (author of "Why Women Can't Have It All"). But striving for flexibility and balance and striving at work are not mutually exclusive. Ms. Uttech has clearly found her own road to "leaning in" at work and home, and hers is an example that any parent (of either gender) might look to as we perform balancing acts of our own. Ms Uttech's situation may not be everyone's ideal, but finding - and asking for - what's ideal for each of us at all of our different stages is an ideal all of its own. 

        
Breast Feeding Killed My Focus on Work. I Don't Miss It.
        
Can I Bring My Kids? I Asked
        
Defining 'Submissive' in the Vocabulary of Women's Choices
        
Why Do I Think My Salary Pays for Child Care?
        
How the I.R.S. Punishes Working Parents

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: WORK-LIFE BALANCE (91%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); FULL TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); FLEXIBLE WORK ARRANGEMENTS (90%); PART TIME EMPLOYMENT (90%); POLLS & SURVEYS (89%); PARENTS (89%); FLEXTIME (78%); WORKING MOTHERS (78%); HOME BASED EMPLOYMENT (78%); WOMEN (77%); PARENTING (73%) Parenting; Rampell, Catherine; Women and Girls; Work-Life Balance

PERSON: Rampell, Catherine

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



326 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 6287 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Art
Museums and galleries are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of recent art shows: nytimes.com/art. A searchable guide to these and many other art shows is at nytimes.com/events.
Museums
Brooklyn Museum: 'LaToya Ruby Frazier: A Haunted Capital' (through Aug. 11) This preternaturally mature body of work by a 31-year-old photographer connects bedrooms and streetscapes, the suffering of loved ones and the afflictions of a ''distressed municipality'' (the state's official term for Ms. Frazier's hometown, Braddock, Pa.). Simultaneously introspective and extroverted, it's composed of arresting black-and-white photographs that sometimes look like studio portraits or social documentaries but aren't fully at home in either category. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg) 
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'John Singer Sargent Watercolors' (through July 28) Sargent fans and watercolor hobbyists will be in heaven with this exhibition's more than 90 watercolors from the first decade of the 20th century, all from the collections of the Brooklyn Museum and the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston, and all representing picturesque scenes in Europe. Sargent pioneered the kind of loosely gestural yet clearly representational watercolor painting that today's popular culture adores. He has his detractors, though, who may profit from re-examining their prejudices in light of this beautiful show. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Ken Johnson)
&#x2605; Brooklyn Museum: 'Gravity and Grace: Monumental Works by El Anatsui' (through Aug. 4) Born in Ghana and long a resident of Nigeria, where he maintains a productive studio, El Anatsui has for the past decade been creating spectacularly large, fabriclike sculpture from countless numbers of liquor-bottle caps linked together with twists of copper. The work weaves together ideas about colonialism, politics and economics, and it is absolutely gorgeous. The Brooklyn show, which originated at the Akron Art Museum in Ohio, also includes a number of the artist's earlier and now-overlooked carved wood pieces, which are well worth studying. 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park, Brooklyn, (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org. (Holland Cotter)
&#x2605; The Cloisters: 'Search for the Unicorn: An Exhibition in Honor of The Cloisters' 75th Anniversary' (through Aug. 18) The lonely subject of the ''Unicorn Tapestries'' is united with others of its species in ''Search for the Unicorn,'' honoring the 75th anniversary of the Cloisters. Drawn from the Met's holdings and from other public and private collections, it includes manuscripts, paintings, decorative objects and ''unicorn horns'' (actually the tapered, spiral-patterned tusks of the narwhal). The show is a gateway to various fantasy worlds, some of them beyond the scope of medieval Western Europe; a page from the ''Shahnama,'' the Persian ''Book of Kings,'' shows the monarch Iskandar (otherwise known as Alexander the Great) fighting off the one-horned, equine Monster of Habash. 99 Margaret Corbin Drive, Fort Tryon Park, Washington Heights, (212) 923-3700, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Guggenheim Museum: 'James Turrell' (through Sept. 25) At once ravishing and hokey, ''Aten Reign,'' the show's centerpiece, turns the museum's famed rotunda into the bliss-out environmental art hit of the summer: an immense, elliptical, nearly hallucinatory play of light and color achieved with elaborate scrims and computerized lighting that might oxymoronically be called a meditative spectacle. Four other installation works from the 1960s and '70s outline the single-minded trajectory of this leading proponent of the Light and Space movement and also provide a simpler, more direct, more mindful experience of, in his words, ''seeing yourself see.'' 1071 Fifth Avenue, at 89th Street, (212) 423-3500, guggenheim.org. (Roberta Smith)
&#x2605; International Center of Photography: 'A Different Kind of Order: The ICP Triennial' (through Sept. 22) The fourth, and best, edition of the International Center of Photography's triennial turns out to be that extremely rare thing in New York City these days, an exhibition of contemporary art for adults. The up-to-the-minute emphasis is on the continuing and enveloping impact of digital technology on photography. The results, as seen here, couldn't be more varied and gripping in content. This is a show that's in touch with the big, live, real world out there beyond Frieze New York. 1133 Avenue of the Americas, at 43rd Street, (212) 857-0000, icp.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'Jack Goldstein x 10,000' (through Sept. 29) The first American museum retrospective of this brilliant but elusive artist, organized by the Orange County Museum of Art, is both a celebration and a cautionary tale. It revels in Goldstein's posthumous influence as it reveals the tragic disconnect of his life and his art, the desire to disappear complicated by an intense careerist drive. This exhibition offers (in addition to paintings, sculptures and Goldstein's signature films of the late 1970s) a rare look at the early, performance-based films: works like ''Milk,'' in which the persistent banging of a fist on a table finally topples a glass, or ''Spotlight,'' in which a beam chases the artist around an empty room. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Jewish Museum: 'As it were ... So to speak: A Museum Collection in Dialogue With Barbara Bloom' (through Aug. 4) Ms. Bloom, invited to organize a show from elements of the museum's collection, has turned to the Talmud for inspiration. Weaving together real and fictional narratives, historical and literary sources, she creates new and often ambiguous contexts for ceremonial and decorative objects like Torah pointers, Kiddush cups and spice containers. Somehow she manages to quote Nietzsche, Freud, Leonard Cohen, Joan Didion, the Bible and various Wikipedia entries, all without losing her own probing, skeptical voice. 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'African Art, New York, and the Avant-Garde' (through Sept. 2) Timed to the centennial of the Armory Show of 1913, this exhibition tells the story of African art's debut in cutting-edge New York museums and galleries with exceptional candor. It makes clear that early-20th-century Americans received Modern art and African art as a single import, derived from French and Belgian colonies, distilled in Paris and presented on these shores by a few tastemaking dealers and collectors. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'At War With the Obvious: Photographs by William Eggleston' (through July 28) In 36 transcendentally beautiful photographs shot in the Mississippi Delta region in the 1970s and early '80s, this pioneer of color photography captured those kinds of sacred moments when something you ordinarily would pass by without a thought -- a children's swing set overgrown by weeds, an abandoned gas station, a basket of fake flowers hanging on someone's front door -- suddenly takes your breath away. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Civil War and American Art' (through Sept. 2) If you've seen ''Photography and the American Civil War'' at the Met, you might suppose that viewing another exhibition about the war would be redundant. It's not. With outstanding works by Frederic Edwin Church, Sanford Robinson Gifford and Winslow Homer, this gripping show sheds expansive light on the nation's experience of its own fratricidal conflict. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Photography and the American Civil War' (through Sept. 2) As intellectually fascinating as it is emotionally wrenching, this exhibition is sure to be remembered as one of the great museum photography shows ever. Its more than 200 photographs include expansive images of battlefields and war-ruined towns; wallet-size portraits of soldiers; preciously framed daguerreotypes; political campaign buttons; a doctor's documents of horrifically wounded soldiers; portraits of loved ones in lockets; and a series depicting the hanging of five co-conspirators in the assassination of President Abraham Lincoln by the photographer Alexander Gardner. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Ken Price: A Retrospective' (through Sept. 22) Tableware? Toys? Genetic accidents? Objets d'art? The ceramic sculptures of Ken Price suggest all these possibilities. To the market's old, divide-and-label query ''Is this art or craft?,'' Price offered one, finessing answer: ''Yes.'' And right he was. You see the rightness instantly in the Met retrospective, which is one of those ideal shows: perfect size, great design (by Frank Gehry), pretty near faultless art. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. Ideal, too, in a plainer way, is a concurrent survey of the artist's works on paper, ''Ken Price: Slow and Steady Wins the Race,'' running through Aug. 18 at the Drawing Center, 35 Wooster Street, SoHo, (212) 219-2166, drawingcenter.org. (Cotter)
Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Punk: Chaos to Couture' (through Aug. 14) This entertaining exhibition proves that high fashion rarely looks quite as frivolous and cluelessly 1 percent-ish as when it upgrades aspects of the obstreperous punk sartorial mode, adding gold-plated safety pins, careful rips and holes, and a feigned DIY look that can involve materials like garbage bags or cellophane. Cleverness abounds. A few designers absorb and transform punk attributes, but most garments simplistically scream punk. Not for nothing do they call the show's organizing department the Costume Institute. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Roof Garden Commission: Imran Qureshi' (through Nov. 3) Visitors to the Met's rooftop will discover something shocking: the stone terrace is splattered with paint the color of dried blood so that it resembles the scene of some terrible crime. Looking closer at the areas of spillage, viewers will find they have been delicately altered. With deft white and red brush strokes, the Pakistani artist Imran Qureshi has worked into the raw paint a pattern suggestive of leafy shrubbery and flower petals, turning the whole into a politically fraught, allegorical mix symbolizing dualities of life and death and hope and despair. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; MoMA PS1: 'Expo 1: New York' (through Sept. 2) A sprawling, multisite extravaganza including a multitude of installations, shows-within-shows and events, ''Expo 1: New York'' offers few answers but raises many provocative questions about the current and future state of our planet's unsettled human and natural ecology. Attractions at PS1 range from a beautiful show of pictures by the beloved nature photographer Ansel Adams to a refrigerated room containing chunks from an Icelandic glacier by Olafur Eliasson. On 53rd Street, next to the Museum of Modern Art, ''Rain Room'' invites viewers into a chamber where steady precipitation ceases wherever bodies are detected by high-tech hardware. 22-25 Jackson Avenue, at 46th Avenue, Long Island City, (718) 784-2084, ps1.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Illuminating Faith: The Eucharist in Medieval Life and Art' (through Sept. 2) Spring-into-summer was the season for open-air processions in medieval Europe. The one staged annually for the feast of Corpus Christi, celebrating the bodily presence of Jesus Christ in the bread and wine of the Mass, was among the most ardent, elaborate and politically loaded of all. And it retains all those qualities in this ravishing, superbly documented survey of sacramental imagery, mostly in the form of exquisitely painted books. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Holland Cotter)
Morgan Library & Museum: 'Old Masters, Newly Acquired' (through Oct. 6) This celebration of new acquisitions includes about a hundred pre-1900 drawings, all donated, bequeathed or purchased from 2009 to 2012. Dispensing with themes and chronology, the show groups works by patron: Astor, von Bülow and so on. The late-19th-century selections are especially strong; here are not one but two early Degas self-portraits in black chalk; prismatic watercolors by Cézanne and Renoir; a vibrant Gauguin pastel of two Breton girls; and a Seurat horse and landscape in his mossy shadings of conté. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street; (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Morgan Library & Museum: 'Subliming Vessel: The Drawings of Matthew Barney' (through Sept. 2) With its Gospels and reliquaries, the Morgan Library is at the right place for the first survey of graphic work by the most medievalizing of American contemporary artists. Encased in thick, pale, plastic frames, Mr. Barney's drawings of the past two decades have the look of precious pages from sacred books displayed on iPads. His images, with their emphasis on redemption through fleshly mortification, suggest sources in heroic epics and penitential religion, filtered through Sade and extreme sports. A display of collagelike storyboards for his films confirms the occult glamour of the personal cosmology he has developed, which feels as artificial and addictive as a video game. 225 Madison Avenue, at 36th Street, (212) 685-0008, themorgan.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; El Museo del Barrio: 'La Bienal 2013: Here Is Where We Jump' (through Jan. 4) Much of the work by the 37 artists in the seventh edition of El Museo's Bienal is budget-conscious in its materials and modest in size, scaled to small studios. Maybe exactly because of such restrictions, the show is thoughtful and personal, uneven in parts, solid as a whole. It's also a product of that old-fashioned thing, the ethnically specific museum. Even with definitions of ethnicity stretched all kinds of ways -- what does ''Latino'' really mean anymore, anyway? -- the issue of identity remains at the core of such institutions and informs much of the work in this show. 1230 Fifth Avenue, at 104th Street, East Harlem, (212) 831-7272, elmuseo.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Arts and Design: 'Against the Grain: Wood in Contemporary Art, Craft and Design' (through Sept. 15) This sixth show in the museum's Materials and Process series is a big improvement on its predecessors, mostly because it feels more artist- and designer-driven. Representing the Chelsea gallery contingent are Alison Elizabeth Taylor, with marquetry installations; Phoebe Washburn and Leonardo Drew, with scrap-wood sculptures; and Roy McMakin, with slyly repurposed found furniture. From the design-fair circuit come functional works like Mark Moskovitz's ''Facecord,'' a sideboard that looks like a stack of firewood when the drawers are closed, and Maarten Baas's knife block in the shape of a head (which seems destined for the MoMA design store). 2 Columbus Circle, (212) 299-7777, madmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Ellsworth Kelly: Chatham Series' (through Sept. 8) Together again for the first time in 40 years, the 14 two-panel Chatham paintings from 1971 offer giddy instruction in the weights, measures and balances of strong color -- red, blue, green, yellow, black and white. The works -- abutting rectangles that form an inverted L -- seem to expand or contract as you move around the gallery. An adjoining display of 40 small collages from 1951 shows Mr. Kelly laying out some of the stringent abstract vocabulary that he has mined ever since. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Claes Oldenburg: The Street and the Store' and 'Claes Oldenburg: Mouse Museum, Ray Gun Wing' (through Aug. 5) Pop Art is based on two things: ordinariness and eating. It's about daily consumption; the democratic appetite, ravenous for meat, sweets, life on the street, and getting more of everything, cheap. No artist cooked up a tastier version of the primal Pop recipe than Claes Oldenburg did in New York in the late 1950s and early '60s. The art he made in that brief, fecund time is the focus of a two-meals-for-the-price-of-one MoMA feast. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Cotter)
&#x2605; Museum of Modern Art: 'Bill Brandt: Shadow and Light' (through Aug. 12) With nearly 160 works ranging from photographs of London in the 1930s and during World War II to nearly abstract Surrealist nudes from the 1950s and '60s, this impeccable survey makes a strong if slightly over-edited argument for Brandt as one of the founders of modern photography. It sticks to vintage prints and brings a wonderful lucidity to a persistent balance of art and humanity that is, as it is frequently described: strange, mysterious and irresistible. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Smith)
Museum of Modern Art: 'Performing Histories (1)' (through Aug. 5) An awareness of the uprisings, protests, occupations and revolutions erupting around the globe is present in ''Performing Histories (1),'' a show of video, film and photographic work recently acquired by MoMA. Insurrection and resistance pervade the Romanian artist Ion Grigorescu's film ''Dialogue With Ceausescu'' (1978), while the feminist personal as political is employed in Martha Rosler's ''She Sees in Herself a New Woman Every Day'' (1976) and Sharon Hayes's four-channel video ''The Interpreter Project'' (2001). Andrea Fraser's two videos connect politics and the museum. In one she describes how scientific philanthropy in the 19th century directed wealth to museums and other public institutions rather than the poor, while another video delves into how MoMA itself interacted with revolutionaries and communists, like the Mexican muralist Diego Rivera. (212) 708-9400, moma.org. (Martha Schwendener)
&#x2605; Neue Galerie: 'Koloman Moser: Designing Modern Vienna 1897-1907' (through Sept. 2) Along with his better-known colleague, Josef Hoffmann, Moser was a founder of the Wiener Werkstätte, the consortium of designers and artisans that produced some of the 20th century's most beautiful objects. Focusing on Moser's most productive years, this gorgeous exhibition presents more than 200 exquisitely elegant works, including books, glassware, metal pieces, ceramics, jewelry and furniture. 1048 Fifth Avenue at 86th Street, (212) 628-6200, neuegalerie.org. (Johnson)
New Museum: 'Ellen Gallagher: Don't Axe Me' (Through Sept. 15) Ellen Gallagher emerged in the early 1990s with memorable paintings that yoked Minimalism to minstrelsy by scattering tiny caricatures of eyes and mouths across creamy expanses of paper and canvas. More recently she has branched out from painting and collage to film, and from pop-culture imagery to literary and science-fiction references. For 2010's ''Osedax,'' made with her partner, Edgar Cleijne, visitors crouch to enter a black-box theater and settle in to view two simultaneous projections: one of glass slides hand-painted with watery abstractions, the other a 16-millimeter film incorporating footage of a shipwreck off Rhode Island. It's the most interesting part of a piecemeal, sometimes arbitrary-feeling show that coincides with a larger retrospective at Tate Modern. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
New Museum: 'Llyn Foulkes' (through Sept. 1) Although poorly organized, this exhibition devoted to a great American original contains several one-of-a-kind masterpieces. Displayed in a small, dark corner room where it glows uncannily, partly by virtue of real lights built into it, ''Pop'' (1985-1991) is a 10-foot-wide marvel of comic magic realism and meticulous craftsmanship. In a homey, wood-paneled living room, the main character, a portrait of the middle-aged artist, sits in a paisley-patterned armchair, staring with bugged-out eyes, evidently driven to catatonic paralysis by what he's seeing on the television. 235 Bowery, at Prince Street, Lower East Side, (212) 219-1222, newmuseum.org. (Johnson)
New-York Historical Society: 'Swing Time: Reginald Marsh and Thirties New York' (through Sept. 1) A Social Realist with satirical leanings, Marsh (1898-1954) painted the seamy side of life in New York during the Great Depression. Using egg tempera with a skittery touch, he made flickering, cartoonish images in a palette ranging from sooty to garishly bright; he painted burlesque performers, people on busy sidewalks and crowded subway stations, Coney Island amusement seekers and the homeless and destitute. His voyeuristic eye for fiercely self-assertive, full-figured young women adds an intriguing, creepy psychology. 170 Central Park West, at 77th Street, (212) 873-3400, nyhistory.org. (Ken Johnson)
Rubin Museum of Art: 'Fiercely Modern: Art of the Naga Warrior' (through Sept. 16) The Naga were a diverse collection of peoples speaking similar languages and residing in a mountainous area in northeastern India. Headhunting was one of their most prized pursuits until they were almost entirely Christianized in the early 20th century. They also created extraordinarily beautiful textiles, jewelry and ceremonial objects, as this intriguing, introductory show demonstrates. 150 West 17th Street, Chelsea, (212) 620-5000, rmanyc.org. (Ken Johnson)
Bill Traylor: 'Drawings From the Collections of the High Museum of Art and the Montgomery Museum of Fine Arts' and 'Traylor in Motion: Wonders From New York Collections' (through Sept. 22) The achievement of this great American artist -- a former slave and sharecropper -- unfolds in exceptional side-by-side exhibitions. The hundreds of drawings Traylor made starting in 1939, at 85, while living on the streets of Montgomery, Ala., reveal a natural stylist and a born storyteller who pushed images of everyday life toward abstraction with no loss of vivacity. At once modern and archaic, Traylor's indelible vision is rich both in its formal invention and its witnessing of the South before the civil rights movement. American Folk Art Museum, 2 Lincoln Square, Columbus Avenue at 66th Street, (212) 595-9533, folkartmuseum.org. (Roberta Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'Hopper Drawing' (through Oct. 6) With more than 200 drawings, two dozen sketchbook pages and an essential bonus of 21 paintings, this landmark exhibition takes us behind the curtain of stillness that makes Hopper's art so riveting to reveal as never before how he used preparatory studies to synthesize reality, memory and imagination. Some of his greatest paintings -- ''New York Movie,'' ''Nighthawks'' -- and other gems are here. An overview indicates how the young Hopper shaped and toughened his versatile gifts into a singular vision. (212)&#x003C;133>570-3600, whitney.org. (Smith)
Whitney Museum of American Art: 'I, YOU, WE' (through Sept. 1) The Whitney's latest collection show (and the last one for the Breuer building before the museum decamps to the meatpacking district) finds artists reacting to AIDS, Reagan-era social policies, urban blight and gentrification, and a stock market boom and bust. Everything here dates from the 1980s and early '90s, otherwise known as the era of identity politics. Included are numerous self-portraits, a room of AIDS-related artworks, and Nan Goldin's 45-minute slide installation ''The Ballad of Sexual Dependency.'' (212) 570-3600, whitney.org. (Karen Rosenberg)
Galleries: Uptown
&#x2605;'Gardening by the Book: Celebrating 100 Years of the Garden Club of America' (through July 27) This wonderful show presents more than 125 illustrated tomes about flowers and gardening from four centuries. Loaded with marvels of acute observation and exacting draftsmanship, it begins with Emanuel Sweert's illustrated catalog of more than 500 bulbs and flowers thought to have ignited the Tulipmania craze and ends with first editions of books by the environmentalist Rachel Carson. It is altogether a terrific treat for minds and eyes. Grolier Club, 47 East 60th Street, (212) 838-6690, grolierclub.org. (Johnson)
&#x2605;Paul McCarthy: 'Life Cast' (through July 26) One of the outstanding shows of this artist's career is best viewed as a single piece. Three fanatically realistic life-size sculptures of naked humans are paired with two video installations that reveal the meticulous casting process behind their ecstatic, mysterious exactitude. The piece is a homage to -- but also perhaps penance for -- Marcel Duchamp's ''Étant Donnés'' and its obsessive focus on the female sex. Hauser & Wirth, 32 East 69th Street, (212) 794-4970, hauserwirth.com. (Smith)
&#x2605;Paul McCarthy: 'WS' (through Aug. 4) Paul McCarthy's Swiftian film on (among many other things) Walt Disney's ''Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs'' and the American psyche is nasty, funny, X-rated and seven hours long. The jungle-and-ranch-house set in which it was shot is intact in the Armory's drill hall. No one under 17 will be admitted. At Hauser & Wirth, a second extravaganza by the artist, working in collaboration with his son Damon, is in the same politically incorrect, punch-drunk vein on a slightly less epic scale. Here the reference point is the 1955 film ''Rebel Without a Cause.'' Park Avenue Armory, 643 Park Avenue, at 67th Street, (212) 616-3930, armoryonpark.org. Also ''Paul McCarthy and Damon McCarthy: Rebel Dabble Babble'' (through July 26) at Hauser & Wirth, 511 West 18th Street, Chelsea, (212) 790-3900, hauserwirth.com. (Holland Cotter)
'Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts From the Metropolitan Museum of Art' (through Aug. 11) This sometimes arcane but highly effective assemblage of rare furnishings, artifacts and a smattering of art and printed matter resurrects a once-renowned French interior designer whose collections -- and displays -- of 18th-century French decorative material and medieval art were purchased en bloc by J. P. Morgan and given to the Met. They formed the nuclei of the museum's holdings in these areas, helped shape its departmental structure and influenced the arrangement of its galleries. Bard Graduate Center: Decorative Arts, Design History, Material Culture, 18 West 86th Street, (212) 501-3023, bgc.bard.edu. (Smith)
Galleries: Chelsea
Laddie John Dill: 'Elementary' (through July 26) At the end of the 1960s the West Coast Light and Space artist Laddie John Dill began producing electric-light works out of blown glass tubes in a lush palette of jewel-bright colors. Here nine of these works, all from 1971, are installed in one room at regular intervals, creating a trippy visual chamber music. Elsewhere, glowing constructions of glass panes in geometric arrangements could be models for updates of Stonehenge, monuments for a new cosmic paganism. Nyehaus, 358 West 20th Street, (212) 366-4493, nyehaus.com. (Johnson)
'GO-SLOW: Diaries of Personal and Collective Stagnation in Lagos' (through July 31) No one views Africa more critically than Africans. The young curator Amber Croyle acknowledges this in taking Fela Anikulapo-Kuti's satirical 1978 song ''Go Slow,'' with its propulsive but not-going-anywhere rhythm, as a title for this show of work by 10 contemporary Nigerian photographers who respond to tensions of life in their country, where high energy and restraining impediments meet. Skoto Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, fifth floor, (212) 352-8058, skotogallery.com. (Holland Cotter)
'I Am the Magic Hand' and Antony: 'The Cut' (through July 19) This New York debut, of an artist whose day job is leading the New York band Antony and the Johnsons, displays a remarkable personal confidence and an impressive fluency with current trends, both expressionist and minimal, that ranges restlessly across collage and abject abstraction. It is paired with a better-than-average group show of five artists working in, around and off painting, along with John Gutman, whose 1937 photograph of anonymous graffiti provided the title. The hand, while very much in evidence, tends to be more promising than magical. Sikkema Jenkins, 530 West 22nd Street, (212) 929-2262, sikkemajenkinsco.com. (Smith)
'October 18, 1977' (through July 19) Taking Gerhard Richter's shadowy 15-painting cycle about the imprisonment and demise of the Baader-Meinhof gang -- a 1970s West German terrorist group -- as inspiration, this group show, organized by Birgit Rathsmann, stands out from the breezier summer fare elsewhere in Chelsea. Artists like Siebren Versteeg and Grayson Cox explore Mr. Richter's streaky, quasi-photographic brushwork, sensing its power to evoke selective or repressed memory; others address contemporary anxieties about terrorism in, for instance, David Lukowski's bulging backpack left in a corner of the gallery. Klemens Gasser & Tanja Grunert, 524 West 19th Street, (646) 944-6197, gassergrunert.net. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605;Victor Pesce: 'Selections 1978-2010' (through July 26) Late bloomers can take heart from Mr. Pesce's career in painting, which is surveyed in this lovely, three-decade retrospective. The still lifes he made in his last 10 years are his most visually absorbing and soulful works. In dusky colors often shot through with opalescence, they picture simple, boxy constructions and ordinary objects on flat surfaces -- a shoe, a bowl, a paper bag -- as if they were sacred relics. Elizabeth Harris Gallery, 529 West 20th Street, (212) 463-9666, elizabethharrisgallery.com. (Ken Johnson)
Lucien Samaha: 'The Flight Attendant Years: 1978-1986' (through Aug. 2) Lucien Samaha is a founding member of the Arab Image Foundation, a vast photographic repository in Beirut, Lebanon, and the creator of his own one-man database of hundreds of thousands of pictures recording some 30 years of his own life. For his New York solo debut, he has skimmed off pictures from early years of that history when he was a flight attendant for Trans World Airlines. Specimens of social anthropology and period nostalgia, they are relics of an oddly innocent-looking pre-airport-security age. Lombard Freid Projects, 518 West 19th Street, (212) 967-8040, lombard-freid.com. (Holland Cotter)
'Specific Objects' (Through July 26) The widely held misconception that Donald Judd's often-quoted 1965 article ''Specific Objects'' is a Minimal art manifesto is undermined by this smart show, but not completely dispersed. Its attempt to demonstrate that Judd had something considerably more robust and physically eccentric in mind than Minimalism is undercut by a lack of substantial and representative loans, as might be expected at a commercial gallery. But as a result, aspects of art that Judd excluded -- performance, postwar ready-mades and printed matter -- complicate things, which is almost as interesting. Susan Inglett Gallery, 522 West 24th Street, (212) 647-9111, inglettgallery.com. (Smith)
Galleries: Other
Jane Alexander: 'Surveys (From the Cape of Good Hope)' (through July 29) The Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine is an occupied zone this summer, with a transient population of unearthly beings camped out in its chapels and aisles. Neither angels nor devils, though suggesting both, the figures in the sculptural tableaus and related photographs were all created by the South African artist Jane Alexander. And while haunted by her country's history of apartheid, the work has no single meaning, no sum-upable content. Instead, painstakingly calibrated ambiguity leaves this strange and wonderful show open to political speculation and spiritual interpretation. Cathedral Church of St. John the Divine, 1047 Amsterdam Avenue, at 112th Street, Morningside Heights, (212) 316-7490, stjohndivine.org. (Cotter)
'The Cat Show' (through July 27) An exhibition celebrating the most elegant and enigmatic -- and frequently the cutest -- of all domesticated animals includes work by around 100 contemporary artists, many of whom show their soft sides. There are cat collages, abstractions, portraits, assorted (often climbable) sculptures and a program of beguiling videos. The centerpiece is a large, well-appointed cage that is occupied on Fridays and Saturdays by adoptable companions from Social Tees Animal Rescue, which helped the writer and artist Rhonda Lieberman organize this amazing menagerie. White Columns, 320 West 13th Street, West Village, (212) 924-4212, whitecolumns.org. (Smith)
&#x2605;Simon Dinnerstein: 'The Fulbright Triptych' (ongoing) This little-known masterpiece of 1970s realism was begun by the young Simon Dinnerstein during a Fulbright fellowship in Germany in 1971 and completed in his hometown, Brooklyn, three years later. Incorporating carefully rendered art postcards, children's drawings and personal memorabilia; a formidable worktable laid out with printmaking tools and outdoor views; and the artist and his family, it synthesizes portrait, still life, interior and landscape and rummages through visual culture while sampling a dazzling range of textures and representational styles. It should be seen by anyone interested in the history of recent art and its oversights. German Consulate General, 871 United Nations Plaza, First Avenue, at 49th Street, (212) 610-9700, germany.info. (Smith)
Out of Town
&#x2605;Smithsonian American Art Museum: 'Nam June Paik: Global Visionary' (through Aug. 11) Including a large and fascinating trove of material from the Nam June Paik archive, acquired by the Smithsonian from the artist's estate in 2009, this survey of the avant-garde musician, multimedia wizard and video art pioneer (1932-2006) looks startlingly current despite the preponderance of analog televisions and other obsolete hardware. It makes clear that contemporary artists like Christian Marclay, Jon Kessler, Cory Arcangel, Ryan Trecartin and Haroon Mirza owe a great deal to Mr. Paik's tweaked TV sets and frenetic, technically innovative videos. Eighth and F Streets NW, Washington, (202) 633-1000, americanart.si.edu. (Rosenberg)
Last Chance
&#x2605;'Alice Aycock Drawings: Some Stories Are Worth Repeating' (through Saturday) A Minimalist turned unabashed fantasist, the sculptor Alice Aycock is one of the more visionary figures to have emerged from the New York art scene of the 1970s. Her imagination is especially active on paper, as seen in this two-part show at the Grey Art Gallery and the Parrish Art Museum in Water Mill, N.Y. It's best to begin at the Grey, where diagrams and maquettes conjure Duchamp-esque machines and proposals for ''non-functional architecture'' -- for instance, the medievalesque ''City of the Walls'' -- are accompanied by free-associative film treatments. At the Parrish, earlier renderings of fantastical machines and architecture give way to games: elaborate, multicolored drawings based on tantric diagrams, ancient illuminated manuscripts and 19th-century British game boards, among other sources. Grey Art Gallery, New York University, 100 Washington Square East, Greenwich Village, (212) 998-6780, nyu.edu/greyart. Parrish Art Museum, 279 Montauk Highway, Water Mill, N.Y., (631) 283-2118, parrishart.org. (Rosenberg)
Jeff Ladouceur: 'Amen' (Closes Friday) In Mr. Ladouceur's funny, skillfully drawn cartoon world, the ego is always in danger of dissolution. The panoramic ''Braided Sea (Flood Walker)'' pictures terrific swirling waves on which a little guy in a monk's robes rides on a small raft at one end. Looking closely you see that the waves have big, stretchy eyes, suggesting the sense of a self carried away by its own stormy feelings. ZieherSmith, 516 West 20th Street, Chelsea, (212) 229-1088, ziehersmith.com. (Johnson)
&#x2605;Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'The Boxer: An Ancient Masterpiece' (Through Monday) If you haven't seen ''Boxer at Rest,'' a Hellenistic bronze sculpture on loan from the National Museum of Rome, go immediately. This ancient tough guy, with his hockey player's nose and swollen cauliflower ears, is one of the most charming pugilists in Western art. Looking over his right shoulder, he cocks his head in an arresting but ambiguous gesture. That pose also startles in a photograph taken in 1885, right after the sculpture was discovered on the south slope of the Quirinal Hill. The archaeologist Rodolfo Lanciani, who observed the excavation, marveled at ''the sight of this magnificent specimen of a semi-barbaric athlete coming slowly out of the ground as if awakening from a long repose after his gallant fights.'' (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
&#x2605;Metropolitan Museum of Art: 'Velázquez's Portrait of Duke Francesco I d'Este: A Masterpiece from the Galleria Estense, Modena' (Closes Sunday) This single-painting exhibition highlights a portrait made at a delicate diplomatic moment during the Thirty Years War; the painting is on loan to the Met in part because the museum that normally houses it, the Galleria Estense in Modena, is repairing damage from a 2012 earthquake. It's a chance to see another commanding Velázquez at this already well-stocked museum, and to appreciate that this artist's politically savvy portraits are more than just tools of statesmanship. (212) 535-7710, metmuseum.org. (Rosenberg)
Eamon Ore-Giron: 'Smuggling the Sun' (Closes Friday) Eamon Ore-Giron's paintings are smart, exceptionally likable and deceptively modest. Working on raw linen with a neat touch and brightly colored matte paints, he creates intricate, jaunty compositions of geometric elements -- circles, triangles, diamonds and crescents -- that call to mind late Kandinsky. They also entail Latin American Modernist motifs, prompting thought about multicultural identity. Nicelle Beauchene, 327 Broome Street, Lower East Side, (212) 375-8043, nicellebeauchene.com. (Johnson)

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JACK MELTON, DAVID WYNN VAUGHAN COLLECTION) (C15) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (96%); ARTS FESTIVALS & EXHIBITIONS (90%); PAINTING (89%); EXHIBITIONS (89%); SCULPTURE (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); VISUAL ARTISTS (79%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (79%); PHOTOGRAPHY SERVICES (76%); ANNIVERSARIES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); AKRON, OH, USA (52%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); NIGERIA (77%); GHANA (77%); EUROPE (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



327 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ARTSBEAT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 380 words

HEADLINE: Cleveland in Talks To Borrow Sicilian Works

BYLINE: By PATRICIA COHEN

 BODY:
A traveling exhibition of ancient treasures from Sicily that was scheduled to open at the Cleveland Museum of Art in September was canceled on Wednesday after officials from the Italian island complained that the art loan was hurting its economy, The Plain Dealer in Cleveland, Ohio, reported. 
''It's very disappointing,'' said David Franklin, the museum's director. ''These things don't happen very often in the art world. This is unprecedented for me and I think unprecedented for all of us.''
The exhibition, ''Sicily: Art and Invention between Greece and Rome,'' which opened on April 3 at the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, includes 145 items that celebrate the Greek culture that flourished on the island between the 5th and 3rd centuries, B.C.E. In a statement, Mr. Franklin said that despite the intervention of the United States embassy in Rome and the Italian embassy in Washington, the autonomous Sicilian government would not budge.
Culture officials on the island were particularly concerned that two of the exhibition's major attractions, a six-foot-tall statue of a charioteer and a gold libation bowl, popular tourist attractions, had been missing for so long from Italy.
Last month, in response to questions from The New York Times, Mariarita Sgarlata, Sicily's highest cultural official, had asked, ''How would an American tourist react who, trusting his Frommer's travel guide, has gone out of his way to visit the island of Mozia to admire this work of art in its original setting, only to discover that the statue is in Tokyo or St. Petersburg?''
She has already noted that Sicilian officials never signed a contract formally authorizing the exhibitions, although the items were allowed to leave Italy for the Getty.
Ms. Sgarlata, was not immediately available for comment Wednesday.
In response to a list of questions from The Plain Dealer about the possibility of the cancellation that was e-mailed on Tuesday, Emiliano Colomasi, Ms. Sgarlata's spokesman, told the newspaper that he had forwarded the questions to her and that he hoped she would respond soon.
''The assessor these days is very busy and wants to respond in person without delegating to anyone,'' Mr. Colomasi said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Brief

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EXHIBITIONS (91%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (91%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (90%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); ISLANDS & REEFS (77%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (68%); TOURISM (67%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (95%); ROME, ITALY (92%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (52%) OHIO, USA (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); ITALY (92%); JAPAN (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



328 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1417 words

HEADLINE: Potential for Deals Drives a Big Surge in the Biotech Sector

BYLINE: By ARLENE WEINTRAUB

 BODY:
8:28 p.m. | Updated When Onyx Pharmaceuticals, a cancer drug developer, turned down a $10 billion acquisition bid by Amgen last month and put itself up for sale, its share price soared more than 50 percent, touching off an investor frenzy in biotechnology.
Among the beneficiaries was Epizyme, a newly public Massachusetts company that some Wall Street analysts predict could also become a takeover target. Shares of Epizyme, which is working on drugs to treat types of leukemia and lymphoma, have risen 20 percent since July 1, and they have more than doubled since the company's initial public offering on May 31.
Six other biotechnology companies completed I.P.O.'s in June, and five or so are lined up behind them -- an incredible run considering the window for biotech offerings had been all but slammed shut since the 2008 financial crisis. The hot streak has been driven largely by the potential for deal-making in the industry, investors and analysts said. 
The feared ''patent cliff'' for brand-name drugs has caused billion-dollar blockbusters like Pfizer's cholesterol drug Lipitor and Bristol-Myers Squibb's blood thinner Plavix to lose ground to generic competition, so the pharmaceutical industry has been hunting for innovation among small biotechnology companies, as both takeover targets and licensing partners. There were five acquisitions of venture capital-backed biotech companies in the second quarter alone, according to data from Thomson Reuters and the National Venture Capital Association.
''I think the big pharma companies are going to continue to look outside to find the next wave of innovative therapies,'' said Dennis Purcell, senior managing partner of Aisling Capital, a life sciences venture capital firm based in New York. On June 17, an Aisling portfolio company in San Diego, Aragon Pharmaceuticals, which has a prostate cancer treatment in midstage human trials, was bought by Johnson & Johnson for $650 million up front, plus the potential for an additional $350 million in payments tied to research milestones.
Still, biotechnology is more prone to disappointments than perhaps any other industry -- a risk that came to light not long before this recent run of I.P.O.'s. In May, shares of a former high flyer, Aveo Pharmaceuticals, fell nearly 50 percent when an advisory panel to the Food and Drug Administration urged the agency to reject the company's kidney cancer drug because of questions about its efficacy.
That so many investors have been able to overlook such uncertainty and jump into a new class of companies with unproved science shows a new tolerance for risk on the public market, some experts say. The robust deal-making environment helps.
''People are hungry for growth,'' said Erik Gordon, a professor specializing in life sciences entrepreneurship at the University of Michigan's business school. ''When you see something like Onyx telling Amgen'' its offering price is too low, ''you have to ask, what's the downside? The downside is bad news, but if that doesn't happen, the company you've invested in could be taken out at a huge gain.''
The 16 biotechnology companies that have gone public this year are up 48 percent on average from their offering prices, according to data provided by Nasdaq. As of Tuesday, four of the top 10 performing companies on the Nasdaq year-to-date were biotechs: Stemline Therapeutics, Bluebird Bio, Epizyme and Prosensa Holding.
''The fact that these companies can get out reloads the capacity of the venture funders'' to turn to the public markets, said Samuel Isaly, managing partner of OrbiMed Advisors, which manages the Eaton Vance Worldwide Health Sciences Fund in addition to private equity and hedge funds. ''We're back to the good old days of before the financial crash.''
The biotechnology I.P.O. market is so frothy, in fact, that some companies are not waiting to take advantage of it. Hans Schikan, the chief executive of the Dutch biotech company Prosensa, said he and his management team originally planned their I.P.O. for a week or so after the Fourth of July holiday, but when they saw the positive investor response to Epizyme and others, they rushed out on June 28 instead. ''When the window's open, you'd better use it,'' Mr. Schikan said. Prosensa's shares opened $7 above its $13 offering price and are up 102 percent so far. It closed up 1.1 percent in trading Thursday on the Nasdaq, closing at $26.26.
One gateway for acquisitions in the biotech sector is research partnerships, and those are increasing as well.
Epizyme did not start human testing of its lead drug until late last year, but it attracted plenty of interest from big pharmaceutical companies long before that. The company formed research partnerships with GlaxoSmithKline, Celgene and Eisai, which together were worth $125 million in nonequity financing.
Simos Simeonidis, an analyst at Cowen & Company, predicts that if one of Epizyme's two leading cancer drugs shows even a hint of success in clinical trials, ''a lot of big pharmas or big biotechs are going to want to own the platform. The possibility of an acquisition in my mind would be very high,'' he said.
Several other members of this year's biotech I.P.O. class have rich partnerships. Bluebird Bio of Massachusetts signed a three-year oncology research deal with Celgene in March, which included a $75 million upfront payment. Bluebird's I.P.O. was on June 19, and its stock has climbed 78 percent.
PTC Therapeutics, a New Jersey company that went public the next day and raised $114 million, has a $30 million deal with Roche to study treatments for spinal muscular atrophy, and an oncology partnership with AstraZeneca that included an undisclosed upfront payment. Both deals included the potential for milestone bonuses. Its shares have risen 9 percent. On Thursday, they rose 3.4 percent to close at $16.34.
Robert J. Gould, the chief executive of Epizyme, said he was aware that research partnerships often blossomed into full-blown buyout offers. But ''we have no intention of positioning ourselves to be acquired,'' he said. Bluebird and PTC, both still in post-offering quiet periods, declined to comment.
Venture capitalists in life sciences predict that both the pace and the value of licensing deals will accelerate. ''Pharma certainly is evaluating every single asset of every single company that's out there and acting on it,'' said Noubar Afeyan, managing partner and chief executive of Flagship Ventures, an investor in Agios Pharmaceuticals of Massachusetts, which announced its intention on June 10 to raise $86 million in an I.P.O. Agios has a $150 million cancer drug development deal with Celgene.
It is not just cancer treatment that is generating excitement among investors. Prosensa is developing drugs to treat Duchenne muscular dystrophy and other muscle disorders. PTC has its own treatment for muscular dystrophy and is also developing drugs to fight cystic fibrosis and infectious disease. The one unifying theme in all the companies that have generated excitement on Wall Street is the rise of personalized medicine, said Christoph Westphal, a longtime biotechnology entrepreneur and a founder and partner of the Longwood Fund. ''Many companies that have done well recently have a specific molecular-medicine approach to a serious disorder that has no other therapies,'' he said.
Prosensa's two lead drugs for muscular dystrophy, for example, are being tested in small groups of patients whose disease is caused by specific genetic mutations, which can be detected with diagnostic devices that the company is using with the drugs.
Another factor in the biotech industry's favor is that regulators have become more supportive of drugs that address high unmet medical needs. In July 2012, the Food and Drug Administration Safety and Innovation Act established the ''breakthrough therapy'' designation, which gave the agency the authority to speed its review of drugs to treat life-threatening ailments.
''The regulators, notably the F.D.A., have been particularly willing to come up with new strategies to enable the rapid development of drugs for which there is a dramatic effect in a defined patient population,'' said Robert Tepper, a partner at Third Rock Ventures, an investor in both Bluebird and Agios. ''If you can stratify the patient population you want to treat through genetic analysis, for example, you can move quite quickly through early-stage trials.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Michael Thomenius of Epizyme, a new biopharmaceutical company in Cambridge, Mass., thought to be a prime takeover target. (PHOTOGRAPH BY DOMINIC CHAVEZ) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BIOTECHNOLOGY INDUSTRY (93%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (91%); CANCER DRUGS (90%); PHARMACEUTICALS PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT (90%); BIOTECHNOLOGY & GENETIC SCIENCE (90%); PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MFG (90%); TAKEOVERS (90%); CANCER (90%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (78%); DRUG DESIGN & DISCOVERY (78%); LIPID LOWERING AGENTS (78%); UROGENITAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (78%); LEUKEMIA (78%); ONCOLOGY (78%); GENERIC DRUGS (78%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (77%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (76%); MEN'S HEALTH (73%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (73%); LYMPHOMA (73%); KIDNEY CANCER (73%); KIDNEY DISEASE (73%); ANTICOAGULANTS (73%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); PATENTS (72%); PRICE INCREASES (72%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (72%); CARDIOVASCULAR DRUGS (71%); VENTURE CAPITAL APPLICANTS & RECIPIENTS (69%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (61%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (60%); CHOLESTEROL (53%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (53%)

COMPANY: AMGEN INC (91%); JOHNSON & JOHNSON (64%); BRISTOL-MYERS SQUIBB CO (58%); ONYX PHARMACEUTICALS INC (58%); PFIZER INC (58%); AVEO PHARMACEUTICALS INC (51%)

TICKER: AMGN (NASDAQ) (91%); JNJ (NYSE) (64%); BMY (NYSE) (58%); ONXX (NASDAQ) (58%); PFZ (LSE) (58%); PFE (NYSE) (58%); AVEO (NASDAQ) (51%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS325414 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCT (EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC) MANUFACTURING (91%); SIC2836 BIOLOGICAL PRODUCTS, EXCEPT DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCES (91%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS339115 OPHTHALMIC GOODS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325413 IN-VITRO DIAGNOSTIC SUBSTANCE MANUFACTURING (64%); NAICS325411 MEDICINAL & BOTANICAL MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (58%); SIC2833 MEDICINAL CHEMICALS & BOTANICAL PRODUCTS (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (68%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



329 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 945 words

HEADLINE: Senators Introduce Bill to Separate Trading Activities From Big Banks

BYLINE: By PETER EAVIS

 BODY:
Senator Elizabeth Warren on Thursday introduced an aggressive piece of legislation that intends to take the financial industry back to an era when there was a strict divide between traditional banking and speculative activities.
The bill, which is also sponsored by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and two other senators, is named the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act. Its intention is to create a modern version of the seminal Glass-Steagall legislation from the 1930s, which placed firm limits on what regulated banks could do. It was fully repealed in 1999, laying the groundwork for the mergers that created some of the biggest banks of today. If passed, it could force many of those banks to let go of their trading operations.
Senator Warren's bill is one of several that have aimed to add far more bite to the overhauls that have been put in place since the financial crisis. The bill serves as a jarring reminder to Wall Street of why it feared her election to the Senate last year. 
''Over the past five years, we've made real progress,'' said Senator Warren, Democrat of Massachusetts. But, she added, ''The biggest banks continue to engage in dangerous high-risk practices that could once again put our economy at risk.''
Similarly stringent banking bills introduced in the last few years have struggled to gain sufficient votes in Congress, and this one may be no different. In addition, a move as radical as splitting up large banks is highly unlikely to gain the support of top regulators like the Federal Reserve or the Treasury Department.
''It seems mainly symbolic,'' Phillip L. Swagel, a professor at the University of Maryland School of Public Policy, said. ''This is a handle that people can grab to move the debate toward more regulation.''
Senator Warren seemed to acknowledge the battle ahead, but she said that having Senator McCain as an ally was an advantage. ''He's a fighter, and it's going to take a fighter to get this Glass-Steagall bill through,'' she said in a news conference.
Nostalgia for the original Glass-Steagall Act might help the new bill gain interest. Its supporters say the former law had several straightforward benefits, in contrast to the complex regulations that have been put in place since the crisis, like the Dodd-Frank Act of 2010. Glass-Steagall, which had 37 pages, was simple and so easy to put into practice, they say.
The act also kept banks that use federal deposit insurance out of potentially volatile Wall Street activities, like trading. As a result, problems at investment banks were less likely to infect regulated banks. Losses at the Wall Street operations of Citigroup and Bank of America weighed heavily on those banks during the 2008 crisis.
''For about 70 years, Glass-Steagall managed to keep the riskier, more damaging part of Wall Street away from what should be the boring, straightforward side of finance,'' Barry L. Ritholtz, chief executive of FusionIQ, an asset management and research firm, said. ''It was the height of stupidity repealing Glass-Steagall.''
During the era of Glass-Steagall, there were no systemic banking crises like the one that occurred in 2008. The restrictions the bill put on the financial sector did not seem to do much wider harm. According to analysis of government gross domestic product statistics, the American economy grew an average of 4 percent a year from 1933 until 1999, when Glass-Steagall was in effect. Even some who championed repealing the act, like the former Citigroup chairman Sanford I. Weill, have since called for the breakup of the bank behemoths.
Still, critics have a full arsenal of arguments to deploy against reintroducing it.
One is that Glass-Steagall would not have stopped the 2008 crisis. The act, for instance, would not have prohibited the growth of Lehman Brothers, which collapsed and spread panic through the financial system.
Another argument is that the American economy actually benefits from large banks that can make ordinary loans as well as trade securities and derivatives, the financial instruments that are used for hedging risks and speculation.
''On the whole, there are benefits to having diversified financial institutions,'' said Mr. Swagel, who was an assistant secretary for economic policy under Treasury Secretary Henry M. Paulson Jr.
Others say there are much better tools to make the banks safer than a new Glass-Steagall, like requiring them to hold more capital.
''It is a very crude tool to be used to downsize the large banking organizations,'' Charles M. Horn, a partner at the law firm Morrison & Foerster, said.
The new bill aims to update the old Glass-Steagall for innovations that have taken place since it was enacted. The new bill would force deposit-taking banks to cease most of their trading of derivatives. Today, banks keep most of their derivatives in entities that have deposit insurance, allowing them to benefit from an effective subsidy.
The bill would give banks five years to comply with its requirements.
The other two senators sponsoring the bill are Maria Cantwell, Democrat of Washington, and Angus King, independent of Maine.
On Thursday, Senator Warren said she was not convinced that banks needed to be on Wall Street as well as in traditional business to properly serve the economy.
''I'd like to see the data on that, because I haven't,'' she said.
The bill should not be seen as a cure-all, the senator cautioned.
''The bill by itself will not end 'too-big-to-fail' and implicit government subsidies, but it will make financial institutions safer and smaller and move us in the right direction,'' she said.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Senator Elizabeth Warren and Senator John McCain are sponsoring a new version of the Glass-Steagall Act from the 1930s. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SAUL LOEB/AGENCE FRANCE-PRESSE -- GETTY IMAGES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BANKING LAW (89%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); US DODD FRANK ACT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); INVESTMENT BANKING (77%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (73%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (70%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (58%); BANK OF AMERICA CORP (58%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (58%); C (BMV) (58%); 8710 (TSE) (58%); BAC (NYSE) (58%); BAC (LSE) (58%); 8648 (TSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: ELIZABETH WARREN (92%); JOHN MCCAIN (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (92%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



330 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED COLUMNIST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 832 words

HEADLINE: Pass The Bill!

BYLINE: By DAVID BROOKS

 BODY:
It's beginning to look as though we're not going to get an immigration reform law this year. House Republicans are moving in a direction that will probably be unacceptable to the Senate majority and the White House. Conservative commentators like my friends Bill Kristol and Rich Lowry are arguing that the status quo is better than the comprehensive approach passed by the Senate. The whole effort is in peril.
This could be a tragedy for the country and political suicide for Republicans, especially because the conservative arguments against the comprehensive approach are not compelling. 
After all, the Senate bill fulfills the four biggest conservative objectives. Conservatives say they want economic growth. The Senate immigration bill is the biggest pro-growth item on the agenda today. Based on estimates from the Congressional Budget Office, the Senate bill would increase the gross domestic product by 3.3 percent by 2023 and by 5.4 percent by 2033. A separate study by the American Action Forum found that it would increase per capita income by $1,700 after 10 years.
Conservatives say they want to bring down debt. According to government estimates, the Senate bill would reduce federal deficits by up to $850 billion over the next 20 years. The Senate bill reduces the 75-year Social Security fund shortfall by half-a-trillion dollars.
Conservatives say they want to reduce illegal immigration. The Senate bill spends huge amounts of money to secure the border. According to the C.B.O., the bill would reduce illegal immigration by somewhere between 33 percent to 50 percent. True, it would not totally eliminate illegal immigration, but it would do a lot better than current law, which reduces illegal immigration by 0 percent.
Conservatives say they want to avoid a European-style demographic collapse. But without more immigrants, and the higher fertility rates they bring, that is exactly what the U.S. faces. Plus, this bill radically increases the number of high-skilled immigrants. It takes millions of long-term resident families out of the shadows so they can lead more mainstream lives.
These are all gigantic benefits. They are like Himalayan peaks compared with the foothill-size complaints conservatives are lodging.
The first conservative complaint is that, as Kristol and Lowry put it, ''the enforcement provisions are riddled with exceptions, loopholes and waivers.'' If Obama can waive the parts of Obamacare he finds inconvenient, why won't he end up waiving a requirement for the use of E-Verify.
There's some truth to this critique, and maybe the House should pass a version of the Senate bill that has fewer waivers and loopholes. But, at some point, this argument just becomes an excuse to oppose every piece of legislation, ever. All legislation allows the executive branch to have some discretion. It's always possible to imagine ways in which a law may be distorted in violation of its intent. But if you are going to use that logic to oppose something, you are going to end up opposing tax reform, welfare reform, the Civil Rights Act and everything else.
The second conservative complaint is that the bill would flood the country with more low-skilled workers, driving down wages. This is an argument borrowed from the reactionary left, and it shows. In the first place, the recent research suggests that increased immigration drives down wages far less than expected. Low-skilled immigrants don't directly compete with the native-born. They do entry-level work, create wealth and push natives into better jobs.
Furthermore, conservatives are not supposed to take a static, protectionist view of economics. They're not supposed to believe that growth can be created or even preserved if government protects favored groups from competition. Conservatives are supposed to believe in the logic of capitalism; that if you encourage the movement of goods, ideas and people, then you increase dynamism, you increase creative destruction and you end up creating more wealth that improves lives over all.
The final conservative point of opposition is a political one. Republicans should not try to win back lower-middle-class voters with immigration reform; they should do it with a working-class agenda.
This argument would be slightly plausible if Republicans had even a hint of such an agenda, but they don't. Even then it would fail. Before Asians, Hispanics and all the other groups can be won with economic plans, they need to feel respected and understood by the G.O.P. They need to feel that Republicans respect their ethnic and cultural identity. If Republicans reject immigration reform, that will be a giant sign of disrespect, and nothing else Republicans say will even be heard.
Whether this bill passes or not, this country is heading toward a multiethnic future. Republicans can either shape that future in a conservative direction or, as I've tried to argue, they can become the receding roar of a white America that is never coming back.
That's what's at stake.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATION (94%); IMMIGRATION (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); OBAMA HEALTH CARE REFORM (78%); SOCIAL SECURITY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (75%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); BUDGETS (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BUDGET DEFICITS (73%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); BORDER CONTROL (65%); FERTILITY RATES (62%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (56%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HIMALAYAS (67%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



331 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; ART REVIEW; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 998 words

HEADLINE: Even Young Rebels Can Float a Retrospective

BYLINE: By KEN JOHNSON

 BODY:
The collective of anonymous young artists who go by the name Bruce High Quality Foundation has generated much buzz in the New York art world and some puzzlement since emerging in 2004. They've been celebrated as a breath of fresh air and suspected of self-entitlement and covert careerism. Who are they? Where did they come from? Are they insiders or outsiders?
''The Bruce High Quality Foundation: Ode to Joy, 2001-2013,'' a messy, cacophonous retrospective at the Brooklyn Museum, sheds little light on such questions, and since much of what the foundation has done has involved performance, lectures and the creation of a tuition-free art school and other sorts of social action, it may not be the right occasion for definitive judgment. But the show of about 50 pieces, organized by Eugenie Tsai, the museum's curator of contemporary art, brings enough together for some assessment. 
First, there's the title, ''Ode to Joy,'' a reference to the popular fourth movement of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. It's the official anthem of the European Union and was a favorite with the Nazis; Hitler liked to have it played on his birthday. Using it to name the show is in keeping with the High Quality Foundation's jaundiced view of mainstream culture.
There are some things here that are funny to think about again. One day in 2005, two foundation members in a small boat followed a barge carrying ''Floating Island'' -- a sculpture conceived by Robert Smithson -- their own vessel equipped with an orange structure like one of ''The Gates,'' the Christo and Jeanne-Claude work that had recently graced Central Park. The boat is displayed here on a bed of rocks, recalling a nice spoof of expensive, anodyne public art.
A big inflated rat at the start of the show gestures toward support for union activism, but most of the group's efforts aim to deflate the cult of art. In a large, glossy photograph and a bigger version on canvas, naked men replace the women in a construction mimicking Picasso's ''Desmoiselle's d'Avignon.'' This might have meant something back in the 1970s, when feminism was making art world waves. Now it's a clichéd idea.
Giant silk-screen-on-canvas reproductions of the photograph of soldiers raising the flag at Iwo Jima also beat a conceptual dead horse. A photographic re-creation of Géricault's ''Raft of the Medusa'' with foundation members assuming positions of shipwreck victims on a junky, makeshift platform at the East River's edge is supposed to allegorize the economic plight of ordinary Americans, but comes off as more of an art-about-art joke.
Better, because they are provocatively ambiguous, are a couple of imitation Warhols. ''The Wives (Silver on Grey)'' is a series of photo-based, silk-screened portraits of women identified as spouses of wealthy men convicted of corrupt business dealings. Is this sexist or mock-sexist? Hard to say.
''Stations of the Cross'' is a set of canvases hanging in a long row, each a blurry, silk-screened, photographic image of the World Trade Center twin towers shortly after the planes hit. This work might project elegiac feelings, but in the context of a show in which mockery is the prevailing spirit, it's potentially offensive. (The foundation, incidentally, claims its purpose is to preserve the legacy of Bruce High Quality, a ''social sculptor'' who died in the Sept. 11 attacks.)
A separate, room-filling installation addresses the low-risk topic of the pedagogy of art. The middle of the gallery is occupied by classroom furniture clumsily cobbled together out of wallboard. Green chalkboards on the walls are covered by mostly illegible verbiage scribbled in chalk. Kitschy reproductions of classical head sculptures splattered with primary colors and with cigarette butts stuck in their mouths are displayed on a ledge above the chalkboards. Presented within museum-style vitrines are crude copies of ancient Greek and Roman artifacts that look as if they were made by middle-school art students.
It's mystifying that a group of young rebels supposed to be savvy operators could produce such mirthless and toothless satire.
One thing that the Bruce High Quality Foundation is really good at is making videos. Its members montage voices, music, movie and television clips from YouTube with skillful panache. The soundtrack alone for ''Five Courses of Empire'' -- a mix of jazz, pop, rock and classical -- is a joy to listen to. ''We Like America and America Likes Us'' has a long, plangent voice-over dramatizing tortured love affairs between different personifications of America and different narrators. It sounds authentically felt.
''Isle of the Dead'' is a short zombie movie in which an unspecified catastrophe has killed off the art world population. A young female zombie rises from a gallery floor and, to the sound of ''Summer of '69,'' Bryan Adams's rousing, nostalgic rock anthem, shuffles her way to a theater filled with other, grumbling waking dead. As images of avant-garde art and news events from the '60s flicker on the movie screen, the ghoulish audience rises and sings the Adams song in unison. Its refrain, ''Those were the best days of my life,'' evokes a time when it appeared that truly radical happenings were transforming art and culture.
By contrast to the facile, academic commentary animating much of the group's other work, these videos have an affecting pathos.
If, as they evidently are, the members of the Bruce High Quality Foundation are millennials, who entered adulthood after Sept. 11 -- an economically and spiritually challenging time to come of age -- then it's easier to look with sympathy past their too-often stale irreverence and to sense genuine feelings of sadness and disappointment combined with plucky determination to carry on anyway. All things considered, they at least deserve an A for effort.
The Bruce High Quality Foundation exhibition continues through Sept. 22 at the Brooklyn Museum, 200 Eastern Parkway, at Prospect Park; (718) 638-5000, brooklynmuseum.org.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Bruce High Quality Foundation's retrospective at the Brooklyn Museum includes ''Public Education (Eddie Needs Help)'' (2011), top
the short zombie video ''Isle of the Dead,'' from 2008, above
 and another work involving a boat, ''The Gate,'' which circled Manhattan in 2005. (PHOTOGRAPHS FROM BRUCE HIGH QUALITY FOUNDATION) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (90%); SCULPTURE (78%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (78%); WORLD WAR II (71%); EUROPEAN UNION (66%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



332 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Obituary; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 797 words

HEADLINE: Philip Caldwell, Who Headed Ford Though He Wasn't One, Dies at 93

BYLINE: By PATRICK J. LYONS

 BODY:
Philip Caldwell, the button-down manager chosen over Lee A. Iacocca to become the first head of the Ford Motor Company who was not a member of the Ford family, died on Wednesday at his home in New Canaan, Conn. He was 93.
The cause was complications of a stroke, his family said. 
Mr. Caldwell was known as a prodigious worker with a knack for restoring floundering divisions of Ford to financial health. He guided the company through some of its most difficult years in the late 1970s and early 1980s, when all of Detroit struggled to cope with a sour economy, high gas prices and the first sustained onslaught by Japanese automakers.
He left his mark more on the company's bottom line than its product line, turning the record losses of more than $1.5 billion that Ford recorded in 1980, his first full year as chief executive, into record profits of $2.9 billion in 1984. At the same time his management team -- including his labor chief, Peter J. Pestillo -- greatly improved Ford's strained relations with its unions. And he laid the groundwork for the company's biggest success in a generation: the Taurus, the top-selling car of the late '80s and '90s.
Mr. Caldwell, who spent a total of 37 years at Ford, never developed a reputation as a ''car guy,'' someone motivated by a passion for automotive design and engineering or the thrill of driving. Nor was he a salesman at heart, as many auto executives are.
Rather, he rose to the top as a manager who could handle tough assignments, overhauling one struggling business unit after another by cutting costs and ratcheting up productivity and profits, most notably in the truck division, the Philco electronics subsidiary and Ford's overseas operations.
By the 1970s, Mr. Caldwell was one of Henry Ford II's most loyal and trusted lieutenants. But he was almost unknown outside the company -- in stark contrast to the larger-than-life Mr. Iacocca, who famously rode the success of the Mustang in the 1960s to the presidency of Ford, the No. 2 post, but who came to be seen by Mr. Ford as more rival than colleague.
Outsiders were stunned when Mr. Ford dismissed Mr. Iacocca in 1977 and elevated Mr. Caldwell instead, first to vice chairman and later to chief executive and chairman.
Mr. Ford, grandson of the company's founder, kept an important role on the board throughout Mr. Caldwell's tenure, leading some observers to wonder how much freedom of action Mr. Caldwell really had, despite his titles. But in interviews around the time of his retirement as chief executive in February 1985, Mr. Caldwell insisted that Mr. Ford had never tried to interfere or tell him how to run the company.
Born in the tiny farming town of Bourneville, Ohio, on Jan. 27, 1920, Mr. Caldwell studied economics 80 miles away at Muskingum College (now Muskingum University) and graduated in 1940, three years ahead of John Glenn, the astronaut and politician.
He was completing an M.B.A. at Harvard when Japan attacked Pearl Harbor, prompting him to enlist in the Navy and serve as a lieutenant in the Pacific.
When the war ended in 1945, he stayed with the Navy in a civilian job as a procurement manager and married Betsey Chinn Clark. She and their three children, Lawrence, Lucy H. Caldwell-Stair and Désirée C. Armitage, survive him, as do six grandchildren and five great-grandchildren.
Mr. Caldwell left the Navy after the Korean War in 1953 to join Ford. He often said afterward that his Navy experience had shaped his approach to business, in which he emphasized discipline and efficiency.
It also shaped his approach to life in general. He seemed most comfortable in formal settings and was rarely seen in public out of his uniform of conservative business attire. He did not smoke or drink and exhibited none of the flamboyance of other leading Detroit figures of his time, like Mr. Ford, Mr. Iacocca and John Z. DeLorean, the protean ''car guy'' then cutting a swath at General Motors.
About as wild and crazy as Mr. Caldwell was ever said to get was an occasional recreational spin around the Ford test track at the wheel of a tractor-trailer. He filled his home and his office at Ford with 18th-century American antiques, and his civic and cultural activities included serving as a trustee of his alma mater and of the Detroit Symphony Orchestra.
His retirement was an active one. He remained on Ford's board for five more years after stepping down as chief executive a few days past his 65th birthday. He also worked in investment banking as a managing director at Shearson Lehman Brothers, joined the Council on Foreign Relations and served on the boards of a number of public companies as well as the executive recruitment firm Russell Reynolds Associates.
In 1990, the Harvard Business School named a chair in business administration in his honor.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Philip Caldwell in 1981, introducing the 1982 Ford Escort. Henry Ford II promoted him in preference to Lee Iacocca. (PHOTOGRAPH BY UNITED PRESS INTERNATIONAL) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (94%); DEATHS (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (78%); ENGINEERING (74%); INTERVIEWS (73%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (73%); ELECTRONICS (73%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); GRANDCHILDREN (72%); COMPANY PROFITS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE ENGINEERING (69%); OIL & GAS PRICES (69%); GASOLINE PRICES (69%)

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO (96%)

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (96%); F (NYSE) (96%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (96%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (96%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (96%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%) CONNECTICUT, USA (88%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



333 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 988 words

HEADLINE: U.S. and China to Discuss Investment Treaty, but Cybersecurity Is a Concern

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY; John M. Broder and David E. Sanger contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The United States and China will start negotiating a sweeping bilateral investment treaty, which could open vast sectors of each economy to investments from the other side, officials announced Thursday.
Treasury Secretary Jacob J. Lew called the development a significant breakthrough. It represents ''the first time China has agreed to negotiate a bilateral investment treaty, to include all sectors and stages of investment, with another country,'' he said in a statement.
The treaty talks were announced at the close of a two-day meeting here of high-ranking Chinese and American diplomatic, security and economic officials, part of an annual ''strategic and economic dialogue'' between the world's two largest economies. 
But concerns over espionage and theft using the Internet have complicated the economic discussions, with diplomats working on those issues this week. Protections against cyberspying would presumably have to be part of any investment treaty, and could be a major sticking point.
The United States has repeatedly warned that the theft of American companies' intellectual property, often over computer networks, could make businesses hesitant to invest. And the United States has blocked some Chinese investments, fearing that they could facilitate electronic espionage.
''The reality is clear: The technological ties that bind us together also introduce a new challenge to our bilateral relationship,'' said William J. Burns, the deputy secretary of state. Mr. Burns has stepped in for Secretary of State John Kerry -- whose wife has been ill -- at the negotiations this week.
The Chinese have responded to the American complaints with barbed comments of their own. In particular, they have pointed to the revelations of Edward J. Snowden, the former contractor for the National Security Agency who last month leaked details on the United States' sweeping surveillance of foreigners and Americans.
American officials are angry that the Chinese government allowed Mr. Snowden to leave Hong Kong for Russia, where he has been holed up at Sheremetyevo Airport in Moscow in an attempt to avoid deportation to the United States.
While American officials used carefully hedged words like ''constructive'' to describe the two days of talks, in private they made little effort to hide their disappointment at the outcomes, saying the discussions were as frustrating as President Obama's inconclusive meeting with president Xi Jinping last month in California. Even on North Korea, the area where the two countries have begun to speak about similar strategic goals, there was no agreement on how to press for a halt to its nuclear and missile testing, much less how to achieve the longtime aim of de-nuclearlization. American officials have slowly come to understand the degree to which Mr. Snowden's revelations have changed the balance of power in negotiations with the Chinese.
It was a measure of how little was agreed upon that at a dinner on Thursday night, at the end of meetings, the Chinese and Americans spent much of their time praising their cooperation on a single project: Building a Chinese garden at the national arboretum.
Still, the concerns did not seem to hamper progress on economic matters. American businesses face significant hurdles in investing in China -- when they are allowed to invest at all. A bilateral treaty might open the door for American financial, consulting and energy companies to make significant inroads in the Chinese market, which is still growing as the number of consumers expands, if not as quickly as in the past.
Business groups applauded the news about the treaty negotiations. Rob Nichols, president of the Financial Services Forum, a lobbying group in Washington, called it a ''significant and welcome step forward for the economic relationship between the United States and China.''
''If the two countries are able to reach an agreement for the United States to gain market access to China's economy -- especially in the financial services sector -- it would be a win-win for both countries, businesses and workers.''
The two nations would be able to exempt certain industries, like defense, from a bilateral treaty.
Vice Premier Wang Yang of China said through an interpreter that the United States had ''pledged to treat Chinese investment equally and fairly'' and would welcome investment from Chinese sovereign wealth funds.
Chinese and American officials also announced a series of bilateral initiatives devised to cut emissions that are a cause of climate change. The moves represent something of a softening of views by the United States and China, the world's two largest producers of such emissions. The two countries have often been antagonists at international climate change meetings.
But Washington and Beijing agreed this week to work together to reduce emissions of soot and carbon dioxide from heavy vehicles, cut energy use in buildings and factories, publish accurate and timely information on emissions, and promote more efficient energy transmission systems. Officials also said they would work together to find ways to trap, store and reuse carbon emissions from power plants that use fossil fuels.
The agreements are not legally binding and do not set emissions targets, but they do signal a cooperative attitude that could improve the mood at United Nations climate conferences, which have yielded little progress in recent years.
Todd D. Stern, who leads the American climate negotiating team, said that the pacts would not immediately transform the international negotiations, but that cooperation would ''project something positive.''
''We have had a pretty constructive relationship with the Chinese over the past few years,'' Mr. Stern said in a call with reporters on Wednesday. ''But there is always a case for deepening it and developing it more and more in the direction of partnership, and that's what we certainly hope to be doing.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (93%); INTERGOVERNMENTAL TALKS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); CYBERCRIME (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); ESPIONAGE (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); NATIONAL SECURITY (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (77%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (75%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (75%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (73%); NUCLEAR WEAPONS (73%); MISSILE RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (72%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (70%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (68%); DEPORTATION (62%); INTERNET & WWW (54%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (52%)

PERSON: JACK LEW (90%); EDWARD SNOWDEN (79%); XI JINPING (79%); JOHN KERRY (68%); BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (53%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%); CHINA (96%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); HONG KONG (79%); KOREA, DEMOCRATIC PEOPLE'S REPUBLIC OF (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



334 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: Elizabeth Duke, Fed Governor, Plans to Step Down

BYLINE: By BINYAMIN APPELBAUM

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Elizabeth A. Duke, a Federal Reserve governor who has helped to overhaul the Fed's approach to financial regulation, said on Thursday that she would step down at the end of August. 
Ms. Duke, just the seventh woman to serve on the Fed's board, has also been a quiet but consistent supporter of Ben S. Bernanke, the Fed chairman, and of the central bank's economic stimulus campaign.
In a letter of resignation submitted to President Obama, Ms. Duke, 60, said that she was ''proud to have contributed'' to those efforts.
''I am especially gratified to have brought my own practical banking experience and community banking perspective to the massive overhaul of financial system regulations,'' Ms. Duke wrote.
She did not offer a reason for leaving, nor did she describe her plans. Her term ended last January, but governors can remain in office until a replacement is nominated, and the Obama administration had not sought her departure.
''President Obama is grateful to Elizabeth Duke for her years of valued service,'' a White House spokeswoman, Amy Brundage, wrote on Twitter.
Ms. Duke, a Virginia banker who ran a series of community banks and served as chairwoman of the American Bankers Association, was nominated to the Fed in May 2007 by President George W. Bush and joined the board the following year. Her experience as a lender set her apart in a group mostly composed of academics and policy makers, and led her to focus on the reconstruction of the housing finance system, working to strike a balance between stronger safeguards and broad access to homeownership.
''New mortgage regulations will provide important protections to borrowers but may also lead to a permanent increase in the cost of originating loans to borrowers with lower credit scores,'' she cautioned in a May speech surveying the changed landscape.
The White House is considering replacements for Mr. Bernanke, who is expected to step down from the Fed when his term ends in January. Ms. Duke and Mr. Bernanke are the last remaining members of the Fed's board initially nominated by Mr. Bush, although Mr. Bernanke was subsequently nominated to a second term by Mr. Obama.
Ms. Duke praised Mr. Bernanke's leadership in her resignation letter.
''I would like to express my admiration for Chairman Bernanke's courage and extraordinary intellect,'' she wrote. ''His considerable personal strengths proved to be invaluable during very difficult economic times.''
Mr. Bernanke returned the compliment in a statement. ''She brought fresh ideas grounded in her deep knowledge of the banking industry and the real-world dynamic between borrowers and lenders,'' he said. ''I wish her the best in her future endeavors.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Elizabeth A. Duke was nominated by President George W. Bush and has served as a Federal Reserve governor since 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TAMI CHAPPELL/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); RESIGNATIONS (89%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); WOMEN (78%); BOARD CHANGES (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (77%); COMMUNITY BANKS (76%); US ECONOMIC STIMULUS PLAN 2008-2009 (76%); CENTRAL BANKS (73%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (69%); MORTGAGE LOANS (64%); GOVERNORS (58%)

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (55%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%); BARACK OBAMA (89%); GEORGE W BUSH (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



335 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 387 words

HEADLINE: New Jobless Claims Rise, but Hiring Shows Gains

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- The number of Americans applying for unemployment benefits rose 16,000 last week, to a seasonally adjusted 360,000, although the level remains consistent with steady hiring. 
The Labor Department said on Thursday that the less volatile four-week average increased 6,000, to 351,750.
The weekly applications data can be volatile in July because some automakers briefly close their factories to prepare for new models and many schools close. Those factors can create a temporary spike in layoffs.
The broader trend has been favorable. Applications have declined steadily in the last year, as companies have laid off fewer workers and stepped up hiring. In the last six months, employers have added an average of 202,000 jobs a month. That is up from an average of 180,000 in the previous six months.
Yelena Shulyatyeva, an economist at BNP Paribas, said the volatility would most likely continue for the rest of the month and ''could mask the true underlying trend in jobless claims data.''
''We believe that labor market conditions remain on a gradually improving trajectory,'' she added.
Employers added 195,000 jobs in June, and revisions showed that an additional 70,000 jobs were added in the previous two months. The unemployment rate was 7.6 percent, down from 8.2 percent a year earlier.
Applications fell in the April-June quarter to their lowest level since the recession began, according to calculations by Joseph LaVorgna, chief United States economist at Deutsche Bank. They averaged 346,000 a week in the second quarter. That is the lowest quarterly average since the final three months of 2007, when the recession began; it was then 338,000.
About 4.5 million people received unemployment benefits in the week ending June 22, the latest data available. That is about 50,000 fewer than the previous week and a reduction of 23 percent from a year ago, when there were nearly 5.9 million recipients. Some of those who no longer receive benefits have gotten jobs, but many have simply used up all the benefits available.
Another economic report released on Thursday found that export prices fell by 0.1 percent, matching the expectation in a Reuters poll. Import prices slipped 0.2 percent last month compared with expectations calling for unchanged import prices, signaling global economic growth may be cooling.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: JOBLESS CLAIMS (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (90%); TRENDS (90%); LAYOFFS (89%); RECESSION (89%); IMPORT TRADE (87%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); NEW CAR MODELS (76%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (71%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (71%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (71%); IMPORT PRICES (65%); EXPORT PRICES (60%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); AUTOMAKERS (56%)

COMPANY: BNP PARIBAS SA (55%); DEUTSCHE BANK AG (53%)

TICKER: BNP (PAR) (55%); BNP (BIT) (55%); DEUT (JSE) (53%); DBK (FRA) (53%); DBK (BIT) (53%); DBETN (JSE) (53%); DBA (ASX) (53%); DB (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



336 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1269 words

HEADLINE: House Republicans Push Through Farm Bill, Without Food Stamps

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN and RON NIXON; Sabrina Tavernise contributed reporting.

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Republicans muscled a pared-back agriculture bill through the House on Thursday, stripping out the food stamp program to satisfy recalcitrant conservatives but losing what little Democratic support the bill had when it failed last month. It was the first time food stamps had not been a part of the farm bill since 1973.
The 216-to-208 vote saved House Republican leaders from an embarrassing reprisal of the unexpected defeat of a broader version of the bill in June, but the future of agriculture policy remains uncertain. The food stamp program, formally called the Supplemental Nutrition Assistance Program, was 80 percent of the original bill's cost, and it remains the centerpiece of the Senate's bipartisan farm bill.
Even in a chamber used to acrimony, Thursday's debate in the House was particularly brutal. Democrats repeatedly called for roll-call votes on parliamentary procedures and motions to adjourn, delaying the final vote by hours and charging Republicans over and over again with callousness and cruelty. 
Republicans shouted protests, trying to silence the most strident Democrats, and were repeatedly forced to vote to uphold their own parliamentary rulings.
Representative Frank D. Lucas, Republican of Oklahoma, the chairman of the House Agriculture Committee, said he would try to draft a separate food stamp bill ''as soon as I can achieve a consensus.'' But conservatives remain determined to extract deep cuts to the program -- cuts that members of both parties in the House and Senate have said they cannot support.
House and Senate negotiators could produce a compromise measure with the robust food stamp program the Senate wants, but such a bill would almost certainly have to pass the House with significant Republican defections.
Asked before the vote Thursday if he would allow a compromise bill to come to a final vote in the House, Speaker John A. Boehner of Ohio shrugged and said: ''If ands and buts were candy and nuts, every day would be Christmas. You've heard that before. My goal right now is to get the farm bill passed. We'll get to those other issues later.''
By splitting farm policy from food stamps, the House effectively ended the decades-old political marriage between urban interests concerned about nutrition and rural areas who depend on farm subsidies.
''We wanted separation, and we got it,'' said Representative Marlin Stutzman, Republican of Indiana, one of the bill's chief authors. ''You've got to take these wins when you can get them.''
Democrats denounced the bill as a naked attempt to make draconian cuts in the food stamp program.
''A vote for this bill is a vote to end nutrition in America,'' said Representative Rosa DeLauro of Connecticut.
Senator Debbie Stabenow of Michigan, the chairwoman of the Senate Agriculture Committee, called the House measure ''an insult to rural America.''
Anti-hunger groups called passage of the farm bill without the food stamp program a disgrace.
''Today's vote is the latest smoking gun that the House majority isn't truly interested in deficit reduction,'' said Joel Berg, executive director of the New York City Coalition Against Hunger. ''They're interested in supporting special interest groups over hungry Americans.''
The 608-page bill keeps the changes that were in the version that failed last month, and amendments were not allowed. The bill would save about $20 billion by consolidating or cutting numerous farm subsidy programs, including $5 billion paid annually to farmers and landowners whether they plant crops or not.
The money saved from eliminating those payments would be directed into the $9 billion crop insurance program, and new subsidies would be created for peanut, cotton and rice farmers. The bill adds money to support fruit and vegetable growers, and it restores insurance programs for livestock producers, which expired in 2011, leaving thousands of operations without disaster coverage during last year's drought. The bill also made changes to a dairy program that sets limits to the amount of milk produced and sold in the United States.
One new proposal from last month would also repeal a provision in the current farm bill, called ''permanent law,'' that causes farm programs to revert to 1949 price levels if a new farm bill is not passed. Congress has traditionally maintained the provision to prod lawmakers into passing a farm bill or face large increases in farm program expenditures. Without the provision, many lawmakers and farm groups fear there would be no incentive for Congress to pass a farm bill on time.
One overlooked provision in the bill came from Representative Dan Benishek, Republican of Michigan, a surgeon, and would require additional economic and scientific analyses before a 2010 law to improve the food safety system goes into effect.
A spokesman for Mr. Benishek, Kyle Bonini, said it was meant to protect farmers ''from being hit with more costly regulations.''
But food safety advocates said that they were surprised by the provision and that it would effectively halt implementation of the law, which gives the Food and Drug Administration greater authority over food production.
Erik D. Olson, director of food programs at the Pew Charitable Trusts, which was involved in promoting the law, called the provision ''an extremely troubling development.''
No Democrats voted for the measure Thursday, and 12 Republicans voted against it -- mainly the most conservative members, with a scattering of moderates. Republican discipline on the final vote was something of a rebuke to conservative advocacy groups like the Club for Growth and Heritage Action, which had worked against the bill, even after the food stamp program was stripped out.
But its removal engulfed a bill that for years had passed with overwhelming bipartisan support in acrimony.
''They cannot help themselves from turning nonpartisan, bipartisan legislation into 'my way or the highway,' '' Representative Steny H. Hoyer of Maryland, the Democratic whip, said of his Republican colleagues.
In the early 1970s, as rural members of Congress saw their numbers start to decline, a deal was struck to include food stamps in the farm bill so lawmakers would be able to muster enough votes to pass it. But both nutrition programs and farm subsidies have grown tremendously in the past 20 years, and a new breed of legislators, many of them elected in 2010 and backed by the Tea Party, are more concerned with federal spending than building coalitions to pass a farm bill.
Last week, 532 farm organizations, including the American Farm Bureau Federation, the nation's largest farm lobby, called on lawmakers not to split the farm bill into two pieces of legislation. In a letter on Thursday, Bob Stallman, president of the Farm Bureau, called the split disappointing. But after the vote, Mr. Stallman said the group would move ahead with getting a new five-year farm bill.
''While we were hopeful the farm bill would not be split, nor permanent law repealed, we will now focus our efforts on working with lawmakers to deliver a farm bill to the president's desk for his signature by September,'' he said.
For different reasons, the Club for Growth also opposed the bill. Chris Chocola, the political action committee's president, said a new farm support program, called the ''shallow loss'' program, would guarantee farmers 90 percent of their income and ''essentially locks in high commodity prices forevermore.''
He also protested that Republican leaders had refused to guarantee that the food stamp program would not be included in the final measure that comes out of negotiations with the Senate.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: From left, Representatives Tim Murphy, Mark Sanford, Cathy McMorris Rodgers and Sean P. Duffy, all Republicans, after the House approved an agriculture bill. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CHRISTOPHER GREGORY/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FOOD STAMPS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); AGRICULTURAL SUBSIDIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (89%); AGRICULTURE (89%); NUTRITION (75%); PUBLIC POLICY (75%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (71%); CHRISTMAS (64%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (91%)

PERSON: TIM MURPHY (58%); MARK SANFORD (58%); DEBBIE STABENOW (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); FRANK D LUCAS (58%); CATHY MCMORRIS RODGERS (58%); BARNEY FRANK (58%); SEAN DUFFY (58%); MARLIN STUTZMAN (58%); ROSA DELAURO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



337 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1240 words

HEADLINE: A City Rebuilds From Flooding but Remains Vulnerable

BYLINE: By JOHN ELIGON

 BODY:
CEDAR RAPIDS, Iowa -- Five years after record flooding drowned this manufacturing town and caused billions of dollars in damage, city officials and private investors are rebuilding homes and businesses on the Cedar River banks. But some people here are troubled to see structures rising in places where, not long ago, entire first stories were underwater.
''Here we are investing a lot of money in a flood plain that is going to flood again,'' said Rich Patterson, the former director of the Indian Creek Nature Center in Cedar Rapids.
As temperatures and tides rise, severe storms strike with greater frequency and so-called 100-year floods seem to be turning into far more frequent occurrences. As a result, more cities are grappling with competing interests as they work to recover from such disasters: do they restore and rebuild what nature wiped out or do they cede to natural forces and leave waterfronts alone? 
Jeff Pomeranz, the Cedar Rapids city manager, said it would be unacceptable to let downtown founder.
''The alternative to just stay still, to not rebuild, to allow our city to basically fumble in its core just doesn't make sense for our city,'' he said.
Floods have become more expensive disasters with persistent development along waterfronts. Since 2000, floods in the United States have done nearly $10 billion in damage each year, almost twice as much as in the 1990s, according to a report released in March by the Association of State Floodplain Managers.
When floods wipe out an urban area, city officials tend to favor quick redevelopment to prevent irreparable economic harm, especially in this part of the country. Small cities already face challenges in keeping their residents, especially young people, from moving away.
But there is a growing chorus of conservationists and public officials who say that some land, no matter how prime it is for real estate, might be best returned to nature. They argue that it makes little sense to rebuild in flood-prone areas that will require taxpayer bailouts when the water rises again. Flooding in urban areas can send pollution downstream, and artificial protection built around cities only shifts the flooding farther down.
''Somehow we've grown into this belief that we have an entitlement for a community to stay exactly where it is,'' said Larry Larson, the senior policy adviser for the flood plain association.
Iowa has had such a wet spring that the scorching drought of a year ago has all but vanished: While 100 percent of the state was abnormally dry at this time last year, practically none of it falls into that category now, according to the federal government's Drought Monitor report released on Thursday.
Cedar Rapids, which saw 10 square miles, or about 14 percent of its area, submerged after the 2008 flood, is in the adolescent stage of a comeback effort that cities along the East Coast, almost a year after Hurricane Sandy, are only starting to plan. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg of New York unveiled a $20 billion plan last month to protect his city from rising waters, urging the need to begin the process immediately, but also acknowledging that it would take decades to implement.
Within four months of the 2008 flooding, Cedar Rapids city officials had a redevelopment proposal in place. Five years into its effort, the city provides an example of both the hope -- some parts of downtown are back stronger than before -- and the hardships -- many blocks remain abandoned and blighted -- of rebounding from a crushing flood.
''Keeping people focused for an extended period of time,'' Jennifer Pratt, a planner in the city's community development department, said of the greatest challenge in recovery.
The city has bought and demolished about 1,400 homes since the flood. But the city and private developers are spending more than a combined $200 million to build 1,311 new housing units. City officials have spent $307 million in federal, state and local money to redevelop flood-affected public facilities. In the last fiscal year, the city spent more than $150 million on capital projects related to the flood and it has allotted another $136 million for such projects in the current budget.
The efforts have yielded a shiny new convention center and hotel, a renovated historic theater, and a new outdoor amphitheater that also serves as a levee. Construction is close to completion on a new central library and a fire station. There are plans for new apartments, restaurants and bars on the banks of the Cedar River. In the gritty Kingston Village neighborhood on the western side of the river, city officials are moving ahead with redevelopment plans, hoping to make it a vibrant extension of downtown. Officials have reserved a plot of fresh dirt in Kingston Village for a casino that is still awaiting state approval.
All this is being done even though plans to build permanent defenses from floodwaters have yet to be financed. There is a $375 million plan to build levees and flood walls on both sides of the river, but no financing has been allocated for that yet, and the city is at the mercy of Congressional approval for a large chunk of it. Local officials twice proposed extending a one-cent sales tax to pay for flood protection, but residents voted it down both times.
The city recently approved a mix of retail and commercial development of four historic buildings in Kingston Village. Swaths of the neighborhood remain open, grassy fields where homes and businesses once stood but were bought out and razed. Tall bushes and cracked pavement surround boarded up brick buildings. It provides a striking contrast to the revamped downtown on the river's eastern banks, where there is hardly a blighted patch.
Even though the 2008 flood wiped out her business, Fix Salon, about a week after it opened, Juliet Pae-Corr, 31, reopened in another building in the neighborhood about 16 months later because of its proximity to downtown.
''I believe that the heartbeat of the town is in the core,'' she said. ''Somebody's got to take a risk.''
Fred Timko, who is renovating a Sullivan bank building into office and restaurant space in Kingston Village and constructing a six-story condominium building, said he was confident that the city could protect against future floods.
''What we had happen here in '08, I think, was a 500-year flood,'' he said.The city already has built a floodwall around its waste water plant and has raised all of its sewers. Buildings are being constructed in a more flood-safe manner and the city has invested in portable flood protection that can be used in the interim.
Still, nerves here frayed last month when the Cedar River rose. The city was spared flooding that time.
The best protection, some say, would be to give the river more room to breathe. Nearby Cedar Falls, for instance, passed an ordinance after the 2008 flooding that restricted development within the 500-year flood plain.
Residents here suggested converting river neighborhoods like Kingston Village to parks, campgrounds, a disc golf course or even a beach.
Bill Barron, the co-owner of Barron Motor Supply, which sold the city its workshop in Kingston Village that flooded in 2008, suggested planting an urban farm in the community.
''Anytime stuff happens, people's initial reaction is to go back to the way things were,'' Mr. Barron said, adding that Cedar Rapids should ''use it as an opportunity to start from scratch and try something totally different.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: An amphitheater that also serves as a levee was built along the Cedar River in Cedar Rapids, Iowa, as part of revitalization after record flooding in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NATHAN WEBER FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 About 14 percent of Cedar Rapids, including Kingston Village, to the left of the interstate, was flooded in 2008. (PHOTOGRAPH BY CITY OF CEDAR RAPIDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CITIES (90%); FLOODS & FLOODING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); FLOOD ZONES (89%); ENVIRONMENTAL ACCIDENTS & DISASTERS (89%); DROUGHT (85%); BAILOUTS (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); WEATHER (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); PUBLIC POLICY (69%); ADOLESCENTS (68%); ENVIRONMENTALISM (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CEDAR RAPIDS, IA, USA (96%) IOWA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



338 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 531 words

HEADLINE: In the House, a Refusal to Govern

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
On two crucial issues this week, the extremists who dominate the Republican majority in the House of Representatives made it clear how little interest they have in the future prosperity of their country, or its reputation for fairness and decency. 
The House will refuse to consider a comprehensive immigration bill that could lead to citizenship for millions of immigrants, Republican leaders said on Wednesday, and will slowly and casually consider a few border-security measures that have no chance of passing on their own.
And, on Thursday, the House passed a farm bill that stripped out the food stamp program, breaking a pact that for decades has protected the nutrition needs of low-income Americans. It was the first time since 1973 that food stamps haven't been part of a farm bill, and it reflected the contempt of the far right for anyone desperate enough to rely on the government for help to buy groceries.
These actions show how far the House has retreated from the national mainstream into a cave of indifference and ignorance. House members don't want to know that millions of Americans remain hungry (in an economy held back by their own austerity ideology), and they don't want to deal with the desperation of immigrant families who want nothing more than a chance to work and feed themselves without fear of deportation.
On both issues, in fact, many House Republicans are proudly asserting that they will stand in the way of any attempts to conduct a conference with the Senate. That might, after all, lead to a compromise.
Few things sum up the attitude of the current crop of Republicans in Washington than their loathing of conference committees. On issue after issue, they have passed radical bills and then refused to negotiate. On Thursday, for example, Senate Republicans refused for the 16th time to allow the Democratic Senate budget to be negotiated with its dangerously stingy counterpart in the House.
On immigration, House members fear a conference with the Senate would add back the pathway to citizenship that they consider a giveaway to undesirable non-English speakers. The eventual House border bills ''should not be handed to a conference committee so that they can be reconciled with the Senate bill,'' wrote Representative Tom Cotton of Arkansas in The Wall Street Journal on Thursday. Instead, he and others say, the Senate should be forced to take up whatever the House produces.
Similarly, on the farm bill, Democrats said Republicans are insisting on conditions to a conference that would limit, in advance, the size of the food stamp program that the Senate could restore in negotiations. Clearly they are listening to bad advisers like the right-wing group Heritage Action for America, which warned on Thursday that a farm-bill compromise ''will be very appealing to big-government liberals and appalling to conservatives who should be trying to reduce the size and scope of government.''
A refusal to even to sit at a bargaining table is another way of refusing to govern. The nation's founders created two chambers for a reason, but Republicans, in their blind fury to harm the least fortunate, are forgetting even those fundamental national values.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOOD STAMPS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); BORDER CONTROL (76%); BUDGETS (76%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (73%); DEPORTATION (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (54%)

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (51%)

ORGANIZATION: FOOD STAMP PROGRAM (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



339 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; OpEd; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: The Wary Chinese-Russian Partnership

BYLINE: By JEFFREY MANKOFF

 BODY:
Russia and China wrapped up joint military exercises on Wednesday in the Sea of Japan, the largest naval drills China has ever conducted with a foreign partner. The exercises took place amid mounting U.S. frustration over Russian and Chinese efforts to block United Nations Security Council action against the Assad regime in Syria and fuel U.S. concern about an anti-American axis between the two authoritarian great powers.
Although Chinese-Russian relations have improved in recent years as trade has expanded, old border disputes have been resolved, and the tempo of meetings between top leaders has increased, their collaboration masks serious differences. Only major missteps by the United States could make American fears a reality. 
Moscow and Beijing characterize their relationship as a comprehensive strategic partnership, but their cooperation is mostly tactical. The two countries approach the world from quite different vantage points. China is a rising power, with a fast-growing, export-driven economy eager to benefit from globalization. Russia is a stagnating petro-state seeking to insulate itself from the forces of change.
Moscow touts its partnership with Beijing mostly to prove to the rest of the world that Russia still matters, while China views it as a low-cost way of placating Russia. Lacking much of a common agenda, cooperation is limited to areas where their interests already overlap, like bolstering trade.
In the parts of the world that matter most to them, Russia and China are more rivals than allies. Take Southeast Asia. Beijing's assertive claims to maritime boundaries in the South China Sea have rattled America's regional partners and led Washington to deepen its security cooperation with Vietnam, the Philippines and other states whose territorial claims China disputes. But to Beijing's frustration, Moscow has remained silent on the territorial disputes, even as Russian energy companies have signed deals with Vietnam to develop oil and gas resources in the South China Sea -- in waters claimed by China. Meanwhile, Russia's defense industry is expanding its weapons sales throughout Southeast Asia, including selling advanced attack submarines to the Vietnamese Navy.
In Central Asia, Chinese economic power is rapidly pushing Russia aside. Chinese capital is paying for new roads, railroads and pipelines that lock the Central Asian states ever tighter into the Chinese embrace. Last year, all the Central Asian nations save Uzbekistan traded more with China than with Russia. Thanks to the opening of a gas pipeline from Central Asia to China in late 2009, Beijing has been able to take a hard line with Moscow on negotiations to build a new Russia-China pipeline. Russia's push to bring Kyrgyzstan and Tajikistan into its customs union with Belarus and Kazakhstan, along with Vladimir Putin's call to establish an Eurasian Union by 2015, are based heavily on a desire to limit the reorientation of the Central Asian states' economies toward China.
Nor does sporadic cooperation between the Russian and Chinese militaries alter the fact that China's assertiveness worries Russia at least as much as it worries the United States. Russian military commanders acknowledge that they see China as a potential foe, even as official statements continue to focus on the alleged threat from the United States and NATO. In July 2010, Russia conducted one of its largest ever military exercises, which aimed at defending the sparsely populated Russian Far East from an unnamed opponent with characteristics much like those of the People's Liberation Army.
The only sense in which Russia and China are truly aligned is in their shared belief that the post-Cold War international order, designed by and for the United States, denies them their rightful place at the table, while allowing Washington to throw its weight around without regard for the interests of others.
This sense of exclusion underpins their support for new institutional mechanisms like the Shanghai Cooperation Organization, the so-called BRICS countries and the Group of 20, as well as their portrayal of the U.N. Security Council as the sole legitimate arbiter of war and peace.
Much Chinese-Russian cooperation, especially at the U.N., is based on defending the right of states to be fully sovereign within their own borders and opposing intervention in internal affairs without Security Council approval. Even this stand is less about high principle than about protecting concrete interests. Moscow ignored Georgia's sovereignty to recognize the independence of South Ossetia and Abkhazia in 2008 -- to which China objected less from principle than because of the potential precedent for Taiwan.
Beijing and Moscow also abstained when the Security Council authorized a no-flight zone in Libya, a country of little strategic significance for either of them. Their harder line on Syria is a reflection of Russia's political stakes in that country, with China happy to hide behind Russian objections to prevent another instance of U.S. intervention.
The lesson for the United States is that the more it dismisses Russian and Chinese demands that their concerns be taken into account, the more its fears about a Chinese-Russian axis become self-fulfilling. Where Moscow or Beijing have real interests at stake -- as Russia does in Syria -- Washington should be prepared to listen, and to engage in a real give-and-take before acting.
Washington also should take seriously the argument that institutions designed for the post-Cold War world do not reflect the real distribution of power today. It should also be open to new formats, such as the G-20, that place Russia and China on equal footing with traditional U.S. partners. This is especially relevant in Asia, where a new security architecture is still being designed.
Giving Beijing and Moscow more of a stake in the running of the world might be uncomfortable, but the alternative is bringing the Chinese-Russian axis that U.S. policy makers fear closer to reality.
Jeffrey Mankoff is a fellow and deputy director of the Russia and Eurasia Program at the Center for Strategic and International Studies, in Washington.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (89%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (89%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (76%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (72%); EXCISE & CUSTOMS (68%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (67%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (58%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (57%); HIGHWAYS & STREETS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS SECURITY COUNCIL (58%)

PERSON: VLADIMIR PUTIN (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%) PACIFIC OCEAN (94%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%) RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); CHINA (97%); ASIA (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CENTRAL ASIA (94%); VIET NAM (92%); SYRIA (92%); SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (92%); KYRGYZSTAN (79%); BELARUS (79%); KAZAKHSTAN (79%); TAJIKISTAN (79%); PHILIPPINES (79%); UZBEKISTAN (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



340 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 540 words

HEADLINE: Portugal: A Call for Early Elections

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
MADRID -- The president of Portugal reignited political turmoil in the country on Thursday by calling for a new coalition government and early elections, rather than maintaining the administration of Prime Minister Pedro Passos Coelho, which has been strained by differences over its austerity policies. 
The unexpected step by President Aníbal Cavaco Silva, made in a national television address on Wednesday evening, came after Mr. Passos Coelho presented him with a deal meant to salvage the governing center-right coalition, which nearly collapsed last week after two cabinet ministers resigned.
Presidential endorsement is required for such agreements and is typically granted as a matter of routine. It was unusual for Mr. Cavaco Silva to instead present a plan of his own. That he did so suggested a lack of confidence in the durability of Mr. Passos Coelho's coalition, and underlined how divided European leaders have become over the issue of austerity policies.
In his address, the president urged Portugal's two largest parties -- Mr. Passos Coelho's Social Democrats and the opposition Socialists -- to share power until next June and to hold a general election then, rather than leave in place the increasingly unhappy partnership between the Social Democrats and the smaller conservative Popular Party, led by Paulo Portas.
At the beginning of July, Vítor Gaspar, the finance minister who put together Portugal's current austerity program at the request of international creditors, resigned. Mr. Portas, who had clashed with Mr. Gaspar, resigned as foreign minister the next day, but Mr. Passos Coelho eventually persuaded him to stay by promoting him to deputy prime minister.
Portuguese presidents have the power to dissolve Parliament, though they rarely use it. Mr. Cavaco Silva held meetings with party leaders on Thursday to discuss the situation, and was scheduled to meet with the prime minister in the evening. Mr. Passos Coelho did not comment on the president's proposal before that meeting.
Analysts were unsure why Mr. Cavaco Silva had decided not to endorse the ruling coalition's agreement.
''He probably wants to make an impact on his legacy by presenting himself as a guarantor of political stability,'' Antonio Barroso, a political analyst at Teneo Intelligence, a New York-based consulting company, said in a note to its investor clients. But he said the president's proposal ''creates even more uncertainty than under a reshuffled coalition agreement.'' He added that any talks between the Social Democrats and Socialists over sharing power ''will be extremely complicated.''
Socialist leaders have said recently that they would consider forming a coalition with the Social Democrats, but only after Mr. Passos Coelho agreed to call an early election. The Socialists were themselves forced to call an early election in June 2011 after a parliamentary standoff over Portugal's budget problems.
Despite an international bailout and a plan to make the economy more competitive, Portugal has been stuck in a recession. The tax increases and spending cuts imposed under the terms of the bailout program have prompted street protests and strikes.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); POLITICS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); BUDGETS (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (66%)

PERSON: ANIBAL CAVACO SILVA (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (79%) PORTUGAL (94%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



341 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1305 words

HEADLINE: Drenched in Bold Color and Spanish Light

BYLINE: By SUE CHESTER

 BODY:
SOTOGRANDE, Spain -- Fire-engine red and cobalt blue add drama to the audacious structure at the top of the hill overlooking the entrance to the Mediterranean. Of all of Sotogrande's elite homes, the Legorreta house is a statement building that has become a neighborhood icon.
''I wanted a special Spanish house,'' said Gisela Roth, who commissioned the live-in artefact with her husband Peter, now retired as a professor of economics and business from Munich University.
The couple owned a Florida holiday home in the '90s, when Mr. Roth regularly traveled to the United States on business. But on his retirement, the couple decided to sell that house and reinvest in southern Spain. In 1998, they bought two plots on a quiet hillside here, away from the densely developed strip by the resort's port and marina. 
Sotogrande is a strictly no-bling, high-end development that was founded in 1962 by an American entrepreneur, Joseph McMicking. He bought 2,000 hectares, or 4,942 acres, on the coast 25 kilometers, or 15 miles, east of Gibraltar.
Fifty-one years later, Mr. McMicking's vision is a thriving community of second-homeowners, 6,000 of whom consider it their main residence. During the high season of July and August, the population swells to 30,000 and competition is severe for use of the five golf courses, sailing club, tennis academy and beach clubs.
With six polo fields, Sotogrande is now a polo summer mecca attracting British royals, Madrid society and globetrotting celebrities, who will storm the Champagne bar yet again for this year's 42nd international polo tournament, from July 26 to Sept. 1.
Completed in 2004, the Roths' house is now on the market for &#x20ac;3.5 million, or $4.5 million, through Noll & Partners, in association with Chesterton Humberts. ''We can't go there as much as we'd like as we have other duties here at home in Munich. We felt having that big house in Sotogrande was a bit of a waste,'' Mr. Roth said in by telephone, with a tinge of disappointment.
Sotogrande real estate ranges from &#x20ac;250,000 for a two-bedroom, 100-square-meter apartment with a 20-square-meter terrace or balcony to &#x20ac;9.5 million for a seven-bedroom, 1,516-square-meter villa built on an eighth of a hectare.
According to Charlie Gubbins, co-owner of Noll & Partners in Sotogrande, the resort's market is holding its own, especially compared with the coast's property crash five years ago. ''Unlike the coastal region up to Marbella, Sotogrande has almost no bank-repossessed property, although prices have dropped 35 percent to 40 percent since the height of the boom in 2007, compared to 40 percent to 60 percent elsewhere in the region,'' he said.
The Roths, both architecture enthusiasts, decided that in building their house they would realize their ''castle in Spain.''
''We've had many properties over the years, so we decided to have 'the' house where we like every corner, with no compromises,'' Mr. Roth said. They started researching architects and, while leafing through a book about modern architecture and swimming pools, stumbled upon an eye-catching design by Ricardo Legorreta -- ''who we then found out was a student of Luis Barragán, whose work we knew and liked, who started the modern Mexican architectural style,'' Mr. Roth said.
Mr. Barragán won the architecture establishment's prestigious Pritzker Prize in 1980 for his distinct Mexican adaptation of Le Corbusier's Modernism. The architect, who died in 1988, was known for his love of light, color and water elements as well as his garden design.
In designing the Roths' home, Mr. Legorreta continued Mr. Barragán's use of grand sculptural forms, brise-soleil walls and roofs, and signature open stairways, which cast light and shade on a highly customized color palette of purple, red, hot pink, cobalt blue, bright yellow and mustard.
The Roths asked Mr. Legorreta to create a ''sculptural landmark design,'' stipulating only the number of rooms and that the property should be easy to maintain.
''Ricardo said he'd never built 'such a small house,''' Mrs. Roth recalled. But a visitor notes the house's large courtyard, with a roof of dramatic concrete strips, and the living area's 4.5-meter, or 14.7-foot, ceilings. They echo some of Mr. Legorreta's grandest works before his death in 2011, like the Museum of Contemporary Art in Monterrey, Mexico; the Fort Worth Museum of Science and History in Texas; and the Fashion and Textiles Museum in London.
Walking through the only private Legorreta home in Europe is like an interactive experience, going from bright light into dark, through color that changes shade, like purple to fuchsia. The juxtaposition of various levels, stairwells, walkways and columns, as well as large spaces to small, creates contrasts in scale -- and all to the sound of wind chimes and the courtyard's Arabic-style garden fountains.
Many homeowners would not choose red, fuchsia, purple and yellow for their homes, but for Mrs. Roth, who was a color consultant for architects and the building industry before her retirement, it was an exhilarating experience.
''I was always dying for my customers to use these colors but they never did. So I said, 'I'll show you what it could look like!''' she said.
As Mr. Roth recalls, his wife was tickled pink to brainstorm colors with a master. ''They sat together arguing about colors for at least half a day,'' he said with a laugh. ''It's quite something to do that with a Mexican architect.''
The reflection from the petrol-blue tiles lining the outdoor swimming pool glitters on the surrounding orange walls and walkway columns. When Mr. Legorreta could not find the specific blue that Mrs. Roth wanted for the pool tiles, he commissioned a Mexican tile factory to create them, now cataloged as ''Gisela.''
The house is divided into three main living areas. Once inside the front door, the fuchsia paint-work accenting the brise-soleil wall bounces light throughout the lofty red hallway. To the right, a purple corridor leads into a small, bright patio area that overlooks a glassed-off desert garden (Mr. Roth's favorite spot), off which a set of vertical steps creates a 3-D effect around a three-meter-high doorway, creating a grand entrance to Mr. Roth's office and library.
Up the Mayan-inspired stairs is the master bedroom -- what Mrs. Roth calls ''a room with a view'' for its panorama of the olive, pine, palm and cork tree-strewn countryside that leads down to where the Mediterranean meets the Atlantic.
From this level, opposite the dressing rooms and bathroom, a quirky glass-fronted minstrel's gallery overlooks the two central courtyards below and across to the guest wing -- a two-level area that includes a bedroom with en suite bathroom and a kitchen -- that forms another corner of the building.
A tropical brise-soleil roof of horizontal concrete strips connects these two wings of the house. The concrete strips allow air and shafts of sunlight to stream through their yellow flanks, also casting shade over the courtyards, which are joined by vast pivoting glass walls allowing a framed vista of the desert garden and out to the sea.
The house's third wing directly overlooks the courtyards. Inside is a large open-plan living and dining area partitioned from the kitchen by a large stone work counter, complete with fossils; overhead storage cabinets; and a geometric skylight that allows more light in.
Windows along the living-dining-kitchen area display Mr. Legorreta's sandy terrace of neatly planted Mexican agaves. ''We wanted a desert garden so as not to waste water; prices are going up!'' Mrs. Roth said.
What is the Roths' favorite memory in their Legorreta home? In 2005, ''we had a party for the opening of the house. We had a group of Flamenco dancers on the patio -- it was the most splendid evening you can remember,'' Mr. Roth said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COASTAL AREAS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); CELEBRITIES (77%); HOMEOWNERS (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (76%); ENTREPRENEURSHIP (75%); REPOSSESSION (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); POPULATION GROWTH (70%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (70%); SAILING (68%); TOURNAMENTS (65%); GOLF (64%); TENNIS (64%); SPORTS (64%); BRITISH ROYALTY (50%)

COMPANY: SOTOGRANDE SA (92%)

TICKER: STG (MCE) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (92%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (79%) SPAIN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); MEDITERRANEAN (92%); UNITED KINGDOM (79%); GIBRALTAR (59%); GERMANY (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



342 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 4820 words

HEADLINE: Spare Times: For Children

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER

 BODY:
'FAMILY DAY: CARVING MARVELOUS MEMENTOS'
For schoolchildren, shop class has mostly gone the way of mimeograph machines, home economics courses and coy black-and-white films about puberty. But now the Bard Graduate Center is offering visitors ages 6 to 12 a chance to experience old-fashioned woodworking around lush examples of really old-fashioned wood.
''Family Day: Carving Marvelous Mementos,'' at the center on Saturday, focuses on the exhibition ''Salvaging the Past: Georges Hoentschel and French Decorative Arts From the Metropolitan Museum of Art.'' Hoentschel (1855-1915), a French decorator and ceramist who flourished during the Belle Époque, acquired furniture, textiles and ornaments from the Middle Ages and the 18th century to use in his designs. They inspired him, and they will inspire children at Bard.
''The skill is something we thought kids would really respond to,'' said Rebecca Allan, the center's director of education, ''as well as the fanciful animal-claw feet on the chairs and the carved faces that were found on decorative architectural elements.'' 
At the program, children will tour ''Salvaging the Past,'' which also includes intricate fragments, like a gilt bronze furniture mount (1785-90), above, in the shape of a gorgon's head or Medusa. ConstructionKids, an organization that specializes in teaching carpentry to the young, will have children use this glorious head as a model for creating their own wild-haired self-portraits, like the samples at top.
''Children can relate more to a face than to a chair,'' said Deb Winsor, founder of ConstructionKids. The participants won't actually carve pieces, but they will be instructed in how to assemble them safely with hammers, nails, pliers, drills and sandpaper.
''Instead of subtractive work like carving, we're doing additive work -- you're putting components together,'' Ms. Winsor said. ConstructionKids will provide the building blocks: precut pieces of Eastern white pine in the shape of noses, eyes, mouths, locks of hair and ovals for the faces.
''We wanted to give kids an opportunity to watch a carpenter at work and to learn about some of the methods that were used to create special furniture,'' Ms. Allan said. And by participating in that tradition, young visitors will be salvaging the past themselves.
(From 11:30 a.m. to 4 p.m., 18 West 86th Street, Manhattan, 212-501-3011, bgc.bard.edu; $25 a family, which includes admission and snacks. Registration is strongly advised.) LAUREL GRAEBER
For Children
'Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day' (Friday through Sunday) About a decade ago, Judith Viorst turned her children's picture book classic ''Alexander and the Terrible, Horrible, No Good, Very Bad Day'' into a terrific, happy and really very good musical. (Shelly Markham wrote the score.) Now the Pied Piper Children's Theater of NYC, which features a cast of young people ages 5 through 12, is reviving the work, which focuses on the elementary school student of the title and the comical side of those misery-filled moments, from the gum in his hair in the morning to his broken nightlight at bedtime. Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m.; Sunday at 4 p.m.; Holy Trinity Church, 20 Cumming Street, near Dyckman Street, Inwood, (212) 544-2976, piedpipertheatre.com; $8; $6 for under 16 and 65+.
'Archaeology Zone: Discovering Treasures From Playgrounds to Palaces' (Friday, Sunday through Tuesday, and Thursday) Children will step into the shoes of an explorer like Indiana Jones in this permanent exhibition at the Jewish Museum, but the adventures will be purely scholarly. Still, there is plenty of excitement in analyzing artifacts like a jar handle, a clay jug and a bangle and figuring out the purpose behind ancient pieces like a Greek helmet and a bull-shaped vessel. This interactive show, for ages 3 to 10, also includes a recreated room from the Ottoman period (about 1900), where young archaeologists can dress in costume. From 11 a.m. to 5:45 p.m.; until 8 p.m. on Thursdays; 1109 Fifth Avenue, at 92nd Street, (212) 423-3200, thejewishmuseum.org. Free with admission: $12; $10 for 65+; $7.50 for students; free for under 12 and members; pay what you wish on Thursdays from 5 to 8 p.m.
'The Big Adventure' (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Whether or not there are alligators in New York City's sewers, a local river is filled with them, and the only bridge that crosses it has been washed out. That's one of the situations in ''The Big Adventure,'' an exhibition at the Brooklyn Children's Museum that asks young visitors to use their skills to conquer challenges including flying a virtual plane and navigating a thin beam that represents a building ledge. Intrepid explorers can also make their way across a very real climbing wall. (Through Sept. 29.) Daily except Mondays, 10 a.m. to 5 p.m., 145 Brooklyn Avenue, at St. Marks Avenue, Crown Heights, (718) 735-4400, brooklynkids.org. Free with admission: free on Friday from noon to 3 p.m.; for all other hours, $5; on weekends, admission is $9 all day; admission is free at all times for members and those under 1.
Bronx River Festival (Saturday) Whatever your preferred means of locomotion -- boat, bike or just plain feet -- this annual celebration will offer plenty of opportunities to use it to explore the Bronx River Forest, a restored vestige of the woodland that once covered the Bronx River Valley. Sponsored by the Bronx River Alliance, the festival will offer canoeing, bicycle loans, a tree identification walk, field games and performances including zumba and capoeira. From noon to 4 p.m., Bronx River Forest at Burke Avenue Bridge, Burke Avenue and Bronx River Parkway, (718) 430-4665, bronxriver.org; free.
'Cathedral of Commerce' (Saturday) The Woolworth Building was once called the Cathedral of Commerce, not because it was a temple of business, but because its design borrowed elements of medieval cathedrals. In this workshop for ages 6 through 12 at the Skyscraper Museum, participants will explore the exhibition ''Woolworth Building @ 100'' and learn how to compare and contrast that landmark's design with examples of Gothic architecture. From 10:30 to 11:45 a.m., 39 Battery Place, Lower Manhattan, (212) 945-6324, skyscraper.org; $5 per child; free for adults and members. Registration required via phone or e-mail to education@skyscraper.org by Friday at 5 p.m.
'The Civil War' (Monday through Thursday) The bloody battles of American history may not seem to lend themselves to a musical, but in this case Theatreworks USA is using mostly traditional songs from the period itself. With book and additional lyrics by Arthur Perlman and arrangements and additional music by Jeff Lunden, this production inaugurates the company's 25th-anniversary season of free summer theater for young people. Directed toward children 8 and older, ''The Civil War'' explores both sides of the conflict through the perspectives of a variety of characters. (Through Aug. 16.) Monday through Wednesday at 10:30 a.m.; Thursday at 1 and 6:30 p.m.; Lucille Lortel Theater, 121 Christopher Street, West Village, (212) 647-1100, Ext. 131, twusa.org. All shows are free except for the opening-night benefit on Thursday evening, for which reserved tickets start at $50 for the performance only; tickets including an after-party are additional. For all other performances, reservations are accepted only for camps and youth programs and for those making a minimum $50 donation to the free summer theater program; one reserved seat for every $50 donated. Free tickets for the public are otherwise distributed first come first served, starting an hour before each performance, with a limit of four per adult.
Community Environmental Center's EcoHouse (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) The Queens Botanical Garden has a new exhibition this summer. It isn't a plant, but it has a lot do with keeping the earth green. It's the Community Environmental Center EcoHouse, which looks like a brick ranch-style house on wheels. It's actually a mobile museum, filled with exhibits on how families can conserve energy and water and minimize waste. Topics include cellulose insulation, solar heating, low-flow shower heads and compact fluorescent light bulbs. Open daily except Mondays, 8 a.m. to 6 p.m., Queens Botanical Garden Parking Garden, 42-80 Crommelin Avenue, near College Point Boulevard, Flushing, (718) 784-1444, Ext. 181, queensbotanical.org. Free with garden admission, $4; $3 for 62+; $2 for children and students; free for members and for everyone on Wednesdays, 3 to 6 p.m., and Sundays, 4 to 6 p.m.
'Design Zone' (Friday through Thursday) All those cool drum solos, fast-paced video games and plunging roller coasters depend on math and science for their effects. In this new exhibition at the New York Hall of Science, young visitors can learn how a variety of classroom principles apply to real-life design challenges. They'll also be able to conduct experiments and design things themselves: put together music samples, transform a photo by manipulating pixels, create a skate park on a computer. (Through Sept. 1.) Weekdays, 9:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.; weekends, 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; 47-01 111th Street, Flushing Meadows-Corona Park, Queens, (718) 699-0005, nysci.org. Free with admission: $11; $8 for students and ages 62+ and 2 through 17; free for under 2.
Field Station: Dinosaurs (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday through Thursday) It's not unusual to see giants in the Meadowlands, but some of those attracting visitors to that area of New Jersey don't wear helmets or play football. Field Station: Dinosaurs, the 20-acre park filled with more than 30 animatronic prehistoric creatures -- including a Tyrannosaurus rex, a stegosaurus and a 90-foot-long Argentinosaurus -- is now open seven days a week. The dinosaurs move when approached, and the three-quarter-mile trail offers other paleontology exhibits and a mock fossil dig. The park has expanded its programs and shows, including a new 23-minute 3-D movie, ''Dinosaurs Alive!,'' about dinosaur hunting in Mongolia and New Mexico. Park hours are 10 a.m. to 6 p.m.; the ''Dozin''' program is 8 p.m. to 8 a.m.; One Dinosaur Way (off Exit 15X of the New Jersey Turnpike), Laurel Hill Park, Secaucus, N.J., (855) 999-9010, fieldstationdinosaurs.com. In advance, $23; $20.50 for 65+ and ages 3 to 12. At the box office, $28 and $23. Free for 2 and under.
'Gazillion Bubble Show: The Next Generation' (Friday through Sunday, and Wednesday) Children love bubbles, and this interactive show promises not just a gazillion but also some of the largest ever blown, along with light effects and lasers. The stars are the members of the Yang family: Fan and Ana Yang and their son Deni and others, who rotate as M.C.'s for the production. Audience members may even find themselves in bubbles of their own. (The run is open-ended.) Friday at 7 p.m.; Saturday and Wednesday at 11 a.m. and 2 p.m., with an additional 4:30 p.m. show on Saturday; Sunday at noon and 3 p.m.; New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, gazillionbubbleshow.com; $44.50 to $99.50; lap seats for ages 2 and under are $20, cash only, at the box office.
'Kids Dance!' (Saturday) The ''Mad Hot Ballroom'' tradition continues in Lincoln Center's own mad, hot ballroom without walls, otherwise known as Damrosch Park. In this children's program at Midsummer Night Swing, Rodney Lopez, a teacher from Dancing Classrooms, the organization featured in the ''Mad Hot'' documentary, will teach children ages 6 to 10 (and parents who want to join in) the basics of styles like ballroom, tango, salsa, meringue and swing. From 3 to 4:30 p.m., 62nd Street between Columbus and Amsterdam Avenues, (212) 875-5766, midsummernightswing.org; free.
Kids in the Square (Thursday) That's Union Square Park in Manhattan, which has more than playgrounds and lush grass to lure children this summer. Every Thursday family activities and free entertainment start there at 10 a.m. with Yoga Story Time from the yoga studio Karma Kids in the Pavilion, followed at 11 a.m. by a concert or show in the South Plaza. The entertainment this Thursday is by Rolie Polie Guacamole, who, perhaps not surprisingly, offers songs about acai berries and hummus, but touches on plenty of nonfood subjects too. (Through Aug. 15.) East 14th to East 17th Streets, Broadway to Fourth Avenue, unionsquarenyc.org; free.
'The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe' (Saturday) If the children of the Pevensie family could travel to the magical land of Narnia through something as simple as a wardrobe, why shouldn't two hard-working actors be able to play them and all the characters found there? That's what Catherine Fowles and Jara Jones are attempting in Off Broadway Family Theater's first production, le Clanché du Rand's adaptation of C. S. Lewis's classic novel. (The run is open-ended.) At 11 a.m., St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, narniaoffbroadway.com; $35.
Little Yoga Bubbles (Saturday and Tuesday) The smallest children can stretch their bodies -- and their horizons -- at these yoga mini-classes in Central Park. Limited to 15 children, the classes will lend yoga mats to the first 10 arrivals. For children 3 to 6, the teachers will use yoga poses to tell stories that focus on different emotions; the little participants will also learn why the exercises are good for them. Classes for babies emphasize touching and bonding with their parents or caregivers. (Through Aug. 23.) For ages 3 to 6, Tuesdays at 9:30 a.m. and Saturdays at 11:30 a.m. For ages 6 to 18 months, Thursdays at 9:30 a.m. and 4:30 p.m. Entrance at Central Park South, near the Center Drive, on the lawn; a banner will indicate the site, littleyogabubbles.com; suggested donation, $10. (The program has also expanded to Prospect Park in Brooklyn with family Saturday classes; details are on the Web site.)
Macy's Fishing Clinics (Sunday) Fishing tends to be enjoyable for almost everyone but the fish. But the species involved here can't complain too much: they are all returned live to the Prospect Park Lullwater. Open to eager anglers 15 and younger, these annual summer clinics, starting this weekend, involve not only fishing and safety instruction, but also an introduction to aquatic ecology. All equipment is provided. At 1 and 3 p.m., meeting at the Wellhouse on Wellhouse Drive (visitors should look for the Pop-Up Audubon orange tent), the peninsula, Prospect Park, reachable from the Vanderbilt Street entrance, Brooklyn, (718) 287-3400, Ext. 303, prospectpark.org/audubon; free.
Mad. Sq. Kids (Tuesday and Thursday) The kids attending won't have to worry about being mad or square: The entertainment is fun and hip in this summer series of hourlong concerts in Madison Square Park. Tuesday's performer is Recess Monkey, a trio of rocking Seattle schoolteachers who will be celebrating their new CD, ''Deep Sea Diver.'' Thursday's entertainment is Robbi K and Friends, who offer tunes in jazz, pop and world music idioms. At 10:30 a.m., Oval Lawn, 23rd Street between Madison and Fifth Avenues, madisonsquarepark.org; free.
Major League Baseball T-Mobile All-Star Fanfest (Friday through Tuesday) For once young fans of professional baseball will be enjoying a taste of the game in Midtown Manhattan instead of the Bronx or Queens. To begin Major League Baseball All-Star Week, the Jacob K. Javits Convention Center will become a baseball theme park, with batting cages and clinics, visits and autograph sessions by current and former players, and displays related to the sport. The highlights will include a collection of artifacts from the National Baseball Hall of Fame and Museum and an exhibition devoted to the history and struggles of the Negro Leagues. Friday through Monday from 9 a.m. to 8 p.m.; Tuesday from 9 a.m. to 6 p.m.; 655 West 34th Street, Manhattan, (888) 326-3378, allstargame.com; $35; $30 for ages 2 to 12 and 65+ and for college students and military personnel; free for under 2. Online discounts are available, as well as family packs starting at $110 for two adults and two children.
'Penguins' (Friday through Thursday) Think being a human adolescent is hard? Imagine being a penguin. This new Imax film at the American Museum of Natural History follows a young male king penguin on the island of South Georgia in the southern Atlantic. A documentary narrated by David Attenborough, the film focuses on the penguin as it seeks to find a mate and raise chicks among the unforgiving conditions and relentless predators of the sub-Antarctic. Through Jan. 9, hourly, from 10:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m., Central Park West and 79th Street, (212) 769-5200, amnh.org. Included in Museum Plus One admission (general admission and one Imax film or special exhibition): $25; $19 for students and 60+; $14.50 for ages 2 to 12. Member tickets: $12.50; $8 for children.
'Piggy Nation the Musical!' (Sunday and Tuesday) Sammy Hamhock, the little pig at the center of this show for ages 3 to 10, doesn't mind being a pig, but he's disturbed when he sees somebody acting like one. With a script and lyrics by Richard Rosser, who adapted his own children's book ''Piggy Nation: A Day at Work With Dad,'' and a score by Alec Wells, this 75-minute musical follows Sammy as he accompanies his father on Piggy Patrol: that's when you get a ticket for hoglike behavior. (The run is open-ended.) Sunday at noon; Tuesday at 11 a.m.; the Jerry Orbach Theater, Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, Manhattan, (212) 921-7862, piggynationnyc.com; $30 to $60 (premium seats).
'Pinocchio' (Saturday and Sunday) Who better to play a wooden marionette than a wooden marionette? Nicolas Coppola, artistic director of Puppetworks, has adapted Collodi's traditional story of the adventures -- and moral education -- of the puppet who wanted to be real in this marionette production, which includes an original score. (Through Aug. 18.) At 12:30 and 2:30 p.m., Puppetworks, 338 Sixth Avenue, at Fourth Street, Park Slope, Brooklyn, (718) 965-3391, puppetworks.org; $9; $8 for children. Reservations advised.
'Pippi' (Friday through Thursday) Children's literature had at least one feminist heroine long before the feminist era: Pippi Longstocking, the pint-size, pigtailed, redheaded dynamo who lived independently and fought off villains with the help of pluck and superhuman strength. Now the Swedish Cottage Marionette Theater has revived its 2007 musical based on the Pippi stories by the Swedish author Astrid Lindgren. With a book by Zakiyyah Alexander and a score by Daryl Kojak, the production features almost two dozen handmade marionettes. (Through Aug. 25.) Weekdays at 10:30 a.m. and noon, with an additional 2:30 p.m. show on Wednesday; Saturdays and Sundays at 11 a.m. and 1 p.m.; 79th Street and the West Drive, Central Park, (212) 988-9093, cityparksfoundation.org/arts; $10; $7 for ages 12 and under. Reservations required.
'Portraits: My City, Myself' (Friday, Saturday, Tuesday through Thursday) For 35 years Studio in a School, an educational organization, has been bringing professional artists into New York schools and community centers to work with children. And several times a year it also brings the art resulting from that collaboration to the public. This exhibition, on view through Aug. 3, comprises more than 140 works from some 230 young artists from preschool through high school -- drawings, paintings, prints, collages and sculptures -- illustrating their visions of themselves and their communities. (Through Aug. 3.) Fridays, Saturdays, and Tuesdays through Thursdays, 1 to 6 p.m.; Hunter College East Harlem Art Gallery, 2180 Third Avenue, at 119th Street, (212) 396-7819, hunter.cuny.edu/eastharlem-artgallery; free.
Preservation Detectives: 'Hidden Spaces and (Kind of) Creepy Places!' (Sunday) The Museum at Eldridge Street, the 1887 landmark synagogue where many Jewish immigrants worshiped, offers ''Preservation Detectives'' tours in which children 4 to 11 can view artifacts, investigate neighborhood lore and sleuth their way into the past. This month the program is ''Hidden Spaces and (Kind of) Creepy Places!,'' giving young participants a chance to explore nooks and crannies that were untouched during the synagogue's recent restoration. Using binoculars, flashlights and magnifying glasses, they'll look for clues to the building's history. Who knows what may be lurking? From 11 a.m. to noon, 12 Eldridge Street, between Canal and Division Streets, Lower East Side, (212) 219-0302, eldridgestreet.org/visit/family; $15 a family. Reservations are recommended.
'Red Grooms' New York City' (Friday through Thursday) The painter and sculptor Red Grooms may soon acquire a whole new set of fans: New Yorkers under 10. His bright, fanciful and often mixed-media work makes up a new exhibition at the Children's Museum of Manhattan, part of its ''Catch the Spirit of NYC'' summer. The show, ''Red Grooms' New York City,'' consists of eight pieces highlighting both Mr. Grooms's creative process and the city itself, like ''Rockefeller Center'' (1995), which he calls a ''sculpto-pictorama.'' (Through Jan. 5. ) Daily art workshops at 10 a.m. will lead young visitors in projects inspired by his creations. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; to 7 p.m. on Saturdays; Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, (212) 721-1223, cmom.org. Free with admission: $11; $7 for 65+; free for members and under 1.
'Sleepover' (Friday, Saturday, and Tuesday through Thursday) Tada! Youth Theater is inviting everyone to a slumber party, but certainly not to sleep: this hourlong musical revival, by Philip Freedman and James Beloff, has singing, dancing and plenty of comedy, as Mia, the host, and Simone, the new girl, struggle with adolescent anxieties, and a bunch of boys plan to crash the proceedings. The troupe's actors, ages 11 to 18, should know this territory well. (Through Aug. 3.) Friday, and Tuesday through Thursday, at noon and 2 p.m.; Saturday at 2 and 4 p.m.; Tada! Theater, 15 West 28th Street, Manhattan, (212) 252-1619, Ext. 5, tadatheater.com; $20; $8 for 16 and under; $25 and $15 for premium seats. Tickets are available for the Saturday shows, but weekday performances are either sold out or nearly sold out.
Stories at the Statue of Hans Christian Andersen (Saturday) Not everything that blooms perennially in Central Park is a flower or a tree. Storytelling also returns there each summer, as the city's Parks and Recreation Department, the Central Park Conservancy and the Hans Christian Andersen Storytelling Center bring narrative performers to Andersen's statue every Saturday. The series, for ages 6 and older, continues this week with an Andersen story and one from Nepal. (Through Sept. 28.) At 11 a.m., inside the park at 72nd Street and Fifth Avenue, rain or shine, hcastorycenter.org; free.
Summer in Seward Park (Tuesday through Friday) Some of the most enjoyable events at the volleyball court in Seward Park this season won't involve serves or volleys. This summer the Educational Alliance will celebrate the coming December opening of the Manny Cantor Center, its new community center, by giving children an advance taste of its programs at the Seward Park court. Tuesdays from 10 to 11 a.m. will feature Toddler Time at a pop-up library, with stories and songs. Wednesdays from 7 to 8:30 p.m. will offer family concerts; this week Grupo Loisaida will play Latin tunes and lead all interested parties in a neighborhood jam. (Taking instruments is encouraged.) Thursdays from 10 to 11:30 a.m. are gym time, with PopFit Kids, an exercise program. And Fridays from 10 to 11 a.m. promise entertainment for those under 10. This week it's the Czechoslovak-American Marionette Theater, with Vit Horejs presenting his antique marionettes in Czech tales he learned in his boyhood. (Through Aug. 2.) In the park at Essex Street and East Broadway, Lower East Side, (646) 395-4186, edalliance.org; free.
Sunset Eco-Cruises to the Harbor Heron Islands (Sunday) Herons, egrets and ibises are New Yorkers too, and about 3,000 reside on the islands around the city harbor. This cruise from New York City Audubon visits the birds' lairs and provides binoculars for close-up viewing. Gabriel Willow, a naturalist and storyteller, narrates the adventure, conducted via New York Water Taxi. This weekend's destination: the Brother Islands. From 7 to 8:30 p.m., Pier 17, South Street Seaport, Fulton and South Streets, Lower Manhattan, (212) 742-1969, nywatertaxi.com/tours/audubon; $35; $25 for ages 3 through 12; free for under 3.
'10-Foot Cops: The NYPD's Mounted Unit' (Friday through Thursday) Not all of the heroes of the Police Department walk on two legs. ''10-Foot Cops,'' a new exhibition at the Children's Museum of Manhattan, celebrates the horses of the mounted unit and the officers who ride them. Lent by the New York City Police Museum, temporarily closed because of damage from Hurricane Sandy, the show, running through Oct. 6, includes uniforms, paintings, historical photos, film clips, a partial reproduction of a police stable and saddles for children to pose in. Hours: 10 a.m. to 5 p.m.; to 7 p.m. on Saturdays; Tisch Building, 212 West 83rd Street, (212) 721-1223, cmom.org. Free with admission: $11; $7 for 65+; free for under 1 and members.
'The Ugly Duckling'' (Friday through Sunday) Hans Christian Andersen's story of the poor little bird with an identity crisis has been told many ways, and here it's presented as a children's ballet by the married team of Michael and Rachael Kosch, who previously created ''The Festival of the Vegetables.'' With a score by Mr. Kosch and choreography by Ms. Kosch, the production, intended for audiences over 5, uses point dancing, some puppetry and a cast of adults and children to bring this tale of transformation to life. Friday and Saturday at 7 p.m.; Sunday at 1 and 3:30 p.m.; Metropolitan Playhouse, 220 East Fourth Street, East Village, (800) 838-3006, metropolitanplayhouse.org; $20; $15 for ages 12 and under.
'A Voyage Through Jewish History' (Sunday through Thursday) This journey involves not just miles, but years. In this new permanent interactive exhibition at the Jewish Children's Museum, young visitors can travel from Abraham and Sarah's tent to the Western Wall in contemporary Jerusalem and beyond. Activities along the way include giving water to Rebecca's camels, playing the strings on David's harp (a high-tech version with beams of light that emit sounds when struck) and taking part in the exodus from Egypt. This Sunday children can also explore an open ambulance: it's Safety Month. From 10 a.m. to 4 p.m.; to 5:30 p.m. on Sundays. 792 Eastern Parkway, at Kingston Avenue, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, (718) 907-8833, jcm.museum; $13; $10 for 65+; free for under 2.
Wave Hill Programs (Friday through Sunday, and Tuesday) This public garden in the Bronx offers many ways for young visitors to commune with nature, including yoga, art and storytelling. On Friday from 10 to 11 a.m., ''Yoga Together'' invites parents and children ages 3 to 5 to practice poses like jumping frog and downward-facing dog in the midst of the grounds, weather permitting. (Take mats if possible; registration starts at 9:30 a.m. at the Perkins Visitor Center.) On Saturday and Sunday from 10 a.m. to 1 p.m., at Wave Hill House, the Family Art Project, ''My Green Heaven,'' will invite children to roll down the verdant slopes of the property, gathering inspiration; then they'll do garden scenes in painting and collage. On Sunday only, at 9:30 a.m., the naturalist Gabriel Willow will lead families with children 10 and older on a birding walk; participants are to meet at the Perkins center. (Advance registration is recommended online, by phone at Extension 305 or at the center.) Then on Tuesday at 11 a.m., children can enjoy garden and nature tales in a shady spot on the grounds, meeting first at the Perkins center. Independence Avenue and West 249th Street, Riverdale, the Bronx, (718) 549-3200, wavehill.org. Yoga: $23 for one adult and one child; $15 for members; $5 for each additional child. All other programs are free with garden admission: $8; $4 for students and 65+; $2 for children over 6; free for members; free to all on Saturday until noon and all day on Tuesday.
'You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown' (Friday, Saturday and Thursday) Charlie Brown is back onstage, doing what he does best, which is not much. Except, perhaps, attract audiences. Clark Gesner's ''You're a Good Man, Charlie Brown,'' based on Charles Schulz's comic strip, ''Peanuts,'' is now being revived by the Piper Theater. The musical includes memorable moments like Snoopy's World War I flying ace routine and Lucy's attempts to play psychiatrist. At 7 p.m., outdoors at the Old Stone House, Washington Park, Third Street between Fourth and Fifth Avenues, Park Slope, Brooklyn, pipertheatre.org; free. LAUREL GRAEBER

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS (PHOTOGRAPHS BY METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART
 CONSTRUCTIONKIDS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILDREN (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); VISUAL ARTISTS (78%); VISUAL ARTS (77%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (77%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (77%); HAND & POWER TOOLS (76%); CHILDREN'S LITERATURE (68%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (57%) NEW YORK, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (57%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



343 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 488 words

HEADLINE: Cost Estimate Puts in Doubt Deal Covering Student Loans

BYLINE: By JONATHAN WEISMAN

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A tentative agreement to overhaul the federal student loan program was close to collapsing on Thursday night after the Congressional Budget Office said the proposal would cost the Treasury $22 billion over 10 years, according to aides familiar with the discussions. 
Negotiators from both parties started the day with high hopes that a deal could be struck next week to restore lower student loan rates -- but only after Senate Democrats retreated on their position that subsidized loan rates be locked in for at least another year and not subjected to market forces.
Under the agreement, interest rates for Stafford student loans, which go to low- and moderate-income students, would be tied to the variable rates of the 10-year Treasury bond plus 1.8 percentage points, according to aides for the Senate Democratic leadership. The graduate student rate would be the 10-year Treasury rate plus 3.4 percentage points. The rate in another federal loan program, PLUS, would be the Treasury rate plus 4.5 percentage points.
The deal hewed closely to a plan drafted by the Obama administration and modified in a bill passed by House Republicans. To win over Democrats, it would cap interest rates at 8.25 percent for undergraduates and 9.25 percent for graduate students.
Even with that cap, the deal represented a retreat for Democrats, most of whom did not want student loan rates tied to market rates. On Wednesday, the Senate tried to reimpose a fixed 3.4 percent rate on Stafford loans, a rate that lapsed and doubled on July 1. But the bill fell to a filibuster.
Senator Joe Manchin III, Democrat of West Virginia, and Senator Angus King, independent of Maine, who caucuses with the Democrats, voted against the Democratic bill after their own bipartisan measure -- whose terms are close to those in the new agreement -- was not granted a vote. Senator Thomas R. Carper, Democrat of Delaware, also backed the Manchin-King compromise.
Under the agreement, students in the coming school year would be charged 3.61 percent for undergraduate loans and 5.21 percent for graduate student loans. The rates would vary with market conditions, but each year, rates would be fixed for the duration of the loan. The House bill would let interest rates fluctuate each year with changing Treasury rates.
But the Congressional Budget Office's initial cost estimate appeared to be a deal-breaker. The House bill would actually raise money for the government, and Republicans said that at the least, they wanted a final deal that would not increase the deficit. Negotiators scrambled on Thursday night to make small changes to bring down the cost and appease Republicans. No new cost estimates are expected until Monday, and next week the Senate is likely to be consumed in the fight over changes to its filibuster rules.
''It's going to be difficult to find a middle ground,'' said one Democratic aide involved in the student loan talks.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTEREST RATES (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); STUDENT LOANS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); APPROVALS (90%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); POLITICS (89%); FILIBUSTER (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); CAUCUSES (78%); FUNDRAISING (77%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (74%); BONDS (71%)

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (84%)

PERSON: ANGUS KING (79%); TOM CARPER (58%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); JOE MANCHIN (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); DELAWARE, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



344 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Rally Continues, Fanned by the Fed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market, which has been marching higher for a week, got extra fuel on Thursday after the chairman of the Federal Reserve said the central bank would keep supporting the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500-stock index surged to nominal highs, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note continued to decline.
Stocks from companies that benefit most from a continuation of low interest rates, like home builders, recorded some of the biggest gains. 
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, made the comments in a speech late Wednesday after American markets had closed, saying the economy needed the Fed's easy-money policy ''for the foreseeable future.''
The economy needs help because unemployment is high, Mr. Bernanke said. His remarks seemed to ease investors' fears that the central bank would pull back on its economic stimulus too quickly.
The Fed is buying $85 billion a month in bonds to keep interest rates low and to encourage spending and hiring.
Stock index futures rose overnight. Stocks surged when the market opened on Thursday and stayed high for the rest of the day.
''It's back to the old accommodative Fed, so the markets are happy again,'' said Randy Frederick, managing director of Active Trading and Derivatives at the Schwab Center for Financial Research.
The market pulled back last month after Mr. Bernanke laid out a timetable for the Fed to wind down its bond-buying program. He said the central bank would most likely ease back on its monthly purchases if the economy strengthened sufficiently.
On Thursday, the S. &P. 500 index jumped 22.40 points, or, 1.4 percent, to 1,675.02, surpassing its previous high close of 1,669 from May 21. The index rose for a sixth consecutive day, its longest streak in four months.
The Dow rose 169.26 points, or 1.1 percent, to 15,460.92, above its own previous high of 15,409, set May 28.
The Nasdaq composite rose 57.55 points, or 1.6 percent, to 3,578.30.
In government bond trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 27/32 to 92 29/32; its yield fell to 2.57 percent, from 2.67 percent on Wednesday. The yield was as high as 2.74 percent on Friday after the government reported strong hiring in June. Many traders took that report as a signal that the Fed would be more likely to slow its bond purchases sooner rather than later.
The Fed has also said it plans to keep short-term rates at record lows, at least until unemployment falls to 6.5 percent. Mr. Bernanke emphasized on Wednesday that the level of unemployment was a threshold, not a trigger. The central bank might decide to keep its benchmark short-term rate near zero even after unemployment falls that low.
Corporations began reporting earnings this week for the second quarter, which ended 11 days ago. S&P Capital IQ forecast that companies in the S.& P. 500 would report average earnings growth of 3 percent compared with the second quarter last year.
The price of gold gained for a fourth straight day, climbing $32.70, or 2.6 percent, to $1,280.10 an ounce, after falling close to a three-year low. Gold is rising because the prospect of continued stimulus from the Fed could weaken the dollar and increase the risk of inflation. That, in turn, increases the appeal of gold as an alternative investment.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



345 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; WHAT? | OUTDOOR ROAR; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 3424 words

HEADLINE: Behind City's Painful Din, Culprits High and Low

BYLINE: By CARA BUCKLEY

 BODY:
The first helicopter thundered overhead at 8:05 a.m., as Christine Reekie was sipping her morning coffee. Another one came a minute later, and another, and another, and yet another, swooping so low she feared it would not clear the transmission lines. Ms. Reekie had suffered a small stroke two years earlier, and now she shakily began noting each flyover in writing. By noon, she had counted 14, as they jetted to and from the Hamptons right over her home in Floral Park, just over the border from Queens on Long Island.
Fifteen miles due west, in Brooklyn Heights, Roberto Gautier greeted the bathroom mirror with bloodshot eyes. For the umpteenth night running, jackhammering on the Brooklyn Bridge 23 stories below had kept him up until dawn. An aged neighbor appeared at his door, distraught about the racket, having forgotten that she had come knocking the night before. Mr. Gautier's wife had arranged to stay at a friend's house because she could no longer focus at work.
''We're at the breaking point,'' Mr. Gautier said. 
Silence has become a luxury in New York that only a scant few can truly afford, and cultural, technological and economic changes in recent years have added to the din everyone else must endure, creating not just one culprit, but many.
Giant rooftop heating and ventilation units confront residents of the newly built high-rises that face them, and the higher the apartment, the more exposed it is to city noise. Fresh Direct trucks with droning refrigeration units thrum in the streets. Home theater systems thump through walls that have grown thinner with newer construction, and noise reverberates along and through floor-to-ceiling glass walls. Helicopters crowd the skies. Planes fly new routes over fresh new tracts of homes, ferrying overnight cargo ordered by online shoppers. Clamorous new neighborhoods exist in places that were once either empty or served as industrial zones that were quiet at night. Citywide building permits are at their highest in five years, with more crews permitted to work through the night.
Noise has become harder than ever to escape, though New York City, now in its second century of noise abatement efforts, has managed to quiet some offenders of the past, like boom boxes and car alarms. Interviews with residents in affected areas, officials, soundproofing professionals and audio experts not only confirm the creep in round-the-clock outside noise, but suggest that its potential ill effects can rival those caused by deliberately manipulated, high-decibel assaults inside stores, clubs and restaurants. Some contend that the city, despite its efforts, has shown a distinct reluctance to crack down on certain offenders, like construction companies, especially in recent years.
''It's categorically the case that we have more constant and geographically pervasive exposure to noise,'' said George Prochnik, the Brooklyn-based author of ''In Pursuit of Silence: Listening for Meaning in a World of Noise,'' which explores the ill effects of omnipresent sound. ''We can simply look where there were undeveloped spaces and noncommercial spaces, less intense transportation, less commercial activity, and all of these things bring with them noise.''
The constant buzz of New York City is, to some, part of its allure, a life sign of a relentlessly restless, vibrant, ever in-motion city that stands in contrast to the sleepy silence of the suburbs, or to cities with hollowed-out urban cores. The recession was briefer and less deep here, and with that success comes a great deal of sound.
To compete with and pierce the clamor, some have only ratcheted up their own volume, creating more clamor. The Police Department now uses low-frequency sirens, called Rumblers, that emit aliens-are-landing yelps with vibrations that can also be felt. Motorcyclists install thunderous exhaust pipes, citing the biker mantra that ''loud pipes save lives,'' and say the volume is especially needed in a raucous city filled with drivers lost in music, or texting, or driving sound-insulated luxury cars.
Efforts to mitigate noise are often erased. Car engines and exhaust pipes may be quieter, but the tires roar. Construction sites use muted tools and sound dampeners, but the rush to finish a project quickly can result in twice as many workers on a site, making just as much noise.
While the roar of jets has been dulled by quieter engines -- and the retirement of the supersonically loud Concorde -- people living beneath increasingly precise flight paths can feel as if they are under siege.
''For every step forward in terms of technology, we're taking a step back in terms of how we use that technology,'' said Rick Neitzel, an assistant professor of environmental health sciences at the University of Michigan Risk Science Center. ''That's not to say society has gotten louder. But in terms of inescapability it is true. Our noise levels on average might be the same. But they're spread so much throughout the day you really have no respite.''
Beyond harming hearing, chronic exposure to noise increases the risk of cardiovascular disease. Children in classrooms buffeted by outside noise lag behind, and their teachers report lower job satisfaction. Pervasive background noise may damage the hearing center of babies' developing brains, research has found, possibly leading to auditory and language-related development delays. And though people may assume they have grown accustomed to noise, a constant din, even at low frequencies, often takes a heavy physiological toll. Noise can cause stress even when a person is sleeping.
''There's definite clearly defined cardiovascular impacts such as hypertension,'' said Robyn Gershon, a professor in epidemiology and biostatistics at the University of California, San Francisco, who has heavily researched urban noise, with a focus on New York City. ''Also learning impairment in children, impacts on attention, memory, and worker productivity.'' Sleep disturbances are also linked to excessive noise, with higher production of stress hormones, which, she noted, can adversely affect the immune system.
Paying for Peace
To assess New Yorkers' craving for quiet, and to understand who can afford it, one only has to look to soundproofers, who say demand for their services is reaching new heights. And they are not cheap -- soundproofing a wall starts at $5,000; a single window can start at $1,000, with giant windows costing $9,000.
Devin O'Brien, of Brooklyn Insulation and Soundproofing, said he receives up to 10 calls a day from people hoping to soundproof, and has gone from doing roughly a job a week two years ago to twice that many now. Alan Fierstein, a noise consultant and acoustician, gets calls from penthouse dwellers who face rooftop heating, ventilation and air conditioning units, and clients who paid huge sums for an apartment only to discover subpar windows and walls.
Luxury trends, like the installation of car elevators and rooftop decks, have worsened the angst. Mr. Fierstein has also been inundated by calls from residents of glass-skinned high-rises, who have discovered that noise from their neighbors travels vertically along glass walls. ''These people pay top dollars for these apartments, but they're noisier,'' he said, adding, ''The further you get from the street, the more area of the city you overlook.''
Marc Cohen, a vice president of sales at Citiquiet, which installs soundproof windows, said business was currently backlogged. The increase in building sites, the construction of the Second Avenue Subway, the spread of residential high rises along heavily traveled roads like the Brooklyn-Queens Expressway all drive up demand, he said, as does the growth in buyers from outside the city.
''They're buying properties to rent and stay in, and they're just not used to the city,'' he said.
Several acousticians believe the thirst for quiet is an indicator not only of increased population density, but also of how sensitive to noise, and how wealthy, the city has become.
Three decades ago, people tended to more readily accept environmental noise, said Ronald Eligator, a principal at Acoustic Dimensions, an acoustic consulting firm. Nowadays, he said, people want to wield control over what comes into their personal space. ''People's sensitivities are greater,'' he said. ''There are more people with the ability to control their environment, and they're trying to do so.''
Madonna discovered this a few years ago when one of her neighbors on Central Park West sued her for blasting music. Neighborhood gentrification has also created strife; longtime residents of Bushwick, in Brooklyn, are vexed by the loud nighttime noise ushered in by the rapid influx of bars. Meanwhile, higher-paying newcomers in nearby East Williamsburg have complained about the loud music that had long been part of the neighborhood fabric.
The City of New York, for its part, has an updated noise code that has won widespread accolades and awards and curbed many noise creators, among them night clubs and construction sites. Still, there is no shortage of residents who are plagued by unduly loud sources of sound.
Unhinged by Repairs
Mr. Gautier, in Brooklyn Heights, was jolted from his sleep one night by what sounded like a giant drill just outside. Peering down from his window, he saw yellow-topped construction workers assiduously jackhammering more than 20 stories below. He glanced at the clock. It was 11 p.m. Surely, he thought, the construction activity would end soon. But it did not. It went on until 5 a.m., and all through the next day, and the next night. And although there have been lulls, the racket continues still.
After calling 311 to complain, Mr. Gautier learned that the nightly construction was likely to continue until 2014. All the permits were in place, he was told. The Transportation Department was overseeing the repairs, and there was nothing that could be done.
''It was like getting a note saying you'll be executed at dawn,'' Mr. Gautier said.
In New York City, special permits to work outside regular construction hours (7 a.m. to 6 p.m. on weekdays) are granted to lessen the work's impact on traffic, ease congestion and hasten completion. This is especially true with municipal projects, said Ted Timbers, a spokesman for the city's Department of Environmental Protection, which administers the noise code. He said a contractor's noise mitigation plan, required for all construction sites, was especially closely monitored during after-hours work.
Decibel readings were being taken for the Brooklyn Bridge site, he said, with city workers meeting regularly to monitor noise mitigation measures. A working group made up of local residents and the staff members of city officials was recently formed to smooth tensions, but the nighttime construction is scheduled to continue.
Noting that the repairs had to be performed, city officials said the noise code had made New York a quieter place. ''Rebuilding critical infrastructure, including the Brooklyn Bridge, is essential to the future of New York City,'' Mr. Timbers said, ''and through enforcement of the noise code we have seen overnight noise complaints drop by 23 percent over the last five years.'' But as is often the case when it comes to noise and the city, the official version of what constituted a troublesome racket did not always jibe with the experiences of residents.
Noise readings taken from Mr. Gautier's open window using a dosimeter, which measures noise exposure, showed average decibel levels in the high 70s between 11 p.m. and 7 a.m., with volume frequently spiking in the mid-80s, as loud as a shrieking subway. Of course it is much lower with the window closed, but it is still high.
A representative from the Department of Environmental Protection said noise levels generated by the bridge project, measured in another apartment one night, fell within the parameters of the noise code, which says that after-hours work should not increase ambient volumes more than 8 decibels with the window closed. The agency said the ambient level was 48 decibels, which rose to 54 decibels when the construction started.
The World Health Organization recommends average nighttime noise levels of no more than 40 decibels to guard communities against ill health effects. Volumes topping 55 decibels can increase the risk of cardiovascular disease, the agency said.
Some cities employ stricter limits than New York. During Boston's Big Dig project, nighttime construction levels were not allowed to exceed three decibels above ambient levels at homes and hotels at night, with the windows open.
Arline Bronzaft, an environmental psychologist who helped draft the city's noise code, said that though the city's code was lauded as one of the country's most progressive, there were too many lapses where developers and agencies did not adequately assess noise impact, or seek the best available remedies.
In the case of the Brooklyn Bridge repairs, she believes that measures like using quieter backup alarms and the best available sound-baffling equipment were simply not sought. ''NYC takes special pride in its construction section,'' she wrote in an e-mail. ''If this rehab project has caused such stress for the people, then how good is the construction section?''
The city, Dr. Bronzaft concluded, ''gives its own agency a pass.''
Alan Gerson, a former city councilman who promoted noise abatement heavily during his terms, said the travails of Mr. Gautier and his neighbors were indicative of a glaring weakness in the noise code. He said that he pushed for the city to set maximum decibel limits for construction sites while it was revamping the noise code, but that the provision was taken off the table during negotiations between the construction industry and the city.
''It's subject to a lot of influence,'' Mr. Gerson said of New York's noise code. ''A lot of people have an interest in minimizing restrictions placed on construction. And there's a lot of people in construction who are politically influential.
''Sometimes,'' he added, ''The City of New York itself is an offender.''
Turning a Blind Eye
Sometimes noise is simply endured, or ignored.
Not too long ago, a phalanx of Harley Davidson riders thundered into Red Hook, Brooklyn. They were there for a charity event, perched proudly astride their customized motorcycles, which were replete with roaring exhaust pipes.
''I would not ride a bike that did not make a lot of noise,'' said Sal Amato, 54, raising his voice over a sea of roars. ''It's a death trap.''
Mr. Amato said he owned seven motorcycles, all of them outfitted with customized pipes designed to be more powerful, and also louder, than what federal law permits. Echoing a commonly held biker sentiment, he believes that factory-issued pipes, muffled by a decree of the Environmental Protection Agency, choke performance and are so quiet that car and truck drivers will not hear them.
John Gallagher, 57, a biker who lives in Long Beach, N.Y., said that while he was tired of ''real, real loud'' he installed new pipes after ''almost getting run over by a soccer mom.''
Others simply change their pipes because they crave loud for loud's sake. In Harlem and elsewhere, dirt bikes have become a summertime scourge, with large packs of bikers clogging avenues, popping wheelies at crowded intersections and taunting the police, to the bitter consternation of residents there.
''It is a classic, male, testosterone-level kind of thing,'' said John Hurley, a motorcycle activist and columnist who goes by the name Rogue. ''Much like a rooster walking around, hoping the hens will look at them.''
New York City once sought to curb the noise, mirroring efforts by many communities nationwide. A few years ago, several City Council members proposed to ticket bikes that lacked tags indicating they met noise requirements set by the United States Environmental Protection Agency. The plan was shelved after motorcyclists protested that the enforcement would be uneven and unfair; many legal pipes, the bikers said, lack such markings.
The city's noise code now stipulates that a bike is illegally loud if it is plainly audible at 200 feet away on streets where the speed limit is 35 miles per hour or less. But enforcement requires resources and willingness, and few police officers want to risk chasing motorcyclists through city streets, according to Peter F. Vallone Jr., the councilman who proposed, but did not reintroduce, the bill to ticket illegal pipes.
Bikers interviewed throughout the city said they had never been stopped for loud exhaust pipes.
''They let off the Harleys,'' said Peter Baldwin, of Sheepshead Bay, who added that even if he was ticketed, it would be worth it. ''You can give me all the tickets you want,'' he said, ''just don't peel me off the floor.''
The Torture of Transport
Queens as a whole is pounded by the din created by two airports, but for people living in parts of Middle Village, Maspeth and Glendale, the bigger annoyance is the train.
In recent years, as New York has increasingly exported its waste by rail instead of in trucks, life has become unbearable for residents alongside the Fresh Pond rail yard, where trains are assembled and disassembled, wheels shrieking and cars crashing all night.
Some have fled the neighborhood. A coalition of Queens civic associations has pushed to replace old locomotives with quieter, less polluting ones. A local assemblyman, Andrew Hevesi, secured $3 million to overhaul one or two of the old locomotives, but overhauling them all could cost 5 to 10 times as much.
Mary Parisen, who heads the coalition, expects the problem to worsen as rail traffic and the quantity of waste freighted out of the region grows. ''We produce so much waste,'' she said, ''and it's going to be moved by rail.''
Much farther east, residents are facing what has become an annual nightmare: the summertime onslaught of helicopters, ferrying the very rich.
Roaring above houses and skimming treetops, helicopters arriving at and leaving East Hampton Airport buzz-saw through the idyllic tranquillity cherished by residents there. ''It's unconscionable; it's torturous,'' said Kathleen Cunningham, who lives in East Hampton and heads the Quiet Skies Coalition there, of the helicopter noise endured by some communities on Long Island's East End.
Especially galling, Mrs. Cunningham and other antinoise advocates say, is the fact that while helicopters are used by a tiny sliver of those who journey to the Hamptons -- a one-way ride costs thousands of dollars -- they cause disproportionate widespread misery. ''It's how really, really rich people travel,'' Mrs. Cunningham said. ''That's O.K., but they need to be better neighbors.''
Rising and falling in tandem with the fortunes of Wall Street, the number of flights between Manhattan and the Hamptons peaked in 2007, and remain about 15 percent off that number, according to Jeff Smith, president of the Eastern Regional Helicopter Council.
But complaints about the noise they generate have remained, prompting officials to publicly wrangle about what to do, sometimes to little avail.
For many years, the tracks of the Long Island Rail Road, and then the ribbon of the Long Island Expressway, served as a flight route, to the deep consternation of the people living below.
In response, Senator Charles E. Schumer asked the helicopter council to have pilots instead fly north, out over the Long Island Sound, largely sparing towns near the railway tracks, like Floral Park, where Ms. Reekie, the stroke victim, lives.
But the helicopter council said noise complaints increased nearly fourfold, most of them coming from residents along the North Shore. Instead the council had helicopters vary their routes so as not to afflict the same communities, which they said caused complaints to fall by more than half. But Mr. Schumer's office said the helicopters had not been adhering to the new North Shore route in the interest of saving time and gas, a claim that the helicopter pilots dispute.
Last summer, the Federal Aviation Administration signed into law a rule that makes it mandatory for helicopters flying over the northern part of Long Island to fly the North Shore route, heading out over the water after they hit Oyster Bay. Mr. Smith said the complaints again rose, though Mr. Schumer's office disagrees.
''The helicopters make noise,'' Mr. Smith said. ''If we move the line, there's a new neighborhood affected.''
What? Articles in this series are exploring the changing, and sometimes deafening, soundscape of New York City.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: PHOTO (A1)
An apartment building in Chelsea is dwarfed by new construction, left. Building permits are at their highest in five years, with more crews permitted to work all night. Construction, right, adds noise to downtown Flushing, Queens. Some say the city has been reluctant to crack down on noise offenders in recent years.
Arline Bronzaft, who helped draft the city's noise code, said there were many lapses where developers and agencies did not adequately assess noise impact. A 1984 transit poster, right, highlighted some concerns.
Construction near the High Line in Manhattan, left. Clamorous new neighborhoods exist in places that were once either empty or quiet at night. A motorcycle with loud exhaust pipes crosses the Brooklyn Bridge, right. Some believe that factory-issued pipes are so quiet that car and truck drivers will not hear them. (A16)
 ROBERTO GAUTIER, after learning that nightly construction was likely to continue beneath his Brooklyn Heights apartment until 2014. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DAMON WINTER/ THE NEW YORK TIMES) (A17) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Series; News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CONSTRUCTION (86%); HELICOPTERS (78%); WRITERS (76%); HVAC SYSTEMS (70%); NOISE POLLUTION (69%); SECURITY & ALARM SYSTEMS (66%); AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT (64%); BUILDING PERMITS (63%); RESTAURANTS (60%)

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND UNIVERSITY (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (96%) NEW YORK, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



346 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 939 words

HEADLINE: Difficult Spot for Obama on Immigration Push

BYLINE: By MICHAEL D. SHEAR

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- As opposition to an overhaul of the immigration system hardens in the Republican-controlled House, President Obama is trapped between the need to promote what could be a legacy piece of legislation and the reality that being out front might be counterproductive at best.
Immigration advocates, including members of the Congressional Hispanic Caucus, are urging Mr. Obama to undertake a campaign-style push and travel the country giving big speeches to rally support for the bill. ''We believe that the president is giving consideration to going across the country and explaining to the American people the benefits that will come from passage of this legislation,'' said Representative Rubén Hinojosa, Democrat of Texas, after members of the caucus met with the president. ''We welcome that.'' 
But other lawmakers in the House and Senate who support an immigration overhaul are warning the president to keep a low profile as debate intensifies in the weeks ahead. Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and Senator Charles E. Schumer, Democrat of New York, both said Thursday that they wanted the president to play an unobtrusive role.
''These Republican House members -- many of them are in districts that they will be representing for a long time -- do not feel that they have been unduly pressured by the president of the United States,'' Mr. McCain said after a White House meeting with Mr. Obama. ''So I think the president is walking a careful line here, and I think it's the appropriate one.''
Top Republicans in the House have in the meantime told Mr. Obama's staff that an ambitious push by the White House would backfire in trying to persuade conservative House members to support some kind of immigration overhaul.
''It has been conveyed from the speaker's office to theirs that if a positive outcome is desired, it would be best for the president to stay out of it,'' one Republican leadership aide said Thursday.
The president's political advisers say they are sensitive to the politics of immigration in the House, where an overt pressure campaign for the legislation by Mr. Obama is more likely to persuade Republicans to dig in their heels against the effort. Instead, aides said, Mr. Obama will offer his support to advocacy groups and lawmakers strategically.
In the last two days, for example, the White House released reports and videos that argue the economic benefits of an immigration overhaul, but that use neither the president's image nor his voice. White House officials said that the president's support for the legislation has not wavered, but that there are no immediate plans for Mr. Obama to deliver a speech on the issue or to travel for on-the-road immigration events similar to ones he held on gun control, infrastructure investments and early childhood education.
''The president will continue to do all he can to make the case for reform both publicly and working behind the scenes with supporters of the legislation on Capitol Hill and elsewhere,'' said Jennifer Palmieri, the White House communications director. ''But we are aware of and sensitive to the fact that ultimately how the House Republicans choose to resolve this issue is something for them to decide.''
The president's strategy of keeping a low profile during debate on immigration legislation in the Senate in June appears to have worked. A bipartisan bill developed by the ''Gang of Eight'' -- four Democratic senators and four Republican senators -- passed the Senate in a 68-to-32 vote late last month. Backers of the bill said they hoped the easy passage would put pressure on the House to act.
But Speaker John A. Boehner made clear on Thursday that his Republican members did not intend to even consider the Senate legislation.
''We are not going to do the Senate bill,'' Mr. Boehner told reporters. Instead, he said, the House may consider a series of smaller bills that address individual parts of the immigration system, like border security or identity verification.
''It's clear from the conversation yesterday that the vast majority of our members do believe that we have to wrestle with this problem,'' Mr. Boehner said. ''It's clear that dealing with this in bite-size chunks that the members can digest and the American people can digest is the right way to go.''
Top White House officials said that advocates of an immigration overhaul -- including the president, lawmakers and outside campaigners -- have to find ways to keep the pressure on those House members. They did not rule out the possibility that Mr. Obama would become more forceful and public if it seemed like the effort was stalled or headed in a direction that immigration activists would not accept.
In the coming days, White House officials are planning a conference call with small-business owners to encourage them to stay engaged and Mr. Obama may use his weekly address to call on the House to act.
For now, officials said, the president is more likely to wait and see what progress Mr. Boehner and other Republicans make in the House. Republican leaders said this week they did not expect much work to be done before lawmakers leave Washington in August for a summer recess, but officials on Capitol Hill and at the White House are eager to make sure the effort does not languish for too long.
''I believe that the president feels strongly about immigration,'' Mr. Schumer said at the White House on Thursday. ''I believe he'll continue to let America know how important it is to getting immigration reform done. But I believe that he will continue to let the details be worked out by Democrats and Republicans in the House and the Senate.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Representative Rubén Hinojosa, center, and others in the Hispanic caucus after meeting with President Obama on Wednesday.
 Senator John McCain, left, and Senator Charles E. Schumer both said they wanted the president to play an unobtrusive role. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY DOUG MILLS/THE NEW YORK TIMES) CHART: Immigration Divide: Racial Makeup of Red and Blue America (Source: 2010 U.S. Census data, retabulated for the congressional district boundaries of the 113th Congress) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION (91%); LEGISLATION (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); CAUCUSES (90%); POLITICS (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); GUN CONTROL (72%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (91%); JOHN MCCAIN (78%); RUBEN HINOJOSA (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ARIZONA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



347 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1611 words

HEADLINE: Ready Access To Plan B Pills In City Schools

BYLINE: By ANEMONA HARTOCOLLIS and MICHAELLE BOND

 BODY:
She was only 16, with big dreams -- too young, she thought, to have a baby. Yet she had had sex without protection, and she could see those dreams evaporating. Terrified, she found her way to the basement of her school, Abraham Lincoln High School in Brooklyn, where the nurse's office was tucked away.
First the nurse weighed her and checked her blood pressure. Then she relayed the information to a doctor and made sure it was all right to give the girl Plan B One-Step, the morning-after pill. The nurse checked to see if the girl's parents had returned the opt-out form that was supposed to have gone home at the beginning of the year. They had not, so she was free to take the pill.
Taking a pill out of a locked cabinet, the nurse handed it over with a cup of water and waited for her to swallow it, the girl recalled. After that first time, the girl took Plan B at school two or three more times. She said her mother had not signed the opt-out form, because she had wanted to have sex and so had never given it to her. ''My mom, she doesn't even know they have this stuff,'' the girl, a junior from Coney Island, said. 
Last month, the Obama administration seemingly changed the landscape of access to emergency contraception across the country when, in a reversal, it agreed to allow the best-known pill, Plan B One-Step, to become available to all ages without a prescription. Until recently, only those 17 and older could buy it over the counter.
But New York City had long ago come to an accommodation with the idea that girls as young as 13 or 14 should have easy access to the pill.
Through a patchwork of nurses' offices and independent clinics operating in schools, students can now get free emergency contraceptives like Plan B One-Step in more than 50 high school buildings, generally in neighborhoods with high teenage pregnancy rates. Girls needing the drug have been able to get it immediately under the supervision of doctors or nurse practitioners with prescribing ability. School clinics began dispensing the pills several years ago, and in the 2011-12 academic year alone, about 5,500 girls received them at school at least once, according to the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene.
''Most teens go to school,'' Deborah Kaplan, the department's assistant commissioner for maternal, infant and reproductive health, said, explaining the city's decision to make Plan B available in schools, as part of a bigger sex education campaign.
New York is not the only city to take Plan B right to teenagers; similar school-based health centers either prescribe or administer the contraceptives in Baltimore; Chicago; Oakland, Calif.; and all over Colorado, among other places. But New York's ambitious push on Plan B is striking in light of its history with contraceptives in schools. Two decades ago, a decision to distribute condoms in schools without parental consent was one of several controversial moves that ultimately cost Schools Chancellor Joseph P. Fernandez his job.
Now, Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg has power over schools, and his administration can make such decisions without public debate. Even today, however, providing Plan B to minors remains a sensitive issue. In the 13 schools where the contraceptives are handed out by a school nurse after phone consultation with a doctor, parents must be notified of the program and given a chance to opt out, a provision that originated with a court ruling related to the condom protests in the early 1990s. (In 40 schools where an independent provider, which is typically a hospital or local health clinic, provides the pills, no parental consent is required.)
Across the United States, half of all school-based health clinics are prohibited from handing out any contraception, including condoms, by school, district or state regulations or laws, according to a survey by the School-Based Health Alliance, based in Washington.
Critics of the use of the pill have argued that it encourages sexual activity among teenagers and that parents ought to thus have a strong say in whether their children should have access to it. ''Teens who are otherwise going to think twice about sex are going to say, 'This is always going to be available to me,' '' said Anna Higgins, director of the Center for Human Dignity of the Family Research Council.
''The moral and physical consequences to this premature sexual behavior are very real,'' Ms. Higgins added, ''and they need to be addressed by the person who knows the child and who loves the child best, which is the parent.''
Only 3 percent of parents in the 13 schools sign the opt-out form, according to the health department. Dr. Angela Diaz, director of the Mount Sinai Adolescent Health Center, which runs clinics in three Manhattan high schools (where opt-out forms are not needed), said some parents tacitly condoned the program because it was so hard to talk to their children about sex.
''They wish that their kids would talk to them, but given the reality, they're happy there is a place where they can be helped,'' Dr. Diaz said.
The student at Lincoln, where opt-out forms are required, was one of several who said in interviews that they had not given their parents the form because they wanted access to the pill.
Veronica Lewin, a spokeswoman for the health department, said the city gave parents several opportunities to decline participation. ''We made a major effort to inform parents through mail, student backpacks, freshman orientation and parent-teacher meetings,'' she said.
The department did not respond when asked whether any students had needed or received treatment for side effects of Plan B, like heavier menstrual bleeding, nausea and abdominal pain. It also would not give out more up-to-date or detailed statistics on the Plan B program without a Freedom of Information Law request, which is pending. Citing privacy, the health department would not allow a reporter to visit a school clinic.
In interviews outside some schools that offered Plan B, many students described a sort of ''don't ask, don't tell'' détente with their parents, and those who said they had received Plan B or other birth control at school asked for anonymity because they did not want their parents to know.
The Lincoln student from Coney Island said she had tried to get birth control from Coney Island Hospital before getting Plan B at school. She saw the gynecologist, then the hospital told her that she needed to come back again before getting a prescription. ''I felt like they were stringing me along,'' she said. So she gave up.
She did not have money to get Plan B at the pharmacy, and it was free and confidential at school. ''After you have unprotected sex, you're thinking about your future: 'I won't be able to go to college. What am I going to do?''' the girl said.
A 17-year-old from Fort Greene, Brooklyn, called the school nurse at Lincoln ''my new grandma.'' She said she had taken Plan B ''less than five times'' this year. She did not give her parents the opt-out form. She said she had become pregnant twice, after her mother had taken her birth control away. ''She's the reason I got pregnant,'' the girl said.
She said the school nurse had helped her find abortions at a clinic, and had set up an appointment for her to have an intrauterine device implanted.
The new federal rule will not change procedures in school nurses' offices. Under state regulation, they cannot give out any medication, even an aspirin, without a physician's order.
The health department said it did not yet have statistics showing the effect of Plan B on local teenage pregnancy rates, which have been declining in the city and across the country for more than a decade. Based on her observations, the Lincoln student from Fort Greene said she believed the program had reduced pregnancy at her school, but had also made students more likely to have sex.
Most of the scientific evidence, however, suggests that making the morning-after pill available does not increase sexual activity, according to a review of studies by James Trussell, a professor of economics at Princeton, and Dr. Elizabeth G. Raymond, senior medical associate with Gynuity Health Projects, a research organization that supports access to contraception and abortion.
But the pill also does not reduce pregnancy rates, they concluded, mainly because women who take it will often have unprotected sex a short while later and not take the pill. ''They give a lot of reasons,'' Dr. Raymond said. ''They say, 'I forgot.' They say, 'I just didn't think I would get pregnant.' That's a big one.''
At Boys and Girls High School in Brooklyn, a 17-year-old junior from Crown Heights said she had taken Plan B at school three times this year. Despite the threat of disease, which is drilled into students during sex education courses, she was less likely to use condoms because she knew she could get the morning-after pill, she said.
Several girls at the school, which has about 1,100 students, were pregnant during this school year -- the most commonly cited number in interviews was four. One junior from Brownsville said fear of pregnancy motivated her to ask for long-term contraception rather than relying on condoms and Plan B. Besides, she said, ''school is not all year-round.''
She said she had gotten Plan B once from the school nurse. For her, the best part of the program was the confidentiality. Asked what her parents would do if they knew she was sexually active, she said, ''I can't even imagine, to be honest.''
''I won't say rebellious teens, but for teens who decide to do what they want to do, they have this help,'' she said. Without it, she added, ''the consequences are very extreme.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Dr. Angela Diaz, director of the Mount Sinai Adolescent Health Center, said some parents tacitly condoned the contraceptive program because it was so hard to talk to their children about sex. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YANA PASKOVA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
 Pills like Plan B One-Step are available in over 50 schools. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JUSTIN SULLIVAN/GETTY IMAGES) (A18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SEX EDUCATION (89%); ADOLESCENTS (89%); CONTRACEPTION (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); NURSES & NURSING (89%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (77%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (76%); OVER-THE-COUNTER DRUGS (75%); PRESCRIPTION DRUGS (75%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (73%); CITY GOVERNMENT (68%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (65%); PUBLIC HEALTH ADMINISTRATION (64%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (52%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (50%) NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



348 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: Japan's Economy on Road to Recovery, Central Bank Says

BYLINE: By HIROKO TABUCHI

 BODY:
TOKYO -- Three months into Japan's bid to reinflate its economy after years of falling prices, the country's central bank said on Thursday that economic conditions were starting to recover, signaling its confidence that the world's third-largest economy was on the cusp of a long-awaited turnaround.
It was the first time since January 2011, before Japan's natural and nuclear disasters in March that year, that the Bank of Japan had ventured to use the word ''recover.'' The bank's message was underpinned by a rebound in Japan's mainstay exports, helped by a weaker yen, and some signs of a broader recovery in consumer spending. 
Reflecting its optimism, the central bank's policy-setting board left its monetary policy unchanged and stuck to its goal of hitting 2 percent inflation in two years. To get money flowing again in the Japanese economy, the bank, led by its governor, Haruhiko Kuroda, has pledged to pump 60 trillion to 70 trillion yen, or about $600 billion to $700 billion, into the economy annually.
''Japan's economy is starting to recover moderately,'' the bank said in a statement released at the end of its two-day meeting. For proof, the bank pointed to a pickup in corporate investment and profits, industrial production, and both business and consumer sentiment.
Japan's economy is now growing faster than any of the Group of 7's leading economies, recording an annualized rate of 4.1 percent in gross domestic product in the first three months of the year. This week, the International Monetary Fund raised its outlook for Japan to 2 percent growth for 2013, putting it well ahead of its G-7 peers. The Tokyo stock market has gained 40 percent this year.
Economists, along with the prime minister, Shinzo Abe, have taken to calling his economic program ''Abenomics.'' The term has been featured prominently in campaigning for the July 21 elections for Japan's upper house of Parliament, which Mr. Abe's ruling Liberal Democratic Party is expected to win by a landslide.
Still, the central bank acknowledged that it could take time for an all-around recovery in prices to take hold after 15 years of deflation. The year-over-year rate of change in consumer prices, excluding fresh food, is still zero, it said, though some indicators suggested a rise in inflation expectations.
At the same time, anxiety over volatility in government bond markets have also receded in recent weeks, after the bank adjusted the way it conducts its purchases in that market, minimizing any disruption. Despite Japan's sky-high public debt, long-term interest rates remain far lower than those in the United States or in Europe.
Even as the United States Federal Reserve Bank debates when to phase out its stimulus, the focus in Japan has turned to when the central bank might push ahead with more easing. But the bank's willingness to stand pat on monetary policy, and on its 2 percent inflation target, suggests that the bank is comfortable with letting its program play out in the wider economy for now, economists said.
In a note to clients, Kyohei Morita, a Japan economist at Barclays Capital, said that he was pushing back his projection for further easing from the central bank to next April, from an earlier forecast of October this year. A slowdown in government spending as the postdisaster reconstruction demand winds down could hurt growth projections for 2014 and force the bank's hand, he said.
He said he was optimistic that growth, for now, would receive wide support from strong consumer spending, buttressed not only by improving consumer sentiment but also by the impending retirement of the country's postwar baby boomers, who are expected to turn en masse from net savers to net spenders.
''Japan's economy is increasingly characterized by strong personal consumption, supported by Abenomics and the baby boomer generation,'' Mr. Morita said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CENTRAL BANKS (92%); ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); INFLATION (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DEFLATION (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (77%); JAPANESE YEN (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); BUSINESS CONFIDENCE (70%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (68%); BONDS (68%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE (67%); POLITICAL PARTIES (66%); INTEREST RATES (64%); BOND MARKETS (62%); PRIME MINISTERS (62%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%)

COMPANY: BANK OF JAPAN (57%)

TICKER: 8301 (JASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (57%)

PERSON: SHINZO ABE (79%)

GEOGRAPHIC: TOKYO, JAPAN (90%) JAPAN (96%); UNITED STATES (92%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



349 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 544 words

HEADLINE: Rally Continues, Fanned by the Fed

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
The stock market, which has been marching higher for a week, got extra fuel on Thursday after the chairman of the Federal Reserve said the central bank would keep supporting the economy.
The Dow Jones industrial average and Standard & Poor's 500-stock index surged to nominal highs, and the yield on the 10-year Treasury note continued to decline.
Stocks from companies that benefit most from a continuation of low interest rates, like home builders, recorded some of the biggest gains. 
The Fed chairman, Ben S. Bernanke, made the comments in a speech late Wednesday after American markets had closed, saying the economy needed the Fed's easy-money policy ''for the foreseeable future.''
The economy needs help because unemployment is high, Mr. Bernanke said. His remarks seemed to ease investors' fears that the central bank would pull back on its economic stimulus too quickly.
The Fed is buying $85 billion a month in bonds to keep interest rates low and to encourage spending and hiring.
Stock index futures rose overnight. Stocks surged when the market opened on Thursday and stayed high for the rest of the day.
''It's back to the old accommodative Fed, so the markets are happy again,'' said Randy Frederick, managing director of Active Trading and Derivatives at the Schwab Center for Financial Research.
The market pulled back last month after Mr. Bernanke laid out a timetable for the Fed to wind down its bond-buying program. He said the central bank would most likely ease back on its monthly purchases if the economy strengthened sufficiently.
On Thursday, the S. &P. 500 index jumped 22.40 points, or, 1.4 percent, to 1,675.02, surpassing its previous high close of 1,669 from May 21. The index rose for a sixth consecutive day, its longest streak in four months.
The Dow rose 169.26 points, or 1.1 percent, to 15,460.92, above its own previous high of 15,409, set May 28.
The Nasdaq composite rose 57.55 points, or 1.6 percent, to 3,578.30.
In government bond trading, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note increased 27/32 to 92 29/32; its yield fell to 2.57 percent, from 2.67 percent on Wednesday. The yield was as high as 2.74 percent on Friday after the government reported strong hiring in June. Many traders took that report as a signal that the Fed would be more likely to slow its bond purchases sooner rather than later.
The Fed has also said it plans to keep short-term rates at record lows, at least until unemployment falls to 6.5 percent. Mr. Bernanke emphasized on Wednesday that the level of unemployment was a threshold, not a trigger. The central bank might decide to keep its benchmark short-term rate near zero even after unemployment falls that low.
Corporations began reporting earnings this week for the second quarter, which ended 11 days ago. S&P Capital IQ forecast that companies in the S.& P. 500 would report average earnings growth of 3 percent compared with the second quarter last year.
The price of gold gained for a fourth straight day, climbing $32.70, or 2.6 percent, to $1,280.10 an ounce, after falling close to a three-year low. Gold is rising because the prospect of continued stimulus from the Fed could weaken the dollar and increase the risk of inflation. That, in turn, increases the appeal of gold as an alternative investment.

GRAPHIC: CHARTS: Freddie Mac Yields: Average for some Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp. securities. (Source: F.H.L.M.C.)
 The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: STOCK INDEXES (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); TREASURY SECURITIES (89%); BONDS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); BOND MARKETS (78%); FUTURES (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); INTEREST RATES (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (65%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (56%)

PERSON: BEN BERNANKE (89%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



350 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013
Correction Appended 
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section C; Column 0; Movies, Performing Arts/Weekend Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 5371 words

HEADLINE: The Listings

 BODY:
Theater
Approximate running times are in parentheses. Theaters are in Manhattan unless otherwise noted. Full reviews of current productions, additional listings, showtimes and ticket information are at nytimes.com/theater. A searchable, critical guide to theater is at nytimes.com/events.
Previews and Openings
'Bill W. and Dr. Bob' (in previews; opens on Tuesday) Samuel Shem and Janet Surrey's widely traveled drama returns to New York in a new production directed by Seth Gordon, whose staging at the Cleveland Play House in 2010 won strong reviews. Patrick Boll plays the New York stockbroker Bill Wilson, who took to the bottle after the 1929 crash, and Timothy Crowe plays Dr. Bob Smith, a surgeon often found in the operating theater with a hangover. The play chronicles their unlikely encounter, which led to mutual rescue and the formation of Alcoholics Anonymous. Proceeds go to the Hazelden Foundation. SoHo Playhouse, 15 Vandam Street, South Village, (866) 811-4111, billwanddrbob.com. (David Rooney) 
'The Capables' (previews start on Wednesday; opens on July 23) What does it take to get some family members to clean up after themselves? Threatening to revoke privileges might do the trick for some parents, but the family in this new dark comedy by Jay Stull has to resort to a reality-TV-based intervention to break the mom (Dale Soules) of her hoarding habit. If initial reports are to be believed, the set designers have created an onstage hoard that is every pack rat's dream and everyone else's nightmare. The Gym at Judson, 243 Thompson Street, at Washington Square South, Greenwich Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Eric Grode)
'The Designated Mourner' (in previews; opens on July 21) In a joint venture to celebrate the 40-year theatrical collaboration between the writer and performer Wallace Shawn and his frequent director, André Gregory, the Public Theater and Theater for a New Audience are presenting a two-part salute. First up is Mr. Shawn's 1996 play, a series of interlocking monologues in which three artist-intellectuals reflect on the hard-right turn taken by their unnamed, once-liberal country. Mr. Gregory reunites the cast of his celebrated 2000 New York production, Mr. Shawn, Deborah Eisenberg and Larry Pine, for the occasion. The celebration will continue in October with the American premiere of Mr. Shawn's latest play, ''Grasses of a Thousand Colors.'' Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Rooney)
'First Date' (in previews; opens on Aug. 8) Zachary Levi, from the NBC spy comedy ''Chuck,'' and Krysta Rodriguez, from ''The Addams Family'' onstage and ''Smash'' on television, are the potential soulmates thrown together in an eventful getting-to-know-you evening in this romantic musical that kicks off the new Broadway season. Directed by Bill Berry, who first staged the musical as a co-production of ACT and the 5th Avenue Theater in Seattle, the show has a book by Austin Winsberg, a former writer and producer on ''Gossip Girl,'' with music and lyrics by Alan Zachary and Michael Weiner. Josh Rhodes (''Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella'') is the choreographer. Longacre Theater, 220 West 48th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rooney)
'A Midsummer Night's Dream' (opens on Saturday) More than one Shakespeare is being performed in more than one New York park this summer, and if the enterprising Classical Theater of Harlem has its way, this new entry will be an annual addition to the summer's cultural scene. Look for bits of capoeira and West African dance to enliven this oft-told tale of fickle lovers, mischievous fairies and rude mechanicals. Richard Rodgers Amphitheater, Marcus Garvey Park, 18 Mount Morris Park West and 122nd Street, (347) 688-6304, classiscaltheatreofharlem.org. (Grode)
'Murder for Two' (in previews; opens on July 25) Second Stage Theater Uptown has provided early New York exposure for emerging playwrights including Rajiv Joseph, Leslye Headland, Adam Bock and Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa. The annual summer series wraps up its 2013 lineup with a rare foray into musicals in this madcap modern twist on Agatha Christie, in which one actor (Brett Ryback) plays the homicide investigator and another (Jeff Blumenkrantz) plays all 13 suspects. Joe Kinosian composed the score, and Kellen Blair wrote the lyrics, with both collaborating on the book. Scott Schwartz directs. McGinn/Cazale Theater, 2162 Broadway at 76th Street, fourth floor, (212) 246-4422, 2st.com. (Rooney)
'Nobody Loves You' (in previews; opens on Thursday) The manufactured romantic drama of a TV dating show collides with the authentic emotional connection of a real relationship, creating complications for a philosophy grad student in this new musical with book and lyrics by the playwright Itamar Moses and music and lyrics by Gaby Alter. Michelle Tattenbaum directs this Second Stage production, with an eight-member ensemble that includes Leslie Kritzer, Lauren Molina and Rory O'Malley. Choreography is by Mandy Moore, an Emmy winner for her work on ''So You Think You Can Dance.'' Second Stage Theater, 305 West 43rd Street, (212) 246-4422, 2st.org. (Rooney)
'rogerandtom' (in previews; opens on Saturday) Following its popular spring run, Julien Schwab's mind-bending, fourth wall-obliterating comedy from Personal Space Theatrics returns to Here for an extended summer engagement. A ''Twilight Zone''-style exploration of the boundaries of the imagination, the show centers on a man who has come to see the same production as the audience, only to discover that he is part of the cast. Here, 145 Avenue of the Americas, at Dominick Street, South Village, (212) 352-3101, here.org. (Rooney)
'Soul Doctor' (previews begin Wednesday; opens on Aug. 15) This musical odyssey -- after engagements in South Florida and New Orleans, as well as Off Broadway -- examines the life of ''The Singing Rabbi,'' Shlomo Carlebach, a key figure in popular Jewish music, and his friendship with Nina Simone. The show is written and directed by Daniel S. Wise, with choreography by Benoit-Swan Pouffer. Circle in the Square Theater, 1633 Broadway, at 50th Street, (800) 432-7780, telecharge.com. (Grode)
'Storyville' (previews start on Monday; opens on July 23) Several places have laid claim to being the birthplace of jazz, but if jazz historians have to choose one spot, they tend to settle on New Orleans. This new musical promises a boisterous look at one of the city's creative hubs, the racy Storyville district, around 1917. The choreographer, Mercedes Ellington, should have some light to shed on jazz's formative years; after all, her grandfather was a piano player who went by the nickname Duke. Theater at St. Peter's Lutheran Church, Lexington Avenue, at 54th Street, (212) 935-5820, yorktheatre.org. (Grode).
Broadway
'Annie' James Lapine's revival of the singing comic strip from 1977 is merely serviceable. But its smiley-faced mixture of hope and corn scratches an itch in a city recovering from a recession and a hurricane. Theatergoers may occasionally feel the urge both to mist up and throw up, but Lilla Crawford is a nigh irresistible Orphan Annie. With Anthony Warlow and Jane Lynch as Miss Hannigan through Sunday; Faith Prince begins in the role on July 19. (2:25). Palace Theater, 1564 Broadway, at 47th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Ben Brantley)
&#x2605; 'The Assembled Parties' Richard Greenberg's play about the decline of an affluent family is a throwback to a time when Charm -- with a capital C -- was a cardinal virtue in theater. It is also smart, sad and so impossibly well-spoken you may feel like giving up on conversation. Lynne Meadow directs a fine cast led by a singularly charming Jessica Hecht (2:35). Samuel J. Friedman Theater, 261 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Kinky Boots' Cyndi Lauper has created a love-and-heat-seeking score that performs like a pop star on Ecstasy. This Harvey Fierstein-scripted tale of lost souls in shoe business, in which a young factory owner (Stark Sands) teams up with a drag queen (Billy Porter), sometimes turns into a sermon. But it's hard to resist the audience-hugging charisma of the songs in this Tony winner for best new musical (2:20). Al Hirschfeld Theater, 302 West 45th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
&#x2605; 'Matilda the Musical' The most satisfying and subversive musical ever to come out of Britain. Directed by Matthew Warchus, with a book by Dennis Kelly and addictive songs by Tim Minchin, this adaptation of Roald Dahl's novel is an exhilarating tale of empowerment, told from the perspective of that most powerless group, little children. Bertie Carvel is priceless as their schoolmistress nemesis (2:35). Shubert Theater, 225 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Motown: The Musical' A dramatically slapdash but musically vibrant joy ride through the glory days of the Detroit music label founded by Berry Gordy. Mr. Gordy's book is sketchy and obvious -- you want to plug your ears whenever the music stops. But the music is, of course, some of the greatest R&B ever recorded, and the performers mostly electric (2:40). Lunt-Fontanne Theater, 205 West 46th Street, (877) 250-2929, ticketmaster.com. (Charles Isherwood)
'The Nance' Playing a gay burlesque performer whose onstage specialty is mincing effeminacy, Nathan Lane combines shiny expertise and dark conviction to sometimes devastating effect, in this strained if heartfelt play by Douglas Carter Beane. Not even Mr. Lane, though, can reconcile all the disparities the script asks him to weave together. Jack O'Brien is the estimable director (2:25). Lyceum Theater, 149 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Pippin' Diane Paulus sends in the acrobats for her exhaustingly energetic (and now Tony-winning) revival of Stephen Schwartz and Roger O. Hirson's 1972 musical. As for the 99-pound story at the center of this muscle-bound spectacle -- the one about the starry-eyed son of Charlemagne (Matthew James Thomas) -- that's there too, if you look hard. With Patina Miller and a delightful Andrea Martin (2:35). Music Box Theater, 239 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Rodgers & Hammerstein's Cinderella' This ultimate and most enduring of makeover stories, via the team who gave us ''Oklahoma!,'' has been restyled by the director Mark Brokaw and the writer Douglas Carter Beane into a glittery patchwork of snark and sincerity, with a whole lot of fancy ball gowns. Laura Osnes and Santino Fontana are the appealing leading lovers (2:20). Broadway Theater, 1681 Broadway, at 53rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Trip to Bountiful' Michael Wilson's slow-handed staging of Horton Foote's 1953 drama about an old woman's journey into the past is most notable for its remarkable star, Cicely Tyson, who seems thoroughly rejuvenated by her return to Broadway. The attractive supporting cast includes Cuba Gooding Jr., Vanessa Williams, and in a lovely, low-key performance, Condola Rashad (2:10). Stephen Sondheim Theater, 124 West 43rd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'Vanya and Sonia and Masha and Spike' Portraying a woman mired in what appears to be a permanent midlife crisis, the marvelous comic actor Kristine Nielsen provides much of the laughing gas in Christopher Durang's uneven but intermittently delightful riff on Chekhovian themes. David Hyde Pierce and Sigourney Weaver also star in this Tony-winning play directed by Nicholas Martin (2:30). John Golden Theater, 252 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
Off Broadway
'Around the World in 80 Days' This stage version of the Jules Verne novel is an odd combination of steampunk and vaudeville. The actors' shameless mugging grows annoying after a while, but the pace stays brisk and the energy level high (1:30). New Theater at 45th Street, 354 West 45th Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, aroundtheworldinnyc.com. (Neil Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'Buyer & Cellar' Jonathan Tolins has concocted an irresistible one-man play from the most peculiar of fictitious premises -- an underemployed Los Angeles actor goes to work in Barbra Streisand's Malibu, Calif., basement -- allowing the playwright to ruminate with delicious wit and perspicacity on the solitude of celebrity, the love-hate attraction between gay men and divas, and the melancholy that lurks beneath narcissism. In the capable hands of the director Stephen Brackett and the wickedly charming actor Michael Urie, this seriously funny slice of absurdist whimsy creates the illusion of a stage filled with multiple people, all of them with their own droll point of view (1:30). Barrow Street Theater, 27 Barrow Street, at Seventh Avenue South, West Village, (212) 868-4444, smarttix.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Choir Boy' A supremely gifted cast of singing actors breathes vivid life into Tarell Alvin McCraney's appealing but diffuse play about a gay teenager, played with beaming intensity by Jeremy Pope, trying to come to terms with his sexuality at an all-black boys prep school (1:30). City Center Stage II, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
'Cougar the Musical' Three older women find themselves attracted to younger men, two against their better judgment. The concept seems made for bus tours, but imagination, appealing numbers with original melodies and theme-transcending jokes lift this show well above the level of ''Menopause: The Musical'' and its ilk (1:30). Fridays and Saturdays only. St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
'Cuff Me: The Fifty Shades of Grey Musical Parody' What can I possibly say that isn't said by the title of this production? Here's one thing: It's not exactly great theater, but I'd still rather see ''Cuff Me'' than read the novel upon which it's based (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Claudia La Rocco)
'The Explorers Club' Nell Benjamin's intermittently funny but mostly blunt-witted comedy, directed by Marc Bruni, features a lively cast in a farcical story of tweedy members of a British science club fretting over whether to admit a female member, played by Jennifer Westfeldt (1:35). City Center Stage I, 131 West 55th Street, (212) 581-1212, nycitycenter.org. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Fried Chicken and Latkes' Rain Pryor, the daughter of the comedian Richard Pryor (who died in 2005), stars in this effervescent solo show, which recounts her upbringing in a biracial household (her mother is Jewish) in Beverly Hills, Calif. Ms. Pryor, who sings and portrays a range of characters (including, poignantly, her father in a spot-on impression) is an ebullient performer with a robust singing voice. She lives in Baltimore now, but her outsize personality is built for Broadway (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Andy Webster)
&#x2605; 'Gibraltar' James Joyce fans will appreciate this ''Adaptation After James Joyce's 'Ulysses,' '' a play that focuses on Leopold and Molly Bloom. Patrick Fitzgerald, who wrote it, and Cara Seymour play a range of characters. True to the book, they also suggest a good deal about the bond between Joyce and Nora Barnacle, his uneducated wife, indispensable muse and model for Molly (1:55). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Webster)
&#x2605; 'Here Lies Love' An invigorating poperetta, conceived by David Byrne, that sets a new standard for audience participation. Or do I mean coercion? In this heady show about the heady life of Imelda Marcos, staged with infinite inventiveness by Alex Timbers, all the world's a dance floor, and all the men and women (including the audience) merely disco rats (1:30). Public Theater, 425 Lafayette Street, at Astor Place, East Village, (212) 967-7555, publictheater.org. (Brantley)
'It's Just Sex' Jeff Gould's lightweight comedy, a long-running hit in Los Angeles, is about three married couples whose party turns into an evening of spouse-swapping and postcoital navel-gazing (metaphorically). The cast is personable, but the script's only deep thought is that if women were told they could talk only to one person for the rest of their lives, they would understand why sexual fidelity is so stifling for men (1:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Anita Gates)
&#x2605; 'Murder Ballad' A small but savvy musical that panders in style to those of us who lap up febrile accounts of fatal attractions. Julia Jordan and Juliana Nash's contemporary tale of a razor-edged love triangle knows exactly what it wants to do, and does it most efficiently, with a four-member cast directed by Trip Cullman. Staged last fall at Manhattan Theater Club's Studio at Stage II, the show returns with most of its original cast (John Ellison Conlee, Will Swenson and Rebecca Naomi Jones) and an addition: Caissie Levy, who has replaced Karen Olivo. Union Square Theater, 100 East 17th Street, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com. (Brantley)
'My Name Is Asher Lev' Aaron Posner's adaptation of Chaim Potok's novel feels like a well-made play from the era in which the story takes place: the 1950s. Set in a Hasidic neighborhood in Brooklyn, this tale of an artistic prodigy has been directed with an attention to emotional nuance by Gordon Edelstein and features strong performances from its three-person cast: Ari Brand, Mark Nelson and Jenny Bacon (1:30). Westside Theater/Upstairs, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Rachel Saltz)
&#x2605; 'Natasha, Pierre and the Great Comet of 1812' Dave Malloy's transporting pop opera dramatizes an emotionally potent slice of Tolstoy's ''War and Peace.'' Rachel Chavkin directs a superb young cast who bring the loves and losses of 19th-century Russian aristocrats to vibrant, intimate life in a stylish cabaret setting expressly built for the production (2:30). Kazino, West 13th Street, at Washington Street, West Village, (877) 704-2821, thegreatcometof1812.com. (Isherwood)
&#x2605; 'Peter and the Starcatcher' The most exhilarating and inventive example of story theater since the Royal Shakespeare Company's ''Life and Adventures of Nicholas Nickleby.'' This production, about the boy who became Peter Pan, is an enchanted anatomy of the urge to defy gravity. Roger Rees and Alex Timbers direct (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'A Picture of Autumn' Removing an aged parent from a beloved home that's no longer safe or convenient is never easy. Just imagine this scaled up a bit, with the parent clinging to a crumbling, 16th-century, 18-bedroom mansion. A son tries this thankless task in the revival of this 1951 play by N. C. Hunter. The play feels much too long, drawing out dialogues as if the audience had as much time to kill as the listless manor residents. But the cast (led by George Morfogen) is nonetheless stellar (2:20). Mint Theater, 311 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (866) 811-4111, minttheater.org. (Catherine Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Potted Potter' With no new Harry Potter adventures to pore over, what's a Muggle in need of a fix to do? One answer: this gloriously goofy parody by Daniel Clarkson and Jefferson Turner, which compresses a retelling of the seven books into 70 minutes, complete with a game of Quidditch. Clearly the two comics attended Professor Flitwick's charms class, because they cast the perfect spell over the audience: reductio ad absurdum (1:10). Little Shubert Theater, 422 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Daniel M. Gold)
&#x2605; 'Rantoul and Die' Debbie, assistant manager at the local Dairy Queen, has had enough of Rallis, a whimpering man-child. But Rallis cannot bear the thought of living without her and discharges several disturbing cries for help. This darkly funny play is by Mark Roberts, creator of the sitcom ''Mike & Molly,'' and he writes here with the expletive-laden catharsis of someone who has been cramped by CBS's Standards & Practices department for far too long. His dialogue is exquisitely vivid and coarse, riddled with saw-toothed similes and sinister non sequiturs (1:40). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (866) 811-4111, amoralists.com. (Rampell)
'21' A recent college graduate with a head full of new ideas clashes with his easygoing family in this play produced by Repertorio Español (1:45). Gramercy Arts Theater, 138 East 27th Street, Manhattan, (212) 225-9999, repertorio.org. (Ken Jaworowski)
&#x2605; 'The Two-Character Play' Playing strung-out sibling theater troupers in Tennessee Williams's rarely seen fever dream of an eternal folie à deux, Amanda Plummer and Brad Dourif don't just strike sparks. They're a raging conflagration that keeps changing form and direction. Gene David Kirk directs this revival of a demented, messy and oddly affecting self-portrait from an American master (2:10). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Brantley)
'The Unavoidable Disappearance of Tom Durnin' David Morse gives a precise, chilling performance as the title character, a mini-Madoff, in Steven Levenson's downbeat drama about a man trying to make amends for the damage his crime inflicted on his family (1:40). Laura Pels Theater, Harold and Miriam Steinberg Center for Theater, 111 West 46th Street, (212) 719-1300, roundaboutunderground.org. (Isherwood)
'Unbroken Circle' Eve Plumb, a k a Jan of ''The Brady Bunch,'' demonstrates a flair for grown-up comedy as a born-again Christian with drinking and divorce habits in James Wesley's comic drama. Too bad the production is uncertainly paced and a little unpolished, because this story of a 1970s Texas family dealing with the death of an abusive patriarch has a lot going for it (1:50). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Gates)
'Unconstitutional' Colin Quinn's entertaining spin through the history of our country translates wonky history into very funny jokes (1:05). Cherry Lane Theater, 38 Commerce Street, West Village, (212)&#x003C;133>352-3101, cherrylanetheatre.org. (Jason Zinoman)
'Unlock'd' The best songs in this new musical from the Prospect Theater Company are surprisingly beautiful considering how daffy the story is. It's a Shakespearean sort of romantic comedy set in a land of sylphs and gnomes where hair is practically worshiped, especially the tresses of Belinda (Jillian Gottlieb), the fairest and possibly dimmest lass in the land. Things run on a little too long, but there are rewards along the way (2:00). The Duke on 42nd Street, 229 West 42nd Street, (646) 223-3010, dukeon42.org (Genzlinger)
&#x2605; 'The Weir' This first-rate revival of Conor McPherson's play gathers a group of friends as they tell ghost stories to drive away a loneliness than can be even more frightening (1:30). Irish Repertory Theater, 132 West 22nd Street, Chelsea, (212) 727-2737, irishrep.org. (Jaworowski)
Off Off Broadway
'A Cautionary Tail' Two half-Chinese siblings squirm under the iron paw of their menacing Tiger Mom. In their struggles to conform to unyielding parental expectations while remaining trendy, sexually adventurous, self-actualizing Stuyvesant students, the siblings end up turning against each other. In the age of Facebook, teenage spats can escalate quickly. Christopher Oscar Peña's script is sprawling and disjointed, but salvaged by direction from Benjamin H. Kamine, whose imaginative stagings and design choices are the production's real star (2:00). Flea Theater, 41 White Street, TriBeCa, (866) 811-4111, theflea.org. (Rampell)
&#x2605; 'Patti Issues' In his funny, tender coming-of-age monologue, Ben Rimalower traces the obsessive Patti LuPone fandom that provided him with an empowering role model. That inspiration proved perhaps most useful to Mr. Rimalower in processing the fallout after his father kicked down the closet door and bailed on the family. While on one hand, this is the story of many young gay men's propensity for diva worship, the tartly observed show goes several steps further by exploring the wide-eyed experiences that result when the acolyte gets to interact with his idol (1:00). Duplex Cabaret Theater, 61 Christopher Street, at Seventh Avenue, Greenwich Village, pattiissues.brownpapertickets.com. (Rooney)
&#x2605; 'Then She Fell' Inspired by Lewis Carroll's ''Alice'' books, this transporting immersive theater work occupies a dreamscape where the judgments and classifications of the waking mind are suspended. A guided tour of Wonderland, created by Third Rail Projects, leads its participants through a series of rooms and an interactive evening of dance, poetry, food and drink (2:00). The Kingsland Ward at St. John's, 195 Maujer Street, near Humboldt Street, Williamsburg, Brooklyn, (718) 374-5196, thenshefell.com. (Brantley)
'Totally Tubular Time Machine' This show is less a play or musical than a big, campy, drinking party, with a little bit of singing thrown in. Held at an '80s-theme dance club in Midtown, it features celebrity impersonators who wander through the crowd handing out party favors (lollipops from Katy Perry, trucker hats from Justin Bieber) and taking turns at karaoke. The impersonations come with varying degrees of similitude and singing talent (2:00). Saturdays only. Culture Club, 20 West 39th Street, (212) 921-1999, totallytubularnyc.com. (Rampell)
'Wanda's Monster' Making Books Sing, which turns children's books into musicals, has adapted Eileen Spinelli's 2002 picture book about Wanda, a little girl who knows that a monster lives in her closet. Barbara Zinn Krieger, who wrote the script, has transformed Wanda's Granny -- the only adult who acknowledges the truth of Wanda's perception -- from a sensible soul into a kick-out-the-jams rocker. This characterization works beautifully with the show's upbeat score and lyrics by the children's pop star Laurie Berkner. This charming hourlong production brings home a point worth considering at any age: embrace what you fear, and you just may find a friend (1:00). Vineyard Theater, 109 East 15th Street (646) 601-1406; wandasmonster.com. (Laurel Graeber)
Long-Running Shows
'Avenue Q' R-rated puppets give lively life lessons (2:15). New World Stages, 340 West 50th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Berenstain Bears Live! In Family Matters, the Musical' This adaptation of three of Stan and Jan Berenstain's children's books is pleasant enough, but the cubs are showing their age. Saturday and Sunday only (:55). Marjorie S. Deane Little Theater, 5 West 63rd Street, (866) 811-4111, berenstainbearslive.com.
'Black Angels Over Tuskegee' The tear-jerker story of these trailblazing African-American pilots (2:30). Actors Temple Theater, 339 West 47th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
Blue Man Group Conceptual art as entertainment (1:45). Astor Place Theater, 434 Lafayette Street, East Village, (800) 258-3626, ticketmaster.com.
'The Book of Mormon' Singing, dancing, R-rated missionaries proselytize for the American musical (2:15). Eugene O'Neill Theater, 230 West 49th Street, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com.
'Chicago' Jazz Age sex, murder and razzle-dazzle (2:25). Ambassador Theater, 219 West 49th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Fantasticks' Boy meets girl, forever (2:05). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'Fuerza Bruta: Look Up' A sensory bath aimed at clubgoing college kids in search of cultural diversion (1:05). Daryl Roth Theater, 20 Union Square East, at 15th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Jersey Boys' The biomusical that walks like a man (2:30). August Wilson Theater, 245 West 52nd Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'The Lion King' Disney's call of the wild (2:45). Minskoff Theater, 200 West 45th Street, (800) 870-2717, ticketmaster.com.
'Mamma Mia!' The jukebox musical set to the disco throb of Abba (2:20). Cadillac Winter Garden Theater, 1634 Broadway, at 50th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Newsies' Extra! Extra! enthusiasm (2:20). Nederlander Theater, 208 West 41st Street, (866) 870-2717, newsiesthemusical.com.
'Old Jews Telling Jokes' With old jokes, a few songs and a little schmaltz, this winning revue is simple, effective entertainment executed with obvious affection (1:20). Westside Theater, 407 West 43rd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Once' Almost love, in a singing Dublin (2:15). Bernard B. Jacobs Theater, 242 West 45th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Perfect Crime' The murder mystery that has been investigated since 1987 (1:30). Snapple Theater Center, 210 West 50th Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
'The Phantom of the Opera' Who was that masked man anyway? (2:30). Majestic Theater, 247 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Rock of Ages' Big hair, thrashing guitars and inspired humor fuel this jukebox musical (2:25). Helen Hayes Theater, 240 West 44th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sistas: The Musical' Black women reflect on their lives, with songs (1:30). St. Luke's Theater, 308 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com.
'Sleep No More' A movable, murderous feast at Hotel Macbeth (2:00). The McKittrick Hotel, 530 West 27th Street, Chelsea, (866) 811-4111, sleepnomorenyc.com.
'Spider-Man: Turn Off the Dark' Web surfing with music (2:45). Foxwoods Theater, 213 West 42nd Street, (800) 745-3000, spidermanonbroadway.marvel.com.
'Stomp' And the beat goes on (and on), with percussion unlimited (1:30). Orpheum Theater, 126 Second Avenue, at Eighth Street, East Village, (800) 982-2787, ticketmaster.com.
'Wicked' Oz revisited (2:45). Gershwin Theater, 222 West 51st Street, (800) 745-3000, ticketmaster.com.
Last Chance
&#x2605; 'A Kid Like Jake' (closes on Sunday) Daniel Pearle's smart, fluent drama explores the emotional complications that arise for a young couple (the excellent Carla Gugino and Peter Grosz) during the arduous process of obtaining a place for their 4-year-old son at one of Manhattan's exclusive private schools. Jake favors such''gender-variant play'' as dressing like Cinderella (1:40). Claire Tow Theater, Lincoln Center, (800) 432-7250, telecharge.com, lct.org. (Isherwood)
'Macbeth' (closes on Sunday) Alan Cumming portrays the Scottish general who would be king, and all the other significant roles, in this one-man race through Shakespeare's tragedy, set in a mental institution. Mr. Cumming's virtuosity and the gothic inventions of the directors, John Tiffany and Andrew Goldberg, impress, but while the actor effectively differentiates the roles, he never fully inhabits any of them (1:40). Ethel Barrymore Theater, 243 West 47th Street, (212) 239-6200, telecharge.com. (Isherwood)
'Showgirls! The Musical!' (closes on Wednesday) If ever a movie were ripe for a sendup, it's Paul Verhoeven's 1995 turkey, ''Showgirls.'' The lurid story of a hitchhiker turned pole dancer turned Las Vegas star is catnip for any devotee of camp, and this frenetic production pushes it into the camp stratosphere, with X-rated songs, abundant toplessness and a much higher male quotient. Alas, the movie's misogyny lingers. The tireless and fearless April Kidwell, however, in the Elizabeth Berkley role, is a wonder: Her vibrant physicality and knowing humor inadvertently constitute a welcome riposte to the story's mockery of its protagonist (1:30). (Wednesdays and Saturdays only.) XL Nightclub, 512 West 42nd Street, Clinton, (212) 239-2999, showgirlsthemusical.com. (Webster)
'The Silver Cord' (closes on Sunday) The Peccadillo Theater Company tries to enliven this creaky 1926 drama about an absurdly possessive mother by having that role played by a man in drag (Dale Carman), but the move doesn't add much. The play, by Sidney Howard, who later wrote the screenplay for ''Gone With the Wind,'' just hasn't aged very well (2:15). Theater at St. Clement's, 423 West 46th Street, Clinton, (212) 352-3101, thepeccadillo.com. (Genzlinger)

CORRECTION-DATE: August 1, 2013

 CORRECTION:
A theater entry in the Listings pages on Friday about the Broadway musical ''First Date,'' which is in previews at the Longacre Theater, misidentified the theater where the show was first staged. It was at the ACT Falls Theater in Seattle, not at the 5th Avenue Theater there. (The staging was a co-production of ACT and the 5th Avenue Theater.) The error also appeared on July 5, 12 and 19.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY RICHARD TERMINE FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (C16) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Schedule

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: THEATER & DRAMA (79%); VISUAL & PERFORMING ARTS (79%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (76%); COSTUME & SET DESIGN (74%); CHARITIES (73%); TELEVISION COMEDIES (70%); REALITY TELEVISION (65%); THEATER (59%)

COMPANY: HAZELDEN FOUNDATION (56%)

INDUSTRY: SIC8361 RESIDENTIAL CARE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%) NEW YORK, USA (93%) UNITED STATES (93%)

LOAD-DATE: August 1, 2013



351 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 513 words

HEADLINE: Wells Fargo Profit Jumps 19 Percent

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: Wells Fargo, the nation&#8217;s largest home lender, overcame a slowdown in the mortgage market to report record net income of $5.5 billion, or 98 cents a share. 

 BODY:
Wells Fargo, the nation's largest home lender, posted a 19 percent increase in second-quarter profit on Friday as it overcame a drop-off in the mortgage market on its way to record earnings. 
While the bank's home loan machine showed signs of slowing as a recent uptick in interest rates discouraged borrowers from refinancing their mortgages, Wells recorded its 14th-consecutive rise in quarterly profit and ninth-straight record report. 
The results, bolstered by declining expenses and growth across the bank's deposit and broad lending business, included net income of $5.5 billion, or 98 cents a share. That compared with $4.6 billion, or 82 cents a share, in the period a year earlier. The new returns outpaced the expectations of analysts polled by Thomson Reuters, which had forecast earnings of 93 cents a share.
Revenue, roughly flat at $21.4 billion, also exceeded expectations.
"Wells Fargo achieved outstanding results for the second quarter," the bank's chief executive, John G. Stumpf, said in a statement.
Mr. Stumpf noted that the gains came despite a "dynamic economic and interest rate environment."
But for Wells, which is based in San Francisco, this environment could spell trouble ahead. With the bank's fortunes rising and falling with its lending business - the result of creating roughly a third of all mortgages in the country - it could signal a slowdown for the broader lending industry. 
Until now, banks have benefited from government policies intended to stimulate the economy in the wake of the financial crisis. As the Federal Reserve cut interest rates in recent years, for example, it spurred millions of borrowers to refinance their home loans to take advantage of the lower costs.
But the Fed has signaled in recent weeks that it could ease its stimulus as the economy continues to recover. The warning has prompted investors to drive up interests rates around the globe, putting a crimp in the refinance business.
The shift started to show in Well Fargo's second-quarter results. The bank received $146 billion worth of quarterly home loan applications, down from $208 billion in the period a year earlier. Its mortgage originations totaled $112 billion, down from $131 billion. 
Still, the bank's overall loan portfolio, which includes commercial and consumer lending, actually rose 3 percent to $802 billion. The results suggested that the surge in interest rates came too late in the second quarter to significantly impact the bank. 
A bump in credit cards and commercial lending - and record origination of auto loans - further offset the home loan slowdown. The bank's total average deposits reached $1 trillion, up 9 percent from a year ago. 
The bank also benefited from a dip in expenses. One crucial expense - building a reserve for bad loans - had a significant decline. This move reflected improvements in the quality of loans. 
Wells, along with JPMorgan Chase, kicked off bank earnings season. Citigroup, Goldman Sachs and other Wall Street giants will report next week.

        
Wells Fargo Profit Rises 22%
        
Uncertainty Hangs Over Wall Street in 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (92%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); COMPANY EARNINGS (91%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); COMMERCIAL BANKING (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CONSUMER LENDING (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (79%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); POLLS & SURVEYS (73%); COMMERCIAL LENDING (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (64%); EXECUTIVES (52%) Company Reports; Stumpf, John G; Wells Fargo & Company; Wells Fargo & Company|WFC|NYSE; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%)

ORGANIZATION: Wells Fargo &amp; Company

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%) Wells Fargo & Company; WFC; NYSE

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (90%) Stumpf, John G

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



352 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1706 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan Beats Expectations

BYLINE: WILLIAM ALDEN


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan Chase reported a 31 percent increase in second-quarter earnings. | In the battle for Dell, it doesn&#8217;t pay to underestimate Carl C. Icahn. | Familiar complaints followed a proposal to force big banks to have more capital. | Senators introduced a bill called the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act. 

 BODY:
JPMORGAN EARNINGS SURGE 31% | JPMorgan Chase reported a 31 percent increase in second-quarter earnings on Friday, helped by strong gains in its investment banking business, its credit card operations and in its mortgage lending division. Net income of $6.5 billion, or $1.60 a share, exceeded analysts' expectations of $5.47 billion, or $1.44 a share. Revenue was $20 billion, compared with $26 billion in the period a year earlier.
ICAHN'S NEXT MOVE | In the battle for Dell, it doesn't pay to underestimate Carl C. Icahn, Steven M. Davidoff writes in the Deal Professor column. The billionaire investor, in his latest move to challenge the buyout offer of $13.65 a share from Michael S. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake, is urging fellow shareholders of Dell to start preparing appraisal rights for their shares. This would be a risky process that "can be charitably described as a Hail Mary pass," Mr. Davidoff writes. 
But maybe Mr. Icahn "has another strategy in mind, and this announcement is only one part of it," Mr. Davidoff says. "To exercise appraisal you have to vote no for the deal, and notify Dell before the vote occurs. By preparing appraisal rights, Mr. Icahn may be making a Hail Mary pass, but one aimed at signaling 'no' votes before the actual shareholder vote. Perhaps he is merely trying to show that he has a bigger block of 'no' votes than Mr. Dell and Silver Lake think. It's a small bargaining chip, but at this point everything counts."
On Friday, Mr. Icahn is expected to sweeten his offer by adding a warrant to allow shareholders to buy additional stock in the future. This would be Mr. Icahn's fourth attempt to challenge the Dell buyout, Bloomberg News reports.
GRUMBLES FOLLOW A PLAN TO RAISE CAPITAL | After the financial crisis, American banks raised more capital than their European counterparts, making them better equipped to lend, Floyd Norris, a columnist for The New York Times, writes. And yet, when United States regulators proposed new rules this week that could force the largest American banks to have a lot more capital in a few years, bank trade groups voiced familiar complaints, Mr. Norris writes. 
Mr. Norris continues: "That there are bank capital rules at all stems from the issues a country faces when it provides deposit insurance. Depositors have no reason to care whether the bank is healthy, so a risky bank is not at a competitive disadvantage. The problem gets worse when those who buy bonds issued by banks conclude that their investments are effectively guaranteed by the government."
ON THE AGENDA | Wells Fargo reports earnings this morning. The Thomson Reuters/University of Michigan consumer sentiment index for July is out at 9:55 a.m. Bart Chilton, a Democratic member of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is on CNBC at 7:40 a.m. Jamie Dimon, chief of JPMorgan Chase, is on CNBC at 10:15 a.m. Barney Frank, the former congressman from Massachusetts, is on CNBC at 10:35 a.m.
SENATORS INTRODUCE BILL TO SPLIT BIG BANKS | "Senator Elizabeth Warren on Thursday introduced an aggressive piece of legislation that intends to take the financial industry back to an era when there was a strict divide between traditional banking and speculative activities," DealBook's Peter Eavis writes.
"The bill, which is also sponsored by Senator John McCain, Republican of Arizona, and two other senators, is named the 21st Century Glass-Steagall Act. Its intention is to create a modern version of the seminal Glass-Steagall legislation from the 1930s, which placed firm limits on what regulated banks could do. It was fully repealed in 1999, laying the groundwork for the mergers that created some of the biggest banks of today. If passed, it could force many of those banks to let go of their trading operations."
 | Contact: @williamalden | E-mail
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.
Mergers & Acquisitions »
Potential for Deals Drives a Big Surge in the Biotech Sector | The rise of personalized medicine has spurred giant pharmaceutical companies to home in on small biotechnology firms.
DealBook »
Invensys Receives Bid From Schneider Electric | The British engineering group Invensys said on Thursday that it had received a bid from Schneider Electric of France that valued the company at 3.3 billion pounds, or about $5 billion, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
At Sun Valley, Watching to See if the Chatter Is More Than Idle Talk | The Allen & Company media and technology conference is best known for the deals that have emerged from hush-hush meetings that take place in the ensuing months.
DealBook »
Telecoms Draw Antitrust Scrutiny in Europe | The New York Times reports: "European Union antitrust authorities said on Thursday that they had investigated major telecommunications companies, including Deutsche Telekom of Germany, on suspicion that the companies were using their dominant market positions to limit Internet providers' access to their networks."
NEW YORK TIMES
William Morris to Buy Stake in Droga5, an Ad Agency | William Morris Endeavor, the giant talent agency, is close to a deal to acquire a 49 percent stake in Droga5, an independent advertising agency based in New York, for roughly $225 million, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Bumi Chairman Agrees to Buy Out Bakrie Family | The proposed $223 million transaction by the chairman, Samin Tan, is the latest twist in a long-running dispute about control of the coal producer. It is opposed by the financier Nathaniel Rothschild.
DealBook »
At Least 3 Bidders in Contention for Boston Globe | The rival bids range from $65 million to $80 million, The Boston Globe reports.
BOSTON GLOBE
In Microsoft Overhaul, Signs of Apple | Microsoft plans to "dissolve its eight product divisions in favor of four new ones arranged around broader functional themes, a change meant to encourage a tighter marriage among technologies as competitors like Apple and Google outflank it in the mobile and Internet markets," The New York Times writes.
NEW YORK TIMES
INVESTMENT BANKING »
Swiss Banks Approach a Deal on Tax Evasion | The Wall Street Journal reports: "A group of Swiss banks is lining up to deliver key information to U.S. authorities investigating tax evasion, potentially moving a long-running legal battle further toward a close."
WALL STREET JOURNAL
In Britain, Former Official Speaks Out on Banks | "I fear that the banks have bamboozled government into believing that society must choose between safety and growth, between safer banks and bank shareholder value, and between a safer financial framework and a competitive City of London," Robert Jenkins, a former member of the Bank of England's financial policy committee, told Bloomberg News.
BLOOMBERG NEWS
Big Payout by Moelis May Whet the Appetite for More | Moelis & Company's $35 million payout to its mainly staff owners shows the partnership model in investment banking can deliver. The snag is that partners will expect a repeat, Dominic Elliott of Reuters Breakingviews writes.
REUTERS BREAKINGVIEWS
Goldman Scoops Up Emerging-Market Bonds | The purchases by Goldman Sachs Asset Management have come amid a sell-off, The Wall Street Journal writes.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
PRIVATE EQUITY »
Terreal of France Is Taken Over by Creditors | Terreal, a private equity-owned French company that makes tiles and bricks, has been taken over by creditors including Goldman Sachs and Park Square Capital as part of a restructuring deal, The Financial Times reports.
FINANCIAL TIMES
Orix of Japan Has an Appetite for Buyouts | The Japanese financial firm Orix plans to spend 50 billion yen ($506 million) on deals in Southeast Asia and the Middle East in the next 12 months, according to Bloomberg News. 
BLOOMBERG NEWS
HEDGE FUNDS »
Chief of Highbridge Capital to Step Down | Glenn Dubin, who co-founded Highbridge Capital Management more than 20 years ago, is stepping down as chief executive but will remain chairman, The Wall Street Journal reports. The firm is owned by JPMorgan Chase.
WALL STREET JOURNAL
Hedge Fund Analyst Plans a New Firm | Sean Grogan, a longtime senior analyst at Conatus Capital Management who left in June, is in the "early stages" of starting his own hedge fund firm, Absolute Return reports.
ABSOLUTE RETURN
I.P.O./OFFERINGS »
A Venture Capitalist Discusses I.P.O.'s | Marc Andreessen told CNBC: "The I.P.O. market is deeply broken. It's become sort of a two-class market. In general the private companies are growing very fast, doing very well, delaying their I.P.O.'s. There are a small number of public companies doing very well in tech, but there are much larger companies that should be public that aren't."
CNBC
VENTURE CAPITAL »
Valiant Leads Investment Round in Brazilian Pharmacy Benefits Firm | Valiant Capital Management, a San Francisco-based hedge fund, and Aberdare Ventures have jointly acquired a 45 percent stake in a pharmacy benefits company, ePharma, for an estimated 169 million reais ($74.6 million).
DealBook »
LEGAL/REGULATORY »
16 Senators Seek Inquiry of A.T.M.-Style Pay Cards | Instead of paper checks or direct deposit, employers are issuing A.T.M.-style cards that can have large fees associated with them.
DealBook »
Jurors to Hear About 'Fabulous Fab' | A federal judge ruled that jurors in the civil trial of Fabrice Tourre, the former Goldman Sachs trader, can hear about an e-mail that references the nickname "Fabulous Fab."
DealBook »
Geithner Sells House Near Washington | The former Treasury secretary Timothy F. Geithner and his wife, Carole, have sold their home in Bethesda, Md., for the $995,000 asking price, The Washington Post reports.
WASHINGTON POST
Elizabeth Duke, Fed Governor, to Step Down | Elizabeth A. Duke, a Federal Reserve governor who has helped overhaul the central bank's approach to financial regulation and has been a consistent supporter of Ben S. Bernanke, said on Thursday that she would step down at the end of August, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
U.S. and China to Discuss Investment Treaty | But concerns over cybersecurity have complicated the talks, The New York Times reports.
NEW YORK TIMES
Sign up for the DealBook Newsletter, delivered every morning and afternoon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: COMPANY EARNINGS (93%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); SILVER MARKETS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (89%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (88%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); FUTURES (74%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (72%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (70%); WRITERS (70%); BOND ISSUES (69%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (65%) Morning Agenda

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (96%); WELLS FARGO & CO (84%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (50%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (96%); JPM (LSE) (96%); 8634 (TSE) (96%); WFC (NYSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (96%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (96%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (96%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (96%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (93%); MICHAEL DELL (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (93%); EUROPE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



353 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 449 words

HEADLINE: As Promised, Icahn Adds to His Bid for Dell

BYLINE: MICHAEL J. DE LA MERCED


HIGHLIGHT: In a letter to Dell shareholders, Carl C. Icahn and his partner, Southeastern Asset Management, proposed giving shareholders a warrant to buy a share in the struggling computer company at $20 apiece for every four shares that they tender, in addition to buying back 1.1 billion shares at $14 each. 

 BODY:
Carl C. Icahn lived up to his word on Friday, offering a sweetener to his alternative to a $24.4 billion leveraged buyout of Dell Inc. by adding a warrant to his stock buyback plan. 
In a letter to Dell shareholders, Mr. Icahn and his partner, Southeastern Asset Management, proposed giving shareholders a warrant to buy a share in the struggling computer company at $20 apiece for every four shares that they tender. That's in addition to buying back 1.1 billion shares at $14 each. The activist investor says the entire package is worth $15.50 to $18 a share.
The move is the latest gambit by Mr. Icahn to sway shareholders away from supporting a $13.65-a-share takeover bid by Michael S. Dell and the investment firm Silver Lake, an offer that he has criticized as too low. The increased jockeying for investors' loyalties comes ahead of a vote scheduled for Thursday on Mr. Dell's offer.
 Earlier this week, Mr. Icahn urged Dell shareholders to seek so-called appraisal rights for their holdings, in case the leveraged buyout is approved. That would allow investors to potentially receive more - or less - for their stock, once a Delaware state judge delivers a pronouncement on the company's worth.
To advisers to Mr. Dell and to a special committee of Dell's board, it appeared to be a desperate move and an effort to force the would-be buyers into raising their bid. But in his letter on Friday, Mr. Icahn contended that he was not seeking merely a bump in price. Instead, he argued that his efforts were aimed at replacing Mr. Dell as chief executive and leading a turnaround of the company himself.
"We are completely committed to our proposal and believe that it is economically better for stockholders than the Michael Dell/Silver Lake freeze out transaction," he wrote. "We are also completely committed to bringing in management that we expect to be far superior to Michael Dell who we believe has had an abysmal record during the last three years."
Mr. Icahn again took exception to a report by Institutional Shareholder Services, the proxy advisory firm, recommending that investors vote for Mr. Dell's offer. His argument: I.S.S., as the firm is known, assumed that the leveraged buyout would lead to be a speedy payout to shareholders, while the stock buyback plan was uncertain and could drag out.
The billionaire activist contended that he believed his proposal could close faster than the proposed takeover. But he neglected to mention that his plan requires the election of an entirely new board, something that Mr. Dell - who owns a 16 percent stake - is unlikely to support.

        
In Battle Over Dell's Fate, Don't Underestimate Carl Icahn
        
Icahn's Latest Gamble at Dell: Appraisal Rights

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: LEVERAGED BUYOUTS (90%); SHAREHOLDERS (90%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (90%); BUYINS & BUYOUTS (90%); TAKEOVERS (89%); CORPORATE GOVERNANCE (77%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (73%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (73%); APPROVALS (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); DIVESTITURES (72%); JUDGES (66%) Dell Inc; Dell, Michael S; Icahn, Carl C; Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures; Silver Lake Partners; Southeastern Asset Management; Mergers & Acquisitions; Technology; Top Headline 1

COMPANY: DELL INC (92%); JSC SS AS (63%); SOUTHEASTERN ASSET MANAGEMENT INC (58%); INSTITUTIONAL SHAREHOLDER SERVICES (52%)

ORGANIZATION: Dell Inc; Silver Lake Partners; Southeastern Asset Management

TICKER: DELL (NASDAQ) (92%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (92%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (92%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%)

PERSON: CARL ICAHN (96%); MICHAEL DELL (89%) Dell, Michael S; Icahn, Carl C

GEOGRAPHIC: DELAWARE, USA (69%) UNITED STATES (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



354 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(City Room)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: NYREGION

LENGTH: 631 words

HEADLINE: Big Ticket | At $23.4 Million, a Condo with Space for Big Art

BYLINE: ROBIN FINN


HIGHLIGHT: A triplex at the Abingdon in the West Village with five bedrooms, two wood-burning fireplaces and a formal gallery designed with large art in mind was the most expensive residential sale of the week. 

 BODY:
A striking West Village triplex at the Abingdon, a 10-unit luxury condominium conversion of a six-story 1906 building on Abingdon Square Park that had been used as a nursing home, sold for $23,419,750 and was the most expensive sale of the week, according to city records. The 9,600-square-foot dwelling, No. 2, has its own entry west of the main lobby at 320 West 12th Street, at Hudson Street.
The "West Mansion," as it is described in the offering plan, occupies a 60-by-70-foot footprint given extra volume by 13-foot ceilings and a grand staircase. The asking price was $25 million. The monthly carrying charges are $21,108.

The residence has five bedrooms, four bathrooms and two powder rooms. It also has two wood-burning fireplaces, which add a touch of Old World ambience to an otherwise thoroughly modernized home with state-of-the-art finishes and the requisite ahead-of-the-curve appliances and technical systems. The staircase opens onto a formal gallery designed with large art in mind, and there is a private 332-square-foot courtyard. The primary exposures are northern and western. 
There is credible evidence that the buyer is none other than Steven A. Cohen, the owner of the hedge fund SAC Capital Advisors and a veteran collector of both fine art and expensive properties, including a $60 million oceanfront estate in East Hampton, a $40 million apartment at 145 Perry Street, a $30 million property in Greenwich, Conn., and a penthouse at One Beacon Court uptown that is on the market for $115 million. Mr. Cohen recently bought Picasso's masterwork "Le Rêve" from the casino magnate Stephen A. Wynn for $150 million.
The unit was offered by 607 Hudson Street Owner, a k a Flank Development, the company responsible for the Abingdon's conversion, and represented by Tim Crowley of Flank Brokerage. Mr. Crowley indicated that the buyer was an art collector in need of space for his collection. The broker for the buyer, identified in public records as Hudson Heights Holding, was Deborah Grubman of the Corcoran Group, Mr. Cohen's longtime real estate adviser. Public records revealed that the Greenwich, Conn., address for Hudson Heights Holding matches Mr. Cohen's home address there, and the buyer's signature appears to be that of Alexandra Cohen, his wife.
In another significant transaction, an elegant 4,478-square-foot floor-through residence in a sought-after condominium conversion, 18 Gramercy Park South - the luxurious makeover of a Salvation Army residence for women by the high-profile team of Zeckendorf Development, Eyal Ofer Global Holdings and Robert A. M. Stern - sold for $15,731,962.50. It was the week's second-most-expensive sale, and the most recent of an explosion of high-price closings at 18 Gramercy South at Irving Place. Monthly carrying costs are $12,546.10, and a $350 key to Gramercy Park was a closing gift from the developers.
The residence, No. 2, has a grand gallery, a corner living room with 40 feet of frontage on Gramercy Park, a master suite with two full marble baths, three additional bedrooms and two terraces that total 448 square feet.
The unit was represented by Zeckendorf Marketing, and Mary Fitzgibbons of Brown Harris Stevens handled the transaction for the buyer, whose identity was shielded by a limited-liability company, CNG Investment. The company's address was given as 985 Fifth Avenue, a luxury rental owned by Spitzer Enterprises, and Eliot and Silda Spitzer's longtime home.
 Big Ticket includes closed sales from the previous week, ending Wednesday. 

        
Big Ticket | $29.78 Million for Town-House-Size Living
        
Big Ticket | 14-Rooms on Park Avenue for $23 Million
        
Big Ticket | Park-Centric Luxury for $17.53 Million
        
Big Ticket | A Floor Full of Light, Sold for $13.5 Million
        
Big Ticket | Madonna's Apartment for $16 Million

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: CONDOMINIUMS (91%); RESIDENTIAL CONDOMINIUMS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); HOME PRICES (90%); ART COLLECTING (88%); HOLDING COMPANIES (88%); COLLECTORS & COLLECTING (88%); EVIDENCE (65%); HEDGE FUNDS (50%) Real Estate and Housing (Residential); West Village (Manhattan, NY); Big Ticket; Housing & Economy

COMPANY: SAC CAPITAL ADVISORS LP (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (54%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (54%)

PERSON: STEVEN A COHEN (78%); STEVEN COHEN (50%); STEPHEN A WYNN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (90%); CONNECTICUT, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%) West Village (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



355 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Economix)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS; economy

LENGTH: 1180 words

HEADLINE: Stephen King's Economic Horror Stories

BYLINE: BINYAMIN APPELBAUM


HIGHLIGHT: The economist Stephen D. King also writes horror stories, warnings that the Western world faces an era of slower growth, and that governments will be unable to keep all of the promises they have made. 

 BODY:
Stephen D. King, chief economist at HSBC, was paged at an airport a few years ago. When he showed up at the information desk, the obviously disappointed attendant said, "Oh, you're not the Stephen King that writes books."
"Yes, I am," Mr. King responded, pulling a book from his bag.
The book, his first, was called "Losing Control: The Emerging Threats to Western Prosperity." The cover showed a picture of a city on a stormy night. It looked like a bit of a horror story. Mr. King says the attendant was duly impressed.
Mr. King's second book, "When the Money Runs Out: The End of Western Affluence," is another attempt to scare people, and governments, into making better decisions. 
My conversation with him, edited for brevity, follows.
 Q. 
 Why are you worried about the West? 
 A. 
 We have had a golden age of growth in the Western world, and I wonder whether that golden age was associated with a series of one-off gains that are by their nature unrepeatable. The opening of trade, within the O.E.C.D. and then between East and West, led to a one-off jump in the efficiency of resource allocation around the world. Women entered the work force. Educational attainment rose. Consumer credit, in the United States, went from 40 percent of income in the 1950s to 140 percent in 2007. But the underlying growth rate was falling even before the onset of the financial crisis. 
 Q. 
 I often ask economists where growth will come from. More finance? More health care? More housing? Economists hate this question. They basically say that the economy will figure it out. 
 A. 
 The funny thing about the debate between proponents of stimulus and austerity is that everyone expects the same outcome. Economists always think growth is coming. But they can't point to the source. So what if it's not?
 Q. 
 But there is also a long tradition of doom-saying in economics, dating back to Thomas Malthus, and so far history has been on the side of the optimists. 
 A. 
 The difference in my book is I'm not suggesting that growth is going to come to a grinding halt. I'm simply saying that there is a gap that has opened up between the promises and entitlements and the actual pace of growth, and closing that gap is going to be a challenge. The subtitle of my book, "The End of Western Affluence," is not suggesting that we're going to be worse off but rather that the expectations we currently have cannot easily be met.
I'm rather different from someone like Robert Gordon, who would say that we have finished with the technology story. I think that's far too pessimistic. I think that technology will continue to improve, and living standards will continue to rise. The problem is that they will not rise at the pace that was assumed previously. And the problem is that we have continued to make promises to ourselves that are based on the old growth rates. And the promises cannot be met if the actual growth rates are smaller than the assumed growth rates. The totality of these claims is too great in comparison to the total income.
 Q. 
 O.K., but you're still in the position of predicting that economic growth will disappoint expectations. 
 A. 
 It's very easy and natural to assume that you're going to see a rebound. People often say today that there's a risk of a Japan-style lost decade. If you look at the numbers over the last 10 years it already has happened. There has been a departure of hope from reality. The risk is that we end up with another lost decade. People are assuming that growth will be faster. We can assume that. But what happens if that's wrong? 
 Q. 
 Can China save us? Is it possible that we'll see a repeat of the virtuous cycle that followed the Western industrial revolution, where an expanding consumer class drives an era of growth? 
 A. 
 The rise of China and India has brought huge benefits to global growth. The peculiarity is the way that that growth has been apportioned hasn't really brought the benefits to the West that perhaps were expected. China's income gains are up 130 percent, India is up 80 percent, the U.K. is up 4 percent. What's surprising here is, if you'd known 10 years ago how strong China and India were going to be, you might have revised up your forecasts for the Western world. But that didn't turn out to be justified. The West surprised to the downside. If you look at South Korea, it wasn't until per capita incomes reached about $15,000 per year that you started to see a big shift in the types of goods and services being consumed. At that point it may well be the case that the U.S. and Europe begin to engage significantly with countries like China and India, but I personally think that's still quite a long way - 10, 20 years' time.
 Q. 
 Can central banks save us? 
 A. 
 That has been the claim that central banks have made in recent years, that we can return through monetary policy to the growth rates of old. And it has not been as successful as central banks wanted to project or as others wanted to expect. There has been a gap that has opened up between financial hope and economic reality. If you look at the performance of equity markets since 2008, it has been really very similar to what you've seen in previous economic cycles, but the performance of the economy has been much worse. 
 Q. 
 Is there any reason, then, to think that we don't face another lost decade? 
 A. 
 It's possible. Shale and gas in the U.S. could be dramatically transformational. So far energy prices are still elevated by the standards of 10 years ago, but there might be a benefit. It's possible that trade volumes could pick up a lot faster than I'm currently assuming. It's possible that southern Europe may see an increase in competitiveness that may help their economies recover more strongly in the years ahead. They're all possible, but the problem I have is if you look at the projections made by policy makers currently they don't just say that these things are possible, they project that these things are happening. There's an element of wishful thinking.
 Q. 
 You argue that governments must start to prepare for slower growth in order to limit the negative consequences. Are there steps that individuals ought to take as well? 
 A. 
 I think one thing that people should be doing is thinking carefully about how they invest their money. People tend to say I fully intend to retire at 60 or 65 and therefore I have to find an asset that will allow me to do so. But the hunt for yield that that engenders may actually cause bubbles. The reality is that there isn't a collection of assets in general that will allow everyone to retire when they want to. 
The boomers who've got property wealth and so on should think about how to transfer that to their children. Rather than spending all of that in their own time, they should think about the possibility that their children will need some help and possibly more help than we've seen in the past.

        
Politics and Personalities at the Central Banks
        
Alan Blinder on the Lessons of the Financial Crisis
        
China's Answer to Charles Keating
        
A Call to Battle on Bank Leverage
        
Taxing Employers and Employees

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); LIVING STANDARDS (76%); LITERATURE (72%); CONSUMER LENDING (65%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Books and Literature; Economics (Theory and Philosophy); King, Stephen D. (Economist); Book Chat

PERSON: STEPHEN KING (93%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2013



356 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1054 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan and Wells Fargo Feel First Chill of Rising Interest Rates

BYLINE: JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: JPMorgan&#8217;s profit on mortages fell 14 percent last quarter, while at Wells mortgage originations dropped. 

 BODY:
Even as two of the nation's largest banks reported record profits on Friday, beneath the rosy earnings were signs that a sharp uptick in interest rates could spell trouble ahead for Wall Street and the broader housing market.
Kicking off bank earnings season, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo handily beat analysts' expectations. Profit at JPMorgan surged 31 percent, bolstered by gains in the bank's trading and investment banking business. Wells Fargo, the biggest home lender in the country, posted a 19 percent increase in its second-quarter profit. 
 The gains were spread across the banks except for one important source: mortgage banking. The results showed that refinancing activity slowed, as did demand for mortgage loans.
The results could worsen. If rates continue to rise, fewer borrowers are likely to refinance or buy a house. And if the mortgage bond market weakens, banks will take a smaller gain when selling the mortgages.
While these concerns have loomed for months, the earnings on Friday offered the clearest picture yet of how the interest rate turmoil could affect the banks, whose fortunes hinge in part on their lending businesses.
"We're trying to be clear with you that this would be a significant event," Marianne Lake, JPMorgan's chief financial officer, said on Friday, referring to the potential effect of rising rates on the industry. She cautioned analysts that the volumes of mortgage refinancing could plunge by an "estimated 30 percent to 40 percent" in the second half of this year.
The results from JPMorgan and Wells are a barometer for the housing market because the two banks together account for the majority of all mortgages in the United States. In recent years, the recovery in the market has fueled the earnings of both companies and has also played a significant role in the broader economic rebound.
Until now, the banks have benefited from government policies intended to stimulate the economy in the wake of the financial crisis. As the Federal Reserve cut interest rates in recent years, for example, it spurred millions of borrowers to refinance their home loans to take advantage of the lower costs.
But the Fed has signaled in recent weeks that it could ease its stimulus as the economy continues to recover. The warning has prompted investors to drive up interest rates around the globe. Since Fed officials first hinted that they might retreat, the rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage has risen to 4.78 percent from a low of 3.54 percent.
The banks' second-quarter results show the early results of the sudden surge. In the second quarter, Wells Fargo received $146 billion worth of quarterly home loan applications, down from $208 billion in the period a year earlier. Its mortgage originations totaled $112 billion, down from $131 billion.
At JPMorgan, mortgage originations rose 12 percent in the quarter, to $49 billion, but overall profit in mortgage banking fell by 14 percent, to $1.1 billion.
On Friday, JPMorgan executives said the slowdown could be even more extreme than previous forecasts have suggested. While both banks might be able to seize on the uptick in interest rates to create a bigger spread between the income they derive from lending and the ultimate cost of borrowing, those benefits proved elusive.
Net interest margin, a critical measure that reveals how much profit banks earn on their loans, fell at JPMorgan, settling in at 2.60 percent for the quarter, from 2.83 percent in the previous quarter. At Wells Fargo, it was 3.46 percent, down from 3.48 percent in the first quarter.
The results suggested that the surge in interest rates came too late in the second quarter to significantly affect the banks, but that the increase could cause deeper problems in the second half of the year.
Christopher Whalen, an investor and housing market analyst at Carrington Investment Services, said that the numbers that Wells and JPMorgan presented were a "very big deal."
"Everybody in the mortgage industry is going to have to reassess their view of this year and next," Mr. Whalen said.
Rising rates, though, might help other parts of the banks' business. Within its fixed-income trading operations, for example, JPMorgan reported an 18 percent increase in revenue. Fees in JPMorgan's investment banking unit surged 38 percent, to $1.7 billion.
Wells Fargo executives played down the significance of the rate change, noting that mortgage rates were still extremely low by historical standards. John Stumpf, the bank's chief executive, pointed to the interest he paid for his own mortgages.
"If you were in the mortgage market before 2000, you know that these are unbelievably good rates," Mr. Stumpf said. "My first mortgage was at 8.5 percent. My second one was at 11.5 percent, and I thought those were great rates at those times."
Mr. Stumpf noted that the uptick in rates stemmed from the Fed's indication that the economy was improving. Housing prices are rising and demand for homes has soared.
As the improvements continue, he said, a growth in loans for new home purchases will more than make up for any losses in refinancing.
"I'll take that trade all day," Mr. Stumpf said. "It's good for America, it's good for the economy and in the long term, it's good for our business."
Wells's overall loan portfolio, which includes commercial and consumer lending, actually rose 3 percent to $802 billion in the second quarter. A bump in credit cards and commercial lending - and record origination of auto loans - further offset the home loan slowdown. The bank's total average deposits reached $1 trillion, up 9 percent from a year ago.
But important drivers of the returns at Wells Fargo and JPMorgan did not stem from substantial growth in the underlying businesses. Instead, they came from reduced expenses.
Wells Fargo, for example, reduced a crucial expense - building a reserve for bad loans. This move reflected improvements in the quality of loans.
In the second quarter, JPMorgan also lifted its profits by reducing loan-loss reserves by $1.5 billion. The bank defended the practice, saying it pointed to the improving condition of its loans.
Yet Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, conceded that fresh loan growth was still "soft."
 Nathaniel Popper contributed reporting. 

        
Banks See Home Loans as Gateway to Big Gains
        
Uncertainty Hangs Over Wall Street in 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (93%); INTEREST RATES (93%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE LOANS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); INVESTMENT BANKING (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (51%) Banking and Financial Institutions; Company Reports; Interest Rates; JPMorgan Chase & Company; Mortgages; Wells Fargo & Company; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Wall Street Earnings

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%)

ORGANIZATION: JPMorgan Chase &amp; Company; Wells Fargo &amp; Company

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



357 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(DealBook)

PUB-DATE: July 12, 2013

SECTION: BUSINESS

LENGTH: 1029 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Regulators Approve Stricter Trading Rules Overseas

BYLINE: BEN PROTESS


HIGHLIGHT: The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 3-1 to rein in lucrative trading by American banks doing business overseas, but the agency also afforded Wall Street additional time to comment on the plan to phase in the regulation, inviting an onslaught of lobbying from banks. 

 BODY:
Federal regulators reached a last-minute compromise on Friday to expand their oversight far beyond American shores, overcoming internal squabbles and Wall Street lobbying to rein in some of the overseas trading that imploded during the financial crisis.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 3 to 1 to adopt its so-called cross-border guidance, a deal struck just hours before a self-imposed deadline was set to expire. Gary Gensler, the agency's chairman and a fierce critic of Wall Street risk-taking, spearheaded the decision to approve the guidance, which dictates how to apply United States regulations to American banks doing business in London and beyond.
 Yet the agency's battle, both internally and with Wall Street, will drag on for months. 
While firms like Goldman Sachs International and the London branch of Citigroup will face a wave of new scrutiny, the agency made crucial concessions to big banks, including a delay in the new oversight.
The oversight, Mr. Gensler said, will be phased in over several months and his agency will defer to European regulators if they adopt similar rules.
The agency also afforded Wall Street additional time to comment on the plan to phase in the regulation, inviting an onslaught of lobbying from banks that could seek additional delays. One financial group, the Institute of International Bankers, called the agency's announcements "a big step forward" to a "workable approach."
Dennis M. Kelleher, president and chief executive of Better Markets, a nonprofit advocacy group, called it, "the lobbyist full employment act."
While he praised Mr. Gensler for securing a deal, he added that "this mixed bag of some very good, some not-so-good and some to-be-determined provisions will mean that Wall Street's war on regulation of high-risk cross-border derivatives dealing will not end today."
This delay could be costly. Mr. Gensler, a former Goldman Sachs executive who has been an aggressive regulator, is expected to leave the agency before the end of the year. His departure could leave certain aspects of the cross-border plan in the hands of someone with a softer stance toward the banks.
Even with the compromise, however, the guidance is a victory for Mr. Gensler, who had vowed to meet the Friday deadline without fully caving in to Wall Street's demands. The 2008 crisis, he noted, demonstrated the huge risks of overseas trading to financial stability.
"At the center of this crisis were the far-flung operations of U.S. financial institutions," he said in an interview. "What we did is kept those lessons in mind and kept our eye on protecting the American public."
Trades by a London unit of the insurance giant American International Group, he noted, nearly toppled the company. And JPMorgan Chase's $6 billion trading loss in London last year reignited concerns that risk-taking could come crashing back to American shores.
The crisis led Congress to enact the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, a law that mandated an overhaul of the $700 trillion marketplace for derivatives, financial contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond or an interest rate. Under that law, the trading commission is supposed to extend new derivatives changes overseas - including tougher capital standards, a requirement that trades go through regulated clearinghouses and other requirements - if the foreign trading has "a direct and significant connection with activities" of the United States.
Over the last year, the agency has battled infighting over how aggressively to interpret the law, and when to do it.
The guidance, the most contentious issue facing the agency, had strong support from Mr. Gensler and Bart Chilton, a fellow Democratic commissioner at the agency who also supported completing the guidance by the Friday deadline. Mr. Chilton noted that, with the deadline coming three years after Dodd-Frank was passed, "It didn't just sneak up on us."
But Mark P. Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak, had expressed concern that the Friday deadline was "arbitrary."
With the agency's Republican commissioner, Scott D. O'Malia, opposing the guidance, Mr. Wetjen held the swing vote.
A compromise appeared unlikely until Wednesday, people close to the agency said, when Mr. Wetjen and Mr. Gensler reached a tentative deal.
A central component of Mr. Gensler's final plan will apply the Dodd-Frank rules to overseas firms that are guaranteed by an American bank, including Goldman Sachs International. Foreign branches like the British branch of JPMorgan Chase, where the recent losses occurred, will also face the agency's oversight.
Mr. Gensler also included offshore hedge funds, many based in the Cayman Islands, so long as their "nerve center" is based in the United States.
But Mr. Gensler's victory came with some sacrifice. He agreed, for example, to defer to foreign regulators in Europe and elsewhere that have adopted "comparable and comprehensive" regulations to Dodd-Frank. It is up to Mr. Gensler's agency to decide whether the other regulators' rules meet the standard.
While European regulators have adopted many similar rules, authorities in Hong Kong, Switzerland and elsewhere have fallen far behind. Unless those regulators catch up by December, Dodd-Frank will apply to American banks doing business in those regions.
In a concession to Mr. Wetjen, Mr. Gensler agreed to delay the requirements, so the start date for most banks for the new rules would be Dec. 21. By soliciting additional comments from Wall Street, the agency also signaled that it was open to a longer delay.
The compromise traces to a plan that Mr. Chilton floated in June. While he noted that foreign regulators could use the additional time to catch up, he also argued that the agency should not delay indefinitely.
"Like in the movie 'Field of Dreams,' when the voice from the corn field says, 'If you build it, he will come,' " Mr. Chilton said on Friday. "I've said repeatedly that if we and the E.U. build balanced and fairly harmonized financial regulatory regimes, the rest of the world will come."

        
Deadline on Trading Rules Abroad Splits an Agency
        
In Fight Over Bank Rules, Regulator Calls for Compromise

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (93%); FUTURES (93%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (69%); EXECUTIVES (64%) Commodity Futures Trading Commission; Futures and Options Trading; Gensler, Gary S; Wetjen, Mark P; Financial Services; Investment Banking; Legal/Regulatory

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (84%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (58%)

ORGANIZATION: Commodity Futures Trading Commission

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); JPM (NYSE) (84%); JPM (LSE) (84%); 8634 (TSE) (84%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%); GS (NYSE) (58%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (84%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (84%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (84%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%)

PERSON: Gensler, Gary S; Wetjen, Mark P

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (88%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



358 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
The New York Times on the Web

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; National Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1027 words

HEADLINE: True Democrats Don't Bankroll Juntas

BYLINE: By JOSHUA STACHER. 
Joshua Stacher, an assistant professor of political science at Kent State University, is the author of ''Adaptable Autocrats: Regime Power in Egypt and Syria.''

 BODY:
KENT, Ohio -- THE military's coup in Egypt has placed the American political establishment in a bind. Many observers insist that the Obama administration must either formally condone the military takeover or call it a ''coup,'' which would require a cutoff of American aid, as Senator John McCain has advocated.
But this semantic debate misses the larger point. While a minority of Congressional representatives bicker with the White House, State Department and Pentagon over the definition of a ''coup'' and what the Obama administration must do to comply with federal law, the Egyptian military has already cleverly satisfied many of the conditions to keep the aid flowing -- namely, it has installed a civilian-led government and set a timetable for elections. 
This window dressing shouldn't hide the fact that a coup took place, nor should it stop the United States government from reacting to it as the law prescribes.
If Mr. Obama wants American rhetoric about democracy to be taken seriously in the wake of a military intervention, aid to Egypt's army has to be on the chopping block, as our laws state. Egyptians are already suspicious of American intentions -- and they will be even more skeptical of America's goals if we fail to respect our own legislative checks on foreign assistance as they try to build their own democracy.
Continuing aid as if nothing happened would reinforce the perception among Egyptians that all America cares about is maintaining good ties with unaccountable generals and that President Obama's policy has little to do with building democratic institutions and empowering the ''masses'' as his administration so often claims.
Indeed, the generals' latest intervention is more insidious and duplicitous than their role after they nudged Hosni Mubarak from the presidency in 2011. The heads of the armed forces are selling nationalism to the population while remaining above the law.
Egypt's generals do not wish to govern. Their calculation is that so long as they are not visibly running the country, they are safe. And they have learned that it is better to play the role of fire department while letting civilians of different political stripes assume the role of permanent arsonists.
The army has shown that it is happy to wield influence while veiling its power. The generals watched their existing and new privileges formalized in the flawed Constitution that Mr. Morsi pushed through without public debate. All the while, the military's budget remained an institutional secret away from the glare of public scrutiny. A future Parliament was forbidden to legislate against it. As the problems multiplied and the country teetered, the defense minister feigned political neutrality and ambiguously implied that intervention was an ever-present option.
Having pitted the secular revolutionaries against the Muslim Brotherhood, the generals have successfully divided the coalition that overthrew Hosni Mubarak in 2011 and they now stand atop the only organization in post-Mubarak Egypt that is able to create political realities on the ground.
The generals may miscalculate or overreach one day. They may even come up against an uprising that overruns them, given their continuing disregard for providing bread, freedom or social justice. But until that time, they will remain focused on sapping the authority of the state's civilians so that the military remains structurally advantaged against either elected politicians or the rest of society, who will continue to labor under stagnating political and economic conditions.
And all the while, despite this decidedly undemocratic structure, American aid is likely to keep flowing, along with generous donations from authoritarian anti-Muslim Brotherhood governments in the oil-rich Persian Gulf region.
In spite of its own low bar, the United States government also made clear that cutting aid to Egypt would hurt American interests. This is unsurprising, given the United States' longstanding relationship with Egypt's army consummated by the 1979 Camp David Accords, America's need to use the Suez Canal, Cairo's assent to the United States' airspace requests, as well as intelligence and military cooperation.
Some centrist policy analysts have had moral qualms about this situation and are now calling for American aid to be suspended temporarily because of Egypt's ''soft coup.'' It's very convenient to make such moralistic calls when American aid to Egypt has already been disbursed for the current fiscal year and the next payment won't be due until next year. Furthermore, American allies like Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates and Kuwait have already issued pledges of $12 billion to shore up the new Egyptian government.
But the most disingenuous part of the entire aid-suspension debate revolves around the ''masses'' that the Obama administration speaks of in such glowing terms. Nearly all American aid remains attached to the most unaccountable force in the political life of Egyptians at a time when there are growing calls in Cairo by the protest movement to cut all American aid to Egypt.
By financing the armed forces to the tune of $1.3 billion per year, the United States government sends a bipartisan message that its support lies where it invests its money -- much of which actually never reaches Cairo but is channeled back to the American arms industry in states like Ohio, where components for M1A1 Abrams tanks and other military hardware are produced. Thus, cutting American aid would effectively trim the subsidy Washington provides to these domestic industries. Those lawmakers defending aid to Egypt aren't being realists; they're protecting their districts, constituents, and the corporations that donate to re-election campaigns.
While the voices of Egyptians and the mobilized masses seem to matter so much when popularly impeaching an elected president or a longtime dictator, the voice of those same masses when it comes to calls for cutting off American aid seem to resonate much less in Washington -- affirming many Egyptians' belief that America has double standards and damaging the United States' image at a crucial moment in Egypt's history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); ARMIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); COUPS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); ARMED FORCES (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); DEFENSE DEPARTMENTS (78%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (76%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (73%); DEFENSE SPENDING (73%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (71%); ARSON (71%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (90%); HOSNI MUBARAK (58%); JOHN MCCAIN (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: OHIO, USA (92%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



359 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1056 words

HEADLINE: JPMorgan and Wells Fargo Feel First Chill of Rising Interest Rates

BYLINE: By JESSICA SILVER-GREENBERG and BEN PROTESS; Nathaniel Popper contributed reporting.

 BODY:
Even as two of the nation's largest banks reported record profits on Friday, beneath the rosy earnings were signs that a sharp uptick in interest rates could spell trouble ahead for Wall Street and the broader housing market.
Kicking off bank earnings season, JPMorgan Chase and Wells Fargo handily beat analysts' expectations. Profit at JPMorgan surged 31 percent, bolstered by gains in the bank's trading and investment banking business. Wells Fargo, the biggest home lender in the country, posted a 19 percent increase in its second-quarter profit. 
The gains were spread across the banks except for one important source: mortgage banking. The results showed that refinancing activity slowed, as did demand for mortgage loans.
The results could worsen. If rates continue to rise, fewer borrowers are likely to refinance or buy a house. And if the mortgage bond market weakens, banks will take a smaller gain when selling the mortgages.
While these concerns have loomed for months, the earnings on Friday offered the clearest picture yet of how the interest rate turmoil could affect the banks, whose fortunes hinge in part on their lending businesses.
''We're trying to be clear with you that this would be a significant event,'' Marianne Lake, JPMorgan's chief financial officer, said on Friday, referring to the potential effect of rising rates on the industry. She cautioned analysts that the volumes of mortgage refinancing could plunge by an ''estimated 30 percent to 40 percent'' in the second half of this year.
The results from JPMorgan and Wells are a barometer for the housing market because the two banks together account for the majority of all mortgages in the United States. In recent years, the recovery in the market has fueled the earnings of both companies and has also played a significant role in the broader economic rebound.
Until now, the banks have benefited from government policies intended to stimulate the economy in the wake of the financial crisis. As the Federal Reserve cut interest rates in recent years, for example, it spurred millions of borrowers to refinance their home loans to take advantage of the lower costs.
But the Fed has signaled in recent weeks that it could ease its stimulus as the economy continues to recover. The warning has prompted investors to drive up interest rates around the globe. Since Fed officials first hinted that they might retreat, the rate for a 30-year fixed mortgage has risen to 4.78 percent from a low of 3.54 percent.
The banks' second-quarter results show the early results of the sudden surge. In the second quarter, Wells Fargo received $146 billion worth of quarterly home loan applications, down from $208 billion in the period a year earlier. Its mortgage originations totaled $112 billion, down from $131 billion.
At JPMorgan, mortgage originations rose 12 percent in the quarter, to $49 billion, but overall profit in mortgage banking fell by 14 percent, to $1.1 billion.
On Friday, JPMorgan executives said the slowdown could be even more extreme than previous forecasts have suggested. While both banks might be able to seize on the uptick in interest rates to create a bigger spread between the income they derive from lending and the ultimate cost of borrowing, those benefits proved elusive.
Net interest margin, a critical measure that reveals how much profit banks earn on their loans, fell at JPMorgan, settling in at 2.60 percent for the quarter, from 2.83 percent in the previous quarter. At Wells Fargo, it was 3.46 percent, down from 3.48 percent in the first quarter.
The results suggested that the surge in interest rates came too late in the second quarter to significantly affect the banks, but that the increase could cause deeper problems in the second half of the year.
Christopher Whalen, an investor and housing market analyst at Carrington Investment Services, said that the numbers that Wells and JPMorgan presented were a ''very big deal.''
''Everybody in the mortgage industry is going to have to reassess their view of this year and next,'' Mr. Whalen said.
Rising rates, though, might help other parts of the banks' business. Within its fixed-income trading operations, for example, JPMorgan reported an 18 percent increase in revenue. Fees in JPMorgan's investment banking unit surged 38 percent, to $1.7 billion.
Wells Fargo executives played down the significance of the rate change, noting that mortgage rates were still extremely low by historical standards. John Stumpf, the bank's chief executive, pointed to the interest he paid for his own mortgages.
''If you were in the mortgage market before 2000, you know that these are unbelievably good rates,'' Mr. Stumpf said. ''My first mortgage was at 8.5 percent. My second one was at 11.5 percent, and I thought those were great rates at those times.''
Mr. Stumpf noted that the uptick in rates stemmed from the Fed's indication that the economy was improving. Housing prices are rising and demand for homes has soared.
As the improvements continue, he said, a growth in loans for new home purchases will more than make up for any losses in refinancing.
''I'll take that trade all day,'' Mr. Stumpf said. ''It's good for America, it's good for the economy and in the long term, it's good for our business.''
Wells's overall loan portfolio, which includes commercial and consumer lending, actually rose 3 percent to $802 billion in the second quarter. A bump in credit cards and commercial lending -- and record origination of auto loans -- further offset the home loan slowdown. The bank's total average deposits reached $1 trillion, up 9 percent from a year ago.
But important drivers of the returns at Wells Fargo and JPMorgan did not stem from substantial growth in the underlying businesses. Instead, they came from reduced expenses.
Wells Fargo, for example, reduced a crucial expense -- building a reserve for bad loans. This move reflected improvements in the quality of loans.
In the second quarter, JPMorgan also lifted its profits by reducing loan-loss reserves by $1.5 billion. The bank defended the practice, saying it pointed to the improving condition of its loans.
Yet Jamie Dimon, JPMorgan's chief executive, conceded that fresh loan growth was still ''soft.''
Nathaniel Popper contributed reporting.
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: JPMorgan's profit on mortgages fell 14 percent in the last quarter. John Stumpf, chief of Wells Fargo, noted that higher rates reflected a mending economy. ''I'll take that trade all day,'' he said. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY LESLYE DAVIS/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 MARK LENNIHAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (91%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING (90%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (89%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); MORTGAGE RATES (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); INVESTMENT BANKING (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BOND MARKETS (77%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (76%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (76%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (68%); EXECUTIVES (51%)

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (95%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%)

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (95%); JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (95%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%)

PERSON: JOHN G STUMPF (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



360 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Apartment Blast Highlights Risk of Using Chemical Foggers to Kill Insects

BYLINE: By MARC SANTORA

 BODY:
In the war between New Yorkers and creepy crawlers, the humans have tried every conceivable weapon to defeat the insects.
Some of the arsenal is legal -- like roach traps, glue pads and cans of Raid -- and some methods are illegal, like the use of a Chinese pesticide called ''The Cat Be Unemployed.''
In their quest, people have even been known to douse their beds and walls in kerosene or gasoline to kill pests. 
On Wednesday, a woman in Chinatown found herself under attack from unwanted multilegged visitors in her two-room apartment at 17 Pike Street, said Robert G. Byrnes, chief fire marshal for the New York City Fire Department. To deal with the infestation in one room, she set off about 20 foggers, also known as bug bombs, which release a fine aerosol mist into the air, he said.
She followed up on Thursday with another 20 foggers in the other room, Mr. Byrnes said. However, she failed to turn off her oven's pilot light, and the meeting of the flame and the highly flammable contents set off a powerful explosion, fire officials said. The blast blew out the back wall of the apartment, which is just above a ground-floor salon. The explosion caused a partial collapse of the building and ignited a fire that left 12 people injured, including three critically.
An order to vacate the building was issued on Friday after inspectors from the Department of Buildings determined that illegal interior partitions had been erected. It was unclear if the partitions delayed rescue efforts, but fire inspectors said it was the foggers that set off the blaze.
''These bug bombs are very flammable,'' Mr. Byrnes said.
In fact, every year there are about 500 fires or explosions linked to the devices across the country, according to government statistics.
The pest control industry notes that with 50 million foggers sold each year, the number of accidents is relatively low.
But for many on the front line of the bug wars, from health officials to exterminators, foggers remain a source of frustration.
''They are very common, unfortunately,'' said Timothy Wong, the technical director at M&M Pest Control, an extermination company in the city.
Foggers are often misused, Mr. Wong said. A single six-ounce can is enough to treat 6,000 cubic feet of space, which translates roughly to an 800-square-foot apartment with a seven-foot ceiling.
But because foggers are so cheap, costing about $3 a can, many people think more is better, Mr. Wong said.
Multiple foggers just increase the chances of an accident and shower a home in unnecessarily high levels of dangerous chemicals. People are advised to stay clear of homes sprayed with foggers for two to four hours.
''More is not better in this case,'' Mr. Wong said.
Foggers are often also used to eliminate the wrong insects, he said.
Even though foggers are not marketed to kill bedbugs, that is the pest many consumers use them for, according to surveys conducted by health officials.
''Bedbugs hide in cracks and crevices and their bodies are very thin, as thin as a credit cards,'' Mr. Wong said. ''Foggers cannot penetrate into these crevices and often it will just drive them to burrow deeper or into other units.''
Cockroaches pose a different problem, he said.
''About 20 years ago, researchers realized that they eat each other's droppings,'' he said. So while the fog has a limited kill zone, bait traps are more effective because they poison not only the cockroaches that eat them but also those who eat their droppings.
Foggers came into widespread use in the 1970s, and there are now 150 such products registered with the federal government, according to the Environmental Protection Agency.
Mr. Byrnes, who has been with the Fire Department for 32 years, said that in the early 1980s the department started to see problems with the foggers.
The department found that the foggers were often poorly labeled, and the labels that were on the packaging did not convey just how flammable the foggers were.
The labeling has improved, he said, but there is still a challenge in educating the public.
Most important, he said, people need to ''eliminate all possible sources of ignition'' when using a fogger. Some sources are obvious, like cigarettes or a pilot light, but others less so. Any device that cycles on and off -- even a light switch -- should not be used while the fogger is deployed.
Daniel Kass, a deputy commissioner at the city's Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, said the dangers went beyond explosions.
In 2009, the city petitioned the Environmental Protection Agency to restrict the use of total release foggers. The agency did not take action, but Mr. Kass said he remained convinced that the devices were harmful.
Besides the risk of explosions and fires, he said, there is also the risk of poisoning. People often fail to wait enough time before re-entering a space that has been fogged or to ventilate the space properly.
And in the battle against bugs, it is often low-income neighborhoods that suffer the most. After all, when the choice comes down to a $175 visit from an exterminator or a $3 fogger, the fogger will most often win out.
''The cynical aspect is they are being marketed as this kind of cure,'' Mr. Kass said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Foggers for exterminating bugs are highly flammable. (PHOTOGRAPH BY TONY CENICOLA/THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: RESCUE OPERATIONS (90%); INSECTICIDES (90%); INSECTS & ARACHNIDS (90%); PEST CONTROL SERVICES (89%); BOMBS & EXPLOSIVE DEVICES (89%); PESTICIDES (89%); WAR & CONFLICT (79%); BUILDING & HOUSING INSPECTIONS (75%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (74%); CITY GOVERNMENT (74%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%) NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



361 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; DEALBOOK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1030 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Regulators Approve Stricter Trading Rules Overseas

BYLINE: By BEN PROTESS

 BODY:
Federal regulators reached a last-minute compromise on Friday to expand their oversight far beyond American shores, overcoming internal squabbles and Wall Street lobbying to rein in some of the overseas trading that imploded during the financial crisis.
The Commodity Futures Trading Commission voted 3 to 1 to adopt its so-called cross-border guidance, a deal struck just hours before a self-imposed deadline was set to expire. Gary Gensler, the agency's chairman and a fierce critic of Wall Street risk-taking, spearheaded the decision to approve the guidance, which dictates how to apply United States regulations to American banks doing business in London and beyond.
Yet the agency's battle, both internally and with Wall Street, will drag on for months. 
While firms like Goldman Sachs International and the London branch of Citigroup will face a wave of new scrutiny, the agency made crucial concessions to big banks, including a delay in the new oversight.
The oversight, Mr. Gensler said, will be phased in over several months and his agency will defer to European regulators if they adopt similar rules.
The agency also afforded Wall Street additional time to comment on the plan to phase in the regulation, inviting an onslaught of lobbying from banks that could seek additional delays. One financial group, the Institute of International Bankers, called the agency's announcements ''a big step forward'' to a ''workable approach.''
Dennis M. Kelleher, president and chief executive of Better Markets, a nonprofit advocacy group, called it, ''the lobbyist full employment act.''
While he praised Mr. Gensler for securing a deal, he added that ''this mixed bag of some very good, some not-so-good and some to-be-determined provisions will mean that Wall Street's war on regulation of high-risk cross-border derivatives dealing will not end today.''
This delay could be costly. Mr. Gensler, a former Goldman Sachs executive who has been an aggressive regulator, is expected to leave the agency before the end of the year. His departure could leave certain aspects of the cross-border plan in the hands of someone with a softer stance toward the banks.
Even with the compromise, however, the guidance is a victory for Mr. Gensler, who had vowed to meet the Friday deadline without fully caving in to Wall Street's demands. The 2008 crisis, he noted, demonstrated the huge risks of overseas trading to financial stability.
''At the center of this crisis were the far-flung operations of U.S. financial institutions,'' he said in an interview. ''What we did is kept those lessons in mind and kept our eye on protecting the American public.''
Trades by a London unit of the insurance giant American International Group, he noted, nearly toppled the company. And JPMorgan Chase's $6 billion trading loss in London last year reignited concerns that risk-taking could come crashing back to American shores.
The crisis led Congress to enact the Dodd-Frank Act in 2010, a law that mandated an overhaul of the $700 trillion marketplace for derivatives, financial contracts that derive their value from an underlying asset like a bond or an interest rate. Under that law, the trading commission is supposed to extend new derivatives changes overseas -- including tougher capital standards, a requirement that trades go through regulated clearinghouses and other requirements -- if the foreign trading has ''a direct and significant connection with activities'' of the United States.
Over the last year, the agency has battled infighting over how aggressively to interpret the law, and when to do it.
The guidance, the most contentious issue facing the agency, had strong support from Mr. Gensler and Bart Chilton, a fellow Democratic commissioner at the agency who also supported completing the guidance by the Friday deadline. Mr. Chilton noted that, with the deadline coming three years after Dodd-Frank was passed, ''It didn't just sneak up on us.''
But Mark P. Wetjen, a Democratic commissioner with an independent streak, had expressed concern that the Friday deadline was ''arbitrary.''
With the agency's Republican commissioner, Scott D. O'Malia, opposing the guidance, Mr. Wetjen held the swing vote.
A compromise appeared unlikely until Wednesday, people close to the agency said, when Mr. Wetjen and Mr. Gensler reached a tentative deal.
A central component of Mr. Gensler's final plan will apply the Dodd-Frank rules to overseas firms that are guaranteed by an American bank, including Goldman Sachs International. Foreign branches like the British branch of JPMorgan Chase, where the recent losses occurred, will also face the agency's oversight.
Mr. Gensler also included offshore hedge funds, many based in the Cayman Islands, so long as their ''nerve center'' is based in the United States.
But Mr. Gensler's victory came with some sacrifice. He agreed, for example, to defer to foreign regulators in Europe and elsewhere that have adopted ''comparable and comprehensive'' regulations to Dodd-Frank. It is up to Mr. Gensler's agency to decide whether the other regulators' rules meet the standard.
While European regulators have adopted many similar rules, authorities in Hong Kong, Switzerland and elsewhere have fallen far behind. Unless those regulators catch up by December, Dodd-Frank will apply to American banks doing business in those regions.
In a concession to Mr. Wetjen, Mr. Gensler agreed to delay the requirements, so the start date for most banks for the new rules would be Dec. 21. By soliciting additional comments from Wall Street, the agency also signaled that it was open to a longer delay.
The compromise traces to a plan that Mr. Chilton floated in June. While he noted that foreign regulators could use the additional time to catch up, he also argued that the agency should not delay indefinitely.
''Like in the movie 'Field of Dreams,' when the voice from the corn field says, 'If you build it, he will come,' '' Mr. Chilton said on Friday. ''I've said repeatedly that if we and the E.U. build balanced and fairly harmonized financial regulatory regimes, the rest of the world will come.''
This is a more complete version of the story than the one that appeared in print.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Gary Gensler, chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is a fierce critic of Wall Street risk-taking. (PHOTOGRAPH BY GARY CAMERON/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE (90%); APPROVALS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (74%); INSURANCE (73%); FUTURES (73%); SECURITIES TRADING (72%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (64%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (90%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (85%); AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL GROUP INC (60%); COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%); INSTITUTE OF INTERNATIONAL BANKERS (54%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (90%); C (BMV) (90%); 8710 (TSE) (90%); GS (NYSE) (85%); AIG (NYSE) (60%); 8685 (TSE) (60%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (90%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (85%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (85%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (85%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (85%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (85%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (71%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



362 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 289 words

HEADLINE: Nudged by Gas Prices, Wholesale Inflation Rises

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- A big increase in gasoline prices pushed wholesale inflation up in June by the largest amount in nine months. But underlying inflation showed only a modest gain. 
Wholesale prices rose 0.8 percent in June compared with May, when prices rose 0.5 percent, the Labor Department reported on Friday. It was the biggest gain since a 1 percent increase in September and was driven by a 7.2 percent surge in gasoline prices.
Outside of the volatile energy and food sectors, core inflation was up just 0.2 percent in June.
Core prices have risen 1.7 percent over the last 12 months. Aside from sharp swings in gas prices, inflation has increased very slowly over the last year, giving the Federal Reserve the room to keep interest rates low to lift the economy.
The government's Producer Price Index measures inflation before it reaches the consumer. Consumer prices have been rising at a modest rate as well. Over the 12 months ending in May, consumer prices outside of food and energy were up just 1.7 percent, below the Fed's 2 percent target for inflation.
For June, energy prices at the wholesale level were up 2.9 percent, reflecting the big increase in gas prices. It was the biggest increase since February.
Food costs rose 0.2 percent in June, a moderation after a larger 0.6 percent May increase in food that had been driven in part by a surge in the price of eggs. For June, egg prices retreated, falling 26.8 percent, the biggest one-month drop in seven years.
The wholesale price of passenger cars rose 0.8 percent in June, the biggest increase since November 2011, but most other categories showed moderation. Furniture prices were up 0.3 percent.
Total wholesale prices were up 2.5 percent in June compared with a year ago.

GRAPHIC: CHART: Producer Prices: Index of finished goods prices, 1982 =100, seasonally adjusted. (Source: Labor Department) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (95%); PRICE INCREASES (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (94%); WHOLESALE PRICES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (91%); INFLATION (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (90%); FOOD PRICES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); WHOLESALE TRADE FIGURES (78%); PRODUCER PRICES (78%); WHOLESALE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (73%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); INTEREST RATES (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



363 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1002 words

HEADLINE: Hardening Split in Egypt as Islamists Stage Huge Demonstrations

BYLINE: By BEN HUBBARD; Rick Gladstone contributed reporting from New York.

 BODY:
CAIRO -- Hundreds of thousands of Egyptian Islamists and other supporters of Mohamed Morsi, the country's first freely elected president, who was ousted and detained by the military last week, filled public squares in Cairo and other cities on Friday in an intensified campaign aimed at returning him to power. The United States also dialed up its criticism, calling on Egypt's interim authorities to release Mr. Morsi.
The protests underlined both the size of the opposition to the military's intervention on July 3 and the hardening split over the country's direction. Mr. Morsi's supporters blocked major thoroughfares in parts of Cairo, snarling traffic and raising the prospect of further escalation, while Tahrir Square remained the domain of the anti-Morsi side. 
In Washington, a State Department spokeswoman, Jen Psaki, said the United States concurred with a call made by Germany for Mr. Morsi to be released. Asked about Germany's position at a daily briefing, she said, ''We do agree.''
Ms. Psaki declined to specify whether the United States still recognized Mr. Morsi as the president of Egypt. But her response about his detention appeared to reflect growing concern by the Obama administration over the interim government's progress toward new elections and an inclusive democratic system.
Mr. Morsi's supporters have denounced what they view as the Obama administration's tepid criticisms, and some have accused the United States of quietly approving his ouster. The Obama administration has refrained from calling the military intervention a coup, which could trigger an American law requiring a cutoff of aid to Egypt.
Mr. Morsi has been held incommunicado in an undisclosed location since his removal after millions protested against him. Egypt's generals have said he is in custody for his safety. But the interim government has also signaled that it may be preparing to prosecute him.
With many of Mr. Morsi's Islamist supporters finding new motivation during the holy month of Ramadan, which started this week, the largest pro-Morsi sit-in, in the Cairo suburb of Nasr City, swelled to take on an increasing air of durability.
Loudspeakers attached to lampposts blasted the voices of speakers, singers and Koran reciters on a central stage. Hundreds of tents have been set up on traffic islands and on side streets, where fasting protesters slept on blankets, sheets of cardboard or asphalt streets in the midday heat.
The sit-in also serves as a safe zone of sorts for Muslim Brotherhood leaders and other members who are among the hundreds who have been put on wanted lists by the authorities since Mr. Morsi's ouster.
Speaking in a mosque at the center of the sit-in, Mohamed el-Beltagy, a former Parliament member and Brotherhood leader, laughed off his status as a wanted man, but said he had not left the encampment in days.
''I'm not scared, but I stay here for the revolution,'' he said.
The authorities have accused him and other Brotherhood leaders of inciting violence against the army.
Mr. Beltagy rejected statements by the new interim prime minister that held out the possibility of ministerial positions to Muslim Brotherhood members.
''They are shooting us and calling us terrorists who belong in prison, so how can they offer us ministerial portfolios?'' he said.
Denying that there were any negotiations between Brotherhood leaders and the military-led interim government to end the crisis, he said the Brotherhood would accept early presidential elections, but only if Mr. Morsi was returned to power.
''We have no objection to early presidential elections after the return of the president and the Shura Council and the Constitution,'' he said, referring to the upper house of Parliament. ''We have no problem with early presidential elections, but under elected institutions, not under a tank.''
Despite the large number of demonstrators, many supporters of Mr. Morsi said they had started to fear that just holding large protests would not be enough to persuade the army to restore him to the presidency. The military so far has paid little heed to their demands, and their refusal to engage with the new leaders raises the possibility that they will be left out of the new order.
Seeking to escalate their campaign, Mr. Morsi's supporters blocked at least two major thoroughfares near their encampment as darkness fell, cutting off traffic with rocks, tires, concrete blocks and metal barricades.
Sitting on the pavement behind one of the barriers, Mohamed Salah, 33, called the new tactic ''peaceful escalation.''
''We are here because the military leaders have not paid any attention to us, so we are spreading out in the streets to show that we disagree with the coup,'' he said.
Around the corner on the street that runs in front of the officers' club of the Republican Guard, protesters were breaking pavement stones out of the sidewalk and stacking them into a makeshift wall across the street. The army killed more than 50 Morsi supporters in the same area on Monday.
Demonstrators supporting the army's intervention collected in Tahrir Square, the epicenter of the 2011 revolution that toppled Mr. Morsi's autocratic predecessor, Hosni Mubarak, and near the Presidential Palace.
''We had to show Morsi that we could get rid of him if we didn't like him just like we got rid of the one before him,'' said one demonstrator, Ahmed Ghazi, 35. ''What the Egyptian people did is pure democracy.''
A few thousand pro-Morsi protesters later collected downtown in Ramses Square, where they blocked an exit ramp and then marched off down a major street.
Standing in front of his modest bookstore, Ibrahim Thabit, 52, watched the marchers pass and said he understood their point but worried about too much disruption. He had voted for Mr. Morsi but said he had been disappointed when the economy continued to sink.
He said he hoped the army would find a way to bridge the country's political divide.
''We want to eat and drink and live in peace,'' he said. ''That is what is important for people.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Tens of thousands of supporters of Mohamed Morsi rallied outside the Raba el-Adawiya Mosque in Cairo on Friday, demanding his reinstatement. (PHOTOGRAPH BY YUSUF SAYMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); QURAN & ISLAMIC TEXTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUPS (78%); MILITARY OPERATIONS (77%); RAMADAN (66%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (54%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (93%); BARACK OBAMA (78%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (93%) EGYPT (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); GERMANY (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



364 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 710 words

HEADLINE: Sudden Spike in Gas Prices, but Increases May Be Short-Lived

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS

 BODY:
HOUSTON -- With the summer vacation season picking up, gasoline prices at the pump are inching higher, a seasonal increase that was underscored by an unusual one-day bump on Friday of 3 cents a gallon.
And according to the AAA daily gauge report, the average price of a gallon of regular gasoline is 17 cents more today than just a year ago, at a time when Americans appear to be driving substantially more than last summer.
In the last week, the price rose approximately 7 cents, reaching an average $3.55 on Friday for a gallon of regular grade, the report said. Prices range widely around the country. In South Carolina, for instance, a gallon of regular averages $3.21; in California drivers pay $3.99. 
''We're going to get a little sticker shock at the pump,'' said Tom Kloza, chief oil analyst at GasBuddy.com, a Web site that monitors gasoline prices. ''We've moved up on wholesale prices anywhere from 35 to 60 cents a gallon since June 28. This summer we are looking at average prices of somewhere between $3.45 and $3.75, and unfortunately I think we will approach the high end of that range pretty shortly.''
The recent price increases can be attributed mainly to higher global crude prices that have been creeping up because of the unrest in Egypt, brief export failures in Libya and Iraq and disruptions of Nigeria's oil pipelines. Egypt is not a major oil producer, but instability there raises fears of a possible blockage of the Suez Canal, a major thoroughfare for oil exports and spreading unrest in the region.
West Texas Intermediate, the main American benchmark, has been rising for more than a week, partly because higher demand among summer vacationers has caused a sudden large drop in American inventories. Many experts say they believe that the American benchmark price, which has been depressed relative to global benchmarks in recent years, could remain somewhat higher for a while because new pipelines and railroad lines are gradually relieving bottlenecks for oil produced and stored in the Midwest.
In storage and delivery centers like Cushing, Okla., for example, excess inventories of landlocked oil that could not be easily transported made the oil cheap. But now that supplies are moving around the country more regularly, wholesale and retail prices are rising.
Stockpiles in Cushing fell by 2.7 million barrels last week alone, reaching the lowest levels of the year.
In recent years, a weaker economy and more fuel-efficient vehicles combined to lower American gas consumption, before this summer's blip of vacation driving bucked the trend. And few oil experts expect a long-term increase in oil and gasoline prices. The rapid growth in United States oil production, coupled with sluggish demand in Europe and slowing growth in China and much of the developing world, is expected to restrain prices. Some experts predict a decline in oil prices over the next year.
''You will see oil prices hover somewhere in the $70 to $100 range,'' Harbir S. Chhina, an executive vice president for Cenovus Energy, a major Canadian oil company, predicted for the United States oil benchmark in an interview last month.
The United States benchmark has broken out of that band for the first this time year in recent days to just over $105, representing about a $20 rise from last July. Crude prices, in the United States and abroad, rose approximately 1 percent on Friday.
Global oil production remains robust and some recent supply problems are easing. Two Libyan oil export terminals that were shut down in recent weeks by militias and disgruntled employees have resumed operations. The Kirkuk-Ceyhan pipeline, a major outlet of oil from Iraq's northern oil fields, is returning to operations this week after being suspended since June 21 because of a leak and an interruption of repair work after an ambush on a crew of technicians.
Oil experts warn, however, that there is no telling when the next political crisis will come in the Middle East or North Africa.
''Oil price predictions used to be about oil consumption and markets, but now it's about where the next riot will break out,'' said Stale Tungesvik, a senior executive at Statoil, the Norwegian oil giant. ''It's so much more politically based, and that makes it a mystery to everyone.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: The Queen of Sheba, a Boeing 787 Dreamliner that caught fire at Heathrow Airport on Friday. (PHOTOGRAPH BY SANG TAN/ASSOCIATED PRESS) (B2) CHART: Average gas price per gallon (Source: AAA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); GASOLINE PRICES (93%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); GASOLINE MARKETS (89%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (89%); CRUDE OIL PIPELINES (88%); WHOLESALERS (87%); TRENDS (78%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (78%); WHOLESALE PRICES (78%); PRICE CHANGES (78%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (78%); OIL & GAS CONSUMPTION (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); ENERGY CONSUMPTION (78%); PETROLEUM EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); OIL & GAS EXPORTS & IMPORTS (78%); INVENTORIES (72%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (70%); EMERGING MARKETS (70%); MIDDLE EAST PROTESTS & UPRISINGS (69%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (64%)

GEOGRAPHIC: HOUSTON, TX, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (74%) TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); MIDWEST USA (79%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (96%); EGYPT (90%); LIBYAN ARAB JAMAHIRIYA (79%); CHINA (79%); EUROPE (79%); NIGERIA (74%); IRAQ (69%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



365 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1217 words

HEADLINE: Ideas to Bolster Power Grid Run Up Against 500 Owners of Different Minds

BYLINE: By MATTHEW L. WALD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- Bill Richardson often denigrated America's power transmission network as a ''third-world grid'' when he was President Bill Clinton's energy secretary, but the more current description of it is ''balkanized,'' with 500 separate owners. Marc L. Spitzer, a former member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, said even that analogy was not harsh enough.
''To call the U.S. grid balkanized would insult the Macedonians,'' he said.
When President Obama presented his plans last month for executive action that would cut emissions of greenhouse gases, one item on his list was strengthening the power grid. It was on the lists of President George W. Bush and Mr. Clinton, too. But for the most part, experts say the grid is not being changed, at least not on a scale big enough to make much difference. 
Their view is reflected in what they say is a largely hypothetical three-year effort by hundreds of engineers to redraw the grid for the eastern two-thirds of the United States. Engineers in the project, which is now drawing to a close, have proposed a basic redesign for beefing up the Eastern Interconnection, the part of the grid that stretches from Nova Scotia to New Orleans.
The redesign would reduce carbon dioxide emissions by replacing coal with wind energy and give the United States something it has never had, a grid designed for shipping bulk amounts of electricity across the continent. The planning, which cost $16 million, shows a substantial carbon emissions reduction.
But the project is covered with footnotes that assert that it does not represent the position of the participants.
''Our work goes into the general knowledge base of the kind of answers you would get when you ask certain policy questions,'' said David Whiteley, the executive director of the Eastern Interconnection Planning Collaborative, which carried out the study. Christopher Russo, an energy consultant at Charles River Associates, which helped with the redesign, called it ''a technical road map'' of thousands of miles of high-capacity transmission lines, and calculations of electricity supply and load and the paths between them.
''We said, 'Here's what we could do,' '' he said. ''We haven't said how we would pay for it.''
Still, drawing a sketch is a step forward. The grid is divided into regions that cover a state or a compact area (like New England) or slightly larger units, like PJM, which once stood for Pennsylvania-Jersey-Maryland but now extends through West Virginia, Ohio and the Chicago area. Almost all planning is done within those regions, as if they were islands. Federal officials say there is not even a regulatory mechanism for planning a line that does more than connect two regions.
''Given the history of this particular industry and its complexity, it is just not going to happen, at least not any time soon,'' said James J. Hoecker, a former member of the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission, which has some jurisdiction over transmission lines. One problem, he said, is ''resource nationalism,'' in which individual states want to use local resources, whether they are coal or yet-to-be-built offshore wind, rather than importing from neighbors in a way that could be more economical.
For now, engineers in the grid redesign project have determined that conducting business as usual between 2010 and 2030 would require $18.5 billion in new transmission lines in the United States, while a system designed to integrate renewables like wind energy on a large scale would cost $115.2 billion. In some places, however, renewables could cut electricity costs by allowing the replacement of high-cost generators with lower-cost ones.
The technology, the engineering skill and even the money are all available, experts say, but the ability to reach agreement on such a grid is not. Dozens of experts said in interviews that there were simply too many players, both commercial and governmental, and too many conflicting interests.
Some of the players have a stake in cleaner or cheaper electricity, but others do not. ''There are participants who have a vested interest in the high price of electricity, not the low price of electricity,'' said Douglas Gotham, an industry analyst at Purdue University.
At the Illinois Citizens Utility Board, a state-chartered organization that represents consumer interests in regulatory proceedings, David Kolata, the executive director, said new lines could lower costs for customers. But, he said, ''for every winner, you get just as many losers, perhaps even more losers.''
The hurdles are particularly acute with wind. Electricity can be made from natural gas almost anywhere, because a superb gas network, built under federal regulation over the last 60 years, will move the gas to wherever it is most convenient to burn it. Energy from coal can also be made almost anywhere. But to make electricity from wind, the generator has to be where the resource is, and for wind, that means places with few major power lines.
In Kansas, for example, sites are available where the wind is so strong that over the course of a year, a wind machine will produce half of its theoretical maximum capacity -- an excellent output. But wind machines are more common in eastern locations where energy production is only one-third of the theoretical maximum.
''You could expect 40 or 50 percent more energy'' with wind machines in western Kansas, said Michael Skelly, the president of Clean Line Energy Partners, a company that is trying to build, piecemeal, elements of the current plan. In an end run around the traditional regulatory process, Clean Line's transmission lines would be a bit like private toll roads, financed outside the usual system, and available under contract. The company is planning four large projects but faces significant regulatory hurdles.
The existing grid also makes it difficult to predict the energy output from wind projects. At a single wind farm, energy production can range from zero to 100 percent. But with hundreds of wind farms networked together, production would almost never be zero. Utility planners could in fact derive a minimum likely capacity, an important statistic as more resources are poured into building wind farms.
However, wind energy works only if it is widely shared. Already, there are times in the Pacific Northwest and the Midwest when wind production exceeds demand in the regions to which it can be easily sent. Electricity is a supply chain with a time lag even shorter than the one for sushi. If the power cannot be sent somewhere instantly, it is useless.
For now, there is simply no momentum for a transmission system that would connect the best sites for renewable energy with the biggest areas of demand. ''There's no overall transmission planning for the entire interconnection,'' said Vladimir S. Koritarov, deputy director of the Center for Energy, Environmental and Economic Systems Analysis at Argonne National Laboratory.
There is some hope for individual projects, although experts say they are the equivalent of building Interstate highways one route at a time.
''We've found a lot of different ways that transmission will fail to be built,'' said David S. Hamilton, the director for clean energy of the Sierra Club's Beyond Coal Campaign ''This, at least, is one that has not yet failed.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Turbines in central Kansas, where there are few major power lines. Left, Bill Richardson, the former energy secretary, who called the American network a ''third-world grid.'' (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHARLIE RIEDEL/ASSOCIATED PRESS
 JIM YOUNG/REUTERS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (91%); ENERGY DEPARTMENTS (90%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); EMISSIONS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); FOSSIL FUEL POWER PLANTS (88%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (78%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (78%); ENERGY REGULATION (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (76%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); ENGINEERING (72%); BULK SHIPPING (65%); WIND ENERGY (58%)

COMPANY: CRA INTERNATIONAL INC (52%)

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL ENERGY REGULATORY COMMISSION (57%)

TICKER: CRAI (NASDAQ) (52%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS541690 OTHER SCIENTIFIC & TECHNICAL CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%); SIC8748 BUSINESS CONSULTING SERVICES, NEC (52%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (52%)

PERSON: BILL RICHARDSON (90%); BILL CLINTON (88%); GEORGE W BUSH (57%); BARACK OBAMA (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (79%) WEST VIRGINIA, USA (79%); OHIO, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); MARYLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



366 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 1130 words

HEADLINE: Spain's Real Crisis Is a Leadership Void

BYLINE: By RAPHAEL MINDER

 BODY:
MADRID -- The sense of scandal surrounding Prime Minister Mariano Rajoy has crested yet again, after another week of allegations and denials in which the former treasurer of his Popular Party continued to drip-feed the media glimpses of ledgers that appear to show that Spain's leadership enriched itself for years with a secret slush fund.
But while the charge may be simple enough, the case is not. Having previously withheld information from the courts about secret Swiss accounts, the former treasurer, Luis Bárcenas, who now sits in prison, seems less than fully credible, and the courts incapable of digging to the bottom on the matter with real speed.
The result is less a crisis for Mr. Rajoy -- though he is certainly damaged, polls show -- than one for Spain, its national morale and the credibility of its institutions, with all the risk that the steady drumbeat of allegations will deny recession-hit Spain strong leadership and distract the government from pressing economic concerns as the scandal unspools for years, analysts say. 
In fact, Mr. Rajoy's best defense may be to stonewall and string out the corruption case beyond the end of his scheduled mandate in 2015 and the next election. Given Spain's overburdened courts, that should not be hard to do.
''Rajoy is the ultimate resistance fighter and he has clearly decided that time will play in his government's favor,'' said José Ignacio Torreblanca, a political columnist and head of the Spanish office of the European Council on Foreign Relations, a research group.
Still, Mr. Torreblanca suggested that Mr. Rajoy was making ''a big mistake'' if he resorted to stalling tactics in an attempt to keep political pressure at a minimum.
''A prime minister should not only ask people to trust him but instead present a credible story about exactly what happened when faced with such accusations,'' Mr. Torreblanca said.
This week, however, the Popular Party rejected a call from opposition parties for Mr. Rajoy to appear in Parliament and explain exactly how the party's finances had been managed by Mr. Bárcenas. Meanwhile, prosecutors started naming senior Popular Party officials whom they want to appear as witnesses in the case, led by María Dolores de Cospedal, the secretary general of the party.
Mr. Bárcenas was first subpoenaed in 2009, as part of what then appeared to be a mundane graft investigation into whether a group of businessmen had bribes to receive contracts from conservative mayors and regional politicians. He denied at the time ever having had money in Switzerland.
Since January, investigators have unearthed at least &#x20ac;47 million, or $61.4 million, that he allegedly stashed offshore, in Switzerland but also possibly in the United States and other countries. Mr. Bárcenas is next scheduled in court on Monday, and with each appearance speculation mounts that he will turn on his former party colleagues, as they turn on him.
Mr. Bárcenas reportedly left his job as treasurer in 2009 with a trove of documents. This week, the newspaper El Mundo published ledgers that it claimed were the party's parallel financial accounts, mirroring allegations made in late January by another Spanish paper, El País.
Mr. Bárcenas is being held in a prison outside Madrid since a court judged him to be a flight risk in June. After visiting his friend on Monday, Miguel Duran, a lawyer, told RAC1 radio that Mr. Bárcenas had told him ''interesting things.''
''He has enough information to make the government fall,'' Mr. Duran said ominously.
Mr. Rajoy and other senior party officials have denied wrongdoing, as has Mr. Bárcenas. Increasingly the scandal boils down to their word against his. Senior party officials have now sought to isolate and even disparage their former colleague, at the risk that Mr. Bárcenas will become even looser with his years of accumulated knowledge of the inner workings of the Popular Party.
By Thursday, Mr. Bárcenas was being called ''a delinquent'' by Alfonso Alonso, the party's parliamentary spokesman, ''for whom lying has become a way of life.'' At the same time, Mr. Alonso acknowledged that ''there has been a corruption ring, which is what we want the judiciary to clarify.''
In February, in contrast, when Mr. Rajoy made a weekend television address to deny the existence of a slush fund, he made no specific mention of Mr. Bárcenas and his Swiss money and instead defended the fiscal rectitude of all his party colleagues. ''All our tax contributions have been made within the strictest legality over all these years,'' Mr. Rajoy said at the time.
Mr. Alonso's portrayal of Mr. Bárcenas was ''a major change in the party discourse and some form of reality check,'' said José María de Areilza, a professor of law at the Esade business school in Madrid. It also showed how quickly the stakes in the case have mounted, he said.
With a bullet-proof majority in Parliament and elections not due until 2015, Mr. Rajoy is in little danger of being nudged from power. But the persistent drumbeat of allegations has pushed him and his inner circle toward blanket denials that leave them little room for maneuver if Mr. Barcenas's allegations eventually stand up.
Underlining the severity of the slush fund allegations against the Popular Party, the financial crimes unit of the Spanish police released in May a report in which it said that it had identified 19 of the fund's corporate donors, which received more than &#x20ac;12 billion worth of public contracts from conservative politicians over a decade.
Proving any illegal party funding scheme is likely to be an uphill struggle given the murkiness of the rules governing the financing of Spanish parties -- something that Mr. Rajoy's government is in the process of tightening. But the questions swirling around the party's finances have already helped sink Mr. Rajoy's popularity to record lows. Mr. Rajoy's government has also faced mass demonstrations, as citizens blame its austerity push for their worsening conditions and a record unemployment rate of 27 percent.
Only 23 percent of respondents would now vote for the Popular Party, according to a survey by Metroscopia, a pollster, and published by El País last Sunday, hovering near the lowest since Mr. Rajoy came to power in November 2011. Meanwhile, 86 percent of those surveyed said that they did not trust Mr. Rajoy, according to Metroscopia.
Still, the Socialists and other parties continue to trail the Popular Party, according to Metroscopia's latest poll, showing the extent and depth of the discontent and mistrust in Spain, as politicians, the monarchy and almost every other institution have become entangled in the web of fraud investigations, many of them related to building contracts awarded before the bursting of Spain's construction bubble in 2008.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); SCANDALS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); SUBPOENAS (89%); POLITICS (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BRIBERY (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); WITNESSES (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (70%); RECESSION (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (69%); FOREIGN POLICY (66%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (64%); WRITERS (64%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MADRID, SPAIN (92%) SPAIN (95%); SWITZERLAND (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (72%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (58%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



367 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
The International Herald Tribune

SECTION: Section ; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 

LENGTH: 658 words

HEADLINE: E.U. and U.S. Open First Round of Trade Talks

BYLINE: By BRIAN KNOWLTON

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- American and European Union trade officials sought on Friday to put the best face on their just-opened negotiations over a potentially sweeping transAtlantic trade agreement. But there were signals that an accord might not be reached as quickly as politicians had hoped, and that some of the trickier issues will remain problematic.
''We are very interested in moving expeditiously in this negotiation, so we're going to move quickly, but we're also going to move carefully,'' Dan Mullaney, the chief U.S. negotiator, said at a joint U.S.-European Union news conference. ''It's important to us that we arrive at a deal quickly, but it's even more important that we get the agreement right.'' 
Significantly, neither he nor his European counterpart, Ignacio Garcia-Bercero, specifically confirmed the deadline of year-end 2014 for the negotiations that politicians on both sides had previously described.
While more than a dozen working groups on each side will continue to communicate by e-mail, video conference and other means as they lay out the complex framework of the proposed pact -- the Transatlantic Trade and Investment Partnership -- the next big round of meetings will not be held until sometime in October, and will take place in Brussels.
Furthermore, Mr. Garcia-Bercero said there would be no ''harmonizing downwards'' of European standards, which suggested that some of the thorniest issues -- like Europeans' aversion to American genetically modified food or hormone-fed beef -- might resist early solution.
Mr. Mullaney, asked about discussions of ''cultural'' topics, said the talks had been inclusive and ''covered the waterfront.''
It was unclear whether he meant to suggest that no subject had been ruled off-limits -- including exports of films and other audiovisual products -- which the French trade minister, Nicole Bricq, has insisted cannot be part of the talks.
Still, both sides attempted to give a positive cast to the negotiations. A deal would potentially bring huge benefits to economies that already account for about half of global economic output and one-third of world trade. Both sides have predicted a significant stimulus to their job markets and economies -- by up to 1 point of gross domestic product -- and a regularization of standards that may force competitors like China to follow their lead.
''The first round has confirmed that both sides are committed to a high level of ambition,'' Mr. Garcia-Bercero said, adding that ''both of us see this agreement as having potential to deliver something that will be transformative.''
The fact that this first round took place on schedule suggests the importance that American and European political leaders place on it. Many in Europe, and notably many Germans, favored a postponement after recent revelations of secret American surveillance programs aimed at Europeans. But Germany, with its huge export industry, is expected to be a prime beneficiary of any trade deal.
The surveillance question arose repeatedly at the news conference. Asked whether the two sides had exchanged assurances that they would not spy on each other, drawing a laugh but no explicit denial, Mr. Mullaney noted that the two sides were in separate talks on surveillance and data security, adding, ''It really hasn't come up in these discussions.''
Both of the chief negotiators said they were working to keep the talks transparent, as many nongovernmental groups have insisted.
Ira S. Shapiro, a lawyer who was a trade negotiator in the Clinton administration, said it would be difficult to judge the talks' prospects until late in the process, noting that ''the toughest issues tend to be resolved only at the very end.''
And each of those issues has its own committed advocates and stakeholders.
''Every trade barrier that countries maintain has behind it some very significant political, economic or cultural reasons,'' Mr. Shapiro said, ''so dismantling them doesn't come easily.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE DEVELOPMENT (91%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (91%); TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (75%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); GENETICALLY MODIFIED FOOD (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (65%); MEATS (64%)

COMPANY: TRADE & INVESTMENT BANK LTD (55%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (91%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (55%)

GEOGRAPHIC: BRUSSELS, BELGIUM (73%) EUROPE (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); UNITED STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%); BELGIUM (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



368 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 516 words

HEADLINE: Shares Creep Upward Despite Mixed Economic News

BYLINE: By THE ASSOCIATED PRESS

 BODY:
It was another high day on Wall Street -- barely.
After spending most of Friday flat or down, stocks rallied at the last minute and closed slightly higher, just enough to post new nominal highs for the Dow Jones industrial average and the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index.
The gains were tiny. And the new high, which does not account for inflation, means little to investors, who hardly have more money now than they did a day earlier. But it is a sign that investors believe that the market's rally this year may not be over yet. 
The S.& P. 500 has closed higher seven days in a row. The last time it did that was in March.
Investors had to look past a pessimistic forecast from United Parcel Service, which said it was expecting a slowdown in United States industry. And in the afternoon, Boeing shares slipped after one of the company's 787 jets had a fire in London, reviving fears of the troubles that the plane had with batteries this year.
Other economic news was mixed. Profits at Wells Fargo and JPMorgan Chase were better than expected, and that helped financial stocks. But a University of Michigan measure of consumer sentiment came in lower than expected for this month.
Investors will get a lot more information next week, when major reports on inflation and retail sales are due. That is also when the pace of company earnings reports will pick up sharply. Results are due from the remaining big banks, as well as General Electric, Intel, Microsoft and other industry bellwethers.
The Dow closed up 3.38 points, just 0.02 percent, at 15,464.30. The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index rose 5.17 points, or 0.3 percent, to 1,680.19. Both indexes also closed at nominal highs on Thursday.
The Nasdaq composite edged up 21.78 points, or 0.6 percent, to 3,600.08. It is still well short of its record high of 5,048, set in March 2000.
All the big indexes ended the week ahead 2 percent or more.
In government bonds, the benchmark 10-year Treasury note fell 5/32 to 92 24/32, sending the yield up to 2.59 percent, from 2.57 percent late Thursday.
Shares in U.P.S. sank $5.33, or 5.8 percent, to $86.12 after the company said its second-quarter and full-year earnings would be less than analysts had projected because the company's customers were using cheaper shipping options. U.P.S. also said it was seeing a slowdown in American industry.
FedEx shares fell, too, down $2.11, or 2 percent, to $102.29.
Cost-cutting lifted profits at Wells Fargo, and its stock rose 74 cents, or 1.8 percent, to $42.63. JPMorgan Chase reported a 32 percent jump in profits, but its stock fell 17 cents to $54.97.
Anthony Conroy, managing director and head trader for the ConvergEx Group, said JPMorgan's credit numbers were strong. ''That means the consumer's out there spending and borrowing and propping up the whole economy, and that's a good thing,'' he said.
Mr. Conroy said he expected stocks to rise as long as second-quarter earnings reports at least matched the low expectations that investors have. ''The three most important things in the next couple of weeks are earnings, earnings and earnings,'' he said.

GRAPHIC: CHART: The Dow Minute by Minute: Position of the Dow Jones industrial average at 1-minute intervals yesterday. (Source: Bloomberg) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MARKET OPEN CLOSE (99%); STOCK INDEXES (93%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (88%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); BONDS (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (71%); PUBLIC FINANCE (69%); COURIERS & PACKAGE SERVICES (68%); TREASURY SECURITIES (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); RETAIL SALES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (83%); BOEING CO (83%); WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); UNITED PARCEL SERVICE INC (56%); MICROSOFT CORP (54%); GENERAL ELECTRIC CO (54%); INTEL CORP (54%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (83%); JPM (LSE) (83%); 8634 (TSE) (83%); BOE (LSE) (83%); BAB (BRU) (83%); BA (NYSE) (83%); WFC (NYSE) (83%); UPS (NYSE) (56%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (54%); GNE (PAR) (54%); GEC (LSE) (54%); GE (SWX) (54%); GE (NYSE) (54%); INTC (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (83%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (83%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (83%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (83%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (83%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS541614 PROCESS, PHYSICAL DISTRIBUTION & LOGISTICS CONSULTING SERVICES (56%); NAICS488510 FREIGHT TRANSPORTATION ARRANGEMENT (56%); NAICS484121 GENERAL FREIGHT TRUCKING, LONG-DISTANCE, TRUCKLOAD (56%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (54%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (54%); NAICS335222 HOUSEHOLD REFRIGERATOR & HOME FREEZER MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS335210 SMALL ELECTRICAL APPLIANCE MANUFACTURING (54%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%) MICHIGAN, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



369 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; National Desk; POLITICAL MEMO; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 948 words

HEADLINE: History Says Obama, in Second Term, Has Time Yet to Make Impact

BYLINE: By JOHN HARWOOD

 BODY:
WASHINGTON -- President Obama has little to show for the first six months of his second term beyond gridlock in Congress, turmoil in the Middle East and assorted administration controversies.
The recent history of two-term presidencies shows that things could be a lot better. By this point President Bill Clinton had already struck a landmark budget-balancing deal with Congressional Republicans.
It also could be much worse. Richard M. Nixon's presidency began unraveling in the first six months of his second term, Dwight D. Eisenhower faced an emerging recession and Ronald Reagan battled budget woes, terrorism and health problems. George W. Bush struggled with the deteriorating Iraq war. 
But all four ultimately managed significant second-term accomplishments despite partisan opposition on Capitol Hill, leading historians to caution against predictions that the second Obama administration is doomed.
''The media culture has been too pessimistic because Obama caught a couple of punches,'' said Douglas Brinkley, a Rice University professor. Michael Beschloss, the presidential historian, called Mr. Obama's current problems ''quite modest'' compared with recent predecessors.
Legislation in Congress provides the simplest scorecard. Ever since the New Year's Day ''fiscal cliff'' agreement ending the Bush administration's tax cuts for the highest earners -- fulfilling a long-held Democratic objective in the waning days of his first term -- Mr. Obama's record with Congress has been a mess.
There is no sign of a long-term budget deal, a Senate-passed immigration plan has no clear path to approval in the House and legislation to expand background checks on guns went down in an embarrassing defeat.
The window for passing second-term priorities does not stay open long. Reagan's victories on tax and immigration overhauls in 1986, the sixth year of his presidency, were unusual -- and set the high-water mark for accomplishments for twice-elected presidents since World War II.
In contrast, scandal cost Mr. Clinton the ability to do much after he signed the balanced-budget deal nine months after his 1996 re-election. Mr. Bush could not convert the ''political capital'' he claimed from his 2004 victory to advance a plan to partly privatize Social Security, even with Republicans running Congress.
But foreign policy, a natural palliative for legislative blues, offers the commander-in-chief other outlets. Reagan signed a major arms control treaty with Mikhail S. Gorbachev, the last president of the Soviet Union, and Mr. Clinton shepherded a peace deal in Northern Ireland.
Mr. Obama is disengaging the United States from long, unpopular wars in the Middle East -- and resisting Congressional pressure for greater American intervention in Syria -- while elevating engagement with China and other Asian nations.
Domestically, politically weakened presidents can use executive powers to bypass uncooperative lawmakers. Mr. Clinton proved especially assertive in using executive orders. Mr. Obama aims to do that now on climate change without suffering the sort of reversal Mr. Clinton did in 2001, when Mr. Bush and a Republican Congress rolled back Mr. Clinton's union-backed regulations on workplace safety.
Recalibrating already established policies can be at least as important as new victories. Mr. Bush adjusted his war policy in his second term with a surge of new troops to Iraq, a decision that in part reduced violence enough, Mr. Beschloss said, that historians may alter their judgment of the conflict. The durability of Mr. Obama's landmark achievement on health care may in turn depend on whether Americans see its carrying out over the next years as a success or a failure.
Like all second-term presidents, ''Obama's got to fine-tune,'' said Dr. Brinkley, who with Mr. Beschloss is part of a group of historians that meets occasionally with Mr. Obama to offer perspective. ''Policy is about two years behind the selling of it.''
By historical standards, some circumstances augur well for the incumbent. Eisenhower and Mr. Bush oversaw weakening economies in their second terms compared with a slowly improving economy for Mr. Obama, though unemployment remains high.
Presidential health is another factor. Eisenhower had a mild stroke in his fifth year and Reagan had colon surgery, but Mr. Obama appears vigorous. His political health, if not exactly robust, with approval ratings below 50 percent, remains untouched by any hint of personal scandal.
For now, at least, that leaves him reasonably well positioned to respond to the sorts of unexpected events or crises that create new opportunities for presidents to stumble or shine.
The Soviet Union's 1957 Sputnik launching badly bruised the American psyche, for example, but Eisenhower subsequently won passage of a new space exploration agency, NASA.
Mr. Bush suffered staggering political damage from the handling of Hurricane Katrina in 2005, but three years later he led a bipartisan Congressional majority to pass an emergency $700 billion bailout package that helped halt the free-fall of both the financial and auto industries.
Mr. Obama's last gathering with the historians took place over dinner in January -- before misconduct at the Internal Revenue Service and revelations of sweeping data-collection by the National Security Agency burst into public view.
But Mr. Beschloss said the president might draw solace from the fact that the far more sensational Iran-contra and Monica Lewinsky scandals confounded predictions that they would eclipse the legacies, in turn, of Reagan and Mr. Clinton.
''Stop and think how wrong they turned out to be,'' Mr. Beschloss said. ''If I were Obama, I would be cheered by that.''

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US PRESIDENTS (92%); BUDGETS (90%); HISTORY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US 2013 FISCAL CLIFF (78%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (77%); SCANDALS (77%); WORLD WAR II (75%); RECESSION (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); PRIVATIZATION (75%); IRAQ WAR (75%); SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); US SOCIAL SECURITY (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); BACKGROUND CHECKS (72%); ARMS CONTROL & DISARMAMENT (71%); IMMIGRATION (69%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (66%); MILITARY WEAPONS (63%); FOREIGN POLICY (60%); TERRORISM (55%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (53%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (50%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (92%); BILL CLINTON (92%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); RICHARD NIXON (58%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); SYRIA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); IRAQ (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



370 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Foreign Desk; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 606 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Seeks Expanded Role For Military in Philippines

BYLINE: By FLOYD WHALEY

 BODY:
MANILA -- The United States is negotiating an agreement to allow it to position military equipment and rotate more personnel into the Philippines while avoiding the contentious issue of re-establishing American bases in the country, according to officials from both countries.
The negotiations for increased military access come amid simmering tensions between the Philippines and China over areas in the South China Sea claimed by both countries and moves by the United States to ensure it retains influence in the region even as China's grows. 
The Philippines, which has a small navy and air force, has been relying on support from the United States, a close ally, to modernize its military and upgrade its abilities. Part of this relationship has involved regular short-term visits by American military forces for joint training, humanitarian work and disaster response.
The arrangement under negotiation now would allow American forces to visit for longer periods and be stationed on Philippine military bases.
On Thursday, Adm. Samuel J. Locklear III, the head of the Pacific Command, said the United States was looking for access that would enable it to help the Philippines in its defense as well as to aid in responding to disasters. The admiral, who was responding to questions at a news conference, reiterated stated American policy that it would not reopen bases in the Philippines.
The United States maintained large military bases in the Philippines for nearly a century to counter imperial Japan's expansion before World War II and, later, to ensure a regional presence in the cold war. But in 1992, the last American base in the country closed after street protests against what some saw as a painful reminder of decades of American rule, and a decision by the Philippine Senate to discontinue the American military presence.
But the presence of United States military forces in the Philippines remains controversial.
Raul Hernandez, a spokesman for the Philippine Department of Foreign Affairs, reiterated that no new American bases were planned and said any new agreement would be in line with the Philippine Constitution. He said the discussions with the United States involved the use of ''rotational'' forces.
''We continue to talk and refine with the United States the modalities and parameters for increased rotational presence of United States forces in the Philippines,'' he said.
James Hardy, Asia-Pacific editor for IHS Jane's Defense Weekly, said a likely model for the use of such forces in the Philippines was the Joint Special Operations Task Force Philippines, a contingent of about 500 members of the United States military who come from various branches.
The task force, which focuses on counterterrorism, has been based on a Philippine military base in the southern Philippines since 2002 in a facility that is officially considered temporary.
The United States has also used its former naval base in Subic Bay for ship visits.
Subic Bay is a special economic zone catering to private investors. Last year a subsidiary of the United States defense contractor Huntington Ingalls Industries set up operation for the stated purpose of servicing United States Navy ships, suggesting to some that the American presence in the area would grow.
Mr. Hardy said the American military's use of Subic and the rotational presence model used in the southern Philippines were both indications of what an American presence in the Philippines might look like.
''Certainly the buildup in Subic by companies that expect to support the U.S. military suggests an expectation that this is going to be a semipermanent presence,'' he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: ARMED FORCES (90%); MILITARY BASES (90%); WORLD WAR II (78%); COLD WAR (78%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (78%); NAVIES (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); AIR FORCES (73%); DISASTER RELIEF (73%); COUNTERTERRORISM (60%); TERRORISM (50%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MANILA, PHILIPPINES (92%) SOUTH CHINA SEA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (88%) UNITED STATES (99%); PHILIPPINES (95%); JAPAN (79%); ASIA (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



371 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1352 words

HEADLINE: Pain on the Reservation

BYLINE: By ANNIE LOWREY

 BODY:
PINE RIDGE, S.D. -- The Red Cloud-Bissonette family needs a new trailer. Frank, who is disabled, and Norma, his wife, are members of the Oglala Sioux Tribe who live on the sprawling grasslands of the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation. Despite their constant efforts to patch the seams of one of their trailers that was hauled here in 1988, rot and mold continue to climb up the walls.
The family has punched a hole in the ceiling for a chimney for their wood stove, a necessity given the harshness of the winters but a fire hazard in the dry climate.
A second trailer a few feet away, where some family members live, including a grandchild, has no plumbing or running water. 
The Red Cloud-Bissonettes are one of about 1,500 families on a waiting list at a local housing improvement program that was recently told that it is being shut down. ''These are real, real low-income people,'' said Andre Janis, the housing program's director. ''If we go away, a lot of people are going to be without these services completely.''
And it is just one of dozens of cuts the tribe is stomaching, many of them caused by the mandatory federal budget reductions known as sequestration. When Congress approved legislation for the budget cuts, which went into effect on March 1, they specifically exempted many programs that benefit low-income Americans, including Medicaid, tax credits for working families and food stamps. But virtually none of the programs aiding American Indians -- including money spent through the departments of interior, education, health and human services and agriculture -- were included on that list.
As a result, the cuts are starting to deliver yet another blow to hundreds of the United States' most deeply impoverished communities.
''More people sick; fewer people educated; fewer people getting general assistance; more domestic violence; more alcoholism,'' said Richard L. Zephier, the executive director of the Oglala Sioux tribe. ''That's all correlated to the cuts from sequestration.''
On the Pine Ridge reservation, home to around 40,000 members of the tribe, the unemployment rate is estimated at as much as 85 percent. Shannon County, home to the town of Pine Ridge, has a per-capita income of less than $8,000. The local economy is not just reliant on transfers from the federal government; it in no small part consists of them.
Over all, the tribe's budget is about $80 million a year, of which $70 million comes from federal sources, said Mason Big Crow, the tribe's treasurer. The tribe still did not know how much money it would lose, waiting on word from Washington, he said, but the number would be in the millions.
The tribe is cutting the size of a program that delivers meals to the elderly, many of whom are housebound. The school budget, Head Start program and health service are shrinking, too. The tribe has no choice but to cut everywhere, Mr. Big Crow said.
Despite the reservation's extraordinary problems with crime -- alcohol and methamphetamine abuse are rampant, many of the tribe's youth are involved in gangs -- its police force is absorbing more than a million dollars in cuts.
''We're cut to the bone,'' Ron Duke, the police chief, said. ''Right now, we're being reactive to things. It's really hard to be proactive when you don't have enough staff. We're just constantly answering calls.''
The force has already absorbed a cut of more than 6 percent, he said. This autumn, it will cut another 8 percent. Chief Duke has let 14 staff members go. He said that at any given time, the reservation had only nine patrol cars on duty to cover an area the size of Connecticut, exhausting his officers as they chased down calls.
With the cuts, the poverty trap that has plagued the reservation for generations looks certain to worsen, with yet more families mired in deprivation, reservation officials and residents said.
''Imagine how people feel who can't help themselves,'' said Robert Brave Heart Sr., the executive vice president of the Red Cloud Indian School on the reservation. ''It's a condition that a lot of people believe is the result of the federal government putting them in that position, a lot of people are set up for failure. People have no hope and no ability whatsoever to change their fate in life. You take resources that they have, that are taken away, it just adds to the misery.''
While the effect of sequestration on the overall economy has been diffuse, with the largest impact falling on the military and companies dependent on Pentagon spending, nowhere has the sting been felt more severely than on American Indian reservations.
There was a time when the Bureau of Indian Affairs was ''a bunch of federal employees providing direct services to tribes,'' said Kevin Washburn, the assistant secretary of the interior in charge of the bureau. ''Now, a big part of the way we provide services to Indian tribes is that we contract with tribal governments, so they're providing the services to citizens.''
The bureau, he said, had no choice but to pass the cuts directly to the tribes. ''Tragic consequences are occurring,'' Mr. Washburn said.
''In Indian country, there's a disproportionate number of people employed by the government,'' said Amber Ebarb of the National Congress of American Indians, a nonprofit based in Washington. ''There is not as much of a private sector presence in Indian country, which tends to be high-poverty and high-unemployment to begin with.''
Some tribes, including those that operate successful casinos close to major population centers, have the resources to compensate for some of the cuts, diverting money from rainy day funds or holding back nonessential expenses.
But dozens of smaller or less wealthy tribes and nations are not so lucky. Aaron Payment, the chairman of the Sault Ste. Marie Tribe of Chippewa Indians in Michigan, said the tribe was absorbing a $1.7 million cut, and trying to avoid layoffs and program closings. Still, if worse came to worst, it might have to move to emergency-only medical services, or closing entire programs.
''We put in about 50 percent of our financing, and the federal government puts in about 50 percent,'' Mr. Payment said. ''But we're only meeting about 60 percent of our need to begin with.''
In the Navajo Nation, Deborah Jackson-Dennison, the superintendent of the Window Rock Unified School District, is in the process of reducing the school budget to about $17 million, from about $24 million, absorbing a cut from sequestration as well as from the local government. ''It's like getting two black eyes at once,'' she said. She has let go of 14 employees, and moved the school district down to four buildings from seven.
In response to the cuts, many tribal leaders are lobbying the federal government to protect the tribes from sequestration -- on both moral and legal grounds.
''We should be exempt from sequestration,'' said Dr. Zephier, the Ogala Sioux director. ''All tribes should be exempt.''
The tribes contend that the federal government does not just disburse money to them through federal programs. It meets its nation-to-nation treaty obligation to provide certain services to American Indians. Viewed in that light, a cut is not just a cut but a broken legal promise, and one in a long line of them.
''The tribes in this country, the federally recognized American Indians and Alaska Natives, have the world's first prepaid health plan,'' said Stacy Bohlen, the executive director of the National Indian Health Board, an advocacy organization based in Washington that has argued vocally against the cuts to Indian health programs. ''They paid for it with their lives, and their land, and their culture, and the forced abrogation of their future.''
But on the reservations, a sense of resignation has set in.
''It's one more reminder that our relationship with the federal government is a series of broken promises,'' said the Rev. George Winzenburg, the Catholic priest who serves as president of the Red Cloud Indian School. ''It's a series of underfunded projects and initiatives that we were told would be funded to allow us to live at the quality of life that other Americans do.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Officer Tyler Little Finger, top, on patrol in Pine Ridge, S.D. The Oglala Sioux tribal treasurer, Mason Big Crow, left, expects millions in federal cuts. (B1)
 Norma Red Cloud-Bissonette, above, is on the waiting list for a replacement for the mobile home she shares with her husband and a grandson, but federal budget cuts may end their hopes. Duct tape, below, blocks drafts through its decaying walls. Mary Standing Bear, left, watching children in a backyard pool, has a HUD home in Pine Ridge, but no money to maintain it. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KEVIN MOLONEY FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (B7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); INDIGENOUS PEOPLES LANDS & GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FAMILY (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (88%); BUDGET CUTS (87%); MEDICAID (78%); MEALS ON WHEELS (78%); POOR POPULATION (78%); GRANDCHILDREN (73%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (73%); DOMESTIC VIOLENCE (73%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (73%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (72%); EXECUTIVES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (67%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); LEGISLATION (65%); TAX LAW (65%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (65%); APPROVALS (65%); SENIOR CITIZENS (64%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (60%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



372 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; OP-ED CONTRIBUTOR; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 750 words

HEADLINE: Two Tax Credits That Work

BYLINE: By MICHAEL RUBINGER. 
Michael Rubinger is chief executive of the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a nonprofit that helps local groups revitalize low-income neighborhoods nationally.

 BODY:
WHAT does it take to fix a neighborhood in decline?
Stand on the corner of Elm Street by Washington Park in Cincinnati, and you'll find the answer. It is one of the city's oldest and largest parks, in one of America's most economically distressed areas. Fifteen years ago, it was just another eyesore in a neighborhood so plagued by crime that residents were afraid to walk the streets. Businesses had fled.
Not anymore. Today, the park is green and clean. Diverse families and neighbors gather for concerts under the stars, yoga on the green, festivals and kickball. It is the centerpiece of a neighborhood coming back to life, and a short walk from renovated apartment houses and a rebounding district of shops and restaurants. 
Washington Park is not an isolated example. Neighborhoods from the South Bronx to Houston to Oakland, Calif., to Woonsocket, R.I., are experiencing a similar rebirth.
How so? With two federal tax credits: one that currently supports 90 percent of affordable housing development nationwide, and another that is spurring investments in businesses, real estate projects and facilities like health clinics, charter schools and child care centers, all in low-income communities.
But these credits may be in peril. Congress is working on an overhaul of the tax code that seeks to eliminate deductions and credits, including these tried-and-true programs. Two weeks ago, the Democratic and Republican leaders of the Senate Finance Committee asked all senators to identify by July 26 which tax breaks, deductions and credits should be retained.
While the arguments for comprehensive tax reform are well known, eliminating these credits would be tragic. They bring much-needed capital to communities most investors would never consider.
Passed by Congress in 1986 and signed into law by President Ronald Reagan, the low-income housing tax credit gives the private sector an incentive to create and invest in affordable housing. It is widely viewed as one of the most effective federal housing programs ever.
To date, it has financed the development of about 2.6 million affordable rental homes across the country, leveraging more than $100 billion in private capital to do so. These properties outperform other real-estate categories, with occupancy rates topping 96 percent and a cumulative foreclosure rate of less than 1 percent over the program's history.
The new-markets tax credit, created in 2000, was born of the same principles that gave rise to the housing credit: first, that the private sector needs incentives to invest in worthy projects that would otherwise be considered too risky; and second, that those incentives lead to greater accountability and superior project performance when compared with federal grant programs.
As of 2011, the new-markets credits had financed 3,500 businesses and real estate projects in low-income neighborhoods, developed or rehabilitated more than 109 million square feet of commercial real estate and community facilities, and helped to create or preserve more than 360,000 jobs.
Last year alone, the housing and new-markets credits together attracted some $14 billion in direct investment in capital-starved communities, supporting an estimated 160,000 jobs.
These credits serve populations that are the hardest to reach and are the most distressed. More than 80 percent of housing credit units go to families making less than half of the median income in their area. And nearly three-quarters of new-markets investments go to areas that the Treasury Department considers to be in severe need.
Moreover, the Government Accountability Office in 2007 estimated that 88 percent of those who used the credit would not have made the investment without it.
Both parties in Congress should recognize that housing and new-markets credits are strong drivers of economic stability and opportunity for residents and businesses that have all but run out of hope. They are not easily replaced by other public or private sources of capital.
If these credits were to disappear, so too would billions of dollars of annual investment in America's poorest ZIP codes. The result would be lost jobs, more homelessness, a decimated affordable-housing market and destabilized communities.
As we mark the first anniversary of the reopening of Washington Park this summer, we must preserve the two tax credits that have been critical tools for building safer, stronger neighborhoods.
So much of what is done in the nation's capital needs fixing. Let's not end what works.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (91%); TAX INCENTIVES (90%); TAX LAW (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (89%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (89%); REAL ESTATE DEVELOPMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (88%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (88%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FAMILY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (76%); PUBLIC HOUSING (75%); RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (74%); RESIDENTIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (74%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (72%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); YOGA (70%); FORECLOSURE (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); LEGISLATION (67%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (66%); CLINICS & OUTPATIENT SERVICES (66%); CHARTER SCHOOLS (52%); CHILD CARE (52%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%)

PERSON: RONALD REAGAN (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (79%); OAKLAND, CA, USA (56%) CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



373 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 356 words

HEADLINE: Bolstering Trade and Growth

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
American and European Union officials this week began negotiating an ambitious free-trade agreement that could provide a much-needed boost to the world's two largest economies. 
Trade in goods and services between the United States and Europe totaled nearly $1 trillion last year, with average tariffs at a relatively low 4 percent. But reducing those tariffs to zero and eliminating other barriers -- by, for instance, harmonizing regulations -- would provide important benefits to consumers and businesses. It would lower the price of cars, food and other products bought and sold across the Atlantic and help create new jobs.
Hard bargaining lies ahead. European leaders in France and elsewhere are adamant about protecting the film and agricultural industries; American officials will have trouble convincing the states to loosen rules that give preferences to American businesses in government contracting, a pet peeve of European Union policy makers. On tough issues like these, big breakthroughs are unlikely. The best the two sides can probably do is agree to phase out barriers and harmonize regulations over time.
But there are common areas of interest that negotiators should tackle aggressively. The two sides could achieve big gains by accepting each other's auto safety and emissions regulations so companies like General Motors and Volkswagen don't have to make multiple versions of the same car. They could also agree to limit the competing, wasteful government subsidies for the airplane manufacturers Boeing and Airbus. Both sides should also think about opening their markets to each other's airlines for domestic and intra-Europe flights, which would increase consumer choice and lower fares.
American officials have said they want to finish the negotiations by the end of 2014, which would be fast by the standard of most trade deals; the global negotiations known as the Doha Round began in 2001 and are far from complete. If American and European negotiators are successful -- and success would include at least some progress on the really tough issues -- their example could nudge other countries to finish the Doha Round.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); FREE TRADE TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (90%); AGRICULTURAL TRADE (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); EUROPEAN UNION INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE LAW (90%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TAXES & TAXATION (77%); CONSUMER LAW (76%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY STANDARDS (76%); VEHICLE EMISSIONS STANDARDS (76%); AIRCRAFT MFG (73%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (73%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (71%); AEROSPACE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (70%); JOB CREATION (70%); AIRLINES (69%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (68%); AGRICULTURE (54%); EMISSIONS (51%)

COMPANY: AIRBUS SAS (56%); BOEING CO (53%); GENERAL MOTORS CO (53%)

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (93%)

TICKER: BOE (LSE) (53%); BAB (BRU) (53%); BA (NYSE) (53%); GM (NYSE) (53%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (56%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (56%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC3761 GUIDED MISSILES & SPACE VEHICLES (53%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (53%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ATLANTIC OCEAN (58%) EUROPE (96%); UNITED STATES (96%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (93%); FRANCE (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



374 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 437 words

HEADLINE: Reckless Banking, Inadequate Rules

BYLINE: By THE EDITORIAL BOARD

 BODY:
Gary Gensler, the reform-minded chairman of the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, got the best deal he could on Friday, when the commission voted 3 to 1 to approve guidance on how new rules on derivatives will apply internationally, as required under the Dodd-Frank financial reform law. But, in the face of unified opposition to strong ''cross-border'' regulation -- from the big banks; their government allies in both the United States and Europe; and a swing-vote Democrat on the commission, Mark Wetjen -- the deal falls short of what's needed to protect American taxpayers and the global economy from the calamitous effects of reckless bank trades. 
Under the guidance, banks and hedge funds with a principal place of business in the United States will have to adhere to the new Dodd-Frank derivatives rules. That's a positive development because it ensures that entities run in, say, Greenwich, Conn., can't dodge the rules by incorporating in, say, the Cayman Islands.
But the real issue is how to regulate derivatives trading by the overseas affiliates of American banks and by the foreign banks that do business with them. Mr. Gensler had correctly argued that those trades should fall under Dodd-Frank, unless foreign regulators adopted rules that were substantially the same as those under American law. But instead of the rule-by-rule similarity originally envisioned, the guidance allows for so-called substituted compliance with a foreign country's rules as long as those rules are ''comparable'' and ''comprehensive.'' That's a win for the banks for which the whole point of substituted compliance is to conduct as much business as possible in places where regulators and regulations are weaker.
There's still a chance that the deal's basic framework will be strengthened over the next several months. The commission has until Dec. 21 to determine whether rules in the European Union, Australia, Canada, Hong Kong, Japan and Switzerland pass muster. If it determines that those rules are not comparable -- or if the rules elsewhere have not been completed -- then Dodd-Frank rules would take effect.
Theoretically, that could encourage other countries to mirror or exceed American standards in creating their regulations. Or the commission could deny substituted compliance in any country that is not up to the Dodd-Frank standards. But that would require continued strong leadership at the commission, and that is in question because Mr. Gensler is expected to leave his position by the end of the year. The final chapter in derivatives regulation has not been written, but Friday's deal does not bode well.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); 2010 WALL STREET & BANKING REFORM (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US DODD FRANK ACT (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DERIVATIVE INSTRUMENTS (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); APPROVALS (78%); FUTURES (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (70%); GLOBALIZATION (69%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%)

COMPANY: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (58%)

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY FUTURES TRADING COMMISSION (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); JAPAN (79%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (79%); CANADA (79%); CAYMAN ISLANDS (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



375 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 418 words

HEADLINE: That Elusive Apartment? Broaden Your Horizons

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Am I missing something?
''Words to Start a Stampede: New York Apartment for Sale,'' by Elizabeth A. Harris (The Appraisal, front page, July 9) refers to Manhattan and Brooklyn real estate and how few available apartments there are to buy. 
My husband and I can confirm many of the stories in the article; we sold our Upper West Side two-bedroom, two-bath apartment for considerably more than we asked for it, after one open house. Then we started looking.
After exhausting the possibilities in Manhattan and Brooklyn, we decided to consider one of the other boroughs. We found a fantastic new four-bedroom, three-and-a-half-bath apartment in Riverdale in the Bronx for a fraction of the cost of Manhattan.
The 2,200-square-foot space comes with a parking space, rooftop terrace and balcony. It is five minutes from the No. 1 subway train, and there is an express bus to Wall Street that stops a block away.
Why are more people not considering the other boroughs? The Bronx, Queens and Staten Island have wonderful places to live, and with transportation improving all the time, why not try them?
MIMI SCHADE New York, July 10, 2013
To the Editor:
We are truly perplexed.
After reading the column, we doubted the economic sense of the New York housing market. We live in New Jersey, in a delightful town called Fort Lee, just a few minutes from the George Washington Bridge, and sales here are poor.
Our spacious three-bedroom apartment is for sale, as are others in our fairly modern, 25-story apartment house, not on the river, but in a pleasant neighborhood. The space is at least four times the size of the apartments mentioned in the column, and the price is less than a quarter of the astronomical values quoted.
More, the units have so many amenities not obtainable in New York: tennis and basketball courts, a large swimming pool, a playground and so on. And inside there are club rooms, a market, a cafe, a dry cleaner and children's playrooms.
As for convenience to New York, the bus stops at the door. Our car travel to downtown Manhattan in the evenings is about 20 minutes, and we know some cheap garages. So we consider ourselves New Yorkers, and have frequented the culture of the city for many decades.
In truth, we have moved to Florida, for better climate, but we miss our metropolitan existence.
So, why should anyone fight for a city apartment when there are beautiful apartments so close?
If interested, call a New Jersey real estate agent.
CLIFFORD GOLDDaytona Beach Shores, Fla.July 9, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (77%); CITY LIFE (74%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (72%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (67%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (66%); BASKETBALL (61%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%) NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (99%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



376 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTER; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 179 words

HEADLINE: The Other Detroit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re ''Financial Crisis Just a Symptom of Detroit's Woes'' (front page, July 9): 
As a Michigander, born and brought up in Detroit and now a resident of the suburbs, I must offer another point of view. I am a patron of the arts so I am in the city a lot. The Detroit Institute of Arts is revitalized. The Michigan Opera Theater, the Tigers baseball team and many more venues are going strong. The streets are filled with people.
Midtown is growing. There are new restaurants and lofts and new businesses. There is a new Whole Foods Market, packed with patrons. Property values are rising. Many new professionals and empty nesters have chosen to relocate to the riverfront and midtown.
It's true that the old Detroit is gone. There are many problems outside the core city. There's blight and crime. The wonderful department stores of my childhood are no longer there. But like the phoenix, a new Detroit is rising. We are collectively holding our breath for decisions from the state that will help us make it happen.
BARBARA WOJCIK West Bloomfield, Mich., July 10, 2013

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); CITY LIFE (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); BASEBALL (70%); RESTAURANTS (69%); EMPTY NESTERS (68%); RETAILERS (51%)

COMPANY: WHOLE FOODS MARKET INC (54%)

ORGANIZATION: DETROIT TIGERS (55%)

TICKER: WFM (NASDAQ) (54%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS445110 SUPERMARKETS & OTHER GROCERY (EXCEPT CONVENIENCE) STORES (54%); SIC5411 GROCERY STORES (54%)

GEOGRAPHIC: DETROIT, MI, USA (92%) MICHIGAN, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



377 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section B; Column 0; Business/Financial Desk; COMMON SENSE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1840 words

HEADLINE: Fair Play Measured In Slivers Of a Second

BYLINE: By JAMES B. STEWART

 BODY:
On Friday morning, Thomson Reuters released the latest University of Michigan Consumer Sentiment Index, as it does twice a month. But this time was different. As a result of a settlement Thomson Reuters reached this week with New York's attorney general, Eric T. Schneiderman, a select group of its customers didn't get the two-second advance release they'd been buying.
Two seconds may not seem like much, but for high-speed traders with supercomputers, it's plenty.
The difference was arresting. On Friday, just 500 shares of a leading Standard & Poor's 500 exchange-traded fund traded during the first 10 milliseconds of the two-second window before the release of the University of Michigan data to Thomson Reuters' regular clients, according to the market research firm Nanex. A year ago, on July 13, 2012, 200,000 shares traded during that 10-millisecond period, Nanex said. 
Friday's trading was all but ''nonexistent,'' said Eric Hunsader, founder of Nanex. ''It was all about gaming the news, not the news itself.''
As an attempt to level the playing field for all investors, Mr. Schneiderman's action clearly had an immediate effect. And he has said the settlement with Thomson Reuters is only a first step. While Thomson Reuters agreed to suspend the two-second advantage while his investigation continues, its regular clients get a five-minute jump on the general public, which gets the data at 10 a.m. Thomson Reuters pays the University of Michigan close to $1 million a year for the right to distribute the data.
The five-minute edge may well be the next target, since either everyone gets the information at the same time, or they don't, whether the gap is seconds, minutes or hours. And Mr. Schneiderman has made it clear that Thomson Reuters isn't the only target of a wide-ranging investigation.
The University of Michigan index falls into a broad category of private data that can move markets, or stocks in individual companies. About a dozen indexes compiled by private sources regularly affect markets; some of those are also released early. Other data is more industry-specific, but can also move sectors and individual stocks. Media companies have been trying to generate revenue and increase profits by charging fees for early access to all kinds of information.
All of this raises the question: Should everyone have access to market moving information at the same time? It turns out the answer is hardly self-evident.
For some market experts, the attorney general's move is long overdue. Mr. Schneiderman is ''a mile ahead of the Securities and Exchange Commission, which has to be dragged slowly and grudgingly toward raising the standard of behavior,'' said John Coffee, a professor and expert on securities law at Columbia Law School.
The Securities and Exchange Commission is also collecting data on Thomson Reuters' practices, although officials at the agency have said their jurisdiction is limited. An S.E.C. spokesman declined to comment.
Mr. Schneiderman's investigation is the latest in a long series of efforts to reduce both the reality and the perception that the nation's securities markets are rigged to favor those who already have money, power and special access. A vast network of laws and regulations is aimed at creating a more level playing field for investors, like criminal laws that ban securities fraud and the S.E.C.'s Regulation Fair Disclosure, which requires companies to widely disseminate market-moving information about themselves. Consider also the simultaneous public release of government information like employment data and the Federal Reserve minutes.
The goal is not just fairness, but to make capital markets more robust by encouraging the public -- not just professional speculators -- to invest.
''The reason America's markets are the best and strongest markets in the world is that individuals always believed they could get a fair trade,'' Mr. Schneiderman told me this week. ''If you did your research well, you weren't at a disadvantage because of information you couldn't possibly access. It wasn't a rigged casino.''
This is a theme that has been championed by many in Congress, and this week Senator Charles E. Grassley said: ''Generally speaking, anyone who sells information to clients should face the same set of regulatory rules. The rules are meant to keep markets fair.''
Senator Grassley, an Iowa Republican who is a former chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, said he was especially concerned about the University of Michigan's role, given that it's a public university.
''A publicly funded university should operate for public benefit,'' he said. ''If a university is helping a subset of investors and acting like a private business, that's contrary to taxpayer expectations. I intend to look at this situation more closely.''
The Conference Board, a nonprofit research organization financed by its members, which include many Fortune 500 corporations, recently moved to address its own concerns that its consumer confidence index and index of leading economic indicators might leak into the hands of high-speed traders or other investors ahead of the general public.
The board's president and chief executive, Jonathan Spector, a former vice dean of the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania, said it was examining ways it might generate more revenue from its influential indexes, which cost millions of dollars to produce. The board considered but quickly rejected the idea of selling early access.
''We were aware that others were benefiting from early release of their data,'' Mr. Spector told me this week. ''We immediately decided never to release information earlier to one group than another. That would undercut trust in the markets, and trust in business, and that's contrary to our mission.''
The Conference Board last month ended its longstanding policy of releasing the data to news organizations 30 minutes ahead of the public release, with a proviso they can't report it until then, to prevent any inadvertent early releases.
''Our view is we're entitled to do with this data as we like without violating any laws,'' Mr. Spector said. ''We believed we could release it early. But every person we talked to, including people in finance, said it would be wrong -- even though there's no law that says it's wrong. But if the man in the street had it explained that certain people could pay to buy data in advance, he'd conclude that markets were rigged against the small guy. Collectively, this hurts business and markets. It's a matter of trust.''
But Thomson Reuters, the University of Michigan, news organizations and other providers of data may have other priorities, including making money.
Like the Conference Board, Thomson Reuters has stressed that it doesn't believe releasing the information early violates any law. It's certainly not insider trading, although it bears a superficial resemblance to it. But people who trade with superior information aren't engaging in insider trading if they come by the information legitimately, which may well include buying it. (If, on the other hand, a Thomson Reuters employee stole the data and sold it to someone who traded on it, that would probably be insider trading.)
''Thomson Reuters strongly believes that news and information companies can legally distribute nongovernmental data and exclusive news through services provided to fee-paying subscribers,'' said Lemuel Brewster, a Thomson Reuters spokesman. ''How private, nongovernmental data, like the University of Michigan survey, should be released is a universal industrywide issue that impacts all news and information companies and needs to be addressed in consultation with the market.''
The lack of any explicit legal prohibition hasn't stopped the S.E.C. from broadly interpreting its mandate to regulate markets (there's no law specifically banning insider trading, either). But the agency has yet to identify any fraud or deception involved in early disclosure of private data.
The New York attorney general has a broader mandate -- some say too broad -- under the state's Martin Act. The act outlaws fraud, which the state's highest court has interpreted to mean ''all deceitful practices contrary to the plain rules of common honesty.'' Even that presumably requires some kind of ''deceit,'' and Thomson Reuters says it's always been upfront about its approach to disseminating the data.
Legal standards aside, many market experts worry that the attorney general's crackdown may go too far and discourage the kind of enterprising research that has long made markets more efficient, whether undertaken by short-sellers hoping to profit directly on it, Wall Street investment banks that sell research to their clients, or investigative journalists.
''The notion of a level playing field is important, and it's important to aim for it,'' said Harvey Pitt, a former S.E.C. chairman and now the chief executive of the consulting firm Kalorama Partners. ''But a level playing field can't mean everyone has the same information. People need financial incentives to dig up information, and the marketplace benefits.''
He noted that the University of Michigan data moves markets because the university has years of experience and credibility behind it.
''People ought to be able to profit from their reputation for excellence,'' he said. ''If they can't do that, we have destroyed capitalism in this country.''
Even though it disdains the early release of data itself, the Conference Board worries that regulating the timing of the release of information could have damaging consequences.
''If we do develop a set of principles, or even a set of laws, we don't want to run into the law of unintended consequences,'' Mr. Spector said. ''You can see how practices or regulations could go awry. We need to think very carefully.''
He said the Conference Board may hold a discussion of the issues with a wide array of participants, from high-speed traders to Wall Street firms, news organizations and regulators, later this year.
Professor Coffee said he was sensitive to the issue as well, but said a principled line could be drawn that both protects markets and promotes fairness.
''You should be able to sell priority access to information that you are creating and would not create but for such payment,'' he said. ''But selling a differential in access to data that would be created anyway has no efficiency justification and is subject to fairness criticisms.''
Nonprofit institutions like the University of Michigan have long produced their indexes as part of their public mission, and presumably the university would continue doing so whether or not Thomson Reuters paid for it.
Mr. Schneiderman said that worrying about where lines might be drawn shouldn't obscure the merits of the Thomson Reuters settlement.
''None of these critics is objecting to us ending the practice that gave a massive competitive advantage to a small group of high-paying traders with early access to valuable information,'' he said. ''Let's take each case on its own facts.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Eric T. Schneiderman, above, New York's attorney general, and Jonathan Spector, the chief of the Conference Group, said public trust in the markets was important. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE, VIA REUTERS
 NANCY OSTERTAG/GETTY IMAGES) (B4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SECURITIES TRADING (90%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); EXCHANGE TRADED FUNDS (78%); ATTORNEYS GENERAL (77%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (73%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (73%); SECURITIES LAW (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (70%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF MICHIGAN (91%); NEW YORK STATE ATTORNEY GENERAL'S OFFICE (59%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



378 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Paul Krugman)

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: More On Not-So-Miserable France

BYLINE: PAUL KRUGMAN


HIGHLIGHT: More not so bad data. 

 BODY:
Following up a bit further on my earlier discussion. The French economy gets extraordinarily bad press in this country, and this attitude spills over into some allegedly serious economic analysis too. I don't have time to dig up examples now, but not that long ago quite a few investment banks etc. were pegging France as the next crisis country, about to go the way of Italy or even Portugal any day now. 
And there was actually a spike in French borrowing costs for a while. Here's the France-Germany long-term interest differential:
You can see the surge from mid-2011 to mid-2012. In retrospect, however, it's clear that this was a De Grauwian liquidity panic, arising from the fact that France didn't have its own currency and that it wasn't clear whether the ECB would act as a lender of last resort. Once the ECB sorta kinda indicated that it would, in fact, do its job, the panic subsided, and France is no longer under severe financial pressure.
True, there's still a French premium, which may reflect some lingering solvency concerns. In reality, however, France does not have a large structural deficit. And while it has an aging population, the demographic problem is actually much less in France - with its relatively high fertility - than in the rest of Europe, Germany in particular.
But hasn't the French economy performed poorly in the crisis? Yes, compared with the United States or Germany. But it's not in the crisis camp, at all. Here's a comparison:
Most people, I suspect, think of the Netherlands as being like Germany - doing fine thanks to stern fiscal virtue and all that - while those self-indulgent French slide into economic decline. Actually, France and the Netherlands have basically the same performance.
Just to be clear, I'm not saying that all is well with France. France is doing badly; so are we; so is almost everyone. The widespread notion that France is in big trouble is, however, not based on reality. And it's hard to avoid the suspicion that it's ultimately political: with their generous welfare state the French are supposed to be collapsing, so people assume that they are.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (77%); EXTERNAL DEBT (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); AGING TRENDS (65%); AGING (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE (99%); GERMANY (92%); NETHERLANDS (90%); PORTUGAL (88%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



379 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The News York Times Company
All Rights Reserved 
The New York Times Blogs
(Opinionator)

PUB-DATE: July 13, 2013

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 1757 words

HEADLINE: Black Elites and the Draft Riots

BYLINE: CARLA PETERSON


HIGHLIGHT: How New York&#8217;s African-American leadership dealt with, and suffered from, the violence of 1863. 

 BODY:
Throughout the 1850s, New York's black leaders tended to congregate in the backroom of Dr. James McCune Smith's pharmacy at 55 West Broadway. Many of them, including Philip Bell, Henry Highland Garnet and Albro Lyons, my great-great-granduncle - had attended the Mulberry Street School, an institution for teaching African-American children, in the late 1820s, and remained close friends. Some of the men were ministers, others doctors and pharmacists; still others ran newspapers or operated boarding houses. But despite their material comfort, they staunchly stood at the vanguard of the fight for black civil rights. 
They were active participants in national issues like abolitionism and party politics but also attended to the increasingly vulnerable status of blacks in Gotham. In March 1855, one of them, the Rev. J.W.C. Pennington, published a notice in the newspaper Frederick Douglass' Paper informing visiting "colored ladies and gentlemen" that if they encountered trouble on the city's street cars they were to call immediately upon him or Dr. Smith, and provided Smith's address. 
If Pennington was worried about the city's deteriorating race relations, others were more hopeful, even optimistic. Writing under the pen name Cosmopolite, Philip Bell, a former newspaper editor and close friend of Smith's, contributed several articles to Frederick Douglass' Paper around the same time that Pennington's notice appeared. "Color-phobia is fast abating in our Island City," he proclaimed, "as a brief account of the doings of the present week will show," and proceeded to enumerate a series of high-cultural events as proof: lectures at the New York Library Association, performances at the new Opera house, visits to Goupil's Art Gallery. At these, there was: 
no shrinking of the aristocratic white lady from companionship with the black one. ... The white philanthropist Peter Cooper sought an introduction to the black savan, Dr. J.W.C. Pennington. ... The black amateur of music takes his seat beside the white professor of la belle science. Thus, you see, art knows no distinction of color, science recognizes no prejudice, education and wealth are the ladders by which we must rise, the weapons with which we can assail and conquer the demons, slavery and prejudice.
Bell was convinced that class could trump race. The draft riots of July 1863 would prove just how wrong he was.
New York's working-class white mobs were not impressed by the cognoscenti of la belle science; indeed, they were just as antagonistic toward elite blacks as they were toward the black underclass (maybe even more). And when the mob struck, white philanthropists were nowhere to be seen, undoubtedly trying to save their own skin and property. Black New Yorkers were left open to attack without protection of any kind.
In his 1865 sketch of Garnet's life, Smith described his friend's fate during the riots. Garnet, he wrote, "was too prominently known to escape the attention of the July rioters." That was the black elite's problem: their professional success, political activism and devotion to high culture had made them stand out. Garnet was fortunate. When the rioters rushed to 30th Street looking for him, they were not sure which house was his. He was not at home, but his quick thinking daughter took an ax and wrenched off the doorplate, and the house was left undisturbed. 
Pennington was not so lucky. He too had been out of town, but upon his return he found that the mob had attacked his home. Seeing him, Smith wrote, the rioters ran after him with stones and brickbats shouting, "Kill the d--d black neager!" He fled and wandered around the city in search of his loved ones.
Institutions within the black community were even more visible and equally vulnerable to attack. My family's church, St. Philip's, was saved from the mob, but only because of an accident of geography. It stood directly across the street from the New York Police Department headquarters, which occupied it as a barracks during the violence. But such accidents were rare. The Colored Orphan Asylum, a philanthropic institution founded by white women, stood prominently uptown on Fifth Avenue between 43rd and 44th Streets. Although its board of managers was still exclusively white, by the 1850s blacks had taken on more prominent roles. James Smith was doctor in charge; a black woman, Adelaide Butler, was matron; wives and daughters of black leaders - Mary Lyons, Malvina Smith, Mrs. C.B. Ray and Charlotte Ray - organized fundraising fairs. 
On the first day of the riot, the mob assaulted the asylum as a symbol of all that was wrong with their lives. They allowed the children to leave, but then, according to The Daily Tribune, "clamored around the house like demons," gutting the building, destroying its interior and setting it on fire. They vented their rage at whites who they believed were giving so much to undeserving blacks, at their black beneficiaries who they feared would become economic competitors, and at an institution that portended possibilities of interracial cooperation that would leave them behind. 
Similar attacks were launched against other black institutions, less prominent than the asylum but still well known within their neighborhoods. On the Lower East Side, two colored sailors homes, one run by William Powell on Dover Street, the other by Albro Lyons on Vandewater Street, lay in close proximity. These were boarding houses for black sailors, but also centers of black activism; Powell's housed a labor union for black seamen while Lyons's was a stop on the Underground Railroad. To complicate matters, they were also family homes. The mobs' methods of attack were similar: throwing stones into the building, invading it, destroying the furnishings, forcing families to flee. Their goals were the same: disrupt black enterprises that encouraged black sailors to seek white work on the docks, destroy black institutions and homes that provided stability to the community, and finally undermine black wealth which, they were convinced, must have been ill gotten. Neighbors turned a blind eye, or worse, joined in.
The accounts of the violence all focused on the "demoniacal energy" of the rioters. Yet each one mentions, however fleetingly, the presence of unnamed neighbors who decided to help, to protect, to rescue. At Garnet's home, it was "some white neighbors"; at Powell's it was a "little deformed, despised Israelite"; at the Lyons's it was a "friendly German neighbor"; even at the asylum, "one or two persons" tried to hold back the crowd. Generalizations about these acts are hard to make. We can hardly assume that they all came from marginalized ethnic minorities. But they proved that if being a neighbor could unleash hatred and violence, it could also elicit acts of pure kindness.
In fact, it seems that being an integral part of a neighborhood community was the one thing that could trump race. My great-grandfather, Philip White, survived the riots without harm even though he lived only a few doors from Albro Lyons, and his drugstore was within a stone's throw of the corner of Frankfort and Gold Streets. To the black community, White's pharmacy was a symbol of black entrepreneurship, and also a site of activism.
In the 1840s, it was the official meeting place for a black educational organization; in 1860, it was designated as a location to pick up ballots for the statewide referendum on black male suffrage. But White had also set down roots in the neighborhood, which was increasingly populated by poor Irish families, and had made himself indispensable. According to his New York Times obituary, he took care of his poor Irish neighbors, providing them not only with medicines but also with food and money. So when the rioters came, White knew that he would be protected. Indeed, he apparently claimed that even if his neighbors "could not protect me, there are as many men among the rioters who would fight for me as there are those who would injure me." His comments suggest that some of the rioters were neighbors; maybe they had attacked the Lyons home, but White was sure they would defend his. It was not race or class, but the forging of mutually interdependent relationships among neighbors that saved him. 
But if those bonds protected him during the riots, they were so frayed by the violence that they were of no use afterward. The delicate balance that White had achieved in his neighborhood could not be sustained in the city. Dialogue proved impossible. 
Black leaders demanded reparations - not only financial but also social and spiritual - but more often than not they were compensated grudgingly, or not at all. A hastily formed merchants' committee to aid victims of the riot gave Lyons $500 in reparations, but claimants to the police department were often subjected to questioning, only to have their claims rejected. Garnet gave a speech of thanks to the merchants' committee, but he made a request that went unheeded: "Protect us in our endeavors to obtain an honest living. Suffer no one to hinder us in any department of well-directed industry, give us a fair and open field and let us work out our own destiny, we ask for nothing more." St. Philip's parishioners received reluctant compensation for the damage done to the sanctuary, but their longing for spiritual reparations went unmet. Men and women went insane and were taken to arsenals where they were left to themselves; others committed suicide. 
White New Yorkers needed reparations as well, a reconciliation with their black neighbors. But, as one merchant sadly recognized, that was not about to happen:
Go where we may the black man does not escape us, when we sit at our tables surrounded by our families - although you are not personally present in bodily shape still you are there - when we retire to our chambers you follow us - and even in the sanctuary of the most High God the question will come without bidding to every heart, what shall be done with the Negro?
The city may have tried to put the riots behind it quickly. But their memory lived on in the scars left on New York's complex and fragile race relations.
 Follow Disunion at twitter.com/NYTcivilwar or join us on Facebook. 
 Carla L. Peterson, a professor of English at the University of Maryland, is the author of "Black Gotham: A Family History of African Americans in Nineteenth-Century New York City." 

        
Seeing the New York Draft Riots
        
Holland's Plan for America's Slaves
        
Breaking Medicine's Color Barrier
        
The Sacking of Darien
        
Organizing Black Soldiers

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: News

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Blog

SUBJECT: RACE & RACISM (90%); RIOTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); PHARMACISTS (78%); NEWSPAPER PUBLISHING (75%); CIVIL RIGHTS (75%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (71%); ROOMING & BOARDING HOUSES (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (67%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); PERFORMING ARTS CENTERS (64%); PHILANTHROPY (62%) Blacks; Civil War (US) (1861-65); Demonstrations, Protests, and Riots; Draft Riots; Lower East Side (Manhattan, NY); Disunion

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%) Lower East Side (Manhattan, NY)

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2013



380 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section A; Column 0; Classified; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Paid Notice: Deaths MCCOURT, DAVID J

 BODY:
McCOURT--David J. May 5, 1942 July 11, 2013. Born in New London, Connecticut, David McCourt, the second son of William J. McCourt and Elizabeth R. McCourt, passed away peacefully on July 11th at CT Hospice, with his devoted and loving wife, Mary Bryant McCourt at his side, after a long battle with metastatic melanoma. David leaves behind his wife Mary, two twin sons, Tavis and Stephen McCourt, two daughters, Elizabeth Smith and Kathy Paine, nine grandchildren and his sister, Mary McCourt Sheffield. David graduated from St. Francis Preparatory School in Biddeford, Maine in 1959, the University of Hartford in 1966, and Atlanta University in 1969 with a Masters in Business Administration. 
David was an avid baseball player in his youth playing throughout high school and college, and enlisted in the United States Marine Corps Reserves in 1963. In 1969 David joined the family business, ABCO Welding Supply, with his brother Bill and father William. David found a true passion in his sales role at ABCO and started a welding school during his tenure at ABCO. David moved to Old Saybrook, Connecticut in 1980, and enjoyed coaching Little League Baseball, skiing and running around north cove. In 1986, David and his brother Bill succeeded their father in running ABCO, and together with a group of talented and hard-working employees, grew the business consistently for 25 years before selling ABCO in 2011. In 1994, David married Ruth Clifford of Cork, Ireland, and moved to Newton, Massachussets. In 1997, David and Ruth were blessed with the birth of a daughter, Juliana Valentine. Ruth and Juliana died tragically as victims of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001 on the World Trade Center in New York. Following the events of September 11th, David, together with the Cuomo family helped found B.R.A.V.E. Juliana, a program of HELP USA, to teach non-violence and conflict resolution to children. David became a recognized voice to the world, appearing on TV with Diane Sawyer, Larry King, Connie Chung and many others. Deepak Choprah dedicated his book, The Deeper Wound, Recovering the Soul from Fear and Suffering, to Ruth, Paige and Juliana, and invited David to travel together speaking about the greater purpose and meaning of life. David met Mary Bryant in January 2002, through a friend to help through the difficult time and lead him to creating something positive. David and Mary founded the Juliana Valentine McCourt Children's Education Fund, and their friendship grew over the years to a deep, significant love. The two were married at St. Francis Chapel in Niantic, CT in 2011. David became a prominent supporter of the Achilles Freedom Team of Wounded Veterans, which Mary had founded through Achilles International, and the McCourt Memorial Garden at the Lyman Allen Museum. David enjoyed playing the game of golf (a game he always loved if never mastered) as a member at the Black Hall, Old Lyme Country Club and Lake of Isles Country Club in Connecticut and Trump International in Florida, where he retired and took residence. David will be missed sorely for his sense of humor, laughter, and love of life, economic and political discussions, sincere generosity, and his deep belief in mulligans. A memorial service will be held for family and friends at the Old Lyme Country Club in Connecticut on July 27th from 2-4pm, with a short service and opportunity to share memories at 3pm. For details, please contact: NeilanFuneralHome.com. Donations can be made in his honor to the McCourt Memorial Garden, or Achilles International.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Paid Death Notice

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: DEATHS & OBITUARIES (91%); CHILDREN (89%); SEPTEMBER 11 ATTACK (86%); GRANDCHILDREN (78%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); TWINS & MULTIPLE BIRTHS (78%); CANCER (77%); HIGH SCHOOLS (75%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (75%); PRIVATE SCHOOLS (75%); BASEBALL (74%); YOUTH SPORTS (74%); FAMILY COMPANIES (74%); FAMILY (73%); SKIN CANCER (72%); HOSPICE (72%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); EDUCATION FUNDING (70%); SPORTS FANS (69%); ATHLETES (69%); TERRORISM (64%); TERRORIST ATTACKS (64%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (60%)

COMPANY: ABCO WELDING & INDUSTRIAL SUPPLY INC (56%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF HARTFORD (57%); UNITED STATES MARINE CORPS (56%); LITTLE LEAGUE BASEBALL (55%)

PERSON: DIANE SAWYER (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW LONDON, CT, USA (90%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (78%) CONNECTICUT, USA (90%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MAINE, USA (57%) UNITED STATES (92%); IRELAND (54%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



381 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; AROUND THE BLOCK; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 740 words

HEADLINE: Nissan's Speedy Monster, Still on a Self-Help Program

BYLINE: By EZRA DYER

 BODY:
TESTED 2014 Nissan GT-R Premium
WHAT IS IT? One of the quickest cars on the road at any price.
HOW MUCH? Base price, $100,590; as tested, $104,875 with $4,000 premium interior package and $285 floor mats.
WHAT MAKES IT RUN? A twin-turbocharged 3.8-liter V-6 (545 horsepower, 463 pound-feet of torque); 6-speed dual-clutch transmission; all-wheel drive. 
IS IT THIRSTY? Compared with the Corvette and Porsche 911, yes. The E.P.A. rating is 16 m.p.g. in town, 23 on the highway.
I'd like to thank Mr. Tsunemi Ooyama for building the 3.8-liter V-6 that resides under the hood of a certain pearl-white Nissan GT-R. Nice work, Ooyama-san. Your efforts brought me much joy and helped to terrify numerous passengers unprepared for the violent acceleration unleashed by your twin-turbo handiwork. While the GT-R's motor has always been built by hand, the plaque identifying its constructor is new for 2014. It's time to give credit where credit is due.
Since its introduction as a 2009 model, the GT-R had only one year -- 2011 -- when it didn't undergo some type of improvement. More power, revised styling, improvements to the transmission and a host of other tweaks incrementally increased the performance year to year. And the GT-R wasn't exactly slow in the first place.
For 2014, the long list of tiny changes includes a new front suspension link location that helps to lower the front roll center. I'll admit I didn't perceive a problem with the old roll center, whatever it was.
I also had no qualm with the previous fuel injectors, which apparently didn't deliver satisfactory torque response from 4,500 to 6,000 r.p.m. The new premium interior, which pads the cabin with soft red leather, is very nice. But if you didn't order it, you probably wouldn't miss it.
With the GT-R, Nissan is like a party planner who obsesses over every spot on the silverware, fretting that the whole thing is a bust when all the guests are actually having a great time. But it's Nissan's party, and for 2014 they'll add an oil pan baffle if they want to.
In 2009, the base price was $70,850. The car I drove costs about $30,000 more than that. President Obama, Speaker Boehner: I plead for a bipartisan agreement to curb this disastrous GT-R inflation, which each year puts the Nissan farther and farther from the reach of hard-working, GT-R-wanting Americans.
Perhaps in part because of its six-figure price, a GT-R sighting remains an occasion. Through June, Nissan had sold only 624 of the cars in the United States. But those 624 people are in for a good time.
The often-repeated critiques of the GT-R -- that it's too heavy, too tech-laden, or that it sounds like a Flowbee for woolly mammoths -- seem to boil down to wishes that the GT-R were something other than what it is. This is not a thundering, minimalist Corvette Z06, nor a highly evolved anachronism like a Porsche 911. You could say that, like those cars, this Nissan has a technological tradition to uphold, but the GT-R's mission has always been to go as fast as possible using whatever technology furthers that goal. Turbos, high horsepower and all-wheel drive were a part of the GT-R mythology long before Americans ever got a taste of the car.
So, yes, the GT-R's front tires are going to dig in and help rocket you out of a hairpin without fear of spinning into the ditch. The V-6's intake noises will sound like someone's using the Large Hadron Collider to make margaritas. The middling fuel economy reflects the substantial mass hidden beneath that sinister bodywork.
But ultimately, the GT-R will do whatever you want it to do, at a performance level typically reserved for cars costing well above $100,000. Toggle the settings for the suspension and traction control and the GT-R will run from 0 to 60 m.p.h. in 3 seconds, spin a doughnut like a rear-drive Mustang or notch 1.2 gs on a corner. The fact that these abilities are enabled by computer-controlled clutches, yaw sensors and active differentials makes no difference to me. That's the GT-R identity, and that's what makes upper-echelon sports cars so interesting -- all the wildly different means to the same ends.
Besides, if the GT-R represents tech overload, what do we make of a moon module like the plug-in-hybrid Porsche 918 Spyder, which will also have a V-8? If you want to get nostalgic, let's start pining for the simple days when Tsunemi Ooyama could build a V-6 for a fast Nissan, and that was the only motor it had. EZRA DYER

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: GODZILLA AT AGE 5: The GT-R has been tweaked repeatedly, and the price of the base car, above, has increased $30,000. A new Track Edition, for $116,710, comes with front and rear spoilers and a special suspension, but without a back seat. (PHOTOGRAPH BY NISSAN NORTH AMERICA) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); SPORTS CARS (77%)

COMPANY: NISSAN MOTOR CO LTD (84%)

TICKER: 7201 (TSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (84%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTH AMERICA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



382 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AU; Column 0; Automobiles; BEHIND THE WHEEL | 2014 KIA CADENZA; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1094 words

HEADLINE: Getting Comfortable on a Bigger Stage

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE ULRICH

 BODY:
Automakers are sometimes pilloried, even in this space, for being too cautious with their designs.
But a conservative design can suggest confidence. Perennial favorites from the Honda Accord to the Chevrolet Silverado are evidence that long-term value isn't about the flashiest body or the latest trend.
The Kia Cadenza demonstrates the point. Driving this full-size sedan conjures words like ''low key'' and ''straightforward.'' A decade ago, those would have been damning words in a Kia review, because Kia hadn't earned the right or respect to do straightforward. The quality wasn't there. Nor were the features, the performance or the consumer trust. These were Kias, darn it, the low-budget Korean alternative; the brand needed oddball gimmicks and pricing sleight-of-hand to make any kind of case with American buyers.
In contrast, the Korean-built Cadenza, new for 2014, comes across as the conservative offspring of a Toyota and a 5 Series, minus the athleticism of the BMW. Yet in this context, the Kia's mature, mildly soporific quality seems comforting. 
In fact, Kia might well have called it the Credenza, rather than a name that refers to a virtuoso solo performance. The car's looks and functionality are more in keeping with that humble, but endlessly versatile, piece of living room furniture.
That makes the Kia right at home with the Toyota Avalon, Buick LaCrosse, Chevrolet Impala or Hyundai Azera, a Rotary Club of full-bodied sedans that can approach or even top $40,000 but would no sooner be called ''luxury cars'' than they would offer a Dolce & Gabbana Edition. Like its Korean partner, Hyundai, Kia continues to refine its high-value compact and midsize models while defying skeptics with larger and pricier sedans. That experiment -- a game of ''how high can they go?'' -- extends to the roughly $60,000 Hyundai Equus, whose platform is expected to spawn an enormous rear-drive Kia luxury car next year.
For now, the front-drive Cadenza, sister to the Hyundai Azera, is the roomiest and most dearly priced sedan that Kia has offered in the United States. And Kia's confidence, bolstered by a run of well-received models, has the Cadenza adopting a surprisingly cocksure stance: unlike most competitors, there's no stripper base version, but rather a single well-equipped Premium model that starts at $35,900. Its features include leather-wrapped seats, an excellent touch-screen navigation system, a 550-watt Infinity audio system, rear-view camera, keyless locking and Kia's own Uvo telematics system.
From there, a pair of lavish $3,000 option packages -- the Luxury group is required if you want the additional Technology package -- raise the price to $38,900 and then $41,900.
Toyota loyalists or domestic diehards may stop reading right there. So, too, may fans of smaller Acuras, Audis, Cadillacs or Infinitis, who don't mind trading some space or features for an established luxury badge or more sporty performance.
Yet those considerations don't diminish the Kia's overall appeal.
This is a good car. And it's impossible to step from the cabin without being impressed by the quiet style, powerful V-6, generous interior and intuitive technology.
Five inches longer than the Optima sedan on which it's based, the Cadenza splits the size difference between midsize cars and full-bore luxury yachts.
Like all Kias, and now Hyundais, the styling was directed by Peter Schreyer, an acclaimed designer who formerly worked for Audi. But while Mr. Schreyer has drawn from Audi for designs like the Optima, he may have perused the BMW catalogue during late nights on the Cadenza project. One may argue that the Cadenza seems derivative, but the car has the sturdy stance and proportions of a big German sedan. The bluff rear end evokes the cars of Chris Bangle, the former BMW design chief, but isn't obnoxious about it.
Inside, the burnished wood and leather do a reasonable Lexus impression. Nappa leather upholstery in the Luxury package, especially, makes the hides in some competitors -- including the Avalon, Taurus and Impala -- look like diner-booth vinyl.
Aside from that leather upgrade, the Luxury package adds a 12-way power driver's seat with heat, ventilation and memory settings; an LCD driver's display; a heated, powered tilt-and-telescope steering wheel; full-length panoramic sunroof with a power sunshade; and high-intensity adaptive headlamps.
The airy cabin lets passengers stretch in all directions, though the rear seats don't fold as they do in some rivals. But the simple-and-straightforward theme extends to the impeccable ergonomics. Switches and systems are universally easy to operate.
The Technology package adds 19-inch alloy wheels, blind-spot and lane-departure monitors and water-repelling front glass. An adaptive cruise control lets the Kia keep smooth pace with traffic, even in stop-and-go Manhattan driving.
The Kia also keeps pace with rivals' performance, starting with its overachieving 3.3-liter V-6. The specs say 293 horsepower, but it feels more like 320 on the streets. The gearbox is a 6-speed automatic. Car and Driver magazine needed just 6.2 seconds to hustle the Cadenza from 0 to 60 miles per hour.
The engine is also a smooth operator, but it's not the most frugal V-6 in the land. Fuel economy is rated at 19 miles per gallon in the city and 28 on the highway; the highway number trails the Avalon's by 3 m.p.g.
The ride is pleasingly supple and quiet, with excellent bump control that tames every pothole in sight. The Kia prefers relaxing to breaking a sweat: crank the speed and g-forces to sport-sedan levels, and the isolated steering and softly sprung chassis remind you that this is a family car, not a sport sedan.
Yet the Cadenza handles at least as well as the Avalon, LaCrosse and most other competitors; in this class, if the tires are squealing, it's usually by accident.
As with other Kias, there's a 10-year or 100,000-mile warranty; the Cadenza also offers free roadside assistance as well as free scheduled maintenance for three years or 37,500 miles.
As a $36,000 to $42,000 sedan, the Cadenza remains a stalking horse for Kia, a niche player in this segment. But for a brand that has increased its American sales for 18 consecutive years -- to an estimable 558,000 cars in 2012 -- adding the Cadenza can only help to make it 19 in a row.
And rather than coming off as a parvenu, an issue that afflicts the far costlier Hyundai Equus, the Cadenza looks and drives like a sedan that has nothing to prove. As Kia and its cars are demonstrating, that's how grown-ups are supposed to behave.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: VIRTUOSO: The 2014 Cadenza is the roomiest and, at prices from $36,000 to $42,000, most expensive car Kia has offered in the United States. (AU1)
 EASY DOES IT: The Cadenza's switches and systems are simple and straightforward, a notable contrast to the fussy, complex controls in many new cars. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KIA MOTORS AMERICA) (AU4) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Review

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LUXURY GOODS (89%); MOTOR VEHICLES (89%); SEDANS (89%); AUTOMAKERS (79%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (79%); AUTOMOTIVE TELEMATICS (79%); TRENDS (72%); SPORTS (72%); SPORTS & RECREATION (72%); PRICE INCREASES (68%)

COMPANY: HYUNDAI MOTOR CO (85%); HYUNDAI CORP (84%)

TICKER: HYUD (LSE) (85%); 005380 (KSE) (85%); 011760 (KSE) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (85%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (85%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (85%); SIC3569 GENERAL INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (85%); NAICS423830 INDUSTRIAL MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (84%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (84%); NAICS334310 AUDIO & VIDEO EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS334210 TELEPHONE APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (84%); SIC5051 METALS SERVICE CENTERS & OFFICES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



383 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SP; Column 0; Sports Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words

HEADLINE: For Host Teams, Both Celebration And Opportunity

BYLINE: By KEN BELSON

 BODY:
Last July, as the Mets began their seemingly annual slide down the standings, and attendance at Citi Field continued to nose-dive, the team sent loyal fans what it billed as a rare opportunity: a chance to secure tickets to the 2013 All-Star Game and associated events, like the Home Run Derby.
All fans had to do was commit to a season ticket of some kind in 2013 and pay a deposit of $250. Fans who were willing to buy four season tickets -- thus entitling them to four tickets to the All-Star Game -- had to pay $1,000 well before the end of the 2012 season. Months later, they were then asked to pay hundreds, even thousands of dollars for the actual All-Star Game tickets. 
The Mets declined to say how many fans paid the deposits. What is clear is that even after this season began in April, the Mets continued to dangle All-Star Game tickets in front of fans as a way to get them to belatedly buy season-ticket plans for 2013.
The Mets' financial struggles in recent years have been well publicized and they can surely use an economic stimulus. Attendance at Citi Field fell the last three seasons, and is down 7.7 percent so far this year, according to Baseball-Reference.com. So it made sense for the Mets to try to capitalize on the All-Star Game, link it to season-ticket plans and see if it could help stop the decline in overall ticket sales.
And although the Mets' piggybacking season-ticket sales on Tuesday's All-Star Game may appear desperate to some, they are only doing what other clubs have done in previous years. Major League Baseball produces the All-Star Game and events connected to it and keeps the money from sales of tickets, concessions and parking. The main financial lift for the host club is to use the All-Star Game to help push ticket sales to every other game on the schedule.
''For us, the big plus is you expand your season-ticket base going into that year,'' said Kevin Uhlich, the senior vice president for business operations for the Kansas City Royals, who were the hosts for the All-Star Game in 2012. ''While our play on the field didn't change, our season tickets were up 25 percent because the only way to guarantee All-Star tickets was to buy a ticket plan.''
(There was one downside, Uhlich said. The jump in the number of season-ticket plans hurt single-game ticket sales, which declined 21 percent, he said.)
The Los Angeles Angels, hosts of the 2010 All-Star Game, said it helped cushion the blows they might have sustained during the recession. Season tickets for that year held steady compared with 2009, ''when most teams were dropping about 20 percent,'' said Molly Jolly, the team's senior vice president for finance and administration.
In general, about one-third of tickets to the All-Star Game and other events are reserved for Major League Baseball, with the rest available to the host team. This year, a package to sit in the upper deck at Citi Field, including tickets to the Futures Game, the Home Run Derby, the game and the FanFest at the Javits Convention Center, was $700.
Host teams for the All-Star Game, chosen by Commissioner Bud Selig, receive other benefits. A part of the revenue from the Home Run Derby, which is held the day before the All-Star Game and attracts capacity crowds, is earmarked for charities that the host team supports. For the Mets, more than $5 million will be donated to these so-called Legacy Projects.
Teams also fill their store shelves with fresh All-Star-themed merchandise, which can attract new customers not all that eager to buy a third David Wright jersey for their children. Like the sale of all league-licensed goods, however, the revenue is shared among all 30 teams.
Sponsors also tend to show more interest in a team about to be the host of an All-Star Game -- even if, like the Mets, it is not a good team -- because they want the benefit of having their names associated with a national event. The Royals and the Angels, among others, said they were able to sign longer-term sponsorship deals in the lead-in to the All-Star Game. And, Jolly added, ''more companies were jockeying for position.''
For teams that do not make the postseason that often -- hello again, Mets -- an All-Star Game also allows office staff to gain experience working on a significant event, which can improve operations and morale. David Newman, the senior vice president for marketing and communications for the Mets, said that was exactly what was happening in Queens as Mets employees prepared for the All-Star events.
''It's a once-in-a-lifetime thing,'' he said.
The Arizona Diamondbacks said that one reason they were asked to host World Baseball Classic games this past spring, and were asked to play in Australia next spring, is because baseball officials became comfortable with the team's front office in the months before the All-Star Game in 2011, which was played in Phoenix.
''You work so closely with M.L.B. that confidence is gained and they lean on you for more events,'' said Derrick Hall, the team's president, who added that the Diamondbacks sold about 3,000 extra season ticket packages in 2011 because of the game. ''They know we can pull them off.''
Hall said that the Diamondbacks also had an increase in sales of tickets to the first home series after the All-Star Game, presumably from fans who had visited Arizona for the game and stayed a few days longer.
Still, Hall said more than anything, putting on the All-Star Game built a team's brand and made it the center of attention for three days in July, when nearly every other major league is dormant.
''You're not getting into this to get rich,'' he said. True, but you are trying to sell more season tickets, and as many as you can.
ALL-STAR GAME CITI FIELD

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: Tickets for Tuesday's All-Star Game and for related activities. (PHOTOGRAPH BY JEFFREY FURTICELLA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP1)
 In an effort to draw large crowds more frequently at Citi Field, the Mets tied All-Star ticket access to the purchase of season tickets. (PHOTOGRAPH BY BARTON SILVERMAN/THE NEW YORK TIMES) (SP2) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); BASEBALL (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); TICKET SALES (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (71%)

COMPANY: CITIGROUP INC (85%)

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK METS (94%)

TICKER: C (NYSE) (85%); C (BMV) (85%); 8710 (TSE) (85%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (85%); NAICS522210 CREDIT CARD ISSUING (85%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (85%)

GEOGRAPHIC: KANSAS CITY, MO, USA (51%) MISSOURI, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (51%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



384 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 228 words

HEADLINE: Kari Asperheim, Stephen Gauster

 BODY:
Kari Teresa Asperheim and Stephen Wilhelm Gauster were married Saturday in New York. The Rev. Michael D. Spurlock, an Episcopal priest, performed the ceremony at St. Thomas Church Fifth Avenue. 
Mrs. Gauster, 38, is a bond analyst specializing in health care at Lord Abbett, an investment firm in Jersey City. Until 2003, she was a professional opera singer in Germany. She graduated from Lawrence University in Appleton, Wis., with bachelor's degrees in vocal performance and German. She received a master's in public administration from New York University.
She is a daughter of the late Donald K. Asperheim and the late Joanne T. Asperheim of Milwaukee. The bride's father was a career counselor in the unemployment division, for the State of Wisconsin. Her mother was a pastoral counselor at the Milwaukee Catholic Home and a freelance writer.
Mr. Gauster, 43, is a senior vice president and the chief corporate counsel of Assurant, a specialty insurance company in New York. He graduated from Harvard, from which he also received a master's in Germanic languages and literatures, and a law degree.
He is a son of Norma S. Gauster and Wilhelm B. Gauster of Avon, Conn. The groom's father, a physicist, retired as a deputy director at Sandia National Laboratories in Albuquerque, where he oversaw research involving nuclear fusion, solid-state physics and nanotechnology.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (90%); CLERGY & RELIGIOUS (90%); PHYSICS (90%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (78%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (74%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (73%); EXECUTIVES (72%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (70%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (70%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); LITERATURE (68%); WRITERS (68%); SPECIALTY LINES INSURANCE (52%); NANOTECHNOLOGY (50%)

COMPANY: SPECIALTY INSURANCE CO (64%); SANDIA NATIONAL LABORATORIES (51%)

INDUSTRY: SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (64%); SIC8731 COMMERCIAL PHYSICAL & BIOLOGICAL RESEARCH (51%)

GEOGRAPHIC: ALBUQUERQUE, NM, USA (73%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (69%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); WISCONSIN, USA (92%); NEW MEXICO, USA (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (51%) UNITED STATES (94%); GERMANY (87%); CENTRAL EUROPE (71%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



385 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MB; Column 0; Metropolitan Desk; BOOKSHELF; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 600 words

HEADLINE: Post-Collegiate Exploits in Brooklyn

BYLINE: By BLAKE WILSON. 
Sam Roberts is on vacation.

 BODY:
Those who find themselves attracted to the Brooklyn bohemia of Lena Dunham's ''Girls'' but who can't understand why its gritty depictions of post-collegiate reality have to be quite so gritty might want to distract themselves instead with ''Brooklyn Girls'' (St. Martin's Griffin, $14.99), a sassy summer confection by the young novelist and screenwriter Gemma Burgess.
The story stars Pia, an art history major fresh out of Brown with no money, no job and definitely no clue. After a semi-topless photo on Facebook costs her an entry-level gig in public relations, she faces a deadline from her parents: get it together in two months, or move out of the Carroll Gardens brownstone she shares with a quartet of friends, and back home to Switzerland. 
This being Brooklyn, Pia's adventures include beekeeping, barhopping and a food truck business called Skinny Wheels. And this being 2013, the plot turns on casual sex and business sense as much as it does on its rather literal Prince Charming.
If this sounds like fun, then you're doubly in luck. The novel includes the first two chapters of a sequel, ''Love and Chaos: A Brooklyn Girls Novel,'' due out in winter 2014.â--
Did you hear the one about the undercover rabbis and the 13 barrels of treyf brisket? How about the kosher chicken baron murdered by jealous rivals (after they bombed his summer cottage and poisoned his horse)? Or the Jewish gangsters Tootsie Herbert and his brother Charlie, enforcers for a crooked poultry syndicate?
In ''Kosher: Private Regulation in the Age of Industrial Food'' (Harvard University Press, $39.95), Timothy D. Lytton tells the story of kosher food in America, which by necessity means New York. A professor at Albany Law School, Mr. Lytton is primarily concerned with offering present-day kosher certification as a model within the industrial food economy. But along the way, his short academic book recounts the dark days that led to today's success.
Amid an exploding Jewish population, the old European systems for ensuring that food was kosher collapsed in the free market of 19th-century New York. Fraud and corruption grew and persisted into the mid-20th century.
It's all delicious to read about, but New Yorkers of all creeds should be happy they no longer shop in a marketplace where, as Rabbi Moses Weinberger of the Lower East Side said in 1887, ''absolute anarchy reigns'' and the butchers ''live in a world of lawlessness.''â--
Anyone nursing a grudge that ''Bring It On: The Musical'' lost out to ''Kinky Boots'' in this year's Tony Awards can find comfort in the theater critic Peter Filichia's ''Strippers, Showgirls and Sharks'' (St. Martin's Press, $26.99). The title alludes to ''Gypsy,'' ''Follies'' and ''West Side Story'' -- three classics also passed over for the best-musical honor. And as promised by the subtitle, ''A Very Opinionated History of the Broadway Musicals That Did Not Win the Tony Award,'' Mr. Filichia's long memory burns with barbs, gossip and production histories for the 150-odd other nominees that didn't make the grade over the Tonys' seven-decade history.
Written in a breezy, conversational voice, with chapters organized by theme (''losers that suffered from following their creators' smash hits,'' etc.), this book is for Broadway completists. The introduction concludes with an honest advertisement that some readers might prefer to treat as a warning: ''You may find more than you expect about 'The Lieutenant' and less than you envisioned on 'Hair.' That was intentional. I endeavored to describe shows in detail that have seldom, if ever, received intense scrutiny.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTO 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (90%); WRITERS (89%); HISTORY (76%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (72%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (72%); POULTRY (72%); ART HISTORY (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (69%); RELIGION (69%); LAW SCHOOLS (68%); MOBILE FOOD SERVICES (67%); CORRUPTION (64%); POISONINGS (64%); APICULTURE (53%)

COMPANY: FACEBOOK INC (57%); HARVARD UNIVERSITY PRESS (53%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (53%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (53%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (72%) NEW YORK, USA (94%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



386 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Style Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 4452 words

HEADLINE: She Can Play That Game, Too

BYLINE: By KATE TAYLOR

 BODY:
At 11 on a weeknight earlier this year, her work finished, a slim, pretty junior at the University of Pennsylvania did what she often does when she has a little free time. She texted her regular hookup -- the guy she is sleeping with but not dating. What was he up to? He texted back: Come over. So she did. They watched a little TV, had sex and went to sleep.
Their relationship, she noted, is not about the meeting of two souls.
''We don't really like each other in person, sober,'' she said, adding that ''we literally can't sit down and have coffee.'' 
Ask her why she hasn't had a relationship at Penn, and she won't complain about the death of courtship or men who won't commit. Instead, she'll talk about ''cost-benefit'' analyses and the ''low risk and low investment costs'' of hooking up.
''I positioned myself in college in such a way that I can't have a meaningful romantic relationship, because I'm always busy and the people that I am interested in are always busy, too,'' she said.
''And I know everyone says, 'Make time, make time,' '' said the woman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity but agreed to be identified by her middle initial, which is A. ''But there are so many other things going on in my life that I find so important that I just, like, can't make time, and I don't want to make time.''
It is by now pretty well understood that traditional dating in college has mostly gone the way of the landline, replaced by ''hooking up'' -- an ambiguous term that can signify anything from making out to oral sex to intercourse -- without the emotional entanglement of a relationship.
Until recently, those who studied the rise of hookup culture had generally assumed that it was driven by men, and that women were reluctant participants, more interested in romance than in casual sexual encounters. But there is an increasing realization that young women are propelling it, too.
Hanna Rosin, in her recent book, ''The End of Men,'' argues that hooking up is a functional strategy for today's hard-charging and ambitious young women, allowing them to have enjoyable sex lives while focusing most of their energy on academic and professional goals.
But others, like Susan Patton, the Princeton alumna and mother who in March wrote a letter to The Daily Princetonian urging female undergraduates not to squander the chance to hunt for a husband on campus, say that de-emphasizing relationships in college works against women.
''For most of you, the cornerstone of your future and happiness will be inextricably linked to the man you marry, and you will never again have this concentration of men who are worthy of you,'' advised Ms. Patton, who has two sons, one a Princeton graduate and the other a current student. In many places, Ms. Patton was derided for wanting to return to the days of the ''Mrs. degree,'' though a few female writers, noting how hard it can be for women to find mates in their 30s, suggested that she might have a point. (Ms. Patton just landed a book deal with a division of Simon & Schuster.)
As lengthy interviews over the school year with more than 60 women at Penn indicated, the discussion is playing out in the lives of a generation of women facing both broader opportunities and greater pressures than perhaps any before, both of which helped shape their views on sex and relationships in college.
Typical of elite universities today, Penn is filled with driven young women, many of whom aspire to be doctors, lawyers, politicians, bankers or corporate executives like Facebook's Sheryl Sandberg or Yahoo's Marissa Mayer. Keenly attuned to what might give them a competitive edge, especially in a time of unsure job prospects and a shaky economy, many of them approach college as a race to acquire credentials: top grades, leadership positions in student organizations, sought-after internships. Their time out of class is filled with club meetings, sports practice and community-service projects. For some, the only time they truly feel off the clock is when they are drinking at a campus bar or at one of the fraternities that line Locust Walk, the main artery of campus.
These women said they saw building their résumés, not finding boyfriends (never mind husbands), as their main job at Penn. They envisioned their 20s as a period of unencumbered striving, when they might work at a bank in Hong Kong one year, then go to business school, then move to a corporate job in New York. The idea of lugging a relationship through all those transitions was hard for many to imagine. Almost universally, the women said they did not plan to marry until their late 20s or early 30s.
In this context, some women, like A., seized the opportunity to have sex without relationships, preferring ''hookup buddies'' (regular sexual partners with little emotional commitment) to boyfriends. Others longed for boyfriends and deeper attachment. Some women described a dangerous edge to the hookup culture, of sexual assaults and degrading encounters enabled by drinking and distinguished by a lack of emotional connection.
The women interviewed came from all corners of Penn's population. They belonged to sororities (or would never dream of it), reported for the school newspaper, sang or danced in performance groups, played sports. Some spent almost every weekend night at a ''downtown'' (a fraternity party at a nightclub, where men paid for bottle service) or at a campus bar. Others preferred holing up in the library or hanging out with the theater crowd. They came from all over the country, and as far away as China and Africa. Some had gone to elite private high schools; others were on full scholarship. They came from diverse racial backgrounds, and several were first-generation immigrants. They were found in a wide variety of ways, from chance encounters in coffee shops to introductions from friends.
Because they believed that talking publicly about sex could come back to haunt them -- by damaging their reputations at Penn, their families' opinions of them or their professional future -- the women spoke on the condition that their full names would not be revealed. Most are identified by their first or middle names or by a middle initial. They spoke over the course of the academic year, often repeatedly and at length.
An Economic Calculation
For A., college is an endless series of competitions: to get into student clubs, some of which demand multiple rounds of interviews; to be selected for special research projects and the choicest internships; and, in the end, to land the most elite job offers.
As A. explained her schedule, ''If I'm sober, I'm working.''
In such an overburdened college life, she said, it was rare for her and her friends to find a relationship worth investing time in, and many people avoided commitment because they assumed that someone better would always come along.
''We are very aware of cost-benefit issues and trading up and trading down, so no one wants to be too tied to someone that, you know, may not be the person they want to be with in a couple of months,'' she said.
Instead, she enjoyed casual sex on her terms -- often late at night, after a few drinks, and never at her place, she noted, because then she would have to wash the sheets.
Nationally, women now outnumber men in college enrollment by 4 to 3 and outperform them in graduation rates and advanced degrees. Some researchers have argued that the gender imbalance fosters a culture of hooking up because men, as the minority, hold more power in the sexual marketplace, and they prefer casual sex to long-term relationships.
But Elizabeth A. Armstrong, a sociologist at the University of Michigan who studies young women's sexuality, said that women at elite universities were choosing hookups because they saw relationships as too demanding and potentially too distracting from their goals.
In interviews, ''Some of them actually said things like, 'A relationship is like taking a four-credit class,' or 'I could get in a relationship, or I could finish my film,' '' Dr. Armstrong said.
Increasingly, she said, many privileged young people see college as a unique life stage in which they don't -- and shouldn't -- have obligations other than their own self-development.
Women say, '' 'I need to take this time for myself -- I'm going to have plenty of time to focus on my husband and kids later,' '' Dr. Armstrong said. '' 'I need to invest in my career, I need to learn how to be independent, I need to travel.' People use this reference to this life stage to claim a lot of space for a lot of different kinds of things.''
Some women also want to wait to see how men turn out as they advance through their 20s.
A., for example, said that she did not want to settle down until she could choose a partner knowing that his goals and values were fixed.
'''I've always heard this phrase, 'Oh, marriage is great, or relationships are great -- you get to go on this journey of change together,' '' she said. ''That sounds terrible.
''I don't want to go through those changes with you. I want you to have changed and become enough of your own person so that when you meet me, we can have a stable life and be very happy.''
In the meantime, from A.'s perspective, she was in charge of her own sexuality.
''I definitely wouldn't say I've regretted any of my one-night stands,'' she said.
''I'm a true feminist,'' she added. ''I'm a strong woman. I know what I want.''
At the same time, she didn't want the number of people she had slept with printed, and she said it was important to her to keep her sexual life separate from her image as a leader at Penn.
''Ten years from now, no one will remember -- I will not remember -- who I have slept with,'' A. said. ''But I will remember, like, my transcript, because it's still there. I will remember what I did. I will remember my accomplishments and places my name is hung on campus.''
Independent Women
Susan Patton says women like A. are making a mistake.
Ms. Patton, who graduated from Princeton in 1977 and is now a human resources consultant in New York, said in an interview that she wrote her letter after attending a conference on Princeton's campus, where she took part in a discussion about careers with a group of female students. At one point, she asked the young women if any of them wanted to marry and have children. They at first appeared shocked by the question, then looked at one another for reassurance before, she said, ''sheepishly'' raising their hands.
''I thought, 'My gosh, what have we come to that these brilliant young women are afraid to say that marriage and children are significant parts of what they view as their lifelong happiness?' '' Ms. Patton said.
''They have gotten such strong, vitriolic messages from the extreme feminists saying, 'Go it alone -- you don't need a man,' '' she added.
But, in fact, many of the Penn women said that warnings not to become overly involved in a relationship came not from feminists, but from their parents, who urged them to be independent.
''That's one thing that my mom has always instilled in me: 'Make decisions for yourself, not for a guy,' '' one senior at Penn said.
A friend of hers, who attended a nearby college and did have a serious boyfriend, said that she felt as if she were breaking a social taboo. ''Am I allowed to find the person that I want to spend the rest of my life with when I'm 19?'' she said. ''I don't really know. It feels like I'm not.''
Even if they did meet someone they were interested in, some women said the logistics of a relationship were just too hard. Some described extracurricular commitments -- running debate tournaments for local high school students, or organizing Model United Nations conferences -- that took up 30 to 40 hours a week, and came on top of going to class, doing homework and, in the case of less-wealthy students, work-study jobs. Some relationships ended, or never got off the ground, simply because schedules didn't align.
Moreover, by senior year, the looming prospect of graduation and job applications made many students leery of dating.
''There's this hypothetical, 'I would like to be in a relationship, because it's like comforting and stable and supportive,' '' a senior, Pallavi, said of her friends' attitudes. ''But then, the conversations that I've had, it's always like, 'Well, then what do I do when we get to May, because we're graduating, and so where do we go from there?' That uncertainty is a huge sort of stop sign.''
She had dated a few men in college but said that she wasn't sure if she wanted to get married. With the economy changing, and people less likely to have straight career tracks, she thought that the uncertainty and the need to be mobile might discourage people from marrying.
For herself, she was planning to stay in Philadelphia for two years to pursue a master's degree part time while working for the university, then possibly get a Ph.D. and a law degree somewhere else. That pretty much precluded a serious relationship, she said.
''Hypothetically, if I were to enter into a serious relationship with someone right now,'' she said, ''would I honestly say to them: 'We're going to spend two years in Philadelphia, and then with some kind of crazy luck I'm going to spend eight years somewhere else? And God knows what you would have been doing for the two years that we were still in Philadelphia -- you either would have to up and leave with me, or we'd have to do a long-distance.' That's just too much to even ask anyone to commit to.''
Adapt, Have Fun
Some women went to college wanting a relationship, but when that seemed unlikely, they embraced hooking up as the best alternative. M., an athletic freshman with long legs and a button nose, arrived at college a virgin and planned to wait to have sex until she had her first boyfriend, something she expected to happen in college. But over the course of the fall, as she saw very few students forming relationships, she began to lose hope about finding a boyfriend and to see her virginity as a hindrance.
''I could be here for four years and not date anyone,'' she said she realized. ''Sometimes you are out, and there's a guy you really are attracted to, and you kind of want to go back home with him, but you kind of have that underlying, 'I can't, because I can't just lose my V-card to some random guy.' ''
At a party in the spring semester, she was taking a break from dancing when she ran into a guy she had had a class with in the fall. They started talking, then danced until the party was over. M. went back to his room, where they talked some more and then started making out.
By this time, she said, ''I wasn't very drunk -- I was close to sober,'' which made her believe she could make a considered decision.
''I'm like, 'O.K., I could do this now,' '' she recalled thinking. '' 'He's superhot, I like him, he's nice. But I'm not going to expect anything out of it, either.' ''
The alternative, she said, was that ''I could take the chance that one night I get really drunk and sleep with someone that I don't want to sleep with, which probably is what would have ended up happening.''
So she had sex with him. In the morning, he walked her home.
''Honestly, all of my friends, they're super envious, because I came back with the biggest smile on my face,'' M. said. As she had expected, she and the guy remained friendly but nothing more. Yet she was still happy with her decision.
''All of my friends are jealous, because I had such a great first experience,'' she added. Over spring break, she slept with someone else.
In general, she said, she thought that guys at Penn controlled the hookup culture. But women played a role as well.
''It's kind of like a spiral,'' she said. ''The girls adapt a little bit, because they stop expecting that they're going to get a boyfriend -- because if that's all you're trying to do, you're going to be miserable. But at the same time, they want to, like, have contact with guys.'' So they hook up and ''try not to get attached.''
Now, she said, she and her best friend had changed their romantic goals, from finding boyfriends to finding ''hookup buddies,'' which she described as ''a guy that we don't actually really like his personality, but we think is really attractive and hot and good in bed.''
The Default Is Yes
For many Penn students, their initiation into the sexual culture takes place at fraternity parties during New Student Orientation, a five-day period before classes start in the fall, which, along with Spring Fling in April, is known as the biggest partying time of the year.
''You go in, and they take you down to a dark basement,'' Haley, a blond, pink-cheeked senior, recalled of her first frat parties in freshman year. ''There's girls dancing in the middle, and there's guys lurking on the sides and then coming and basically pressing their genitals up against you and trying to dance.''
Dancing like that felt good but dirty, and like a number of girls, Haley said she had to be drunk in order to enjoy it. Women said universally that hookups could not exist without alcohol, because they were for the most part too uncomfortable to pair off with men they did not know well without being drunk. One girl, explaining why her encounters freshman and sophomore year often ended with fellatio, said that usually by the time she got back to a guy's room, she was starting to sober up and didn't want to be there anymore, and giving the guy oral sex was an easy way to wrap things up and leave.
In November of Haley's freshman year, a couple of months after her first tentative ''Difmos,'' or dance-floor makeouts, she went to a party with a boy from her floor. She had too much to drink, and she remembered telling him that she wanted to go home.
Instead, she said, he took her to his room and had sex with her while she drifted in and out of consciousness. She woke up with her head spinning. The next day, not sure what to think about what had happened, she described the night to her friends as though it were a funny story: I was so drunk, I fell asleep while I was having sex! She played up the moment in the middle of the night when the guy's roommate poked his head in the room and asked, ''Yo, did you score?''
Only later did Haley begin to think of what had happened as rape -- a disturbingly common part of many women's college experience. In a 2007 survey funded by the Justice Department of 6,800 undergraduates at two big public universities, nearly 14 percent of women said they had been victims of at least one completed sexual assault at college; more than half of the victims said they were incapacitated from drugs or alcohol at the time.
The close relationship between hooking up and drinking leads to confusion and disagreement about the line between a ''bad hookup'' and assault. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, 10 to 16 forcible sex offenses were reported annually to campus security as taking place on Penn's campus or in the immediate neighborhood.
In January, Penn announced that it was forming a commission, led by a faculty member, to study the impact of alcohol and drug use on campus, with a particular focus on sexual violence.
When drinking is involved, Haley said, ''Guys assume that the default answer is always yes.''
''I think a lot of guys get the idea: 'O.K., this girl's coming to this party, and she's drinking. That means her goal of the night is to hook up with somebody,' '' she said. ''They're like, 'O.K., she came out, and if she dressed like that, it must mean that she wanted to hook up.' ''
A friend of hers, Kristy, shared a story about a different kind of coercion. She had been making out with a guy at his house, not sure how far she wanted to go, when he stood up and told her, ''Get down on your knees.''
At first she froze. ''I was really taken aback, because I was like, no one has ever said that to me before,'' she said. Then he said something like, '' 'I think that's fair,' '' she recalled. When she still hesitated, he pushed her down.
''It was at that point that I was like, 'I'll just do it,' '' she said. ''I was like, ' ''It will be over soon enough.' ''
Paula England, a sociologist at New York University, who led an online survey of 24,000 students at 21 universities called the Online College Social Life Survey, said that women tended to fare much better sexually in relationships than in hookups.
''Guys don't seem to care as much about women's pleasure in the hookup, whereas they do seem to care quite a bit in the relationships,'' Dr. England said. By contrast, women ''seem to have this idea they're supposed to be pleasing in both contexts.'' In hookups, women were much more likely to give men oral sex than to receive it.
Part of the reason men aren't as focused on pleasing women in hookups, Dr. England said, is the lingering sexual double standard, which sometimes causes men to disrespect women precisely for hooking up with them.
There is judgment from other women, too -- two women said they had been rejected from sororities because of their sexual reputations. And technology has made it easier to spread gossip. One woman recalled a guy showing her an e-mail he had received on his fraternity Listserv, in which another guy described having sex with a girl in the bathroom at a club.
''They're not afraid to use names,'' she said of the men, adding, ''I'm sure there's been a story about me on a Listserv. It happens to everyone.''
Opting Out
For all the focus on hookups, campuses are not sexual free-for-alls, at Penn or elsewhere. At colleges nationally, by senior year, 4 in 10 students are either virgins or have had intercourse with only one person, according to the Online College Social Life Survey. Nearly 3 in 10 said that they had never had a hookup in college. Meanwhile, 20 percent of women and a quarter of men said they had hooked up with 10 or more people.
Mercedes, a junior at Penn who is on financial aid, said that at her mostly Latino public high school in California, it was the troubled and unmotivated students who drank and hooked up, while the honors students who wanted to go to college kept away from those things.
When she went to Penn, she was surprised to see her elite classmates drinking, but even more surprised by the casual making out. She would go along with her friends to fraternity parties, but she refused to dance with strangers or to kiss anyone.
''Sharing that side of myself with a stranger just seems very strange to me,'' she said in September. ''I mean, if you break it down, it's a very strange thing to do.''
Her unease was common among students from relatively modest backgrounds, said Dr. Armstrong, the University of Michigan sociologist. In one study, conducted with Laura Hamilton, now a professor at the University of California, Merced, Dr. Armstrong followed roughly 50 women from their freshman year at Indiana University in 2004 until the end of their college careers. They found that the women from wealthier backgrounds were much more likely to hook up, more interested in postponing adult responsibilities and warier of serious romantic commitment than their less-affluent classmates.
The women from less-privileged backgrounds looked at their classmates who got drunk and hooked up as immature.
At Penn, Mercedes said: ''Everyone else seemed to live life, not really care about what they were doing. Like, 'You're only young once,' they had that sort of mentality. And I didn't understand why I couldn't be, like, free-spirited, and not really care about the consequences of my actions.''
She added, ''Nothing is stopping me from rebelling. I just didn't rebel.''
By the start of her junior year, Mercedes had still never kissed anyone. Then in the fall, she found herself often getting into late-night conversations with a boy in her dorm. They talked about their studies, their families, politics. One weekend he invited her to a poetry slam off campus. The next night, they shyly confessed that they liked each other and had their first kiss.
Interviewed again in the spring, she said things were proceeding slowly but steadily. The two never had to hook up. They were just dating, getting to know each other in the old-fashioned way.
Physically, they had not gone further than making out, Mercedes said, and she thought she might want to wait to have sex until marriage. ''It's not like I'm doing it because of my reputation,'' she said. ''It's not because a religion tells me to wait. I think of it more as, this is the way I want to emotionally connect to someone, and I think that only a person who deserves me to be emotionally attached to them should have that opportunity to see me in that way.''
Romantics
Catherine, a Penn senior, had found hooking up in college to be a continual source of heartbreak. She had repeatedly made the mistake of thinking that because she was sleeping with someone, they were in a relationship, only to be disabused when the guy broke things off abruptly. The only glimmer of light had been a friendship with a guy she had met while studying abroad in Ireland, which blossomed into a romance just before she had to leave. Although, because of the distance, they ended up not pursuing a relationship, the experience had given her hope for the future.
In Catherine's view, her classmates tried very hard to separate sex from emotion, because they believed that getting too attached to someone would interfere with their work. They saw a woman's marrying young as either proof of a lack of ambition or a tragic mistake that would stunt her career.
But Catherine noted that a handful of young women are starting to question that idea. In an article on Slate titled ''Marry Young,'' the writer Julia Shaw, who married at 23, said her generation was missing out on the support that young couples could provide each other as they faced the challenges of early adulthood.
''Marriage wasn't something we did after we'd grown up, it was how we have grown up and grown together,'' she wrote of herself and her husband.
As a teenager, Catherine had thought she would wait to get married until her late 20s or early 30s. But her college experiences had made her think that she would rather marry young than throw away a good relationship because it wasn't the right time.
That might mean having to pass up certain career opportunities, for geographic reasons. But Catherine thought that her peers underestimated how hard it was to find the right person to be with -- as hard, perhaps, as finding the right job.
''People kind of discount'' how ''difficult it is to find someone that you even remotely like, let alone really fall for,'' she said. ''And losing that can be just as impractical and harmful to yourself, if not more so, than missing out on a job or something like that. What else do you really have at the end of your life?''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: A generation of women faces broad opportunities and great pressures, both of which help shape their views on sex and relationships. (ST1)
Some Penn women don't truly feel off the clock unless they're at a campus bar, above and bottom, or fraternity party. Spring Fling, below and right, is one of the year's biggest parties. (ST6)
 Haley, top left, said that when drinking is involved, guys think the ''default answer is always yes.'' Catherine, top right, said she would not throw away a good relationship because the timing wasn't right. Above, students at Spring Fling. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY ELIZABETH D. HERMAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (ST7) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WOMEN (89%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (88%) UNITED STATES (88%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



387 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1809 words

HEADLINE: Keys to Happiness. Or Not.

BYLINE: By MICHELLE HIGGINS

 BODY:
If trying to buy an apartment in New York City has been making you miserable, consider this: actually getting that home may not make you happy.
A growing body of research suggests that spending money on real estate doesn't necessarily mean investing in contentment. Indeed, the conventional advice to cut back on vacations, restaurant meals and other extras in order to save money for a home may actually be detrimental to felicity. Experts in happiness -- an increasingly popular field focused on the scientific understanding of emotional well-being -- say that people are happier when they spend money on experiences instead of material goods, whether it be a new car or a bigger apartment.
''People are making so many trade-offs in order to have that home,'' said Elizabeth Dunn, an associate professor of psychology at the University of British Columbia who studies consumerism and happiness. She recently explored the impact of housing on people's happiness while compiling studies for a new book, ''Happy Money: The Science of Smarter Spending,'' which she wrote with Michael Norton, who teaches at the Harvard Business School. 
The recession forced many people to curb their spending habits and re-evaluate their overall lifestyles. But after saving money for years, buyers encouraged by low mortgage rates are re-entering the housing market. They find the pickings slim. In Manhattan, the number of apartments for sale for the second quarter was at a 13-year low, stoking competition and driving up prices.
Now there is research like Dr. Dunn's, emphasizing that when it comes to your overall happiness, ''there are a lot of better things you could be putting your money toward'' than real estate.
This isn't necessarily bad news in a place like New York City, where nearly 70 percent of the housing stock is rentals. And it may offer some solace to frustrated buyers facing bidding wars and all-cash offers they simply can't top.
''People still view housing as a central component of happiness and a critical aspect of the American dream,'' Dr. Dunn said. ''But there is little research to support that.''
A 2011 study of about 600 women in Ohio found that homeowners weren't any happier than renters. The study was conducted by Grace Wong Bucchianeri, then an assistant professor of real estate at the Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. Indeed, homeowners spent less time on leisure activities with friends and reported that they derived some pain from homeownership. What exactly caused that pain wasn't indicated in the study, but financial experts say that people who make the leap from renting to buying can be caught off guard by the nuts and bolts.
''The reality of maintenance and repairs, and being 'house rich but cash poor,' can negate much of the perceived happiness people may have had about homeownership,'' said Greg McBride, the senior financial analyst for Bankrate.com. Even if a low mortgage rate means you spend less each month than you did when renting, upkeep can drain a bank account faster than a leaking water heater.
What about the pleasure of living in a beautiful house in a coveted neighborhood? In a delightful screed posted in May on Medium.com, an online publishing site, Lindsey M. Green, a publicist for start-up and technology companies, writes about how even a lovely town house in a sought-after neighborhood can be a letdown.
Ms. Green moved to New York City in 2003 and sublet what she described as a ''cramped, cheap, Far West Village studio.'' She moved eight times within Manhattan over the course of nearly 10 years, even as her friends decamped for Brooklyn and sang its praises. ''I was happy as could be as the last dinosaur in Manhattan,'' she wrote.
In 2011 she moved to a two-bedroom two-bath in South Street Seaport in Lower Manhattan with her then-boyfriend, now fiancé, Lockhart Steele, the founder of Curbed.com. But in October 2012, flooding caused by Hurricane Sandy forced them to evacuate. So with all of the hype that Brooklyn was getting, they jumped at a six-month sublet in a newly renovated Cobble Hill town house.
''I could feel all the magazine headlines becoming my reality,'' she wrote. ''All of the 'Best of New York' picks in Brooklyn would suddenly make so much sense. I could become one of those people talking about how much better her life was, now that I finally made the move to Brooklyn.''
She hated it. ''Moving to Brooklyn, even into a four-story town house on a beautiful block, in a neighborhood everyone loves,'' she wrote, ''didn't make our lives better; it made our quality of life worse.'' It didn't matter that she was living in a lovely home -- she missed the bustle of Manhattan and the sense of belonging she had felt there. As she put it: ''Manhattan -- its absurd inconveniences, annoyances, high rents, crowded bars and tourist-packed streets -- is my yoga.''
Not everyone is crazy about Brooklyn. And at least one study suggests that the emphasis on location and physical characteristics (prewar charm, oak floors, a fabulous view) doesn't have much bearing on our overall happiness.
As an undergraduate at Harvard in the late 1990s, Dr. Dunn, the happiness expert, experienced the annual ritual, akin to the Hogwarts Sorting Hat in the Harry Potter series, whereby first-year students are randomly assigned to spend the rest of their college years in one of 12 dormitories or houses. In a longitudinal study published in 2003 with Timothy D. Wilson of the University of Virginia, and Daniel T. Gilbert of Harvard, both of whom are known for their research on the link between decision-making and well-being, she found that freshmen expected to be much happier living in one of the more desirable -- handsome, centrally located -- of the 12. But those who landed in plum surroundings ended up no happier than students in less desirable houses.
It is difficult to make a connection between the happiness of Harvard undergrads and real estate contentment elsewhere. But the study indicated that by placing so much weight on the physical characteristics of the houses, including location, room size and architectural appeal, the students overlooked what ended up contributing most to their happiness -- the quality of their social life.
Between 1991 and 2007, researchers tracked 3,658 people in Germany who moved to a new home because there was something they didn't like about the old one. Although the participants reported a significant boost in satisfaction with their home for the first five years, they didn't feel any better about their lives overall after they moved, according to the study, which was published in 2010.
''What matters for our happiness,'' Dr. Dunn said, ''is what we do in the minutes and hours of our day.'' When shopping for a home, she recommends asking yourself, ''How will this purchase change the way I spend my time next Tuesday?''
Whether you have a maple or a walnut floor won't have a big impact on what you're doing on an average day, she said. On the other hand, if the house has no dishwasher, you may be committing yourself to spending half an hour a day washing dishes. ''That aspect of your house will change what you do with your time,'' she said.
About three years ago, Dr. Dunn bought a two-bedroom with a view of the mountains on Vancouver's West Side for roughly 550,000 Canadian dollars, or about $520,000. Moving farther inland would have meant a larger place for less money, but a much longer commute. ''I can spend my time biking rather than driving to work,'' she said. ''That changes the way I use my time.''
Many people understand homeownership as serial trading up with a goal of arriving at some sort of real estate perfection. But that dream house may be more elusive than it seems.
''Like any possession, its impact on happiness diminishes over time,'' said Ravi Dhar, a psychology professor and the director of the Center for Customer Insight at Yale School of Management. Citing a theory widely held by happiness researchers called hedonic adaptation, he said, ''things give us more joy when they are first acquired than over time, as we adapt to them.''
Based on this principle, to remain happy with your home you need to move periodically. The technique seems to be working for Luis Moreno, 43, a film editor in New York. When he arrived in Manhattan in 1992 after graduating from college, he shared a two-bedroom with five roommates. ''I got the dining room and had a sheet for the door,'' he said, ''but I felt like I made it, because it was my first place in New York.''
Like many young professionals, he went through a series of rentals, more crash pads than true homes.
In 2001 he paid $245,000 for a sunny corner one-bedroom at the top of a sixth-floor walk-up in the West Village. ''I loved that apartment,'' said Mr. Moreno, who moved to Texas in high school from Venezuela. And seeing his name in the New York phone book for the first time was a thrill. But whenever friends or family visited, it meant hauling suitcases up five flights of stairs. So in 2003, he upgraded to a two-bedroom one-bath in an elevator building. Then he found sharing a bathroom with guests wasn't ideal.
That took him to Philip Johnson's Urban Glass House on SoHo's western fringe, where in 2007 he bought a two-bedroom two-and-half-bath apartment for $2.35 million. Not only did the place have that extra bathroom and a clean modern aesthetic bathed in tons of light, but it also represented the success he had always dreamed of achieving.
''That made me happy,'' he said. ''It cemented me feeling like I belong in the city, and I was able to make it happen here for myself.'' He felt as he had when he had found his name in the phone book all those years ago. ''It was that kind of thing again,'' he said.
Yet, as his business grew, and his work continued late into the evening, he realized he needed a larger place with a dedicated home office. In March, he listed his two-bedroom place for $2.7 million with Ryan Serhant, a broker with Nest Seekers International who appears on Bravo's ''Million Dollar Listing New York.'' It quickly went into contract for $2.65 million, and he put a down payment on a three-bedroom duplex with a terrace at 93 Worth, a luxury condo conversion under construction downtown. ''It's like a house,'' he said. ''I will hopefully never have to leave, and that feels great.''
Moving is a headache, it's true. But maybe Mr. Moreno will succumb to hedonic adaptation or the midlife urge to downsize.
Buying a home is still considered an important step on the ladder to personal fulfillment. But Dr. Dunn isn't convinced ownership is all it's cracked up to be. ''A very robust finding in psychology is people are highly motivated to justify their own choices,'' she said. ''It's very hard to get people to admit they spent hundreds of thousands of dollars in a way not optimal for their happiness.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: MARC LEWIS CHAIRMAN COLDWELL BANKER AC LAWRENCE
HALL F. WILLKIE PRESIDENT BROWN HARRIS STEVENS
BARBARA CORCORAN REAL ESTATE ENTREPRENEUR
GARY L. MALIN PRESIDENT CITI HABITATS
DOTTIE HERMAN CHIEF EXECUTIVE DOUGLAS ELLIMAN. (RE10) DRAWINGS (DRAWINGS BY PATRICK GEORGE/GETTY IMAGES) (RE1
 RE10) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE (90%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (88%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (88%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); CONSUMER BEHAVIOR (77%); PERSONAL FINANCE (77%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (73%); PSYCHOLOGY (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); RECESSION (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); RESTAURANTS (71%); MENTAL HEALTH (70%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (50%); MORTGAGE RATES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%) NEW YORK, USA (94%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (94%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



388 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; FAIR GAME; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1021 words

HEADLINE: Bankers Are Balking At Tighter Suspenders

BYLINE: By GRETCHEN MORGENSON

 BODY:
OUR nation's largest banks have grown accustomed to regulators who are respectful, deferential and mindful of these institutions' needs and desires. So, last week, when federal financial overseers unveiled a potent new weapon against too-big-to-fail banks, it seemed as if -- just maybe -- the winds in Washington were shifting.
If the rule goes into effect, it will require the nation's largest banks, those whose parent companies have more than $700 billion in consolidated assets, to double the amount of capital they have on hand to cover losses. Under the new rule, for example, Chase Bank would have to hold capital equal to 6 percent of its assets, up from the current requirement of 3 percent. Its parent company, JPMorgan Chase, would also have to increase its capital from that level to 5 percent. 
Even better, the design of the new capital requirement would be much harder for bankers to game. They did just that with other types of capital rules, such as those issued under the Basel regime, the international system devised by regulators and central bankers.
The proposal, which would raise what is known as a bank's leverage ratio, was issued jointly by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation, the Federal Reserve Board and the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency.
Naturally, the financial sector hates it.
The proposal would ''make it harder for banks to lend and keep the economic recovery going,'' said Tim Pawlenty, president of the Financial Services Roundtable, in a statement. Not that the banks are lending with abandon now.
Increasing capital will most likely reduce these institutions' returns on equity, a measure that many stockholders use to judge a bank and that banks' boards use to calculate top executives' bonuses.
At the moment, big banks are riding high. On Friday, JPMorgan Chase said its net income for the second quarter was $6.5 billion, up 31 percent from the same period of 2012. The six largest banks will enjoy an average increase of 20 percent in earnings during the second quarter, according to analysts' estimates.
Over the next two months, regulators will receive and weigh public comments about their proposal. You can be sure that, from now to then, the nation's largest banks will do whatever they can to weaken it.
JUST getting the proposed capital rule out the door seems to have been tough, judging from one regulator's public comments. As Jeremiah Norton, a director at the F.D.I.C., said in a statement on Tuesday: ''It should not have been as difficult as it has been for the agencies to come together on today's leverage-ratio proposal, which hardly seems like a seismic shift in capital requirements and represents an attempt to address one of the core causes of the financial crisis.''
But seismic it is to the nation's biggest bankers. As soon as the proposed rule came out, their representatives began warning about the dire effects it would have on the economy.
Mr. Pawlenty, the former Minnesota governor and candidate for the Republican presidential nomination, trotted out that time-honored claim that is used to undercut so many regulations -- that the higher capital rule was a bad idea because it would put American banks at a competitive disadvantage to foreign institutions that needn't abide by it.
This, by the way, was the same argument that banks made just before the financial crisis. Back then, they were arguing that United States regulators should join their European counterparts in relying solely on the Basel II rules, and not impose additional capital requirements. The big banks liked those rules because they leaned heavily on bankers' own, rosy risk models and allowed the institutions to compute capital based on the supposed risks in various assets.
This so-called risk-weighting approach was an abject failure. For example, the assumptions characterized the sovereign debt of Greece as risk-free, requiring that banks set aside no capital against those holdings for possible losses. The risk-weight system also determined, incorrectly, that highly rated mortgage securities fell low on the risk scale.
That's what's so beneficial in the leverage-ratio rule proposed last week: it allows for much less subjectivity in analyzing risks on a bank's balance sheet. It also has the benefit of including more of a bank's off-balance-sheet holdings -- like derivatives -- in the capital calculation. That helps give investors a truer picture of a bank's financial position.
''The reason our banks, with their much larger exposure to toxic mortgage securities, fared better than their European counterparts during the crisis was that the U.S. regulators had already required them to meet a leverage ratio on top of the Basel requirements,'' said Joshua Rosner, an analyst at Graham Fisher in New York. ''Where other countries merely used Basel -- which proved to be a loose belt -- we required suspenders as well.''
If the new rule goes into effect, it will trump the heavy reliance on risk-weighting that remains central to the Basel rules. Once again, that would put United States banks in a better position than their foreign peers to survive future downturns.
''The United States has the opportunity to lead the world in bringing forward a financial system that is sounder in the long run,'' said Thomas M. Hoenig, vice chairman of the F.D.I.C., in an interview last week. ''With stronger capital, banks still have the ability to make loans, but if they do have losses they can absorb those losses without imploding the economy.''
THE regulators concede that increasing capital at these large and powerful institutions may increase the costs of borrowing. But they note that the societal benefits to increased capital -- fewer expensive bailouts -- will far outweigh the possible rise in borrowing costs.
Over the next two months, the regulators proposing this rule will no doubt encounter a lobbying buzz saw. Mr. Hoenig said he and his colleagues were bracing for that. Bankers, after all, prefer things just the way they are. They can load up on leverage to take risks and reap the rewards. But when losses abound? Well, they're the taxpayers' problem.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: PARENT COMPANIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (90%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE REGULATION (78%); BANK DEPOSIT INSURANCE (78%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC RECOVERY (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (68%); EXECUTIVES (64%); SHAREHOLDERS (63%); EXECUTIVE BONUSES (50%)

COMPANY: JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (94%); FEDERAL DEPOSIT INSURANCE CORP (82%)

ORGANIZATION: OFFICE OF THE COMPTROLLER OF THE CURRENCY (55%)

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (94%); JPM (LSE) (94%); 8634 (TSE) (94%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (94%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (94%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (94%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (94%); NAICS524128 OTHER DIRECT INSURANCE (EXCEPT LIFE, HEALTH & MEDICAL) CARRIERS (82%); SIC6399 INSURANCE CARRIERS, NEC (82%)

PERSON: TIM PAWLENTY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



389 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; LOOSE ENDS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 548 words

HEADLINE: We Need Oil. They Need Pig.

BYLINE: By DAMON DARLIN. 
Damon Darlin is the international business editor for The New York Times.

 BODY:
China has battleships, missiles and awfully effective computer hackers. Soon it will have tasty American-made pork parts in its arsenal to threaten the United States.
To the Chinese government, pork is a strategic concern. It even has a strategic pork reserve, like the United States has a strategic oil reserve.
Some senators are objecting to a large Chinese food producer, Shuanghui International, buying Smithfield, the largest pork producer in the United States, in a $4.7 billion deal. Smithfield owns 460 farms and has contracts with 2,100 others that raise about 15.8 million hogs a year just in the United States. The lawmakers want the Obama administration to block the sale of the pork company for the same reason it recently blocked the sale of a wind-power company to a Chinese company -- as a threat to this nation. 
The fear is that China would somehow control the pork we eat or, perhaps worse, get our critical pork production technology and our secrets of manure management. If China got mad at the United States, instead of hacking our computers they'd choke off our pork-chop supply. (That the Chinese company is willing to pay handsomely -- a 31 percent premium -- for our pork technology, not steal it, should be noted by the senators as a step in the right direction.)
The Chinese worry a lot about food security. Americans don't. But Ben Becker, the press secretary for the Senate Agriculture Committee, said in an interview that this is a luxury of a wealthy country. He warned that China might not stop at buying pork companies. ''What if tomorrow it is the biggest dairy producer? Or the biggest corn producer?''
Say the Chinese, in a fit of pique, decided they would not sell this country another ham hock or breakfast link. Suppose Smithfield scooped up every one of its pigs by order of its Chinese masters and shipped them to China.
Why would we care? First, we Americans have been eating a lot less pork lately. We might not notice. But second, it's not as if China can order the world's pigs to stop reproducing. In a few months, we'd have a whole new passel of shoats ready to braise, roast and slather in barbecue sauce. Agricultural economists say it would take a few years for the rest of the American pork-packing plants to expand and replace the lost capacity.
Surely we could get by eating chicken, fish and, yes, more vegetables, until then. And that would be only if no one else in the world would sell us a pig part. (Mexican pork is quite tasty. I'd buy that in two shakes of a lamb's tail.)
According to The Economist's Intelligence Unit, the United States is the most ''food secure'' country in the world in terms of productive capacity, technology and other factors. China is 42nd. We spend only 13.9 percent of our household income on food. That's the lowest in the world. The Chinese spend slightly more than the average of 38.3 percent.
The senators expressed worries at the Agriculture Committee hearing that the Chinese would use Smithfield's technology and expertise to improve their production and then take foreign markets from American producers.
In other words, they are talking about protectionism. And if Chinese companies can't buy American wind-power technology or pork-processing expertise, it's hard to see what they would be allowed to buy.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ANIMAL SLAUGHTERING & PROCESSING (90%); PORK (90%); COMPUTER CRIME (90%); HOG & PIG FARMING (90%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); NAVAL VESSELS (78%); STRATEGIC PETROLEUM RESERVES (77%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (76%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (76%); FOOD SECURITY (76%); AGRICULTURE (75%); ENERGY & UTILITY POLICY (72%); AGRICULTURAL WASTES (70%); INTERVIEWS (69%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (69%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (67%); DAIRY INDUSTRY (63%)

PERSON: BARACK OBAMA (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); CHINA (95%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



390 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1211 words

HEADLINE: How Googling Unmasks Child Abuse

BYLINE: By SETH STEPHENS-DAVIDOWITZ. 
An economist who recently received a Ph.D. from Harvard.

 BODY:
DURING the Great Recession, child abuse and neglect appeared to decline. Incidents reported to local authorities dropped. ''The doom-and-gloom predictions haven't come true,'' Richard Gelles, a child-welfare expert at the University of Pennsylvania, told The Associated Press in 2011.
The real story about child maltreatment during the recession is a grim one. I spent months studying this topic, using a number of different data sources, including Google search queries. I found that the Great Recession caused a significant increase in child abuse and neglect. But far fewer of these cases were reported to authorities, with much of the drop due to slashed budgets for teachers, nurses, doctors and child protective service workers.
Here's what caused the initial optimism: from 2006 to 2009, the number of cases reported to child protective services decreased by 1 percent nationally. Remarkably, the biggest drops were in the states hardest hit by the recession. Nevada, despite an unemployment rate that rose as high as 13.3 percent, showed a 17.5 percent drop in reports of maltreatment of children. 
The first clue that the official statistics were misleading comes from looking at the most extreme forms of abuse and neglect, which are least susceptible to reporting pressures: child-fatality rates. During the downturn, there was a comparative increase in these rates in states that were hardest hit by the recession. From 2006 to 2009, Nevada's fatality rate from abuse or neglect rose 50 percent.
But child fatalities are, thankfully, rare. I also used a novel technique for studying child maltreatment: an analysis of anonymous, aggregate Google searches. (I am currently an intern at Google, but I finished the doctoral research on which this essay is based before joining the company.) Google queries provide an immensely powerful database, particularly on sensitive topics that people don't discuss freely with pollsters or authorities or even the friends and family members they know best. Online, often unobserved, we tend to be very honest.
I examined a heart-wrenching category of searches: those likely to have been made by recent victims of abuse who were old enough to use Google. These searches included ''My dad hit me'' or ''Why did my father beat me?'' I also examined a more common class of Google queries: those that include the words ''child abuse'' or ''child neglect.'' In some sense, this Google data is like a survey of how many people suspected child maltreatment at a given time. If you see something that worries you, you may well ask Google about ''child abuse signs'' or ''child abuse effects.''
Sure, some people search for ''child abuse'' for other reasons, but these irrelevant searches can often be parsed out. The Google numbers are so large -- many orders of magnitude larger than in any survey or poll -- that the overall rates are telling. And they are likely to capture suspected incidents that we would never know about otherwise.
After declining for many years in the United States, the searches that seem to have come from abuse victims themselves rose as soon as the Great Recession began. On weeks that unemployment claims rose, these searches rose as well.
Searches that appear to have originated with people who suspect abuse also provide evidence that the increase is caused by the economic downturn. Controlling for pre-recession rates and national trends, states that had comparatively suffered the most had increased search rates for child abuse and neglect. Each percentage point increase in the unemployment rate was associated with a 3 percent increase in the search rate for ''child abuse'' or ''child neglect.''
If the Great Recession increased suspicion of child maltreatment, why were fewer cases reported? Keep in mind first that many, probably most, suspected cases are never reported. Even primary care doctors, who are legally mandated to report suspected child abuse, admit in surveys that they do not report 27 percent of suspicious incidents.
It is certainly plausible that an economic downturn could lower the rate at which suspect cases are reported. Budgets were slashed in hard-hit states, particularly on social programs directed toward children. Overworked teachers, doctors and nurses may be that much less likely to go through with the reporting process. Shorter hours and more thinly stretched staffs at child protective service agencies may make it harder to report cases. There is abundant anecdotal evidence of people attempting to report maltreatment by phone facing long wait times and hanging up.
When you compare places that Google search data suggest have similar levels of abuse or neglect, you find that the less an area spends on social services for children, the lower its reported rates of child maltreatment. My research also shows that when a particular group's budget is reduced, it reports fewer cases of maltreatment. Cut resources for teachers, for example, and teachers report fewer of their suspicions.
THERE are four take-aways from this research. First, the maltreatment of children is yet another cost of the Great Recession, one that will be felt long after the economy fully recovers. The evidence from medical researchers and psychologists is overwhelming: as adults, victims of child abuse or neglect will face higher probabilities of mental illness and criminal behavior and lower probabilities of employment and stable family lives.
Second, we should be skeptical of statistics based on official reports of crime in general, not just child abuse or neglect. According to government surveys, between 2006 and 2010, throughout the United States, 52 percent of violent crimes, 60 percent of property crimes and 65 percent of rapes and sexual assaults were never reported to the police. When reported crime drops, it is always possible that this is a result not of a decline in crime itself but of factors that make it more difficult to report crime.
Consider, for example, Detroit. Its police department recently reported 20 percent reductions in some major crimes. Might this be because of dwindling police department resources? The average time it takes to get a response to an emergency call to the Detroit police is now 58 minutes, and many precincts have stopped taking crime reports in evening hours.
Third, Google search data can fill holes in our understanding of crime generally. If your iPad was stolen, whom would you be more likely to tell: the police or Google? Indeed, I have found that Google queries for ''stolen iPad'' and ''stolen iPod'' yield meaningful information about property crime rates. Searches like ''I was just raped'' and ''rape hot line'' might help us measure a city's true rape rate. (Here's a disturbing side note: Rape proves the most difficult to measure crime using Google data, but not because of women's historical reluctance to report rapes. The problem is that the majority of rape-related Google searches are typed in by people looking for pornography.)
Fourth, and most important, the contrast between the search data and the reported data tells a sad story about social services in this country. Just when more children are searching for help, we decimate the budgets of the very people who might actually do something to protect them.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH FROM J TO K) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: CHILD ABUSE (95%); RECESSION (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); CHILD WELFARE (91%); CHILD PROTECTIVE SERVICES (78%); CHILDREN (78%); STATISTICS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); FAMILY (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (67%); BUDGET CUTS (54%)

COMPANY: GOOGLE INC (84%)

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF PENNSYLVANIA (58%)

TICKER: GOOG (NASDAQ) (84%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEVADA, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



391 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Sunday Review Desk; OPINION; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1152 words

HEADLINE: Scrabbling Over Scrabble

BYLINE: By STEFAN FATSIS. 
The author of ''Word Freak: Heartbreak, Triumph, Genius and Obsession in the World of Competitive Scrabble Players.''

 BODY:
AFTER more than 25 years managing, marketing and refereeing the competitive side of America's most venerated word game, the National Scrabble Association has packed up its tiles and gone out of business.
Its demise doesn't reflect a lack of interest in Scrabble, which turns 65 this year. The game has never been more popular. More than a million people, from kids to hipsters to nonagenarians, play daily on Facebook. In May, nearly 200 students in fourth through eighth grades competed in the National School Scrabble Championship. On Saturday, more than 500 die-hards, myself included, will gather in Las Vegas for the National Scrabble Championship, a five-day, 31-game anagrammatic marathon.
Instead, the death of Scrabble's organizing body -- which closed on July 1 following years of declining financial support from Hasbro, the game's owner -- reflects a broader conflict between corporate and intellectual forces in American cultural life. 
Guess which one is winning. Played at its highest level, Scrabble is a strategic sibling of chess, backgammon and the Chinese game go. Top tournament players must master as many of the 178,000 acceptable 2- through 15-letter words as possible, ''see'' them among a jumble of letters, determine which maximize the chances of winning and consider an opponent's possible countermoves, all while a timer ticks from 25 minutes to zero for each player to make all plays.
Like those old games, competitive Scrabble is a math-brain exercise, one combining spatial relations, board geometry and language maximization. Unlike them, it is owned by a company, whose goal is to generate revenue through the sale of sets and spinoffs and downloads.
''You have to understand that we are in the games-making business. We are not in the altruism business,'' a marketing executive for Selchow & Righter, Scrabble's first corporate parent, said during a meeting with tournament players lobbying for support in 1985. But those words could just as easily have been spoken last week by an executive of Hasbro, which has owned the rights to Scrabble in the United States and Canada since 1989.
During the past quarter-century, Hasbro has spent millions of dollars financing the independent National Scrabble Association. The association organized national, world and school championships; booked the winners on the ''Today'' show and ''Jimmy Kimmel Live''; sanctioned more than 200 local tournaments a year; maintained a database of several thousand dues-paying players and calculated their tournament ratings; placed the game on ESPN for six straight years; published a newsletter; worked with Merriam-Webster on the official Scrabble dictionary (a fifth edition is in the works; get ready for ''gi,'' ''cuz,'' ''ixnay'' and more); and fielded inquiries ranging from disputatious living-room players seeking rules adjudications to a 1990s media blowup over the inclusion of the word ''jew'' in the lexicon.
Was that corporate money well spent? The publicity that the Scrabble association helped generate no doubt sold more than a few boards. But the group's performance could not and should not have been measured in such a reductive way.
Scrabble isn't a marketing or earnings-report star. It can't be hyped with an online vote resulting in a cat's replacing an iron, which Hasbro employed to juice sales of Monopoly. It doesn't rely on new cards that players need to buy to keep playing, like the Hasbro game Magic: The Gathering.
But as a game, Scrabble is remarkable. It carefully balances skill and luck and risk and reward. It exploits the breadth and beauty of the English language. It fosters mind-blowing creativity, heart-stopping tension and computer-stretching quantitative analysis.
Most people playing online or at the kitchen table aren't aware of Scrabble's complexity, let alone its tournament culture. Hasbro, obviously, is. The corporate question is whether it has a responsibility to both worlds, casual and competitive -- and whether that responsibility extends to times like these, when Hasbro has been laying off workers and focusing on top-selling products.
Corporations from Coca-Cola to the N.F.L. are caretakers of some slice of history. Usually that history is central to the business. To Hasbro, Scrabble isn't. But it is an enduring piece of Americana, developed in a garden apartment in Jackson Heights, Queens, by an unemployed architect named Alfred Butts who spent years perfecting his game before it swept the country in the 1950s. I have yet to find a parallel for it -- that is, a proprietary game with a subculture whose passion and sophistication transcend its ownership.
What's the value of that to a $4 billion corporation? Is it more or less than the $700,000 or $800,000 a year Hasbro spent on the National Scrabble Association at its peak -- before it stopped paying for club and tournament Scrabble in 2008 and slashed the budget for school and casual Scrabble to the point that the association decided to cease operations.
But forget about money. What's the value of something like Scrabble to the culture at large? Does its owner have an obligation to nurture each side of the game, whether or not it jibes with the prosaic nature of the toy industry or boosts profits? Do history and intellect matter?
I spoke recently with Hasbro's chief marketing officer, John Frascotti. He said the right things about Scrabble's past and its competitive side. Hasbro is ''committed to spending marketing dollars to promote the Scrabble brand and to promote Scrabble play,'' Mr. Frascotti said. He told me he believed the company could do what the Scrabble association did, at least for schools and casual players. ''Judge us as we act, not as we say,'' he said.
I promised to keep an open mind. But since I started playing competitively and reporting on Scrabble 15 years ago, I've shaken hands with a moving walkway of Hasbro executives, all of whom have pledged love for and commitment to the game. And then the cuts came. Hasbro recently withdrew its last, token contribution to the national championship: $15,000 in prize money.
The winner of the tournament in Las Vegas will still be paid $10,000. After the company pulled the plug on them in 2008, competitive players formed their own governing body, the North American Scrabble Players Association, and, thanks to higher dues and participation fees, the tournament circuit has kept humming. If Hasbro does the same with School Scrabble -- Mr. Frascotti said it wouldn't -- I'll help find a way for my 11-year-old daughter and other young devotees to compete for a title in an educational game that they adore.
Hasbro knows that we players will volunteer to do what it had paid others to do for it: support a culture that doesn't necessarily fit in an earnings-driven world of fad toys and movie tie-ins. Maybe that's smart business. But with ownership comes responsibility, and sometimes even a little altruism.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY SAM POTTS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOARD GAMES (91%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); REFEREES & UMPIRES (89%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); PARENT COMPANIES (78%); LOBBYING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (68%); BRAIN (64%)

COMPANY: HASBRO INC (86%); FACEBOOK INC (57%); MERRIAM-WEBSTER (50%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL SCRABBLE ASSOCIATION (84%)

TICKER: HAS (NASDAQ) (86%); FB (NASDAQ) (57%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS339930 DOLL, TOY & GAME MANUFACTURING (86%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (57%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NORTH AMERICA (79%); CANADA (52%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



392 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; EDITORIAL | NOTEBOOK; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 725 words

HEADLINE: Is Democracy Possible in Egypt?

BYLINE: By CAROL GIACOMO

 BODY:
Democracy sometimes requires you to accept leaders you don't like.
There is a poll on the Muslim Brotherhood's English language Web site that asks whether the group should participate in any future election in Egypt. The right answer is yes. But the Brotherhood may not get the chance. After overthrowing President Mohamed Morsi on July 3, the army has tried to crush the Brotherhood, making it hard to see how its members could be enticed to rejoin the political fray or, even if they could be, whether other Egyptian factions would let them compete.
Egypt is the largest and most important country in the Arab world. How it evolves politically and economically will have an enormous impact on stability in the Middle East and will serve as a template for other countries in the region. Euphoria over the Arab Spring and its potential for constructive change subsided long ago, but the alarming events of the past 10 days have raised serious questions about what democracy means and, in Washington at least, questions about whether it can take root in Egypt -- ever. 
It has been especially surprising to watch many Egyptians and Americans try to cast a military coup -- which is what the army executed when it deposed Mr. Morsi, detaining him and many of his Brotherhood allies -- as a democratic tool. The Obama administration, hoping to avoid a legally mandated cutoff of United States aid to Egypt, thus further inflaming anti-Americanism there, has used tortuous rhetoric to avoid calling a coup a coup, or even condemning it. So have many lawmakers and analysts who say the surest way to protect American interests in the Egypt-Israel peace treaty, the Suez Canal and Egypt's cooperation in countering terrorism is to work with the army, Egypt's most powerful institution.
A different but equally pragmatic case is made by Egyptian liberals, secularists and non-Islamists who bravely took to the streets to force the overthrow of President Hosni Mubarak in 2011, voted (in many cases) for Mr. Morsi, then turned against him. As Mr. Morsi proved increasingly eager to impose Islamic authoritarianism on the country, the opposition said it collected more than 20 million signatures on a petition demanding his removal (surpassing the 13 million votes Mr. Morsi won in the 2012 election ) and rallied millions of protesters. In their analysis, the army was simply honoring the people's will when it forced Mr. Morsi out. Some Egyptians say they will do that again if the next president also fails them.
The basic flaw in these arguments is that coups, forcible overthrows, whatever one calls them, do not provide a foundation for stability or sound representative government. And unlike Mr. Mubarak, Mr. Morsi was not an autocrat imposed by the army, but the country's first freely elected president. True, he was a disastrous leader. But as The Times has reported, remnants of Mr. Mubarak's old order worked hard to sabotage him. It would have been better if his opposition, including the protesters, had worked to defeat him at the ballot box.
Many Egyptians say they want a second chance to begin building a ''real democracy,'' with guaranteed equal rights for all and a separation of religion and politics. They deserve it. But it seems unlikely that the army, which has played a dominant role since 1952 and is now back in control, will help them reach that goal. In addition to appointing the leaders of a new interim government who may or may not have any real power, the generals have dictated a conservative, pro-military interim constitution and set a rushed timetable for elections.
Elections alone, of course, are not enough, as the Morsi debacle proved. Egypt is facing daunting economic and social problems, and it needs to find a consensus way forward to build the institutions -- judiciary, electoral system, schools -- that allow all citizens a say in civic life, protect against autocratic leaders, and adapt and endure over time. One American analyst, Walter Russell Mead, says the White House should ''purge all short- or even medium-term thoughts of promoting Egypt's transition to democracy.'' But that would only ensure that the newly empowered old order retains the upper hand. It remains distressingly unclear whether President Obama believes that promoting Egyptian democracy is a priority of American foreign policy. It should be.

GRAPHIC: PHOTO: Supporters of Mohamed Morsi, Egypt's former president, protesting in Cairo on July 10, a week after his ouster by the military. (PHOTOGRAPH BY HUSSEIN MALLA/ASSOCIATED PRESS) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Editorial

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); COUPS (89%); MUBARAK RESIGNATION (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); PEACE PROCESS (73%); RELIGION (73%); PETITIONS (72%); ARMED FORCES (71%); LIBERALISM (70%); CANALS & WATERWAYS (63%); TERRORISM (50%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); COUNTERTERRORISM (50%)

PERSON: MOHAMMED MORSI (89%); BARACK OBAMA (58%); HOSNI MUBARAK (57%)

GEOGRAPHIC: CAIRO, EGYPT (78%) EGYPT (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); ISRAEL (79%); MIDDLE EAST (79%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



393 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BU; Column 0; Money and Business/Financial Desk; ECONOMIC VIEW; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 990 words

HEADLINE: Owning A Home Isn't Always A Virtue

BYLINE: By ROBERT J. SHILLER. 
Robert J. Shiller is Sterling Professor of Economics at Yale.

 BODY:
ENCOURAGING homeownership has been considered a national goal at least since ''Own Your Own Home Day'' was introduced in 1920 by various business and civic groups as part of a National Thrift Week. The newly popular word ''homeownership'' represented a goal and a virtue for every good citizen -- to get out of the tenements and into one's own home. Homeownership was thought to encourage planning, discipline, permanency and community spirit.
In the aftermath of the subprime mortgage crisis, our national commitment to homeownership is sure to be questioned as we consider what to do about Fannie Mae and Freddie Mac, the enterprises that are meant to increase the supply of money available for mortgages and are now under government conservatorship; the Federal Housing Administration, which directly subsidizes homeownership; and the Federal Reserve's quantitative easing program, which was intended to lower interest rates. For both political and economic reasons, any or all of these encouragements for homeownership -- not to mention the mortgage interest deduction -- could be sharply curtailed. 
Which is why this is a good time to ask a basic question: In today's world, is it wise for the government to subsidize homeownership?
In answering it, we have to look at the big picture by considering all the presumed advantages of owning a home, including the encouragement of thrift that animated the founders of ''Own Your Own Home Day.''
Consider Switzerland, which by several accounts has had one of the lowest rates of homeownership in the developed world. In 2010, only 36.8 percent of Swiss homes housed an owner-occupant; in the United States that same year, the rate was 66.5 percent. Yet Switzerland is doing just fine, with a gross domestic product that is 4 percent higher, per capita, than that of the United States, according to 2011 figures produced at the University of Pennsylvania.
It's not that the Swiss inherently prefer renting. A 1996 survey asked a sample of Swiss whether, if they could freely choose, they would rather be homeowners or renters. Eighty-three percent said homeowners.
CERTAINLY, many of us have a basic drive to create our own habitats. We enjoy personalizing our living spaces, inside and out. But there are also important practical advantages to renting to consider -- especially when asking if government should support or discourage homeownership.
For example, renters are more mobile. That means they are more likely to accept jobs in another city, or even on the other side of a large metropolis. In addition, it's hardly wise to put all of one's life savings into a single, highly leveraged investment in a home -- as millions of underwater borrowers today can attest.
So why the difference in American and Swiss homeownership rates? According to a 2010 study, ''Why Do the Swiss Rent?'' by Steven C. Bourassa at the University of Louisville and Martin Hoesli at the University of Geneva, tax policy provides much of the explanation. For example, owner-occupants in Switzerland pay income tax on what is known as the imputed rent they derive from living in their own homes -- yes, they pay tax on the rent they could be charging themselves. This imputed rent is estimated by looking at market rents for similar properties.
In the United States, taxation of imputed rent was struck down by the Supreme Court in 1934. (Britain tried such a tax but abandoned it in 1963.) And, given the likely resistance to any new tax, it is highly unlikely that the idea could re-emerge anytime soon, however sensible it might be. But we do have the option of cutting back on government incentives to own rather than rent.
Beyond tax policy, we need to look at landlord-tenant law. Mr. Bourassa and Mr. Hoesli contend that Switzerland's law in this area is relatively attractive, compared with those of other countries. In the United States, it is administered by 50 separate states, so treatment of renters is confusing to national economic commentators. The law, of course, should offer congenial ways to resolve disputes between landlords and tenants. But it should also ensure that people's various concerns about renting -- about possible evictions and rent increases, for example, -- are handled well.
There was a revolution in American landlord-tenant law in the 1960s and '70s, focusing on the inequities facing minority groups. But since 1972, there has been no major update of the Uniform Residential Landlord and Tenant Act issued by the National Conference of Commissioners on Uniform State Laws. Perhaps there should be another revolution in this body of law, focused on making renting more rewarding to people of every background and income level.
Last week, it was good to see that one agenda item for the commissioners, meeting in Boston, was to discuss proposals to revise the law to make the rental process work better.
We should also remember that a goal of ''Own Your Own Home Day'' was to emphasize thrift. And it is still true today that most people don't save enough. In a 2011 paper, James M. Poterba of M.I.T., Steven F. Venti of Dartmouth and David A. Wise of Harvard showed that retirement saving in most American households was inadequate and that most households nearing retirement in 2008 had most of their wealth in home equity.
Many people don't save much unless a regular schedule of mortgage repayment, which builds home equity, enforces it. The 2011 paper argued that the home-equity portion of saving tends to be conserved until very late in life after retirement, thus providing insurance against the risk of living longer than expected.
THUS, encouraging homeownership in the past encouraged better saving plans. And yet the Swiss, without such encouragement, manage to have a high household saving rate. Our national policy needs to take away much of the enormous subsidy to homeownership -- but if and when it does so, it will have to find some other way to promote proper saving.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY TIM COOK) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); HOMEOWNERSHIP RATES (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); INTEREST RATES (75%); MORTGAGE LOANS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); SUBPRIME LENDING (70%); SUBPRIME MORTGAGES (70%); CREDIT CRISIS (70%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (69%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (68%)

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (84%); FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (70%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (84%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (84%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (84%)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); SWITZERLAND (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



394 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section ST; Column 0; Society Desk; CHARLOTTE WOOLLEY, BLOUNT STEWART; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 482 words

HEADLINE: A Senior and a Freshman, Bound by Song

BYLINE: By MARGAUX LASKEY

 BODY:
Charlotte Josephine Woolley and William Augustus Blount Stewart III were married Saturday at the Washington National Cathedral in Washington. Bishop Eugene Taylor Sutton of the Episcopal Diocese of Maryland performed the ceremony. 
The bride, 26, is a soprano in Washington. In June, she sang the role of Ida in two performances of ''Die Fledermaus'' with the Bel Cantanti opera company in Washington. She is also a voice teacher at St. Albans School and the National Cathedral School in Washington, and at Episcopal High School in Alexandria, Va. She graduated from Southern Methodist University and received a master's in vocal performance from the University of Miami.
She is a daughter of Linda Anzalone Woolley and George A. Woolley of Chevy Chase, Md. Her father retired as an insurance analyst in Washington for Geico. Her mother is the chief executive and president of the Direct Marketing Association in New York.
The groom, 23, goes by Blount. He is a consultant with Criterion Economics, an intellectual property and antitrust law consultancy in Washington. He graduated from Columbia.
He is the son of Anna Crettier Stewart and Mr. Stewart II of Washington. The groom's father works in Washington as an export licensing manager for United Technologies Corporation in Hartford.
The couple met as choristers at the National Cathedral in 1998. She was in the seventh grade at the National Cathedral School, and he was in the fourth grade at St. Albans.
''I thought he was a very cute, polite little kid,'' Ms. Woolley said.
It was not until the fall of 2004, when she was a senior and he was a freshman, that they got to know each other better. They sang in the madrigals group, made up of students from their schools, and became close friends. They debated the musical merits of, say, an Episcopal hymn (too atonal or modern?) or what instrument was more appropriate (piano or violin?). Ms. Woolley introduced Mr. Stewart, a die-hard classical fan, to rock.
She recalled being impressed by his maturity and manners.
''He was very polite and ethical, which I appreciated a lot,'' she said. ''The typical prep school guy is always after the girl. Blount wasn't really like that. He seemed more refined.''
During a school chorus trip to Houston in the spring of 2005, they spent more time together, and she began to think of him t as something more than a friend. Shortly after their return, she invited him to her senior prom.
They said their three-year age difference, a big deal in high school, was fodder for gossip but did not bother them. They both say they knew by the end of their first summer together that they were in love and would eventually marry.
''I thought about it, but I let it roll off of my back,'' said Mr. Stewart, whose first and only girlfriend was Ms. Woolley. ''It was what it was. It was weird and different, but nobody could take it away from me or her.'' MARGAUX LASKEY

GRAPHIC: PHOTO (PHOTOGRAPH BY MATT MENDELSOHN) GRAPHIC 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: WEDDINGS & ENGAGEMENTS (91%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); FAITH BASED SCHOOLS (90%); MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS (89%); HIGH SCHOOLS (89%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (78%); RELIGION (78%); KEYBOARD INSTRUMENTS (77%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (77%); OPERA (77%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (76%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (76%); EXECUTIVES (73%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (67%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (67%); EXPORT CONTROLS (67%); CONSULTING SERVICES (67%); DIRECT MARKETING (53%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (52%); EXPORT TRADE (51%)

COMPANY: UNITED TECHNOLOGIES CORP (68%); GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES INSURANCE CO (56%)

ORGANIZATION: SOUTHERN METHODIST UNIVERSITY (57%); DIRECT MARKETING ASSOCIATION (56%)

TICKER: UTX (NYSE) (68%)

INDUSTRY: NAICS336412 AIRCRAFT ENGINE & ENGINE PARTS MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333921 ELEVATOR & MOVING STAIRWAY MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS333415 AIR-CONDITIONING & WARM AIR HEATING EQUIPMENT & COMMERCIAL & INDUSTRIAL REFRIGERATION EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (68%); NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (56%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (56%)

GEOGRAPHIC: MARYLAND, USA (91%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); VIRGINIA, USA (77%); FLORIDA, USA (76%) UNITED STATES (91%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



395 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section AR; Column 0; Arts and Leisure Desk; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 1987 words

HEADLINE: Lionized, but Restless as Ever

BYLINE: By BEN SISARIO

 BODY:
The composer and saxophonist John Zorn was easy to spot in the atrium of the Guggenheim Museum one evening last month. As chatty patrons filed in for a performance of his work, Mr. Zorn -- for decades the most prolific and polarizing figure in New York's downtown scene -- sat silently in a T-shirt and camouflage combat pants, gazing up at the otherworldly light installation by the artist James Turrell.
The concert was part of Zorn@60, a worldwide festival marking his 60th birthday. The festival, which continues this week at the Lincoln Center Festival and throughout September at uptown temples of high culture like the Metropolitan Museum of Art, celebrates Mr. Zorn as a major American composer whose work crosses just about every stylistic boundary imaginable: jazz, classical, klezmer; from caustically noisy to sweetly lyrical. But at the Guggenheim he was quick to correct any impression, real or imagined, that he was being ''rubber stamped'' by the cultural powers that be. The concerts, he said, came about only because of his long relationships with supportive presenters.
''Let's get this straight,'' he said in an interview. ''Individuals are bringing me in, not institutions.'' 
If anything can define Mr. Zorn and his work, it is his stance as a defiant outsider -- even upon his big moment of insider acceptance. At nearly 60 (his birthday is Sept. 2), he has built a singularly influential career on his own terms, acting as a kind of all-purpose impresario of the avant-garde while creating a vast body of work that is growing faster than ever. In the last three years, he has released more than 30 albums of original work, all on his own label.
''What happens when you get to the age of 60,'' Mr. Zorn said, ''is that you have no more doubts. I know why I'm here on this planet. I know what I need to do. I know what is a distraction and what isn't.''
The Guggenheim concert featured two sinuously beautiful works for female vocals, with mystical texts and echoes of 14th-century polyphony -- a long way, it would seem, from the manic hybrids of jazz, thrash and B-movie soundtracks that brought Mr. Zorn to fame in the 1980s, on albums like ''The Big Gundown'' and ''Spillane,'' and with his band Naked City.
Since then, his CD stack of Babel has only towered higher. George E. Lewis, a professor of music at Columbia University and a trombonist who has played with him in the past, said that this ''extreme openness to new ideas'' linked Mr. Zorn to both the jazz avant-garde and to John Cage.
''What's interesting about John is the way he has managed to confound ideas about genre and tradition in a very truthful way that opened things up for a lot of younger people,'' Mr. Lewis said. ''The early jazz musicians would always tell you that you should listen to everything. John took that about as literally as can be.''
Yet that extreme openness means that Mr. Zorn's music has never fit into any category, and despite honors like a MacArthur Foundation grant, he has remained somewhat on the margins of several musical worlds. Each new undertaking has drawn a pool of skeptical commentators, with jazz critics particularly scandalized over the years by albums like ''Spy vs. Spy'' (1990), which featured Ornette Coleman pieces played with the frantic intensity of hardcore punk.
''Even very early on, John set himself as an outsider, as someone making a comment on jazz,'' said Howard Mandel, a critic and the author of ''Future Jazz.'' ''On the other hand, he is definitely coming out of a jazz background. There is no tradition of what he is doing with the saxophone in any kind of classical music.''
The Zorn@60 festival displays some of Mr. Zorn's variety. The two Lincoln Center concerts this week feature a cappella works and a survey of his six string quartets. Miller Theater at Columbia University will present three classical concerts and a fourth of the improvisational ''games'' he began leading in the late '70s. In a pair of Zornathons, 12 groups will survey his jazz-meets-klezmer project Masada at the N.Y.U. Skirball Center, and the Met will host a day of performances in 12 galleries. And there's more.
To maintain such an output, Mr. Zorn has adopted a discipline that few could muster or tolerate. He lives alone in the same East Village apartment where he has lived since 1977 -- with what is by all accounts a gigantically ecumenical record collection -- and works constantly, eliminating distractions like magazines, television or, sometimes, people.
''I have made extreme sacrifices to continue doing what I do,'' Mr. Zorn said. ''Anything that gets in the way of my focus to create gets cut out of my life. It's not easy. Sometimes it's family. Sometimes it's friends. Sometimes it's the ability to have a relationship.''
Along the way his popular image has been set as a kind of cantankerous musical bad boy, which Mr. Zorn dismisses as caricature by a lazy music press -- although he has fed the fire with the occasional sharp-tongued remark and song titles like ''Perfume of a Critic's Burning Flesh.''
In conversation Mr. Zorn is every bit as intense and opinionated as his reputation suggests, yet also disarmingly open and personal. He may have even mellowed (slightly). For nearly three hours after the Guggenheim concert, he sat on a low concrete wall outside the museum and eagerly discussed his music and influences, his childhood, the role of the artist in society and his uneasy relationship with the press.
''People are not going to understand what I'm doing until I'm dead,'' he said. ''Ultimately people in the academy and people on your side of the fence'' -- critics and journalists -- ''are most happy when their subjects are dead, because they're not going to turn around and do something that proves that you were wrong.''
Again and again, he returned to the subject of collaboration. For years he has relied on a trusted circle of musicians, who are both interpreters and close friends, and they describe him as an instigator of creativity and everything else. ''He was always composing,'' said the guitarist Marc Ribot. ''He would compose groups of people to go out for dim sum.''
The performance artist Laurie Anderson, who has known Mr. Zorn since the 1970s, said that he taught her how to improvise a few years ago when he suggested doing a live show with no script at all.
''That sounded close to one of the worst ideas I'd ever heard,'' Ms. Anderson recalled. ''What key is it in? Who plays the first note? But the first time we played, it made so much sense. It was so freeing, and it really changed my approach to music.''
As Mr. Zorn sees it, collaboration is essential to composition itself.
''I don't ascribe to the idea of the ivory tower composer who sits alone in a room composing his masterpieces and then comes down from Mount Sinai with the tablets,'' he said, in the emphatic tone that makes everything he says seem both a heartfelt exhortation and a game-winning point in a debate. ''It doesn't work like that. The job of a composer is putting something down on a piece of paper that will inspire the person who's playing.''
To publicize his and others' music, Mr. Zorn has developed a completely independent apparatus. His label, Tzadik, has released more than 600 albums since 1995 (about 150 of them featuring his own music), and in 2005 he founded the Stone, a tiny club in the East Village where musicians share the booking duties and keep 100 percent of the door receipts.
Endeavors like these are sustained through extreme efficiency and a bit of charity. Mr. Zorn's music income goes to a nonprofit, Hips Road, which in turn helps to finance projects (and cover losses) at Tzadik and the Stone; he said that he pays himself a subsistence salary.
Mr. Ribot said that by keeping recording sessions tightly economical, Mr. Zorn could afford to pay top musicians a market rate. ''He has brilliant ways of making what he wants to happen, happen,'' he said.
Two days after the Guggenheim concert, Mr. Zorn met me in Washington Square Park to deliver a sackful of CD's, including ''Interzone,'' a dense genre-hopping tribute to William S. Burroughs; ''The Gnostic Preludes,'' gorgeously pure meditations for guitar, harp and vibraphone; and the brooding, screaming rock of ''Templars: In Sacred Blood'' -- just a smattering of his recent work.
Moments after he sat down, a stranger approached Mr. Zorn and asked why he wore the tzitzit -- prayer tassels that some Jews wear hanging out of their clothing (in Mr. Zorn's case, over the camouflage pants) -- but not a yarmulke. Mr. Zorn gave two answers: that only the tzitzit is mentioned in the Torah, and that ''one makes me feel good, the other doesn't.'' The man left looking unsatisfied, and Mr. Zorn threw up his hands.
''This is a metaphor for my entire life -- my entire musical output!'' he exclaimed. ''I don't know this guy. I'm just being who I am. But just my existence is disturbing to some people.''
He may balk at the idea that he is a mere provocateur, but Mr. Zorn proudly pushes every boundary he can. Masada, which he began in the early 1990s, was an attempt to explore his own roots and expand the idea of Jewish music through a ''songbook'' that linked the language of klezmer and jazz. The music, and the all-star combo he formed to play the pieces -- Dave Douglas on trumpet, Greg Cohen on bass, Joey Baron on drums and Mr. Zorn on alto sax -- widened his audience and is still one of Mr. Zorn's biggest ''hits.'' But some writers dismissed it as radical identity politics.
Reflecting on his career, Mr. Zorn said that his brash early days were marked by a ''messianic'' zeal to stand out from the pack. That urge has waned even if the drive to create is as strong as ever -- some of his most powerful recent pieces are also his most delicate and tranquil, exploring mysticism and spirituality.
The Masada pieces were a bridge here. The first set of those tunes were written under strict self-imposed compositional guidelines: Every melody must fit on one music staff, every tune on one page. But when he revisited Masada a decade later, he said, he had found ''the courage to write a pretty melody,'' and more than 300 songs poured out in the space of a few months.
''I used to look at composing music as problem solving,'' he said. ''But as I get older, it's not about problem solving anymore. There are no solutions, because there are no problems. You just turn the tap and it flows out.''
To some extent, the world has also caught up with him. The extreme eclecticism of Mr. Zorn's 1980s work anticipated the shuffle-mode aesthetics of the last decade, and with most musicians now independent by default, his sense of career self-determinism has become the norm. New York's musical center of gravity has shifted to Brooklyn, yet his influence is strongly felt among younger musicians.
''The way he deals with the issue of style is very empowering for a musician,'' said Bryce Dessner, a Yale-trained classical guitarist who also plays in the indie-rock band the National. ''It's so broad in what can be done, and it all fits into a world called John Zorn.''
I asked Mr. Zorn if he thought there could ever be another like him. After all, the New York music world that he came up in was geographically and stylistically compressed, with firm boundaries between genres and audiences. Now it is nearly impossible to put a finger on what -- or exactly where -- New York music is.
''I feel like there will be many more,'' he said after a moment. ''This is a new way of making music -- not just focusing on being a specialist, but having friends and connections all over the place. People are coming out of conservatories wanting to improvise. They want to play in a club. They want to make some horrible noise.''
''There's only one John Zorn,'' he added. ''But what I represent, I think there are going to be more people like that, just because it's such a rich, exciting, loving, creative life.''

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The composer John Zorn in Central Park. As he turns 60, he is being lauded in a sprawling festival. (AR1)
John Zorn at the Temple of Dendur at the Metropolitan Museum of Art, which will honor him on Sept. 28 with performances there and in 11 other galleries. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY CHAD BATKA FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES)
Clockwise from top, Mr. Zorn performing with Laurie Anderson, left, and Lou Reed, right, at Japan Society in 2011
in his East Village apartment in 1998
at the Bimhuis in Amsterdam in 1987
and with fellow members of Masada, from left, Dave Douglas, Kenny Wolleson and Greg Cohen (standing) at Miller Theater in 2001. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY KARSTEN MORAN FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES
TOM LEGOFF
FRANS SCHELLEKENS/REDFERNS
 HIROYUKI ITO FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (AR18) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: FESTIVALS (90%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (90%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (90%); JAZZ & BLUES (89%); WIND INSTRUMENTS (89%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (78%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (78%); MUSIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (76%); MOVIE SOUNDTRACKS (63%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%)

ORGANIZATION: METROPOLITAN MUSEUM OF ART (83%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, USA (90%) UNITED STATES (90%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



396 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section SR; Column 0; Editorial Desk; LETTERS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1480 words

HEADLINE: Sunday Dialogue: Athletics and Academics

 BODY:
Should the top teams walk away from the N.C.A.A.?
To the Editor:
Big-time college sports is a big success. The ''money sports'' of football and men's basketball have athletes who are talented beyond belief. TV networks broadcast National Collegiate Athletic Association championship games played before sellout crowds. Some head coaches get annual compensation ranging from $1 million to $5 million.
These conferences and their universities represent the ''1 percent'' -- that elite group of college sports programs that have become rich, powerful and successful. So why don't they just walk away from the N.C.A.A.?
They are sufficiently strong to stand alone, to play within their own ranks. They would be free from annoying N.C.A.A. investigations. Best of all, they could keep their income instead of having to abide by the N.C.A.A.'s revenue-sharing program, which subsidizes hundreds of college athletics programs that have little appeal for national advertisers or television audiences. 
I hope that the 1 percent who are threatening to leave the N.C.A.A. do leave. It might prompt those athletic directors, presidents and boards to appreciate their traditional privileges, which would be jeopardized if they left. For example, their basketball programs would be excluded from the N.C.A.A. Road to the Final Four televised tournament.
There's another curse of bigness: when they set themselves apart from most educational institutions, their athletic scandals attract even more media coverage. Just ask the presidents and trustees at Penn State, Rutgers and Ohio State if you doubt that big sports can also be a big headache for institutional reputation.
Meanwhile, the hundreds of left-out colleges and their conferences would have to go back to basics and rethink their sports programs on their own without benefit of N.C.A.A. subsidies from big-time programs. The ambition and affluence of the 1 percent just might stimulate a New Deal for academics and athletics at all levels.
JOHN THELIN Lexington, Ky., July 8, 2013
The writer is a professor of education at the University of Kentucky, a member of the N.C.A.A. Research Advisory Board from 2008 to 2010, and the author of ''Games Colleges Play.''
Readers React
Many of the problems that occur in ''big time'' athletics could be solved by using the Ivy League model: No athletic scholarships. Athletes would be held to the same academic standards as other incoming students, and aid would be need-based only.
This would weed out athletes whose goal is a professional career and not a degree and force the National Football League and the National Basketball Association to create their own farm system instead of the one they have now courtesy of college and university athletic programs.
The ''one and done'' athletes (who stay in school one year before entering the N.B.A. as per N.B.A. rules) could go directly to the N.B.A., and football players (who usually need more time to develop physically than basketball players) could play in a developmental league until they were ready for the N.F.L. Colleges and universities could go back to their original function of being institutions of higher learning.
Would college football and basketball be less exciting? Perhaps, but as Mr. Thelin points out, just ask the presidents and trustees at Penn State, Rutgers and Ohio State if they would rather have less excitement than the headaches that come with running multimillion-dollar athletic departments.
Better yet, ask Princeton and Harvard how they feel about not having those headaches.
PAMELA MASON Lawrenceville, N.J., July 10, 2013
Why don't the 1 percent walk away? Because the N.C.A.A. gives them ''credibility,'' a seal of approval, with only occasional investigations, usually triggered by others. Why don't the 99 percent walk away? Because they hold themselves up to the 1 percent model, which venerates and separates the athlete from the scholar in all aspects of college life.
Remember the college president who was asked whether the football coach was afraid that the president would fire him? He answered, ''I hope he doesn't fire me.'' The academic world has become that skewed.
HANSON REYNOLDS Boston, July 10, 2013
The N.C.A.A. and college sports programs should remain together both for their own good and that of our communities. One of the reasons for the N.C.A.A.'s success both at managing sports and expanding its programs and popularity is its comprehensive approach to oversight, including large schools, which Professor Thelin calls the 1 percent, as well as small colleges.
This great diversity has led to some of the most memorable N.C.A.A. moments. What sports fan does not remember Appalachian State's football victory over Michigan or does not look for the ''Cinderella'' every March? Creating different associations or organizations would help neither the 1 percent nor the 99 percent, as it is their interaction that creates excitement.
Keeping all of these schools tied together in the N.C.A.A. also advances larger societal goals of teaching values through sports. This includes not only those we traditionally associate with sports (teamwork, hard work, practice and planning) but also the idea that despite our great diversity and the great difference in wealth and resources, we can work together in a self-organized and self-regulated way.
GREGORY R. WITKOWSKI Berlin, July 10, 2013
The writer is a historian and an associate professor at the Indiana University Lilly Family School of Philanthropy.
While I generally agree with Professor Thelin's argument, I must take issue with the notion that other schools are subsidized by the 1 percent. Rutgers, for instance, has sunk an enormous amount of money into football in recent years, including stadium expansion, even as academic budgets were slashed.
As Yahoo!Sports has reported, bowl games regularly fleece attending schools. They force them to pay for tickets they cannot sell and pay sponsors exorbitant rates for travel and hotel rooms. Postseason basketball is a racket on a smaller scale. Advertisers profit. TV networks profit. Bowl officials profit. Coaches and athletic directors at the biggest schools certainly profit. But I doubt that any school is truly better off for hosting big-time sports.
DAVID DYTE Brooklyn, July 10, 2013
I thoroughly agree with the writer's perspective. The concept of ''student athlete'' is a myth, so far as I have observed. Furthermore, it seems to me that all the stakeholders at the 1 percent schools benefit handsomely from the economics of major sports, except the players. It's time to compensate college athletes, who are responsible for filling all those stadiums with well-heeled fans.
The current system seems to be a microcosm of our society, where those at the top of the food chain benefit at the expense of the working middle class.
TED NICHOLS Leola, Pa., July 10, 2013
Mr. Thelin is correct in noting that by abandoning the N.C.A.A., schools from power conferences would no longer have to share revenue and essentially subsidize athletic programs at hundreds of other colleges and universities.
But one reason leaders of big-time sports powers may be reluctant to support such a shift is that it could move athletic programs one step closer to losing their nonprofit status -- a possibility that Congress has considered in the past.
For some it is increasingly more difficult to make the case that college sports is clearly aligned with educational missions, and such a transparent money grab might lead to greater demand that major athletic powers pay taxes on athletics-related revenue.
ROBERT MALEKOFF Greensboro, N.C., July 10, 2013
The writer is an associate professor and chairman of the sport studies department at Guilford College.
The Writer Responds
Professor Witkowski echoes the way the N.C.A.A. hopes the public will see college sports. It's inspired but countered by the other letters. If the N.C.A.A. holds college sports together, it will be because of its commercial rather than educational role. Mr. Reynolds explains this well in his characterization of the alliance of the 1 percent and the 99 percent.
Mr. Dyte is correct to criticize my failure to note that sports subsidies come from within universities, not just from conferences. One reason Rutgers and Maryland joined the Big Ten is to acquire conference revenues to reduce the internal transfers used to bail out football programs that lose money.
Ms. Mason's praise for the Ivy League is appealing because it is a model that can integrate excellence in academics and athletics. It's also expensive and difficult to maintain. Mr. Nichols's observation about exploitation of student athletes signals a contentious issue that is not going to fade away.
These letters were thoughtful and enhanced my original letter. I was surprised that there were no letters from college or university presidents.
JOHN THELIN Lexington, Ky., July 11, 2013

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY ALEXANDER GLANDIEN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Letter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY SPORTS (94%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION (90%); COLLEGIATE SPORTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (89%); BASKETBALL (89%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (78%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (78%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (78%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (78%); WRITERS (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (77%); TOURNAMENTS (76%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (73%); INVESTIGATIONS (73%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (73%)

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COLLEGIATE ATHLETIC ASSOCIATION (92%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LEXINGTON, KY, USA (72%) KENTUCKY, USA (92%); OHIO, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



397 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; IT'S THE ECONOMY; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1281 words

HEADLINE: The Least-Bad Bet

BYLINE: By ADAM DAVIDSON. 
Adam Davidson is co-founder of NPR's ''Planet Money,'' a podcast and blog.

 BODY:
As I walked down the main drag in Ellenville, N.Y., a small town about halfway between Manhattan and Albany, I noticed that if you turn your head at the proper angle, at the right time of day, at just the right intersection, the future doesn't seem so scary. Right where Hermance Street runs into Canal, there's the Shadowland Theater, a beautifully restored vaudeville house that abuts Aroma Thyme Bistro, which has four stars on Yelp. Off in the distance is the lush Witch's Hole State Forest and the valley around Rondout Creek.
But if you lower your gaze a little or look just over your shoulder, another reality sets in fast. Canal Street is littered with abandoned storefronts. One block over, almost all the shops were torn down in a federal urban-renewal project. And because nothing ever replaced them, all you see are a lot of empty parking lots without much worth visiting. ''There's plenty of parking,'' Mary Sheeley, the village manager, told me. 
Like many small towns in New York's borscht belt, Ellenville was fairly prosperous throughout the 20th century. The town had a factory for Channel Master, a leader in TV antennas, and the Nevele, a classic Catskills resort. These days, though, nearly half of Ellenville's adults don't work. Channel Master closed in the 1980s. Imperial Schrade Cutlery, which took over the factory, closed in 2004. The Nevele also closed that decade. The average income in town is now just over $19,000 a year.
But Ellenville just got some hope. Last month, the New York State Legislature and Gov. Andrew M. Cuomo agreed on a deal to give the town a shot at one of the state's four new proposed casinos. (A referendum is expected to be held in November.) As I was walking up Center Street, I couldn't help wondering if this town had what it took to host a casino. Or if a casino could really persuade people to spend their money in Ellenville and turn around its moribund economy. But Michael Treanor, the current owner of the Nevele, who runs the company that is hoping to get the state's gaming license, told me that that wasn't the right way to look at it. ''Our ability to do business is based upon a scarcity of casinos,'' he told me. If the state allowed a dozen casinos to break ground, Ellenville would be toast. ''We would never be able to build something luxurious enough to draw people,'' he said. With only four casinos spread out over the entire state, though, whoever got a license could thrive.
Whatever you think of gambling, its regulations are mesmerizing. Gambling is outlawed in one way or another in all 50 states, but almost all -- except Hawaii (surprisingly) and Utah (less so) -- have exceptions. Most offer state-run lotteries. Thirty allow Indian casinos. Seventeen have full-scale non-Indian casinos (New York and Massachusetts are poised to join that group.) In each case, government officials limit the number of casinos and determine where they will be located.
Economically speaking, these anticasino regulations are the single greatest profit generator for casino operators. By limiting the number and location, and therefore artificially keeping the market underserved, governments essentially guarantee outsize profits for those in business. (The New York City Taxi and Limousine Commission, which limits cab licenses, ensures a similar regulatory oligopoly, as do many state liquor-distribution regulators.) If there were unlimited licenses, each casino operator would have to compete -- like every restaurant or movie theater -- with all the others. There might be some large resortlike casinos, along with boutique outfits catering to different sorts of markets; many would have to spend more upgrading their rooms; others would invest in more affordable high-end dining, and so forth. But all of them would have to compete harder to find a profitable niche, and, like pretty much all other businesses, some would fail in the process. Limited licenses, however, enable casino operators to profit without having to look over their shoulders. They also give operators the incentive to build the largest operations they possibly can. The big, sprawling, gaudy casinos that we've become accustomed to are less a response to what consumers want than they are to the unrivaled opportunity afforded by regulations.
Given the fact that casinos don't really operate in the free market, it's hard to discern whether or not these sprawling places actually benefit their surrounding areas, even depressed ones like Ellenville. Pro-gambling groups often cite data showing that casinos can revitalize broken economies and bring a fortune in tax revenue to the state. Antigambling groups argue that casinos turn communities into the stuff of country-music songs -- rife with broken homes, car accidents and prostitution -- and make them less desirable.
Chad Cotti, an economist at the University of Connecticut, who has studied the effects of legalizing gambling in numerous counties, found that both sides overstate their cases. Cotti told me about two significant observations he made from his data. When a casino was built in a rural area with little employment, there would usually be a sudden spike in jobs, partly because casinos tend to have more workers per guest than other forms of recreation, like movie theaters or ball parks. But those jobs were unlikely to lead to ancillary businesses that could lift the prospects of the greater economy. At the same time, placing casinos in remote areas seemed to increase the number of fatal car crashes. ''It's not that people drink more at casinos,'' he said. ''It's that the miles driven after drinking is so much higher.'' These two effects -- more jobs and more crashes -- create something of an economic riddle. To lower instances of drunken driving, it would make sense to put casinos closer to dense population centers. But casinos in big cities have no noticeable impact on overall employment. They don't add jobs, they just switch around the jobs that already exist.
The economic prospects of Ellenville, like much of 21st-century upstate New York, have for a long time been dependent on decisions made in Albany and New York City. Catskills resorts survived so long as people from New York City decided to vacation near home. When summer camps for children and cheap airfare for adults provided other options, most resorts collapsed. Over the past 20 years, many city residents have bought homes in the area, but that may have hurt the working class more than it has helped. It has raised real estate prices significantly without providing an influx of tourism-related jobs. Catskills towns have remarkably few high-end restaurants and other businesses, like boutique shops, that could transfer money from weekenders to permanent residents.
There are signs of support for the casino proposal almost everywhere in Ellenville. All this excitement, during my visit, struck me as rather poignant. The Nevele's developers project 1,600 new jobs once the casino is running, in around 2016. That would represent around 1 percent of the work force of Ulster County. And unlike a new factory, which can encourage subsidiary investment from suppliers, an isolated casino, Cotti's research has shown, has virtually no multiplier effect. There just isn't a Plan B. I asked Sheeley, the village manager, what other plans Ellenville's leadership has to help the local economy if the gaming-board application falls through. Sheeley shook her head. ''Don't ask me about that,'' she said.
Deep thoughts this week:
1. The casino business has little to do with the free market.
2. It's not a job-creation machine, either.
3. But it might be the only shot for towns that have run out of options.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING (DRAWING BY JASPER RIETMAN) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GAMING (85%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); MOUNTAINS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); LICENSES & PERMITS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); CUTLERY & FLATWARE MFG (71%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (71%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); RETAILERS (69%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (68%); PLANT CLOSINGS (66%); REFERENDUMS (50%)

PERSON: ANDREW CUOMO (58%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (90%); ALBANY, NY, USA (90%) NEW YORK, USA (92%); HAWAII, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



398 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section MM; Column 0; Magazine Desk; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 4847 words

HEADLINE: Peace in Gangland

BYLINE: By JOHN BUNTIN

 BODY:
I first met Cynthia Mendenhall two hours before the funeral of her nephew, Frank Evans Jr. We were seated in the booth of a Denny's on the edge of Watts, eight miles south of downtown Los Angeles. I expressed my condolences. She received them with a nod. Her sister-in-law, she said, was taking it hard. In fact, she nearly refused to come to the funeral. Even though it had been almost two weeks since Frank was shot, she still couldn't accept that he was dead.
Mendenhall could. A 51-year-old mother of four, she had lost two sons to gang warfare in Watts, something she knew well. During the 1980s, Mendenhall was a high-ranking member of the PJ Crips, one of the oldest Crips gangs in Watts. We sat down at a booth, and Mendenhall began to talk.
''Frank was a free spirit, an African-American white boy, a hippie,'' she said. ''He thought he could go anywhere.'' Frank, who was nicknamed ''Peace,'' was wrong about that. 
Gangs in Los Angeles don't fly their colors the way they used to, but the rivalries persist. In the 1980s, members of the two dominant gangs, the Crips and the Bloods, flaunted their affiliation by dressing in blue (Crips) or red (Bloods), even though doing so made them targets. Today, computer databases, gang injunctions and enhanced criminal sanctions for gang-related crime have driven such obvious, outward expressions of gang affiliation underground. Gang members now wear their colors mainly on YouTube (where they conceal their identities with bandannas) or on special occasions. As a result, a blue or red shirt no longer signifies gang membership in the way that it used to. At least, it's not supposed to. But when Evans stepped out of a friend's house wearing blue in a part of South Los Angeles controlled by the Swan Bloods, a member of the gang pedaling past took offense and opened fire on him.
''Now they just found out they shot the wrong person,'' Mendenhall said. ''They say, 'Oh, my God, we did not know who he was.' '' Meaning: they didn't know about me. Mendenhall is better known in South Los Angeles as Sista Soulja, a name earned in the 1980s when Watts was practically a war zone. (Mendenhall is not to be confused with Sister Souljah, the rapper Bill Clinton made famous on the 1992 campaign trail.)
The code of the streets is clear: You kill one of mine, I'll kill one of yours. But things have changed in South L.A., somewhat. When Mendenhall's cellphone rings a half-hour into breakfast, it's not a PJ Crip calling to plan a counterattack; rather, it's her favorite police officer, Sgt. Anthony Cato, who grew up near Watts. He's calling to talk about arrangements for the funeral and the three repasts that will follow it, each of which is occurring in a different part of the city so that mourners from rival gangs won't have to cross into each other's territories.
''O.K., O.K., listen to me,'' Mendenhall tells him. She then reviews where she wants Cato to deploy his officers -- these intersections, this many cars, this close to the church where the service is taking place. She even specifies their gear (''soft tactical,'' meaning short-sleeve shirts and a more casual look). The goal is to provide enough of a law-enforcement presence to prevent a drive-by shooting -- funerals make for tempting targets -- without angering family members by overwhelming the occasion with police officers. Satisfied, Mendenhall tells Cato she'll see him that afternoon at the repast at Imperial Courts, a 498-unit public-housing project that has long been the PJ Crips' home base. The Los Angeles Police Department, which for most of Mendenhall's life has been the enemy, was now working with her -- almost for her -- to ensure the day was a nonviolent one.
Since 1994, violent crime in the United States has fallen by more than 40 percent. By all accounts, police departments today are more professional, less corrupt and more effective than they were 30 years ago. Yet, for a variety of reasons, minority perceptions of the police have not improved. A 2009 Pew Research Center study found that just 14 percent of African-Americans had a great deal of confidence in the proposition that their local police officers treated blacks and whites equally, compared with 38 percent of whites who thought so.
''The communities that need police protection the most, trust police the least,'' John Laub, the former head of the National Institute of Justice, says. ''Bridging that divide is the most urgent task for American policing today.'' Even the most successful police departments struggle with the perception of racial bias. For example, over the past 20 years, violent crime in New York City has fallen by 80 percent, twice the rate of decline of the nation as a whole. According to the New York police commissioner, Raymond Kelly, and Mayor Michael Bloomberg, one way the department has driven crime down is by stopping and questioning (and sometimes frisking) large numbers of people in high-crime areas, thus deterring people from carrying weapons. In 2012, the New York Police Department conducted almost as many stops of black youths as there are black youths in the city, recovering 729 guns in the process.
Nearly 60 percent of white New Yorkers approve of the tactic. Less than a quarter of black New Yorkers share that opinion. Many perceive it as racial profiling, an interpretation bolstered by recent police testimony in a lawsuit filed against the city over the practice. This perception has real-world consequences, says David M. Kennedy, a criminologist at the John Jay College of Criminal Justice. In high-crime neighborhoods across the country, community cooperation with police investigations has virtually stopped. It's not simply that residents are afraid of retaliation, Kennedy says. ''There is a strong and growing norm in many communities, especially poor black communities, that good people don't talk to and don't work with the police,'' he says. So even while the sheer number of murders in most cities is dropping, the homicide clearance rate -- the proportion of cases solved -- is doing the same.
Cities grappling with gang violence have long feared one outcome above all others: becoming Los Angeles, and more specifically, Watts. Nowhere were police relations with the black community worse.
The way the L.A.P.D. conducted itself in South Los Angeles ''wasn't policing, it was anti-insurgency run amok,'' says the journalist and historian Joe Domanick. ''Sheer brutality, suppression and force -- those were the only things the L.A.P.D. thought people in South L.A. understood, and those were the only things the L.A.P.D. itself understood.'' The rise of the Crips and the Bloods in the 1970s only strengthened that sentiment. Watts, with the highest concentration of public housing west of the Mississippi, the fourth-highest concentration of poverty in the city of Los Angeles and a long history of police-community conflict, presented the problem of gang violence and ''black-blue'' antagonism in its most extreme form.
But Watts and the Los Angeles Police Department have each undergone a remarkable transformation. Over the past two years, violent crime in Watts's public-housing projects has fallen by more than 60 percent. Drive-by shootings, once a mainstay of gang life and the nightly news, have almost completely disappeared.
Causality is slippery, especially when it comes to crime. The L.A.P.D.'s decision to deploy 30 additional officers to Watts's three largest housing projects has undoubtedly contributed to the area's improvement. Research has shown that ''hot-spot policing'' -- flooding high-crime areas with police officers -- effectively reduces crime without simply displacing it. But the department's efforts in Watts go beyond ''cops on dots.'' In recent years, the L.A.P.D. has been conducting an unusual experiment in community policing in Watts. Its centerpiece, the Community Safety Partnership, is the department's collaboration with a group of residents known as the Watts Gang Task Force. Every Monday morning, community leaders meet with top police commanders to discuss what's happening in the Watts gang world -- who's feuding with whom, where criminal investigations stand, which are the issues residents are worried about. What makes the initiative unusual is that many of the task force's participants have close ties to street gangs. Some, like Mendenhall, are former gang leaders. Others are the mothers and grandmothers of notorious gang leaders past and present.
When we talk about crime, we tend to talk about victims and offenders, innocence and guilt, prey and predator. Gang violence clouds and warps this logic: victims and victimizers are often the same people, and neither side has any reason to talk to the police. This presents a conundrum to law enforcement, one that has developed contrasting strategies on either coast. New York City insists that hard-nosed, divisive tactics like its stop-and-frisk policy are necessary to reduce crime. But Los Angeles has pursued another way, an approach that has delivered lower crime rates and fostered police-community reconciliation.
Cynthia Mendenhall was born in Shreveport, La., in 1962. When she was 3, her mother, Bobbie Sue Mendenhall, moved to Watts, joining the great migration of African-Americans from the South to Southern California, drawn by the promise of factory jobs and lives free of Jim Crow. Mendenhall's family grew to include seven children, but it did not thrive. By the time the Mendenhalls arrived, the same year as the Watts riots, the factories along Alameda Street that nurtured a generation of black Angelenos were already beginning to close down.
Mendenhall grew up amid the economic and social wreckage of working-class Watts. As a young child, she says, she was routinely molested. Her mother started drinking, then using PCP. By the fourth grade, she was fighting in school. (''Nowadays, it's the second [grade],'' she says. ''They are more advanced than we were.'') Mendenhall's facility with her fists soon attracted the attention of the dominant neighborhood crew, the PJ Crips. At 11, she joined, eventually winning fame throughout the projects as a fighter -- even while pregnant.
Then, in the early 1980s, Freeway Rick Ross brought crack cocaine to South L.A. Bloods and Crips gangs, already in charge of the neighborhoods, became distributors. The housing projects of Watts turned into open-air drug markets, their cul-de-sacs and winding roads offering protection from police and rival gangs.
''Everyone had money,'' Mendenhall says, an involuntary smile playing across her lips. With the money came cars, guns and an increasingly violent competition for market share. Assault weapons were deployed in drive-by shootings. Gang members routinely shot at outgunned police officers. When the L.A.P.D. tried to open a substation in Imperial Courts, it was vandalized several times, before the department abandoned the effort. The authorities decided it was time to respond with overwhelming force.
In 1988, Daryl F. Gates, who was then police chief, began Operation Hammer. For months, hundreds of officers swept through black neighborhoods on weekends. Every law was enforced. Every infraction became a cause for arrest. Thousands of black Angelenos were arrested each Friday and Saturday for minor offenses and held in the city jail, their cars impounded (and not infrequently stripped of stereos and rims), then released on Monday. The approach was as desperate as it was alienating. One sergeant managing the daily operations was Charlie Beck, now chief of the department.
Beck's father, George Beck, worked under the legendary William H. Parker, who helped purge the department of corruption. His godfather was Daryl F. Gates. As a teenager growing up in suburban Los Angeles County, Beck dreamed of becoming a professional motocross racer. Instead, in 1975, he became an L.A.P.D. reserve officer, working in the Rampart division around MacArthur Park.
''I found it to be a really good fit,'' Beck says. ''It's a physical job, you get to be outside a lot, you get to interact on the front lines of life, and it's a very, very challenging and satisfying job.'' In 1977, he applied for a full-time position and entered the police academy. The following year the department announced that it was opening a station in Watts and creating a new type of unit to fight gang crime, called the Community Response Against Street Hoodlums unit, known as Crash. Beck signed on.
Beck's Crash unit spent most of its time working around the housing projects in Watts: Imperial Courts, Nickerson Gardens and Jordan Downs. South Los Angeles was in the midst of a PCP epidemic. Night after night, Beck and his fellow officers responded to radio calls reporting users behaving in manic and unpredictable ways. The encounters often turned violent. Beck and his colleagues would struggle to subdue preternaturally strong perpetrators, many of them nude. (PCP often causes users to feel hot.) Every month, officers were injured. Every month, the volume of calls seemed to go up.
Officers arrested people in droves, but the mayhem only got worse, Beck says. One night, he saw a sheriff's deputy shot and killed. Another night, a fellow officer died in his arms. Beck felt the job was changing him, making him feel negative and hopeless. In 1981, he asked for a transfer to the less challenging Pacific division. But by 1988, the crack epidemic in full swing, he was back in South Bureau working on Operation Hammer as a gang sergeant.
To Beck, Operation Hammer seemed like the ''logical progression'' of things. Not until four years later, when riots broke out following the acquittal of the officers involved in the beating of Rodney King, did he realize just how important the consent of the public was. But it would take the arrival of a new police chief and a decade's time to begin the process of changing the department's culture.
During the early 1990s, William J. Bratton served as Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's first police commissioner, in New York City. Bratton's successes there made him the most famous lawman in the world. A series of high-profile incidents after Bratton's departure, however, involving police shootings and the abuse of black men, tarnished the N.Y.P.D.'s reputation. By the time Bratton arrived in Los Angeles in 2002, he had something to prove -- namely, that effective policing need not antagonize minority communities. Beck quickly emerged as Bratton's go-to man for the department's most challenging problems.
Beck's first assignment was to restore order to a section of downtown known as Skid Row, which had a large population of transients, homeless people and addicts. Working with the criminologist George Kelling, who developed the ''broken windows'' concept of policing that was used in New York City in the early 1990s, Beck began to enforce ordinances like the one prohibiting sleeping on sidewalks during the day. The policy was effective at restoring order to the area, but the American Civil Liberties Union opposed it and filed a lawsuit to end the practice. Beck's next posting was to the troubled Rampart division in central Los Angeles, where reports of rogue officers planting evidence, fabricating testimony and brutalizing gang members triggered a U.S. Justice Department investigation that resulted in federal oversight of the L.A.P.D. as a whole. Beck revamped the division while also uprooting the drug trade in MacArthur Park, home to the Salvadoran gang MS-13. By 2005, crime in Los Angeles was falling. Gang violence, however, remained stubbornly prevalent. What would eventually become a centerpiece of the city's response was a product of desperation.
In October 2005, a captain named Pat Gannon was transferred from Harbor division to the 77th Street division, just northwest of Watts. The following month, a student was wounded in a midday drive-by shooting. It was nothing unusual -- until the retaliatory shootings began. Over the course of the next four hours, there were 20 shootings. The evening promised to be even worse. In just a few hours, Dorsey High School and Crenshaw High School would play their first nighttime football game against each other in years. The two schools were known for their intense rivalry, one that wasn't limited to football. Crenshaw was in Crips territory; Dorsey was in Bloods territory. Fearful of what might happen, Gannon requested about 200 additional personnel. Despite the massive police deployment, there was a drive-by shooting near the football game, followed by a related shooting involving a police officer. Gannon decided to reach out to a group of people that L.A.P.D. had long viewed with suspicion -- gang-intervention workers.
Gang peacemakers had worked the streets of South L.A. since before the Rodney King riots. Some were volunteers; some worked for small nonprofit groups. Gang conflicts often emerged from disputes over girls, reported slights or simple misunderstandings. Gang-intervention workers would relay accurate information to gang members, resolving issues before they led to violence. That was the theory, at least. Many police officers were skeptical, perhaps because so many gang-intervention workers were themselves ex-gang members. Some hadn't really left the gangs. But during his time at Harbor division, Gannon saw firsthand how gang interventionists could shut gang feuds down. With nothing to lose, he made some phone calls and asked for help. A week later, he found himself sitting down to talk with ''30 hard-core gang guys'' in a church basement in South L.A.
The first meeting was a grievance session. The second meeting, the same. At the third, Gannon finally spoke up. ''We've had eight homicides in two weeks, four on the L.A. side, four in the city of Inglewood,'' he said. ''I just had a double murder the day before yesterday. I need help in stopping that. I have to stop that feud. Can you help me with this particular problem?''
Discussion ensued. The gang-intervention workers said there were people with whom they might talk. ''That day it stopped,'' Gannon says. ''Not slowed down; it stopped.''
Gannon had tapped into something powerful, a concept academics call procedural justice. The idea is rooted in research about court outcomes conducted by the Yale Law School professor Tom Tyler in the early 1990s. Tyler found that people care more about how they are treated than about actual legal outcomes. By explaining statutes and court procedures clearly and by allowing parties to present their grievances more freely, Tyler says, courts could significantly increase satisfaction with judges' rulings, as well as compliance with court orders.
Other researchers expanded Tyler's work to other parts of the criminal-justice system. In the process, they began to examine a much older concept: legitimacy. ''Why do we obey the law?'' asks Tracey Meares, a Yale Law School professor and a leader in this field. The answer to that question, it turns out, is not just because we think we are going to be punished if we don't. Meares's research showed that even felons care about and respond to perceptions of fairness. In the mid-1990s, a program started in Boston, Operation Ceasefire, demonstrated that a concerted effort to reduce youth violence that combined focused deterrence (identifying gang members and warning them that future violence would result in swift, certain and severe punishment) and fairness (offering gang members alternatives and opportunities if they refrained from using guns to resolve disputes) could significantly reduce gun violence. Since then many other cities have duplicated Boston's results using similar strategies. But while many law-enforcement agencies have come to appreciate the power of deterrence, many ignore the importance of fairness.
The stop-and-frisk approach in New York City puts a priority on deterrence over fairness, Meares says. The purpose behind stop-and-frisk is to deter youths in high-crime neighborhoods from carrying guns by increasing the likelihood that they will interact with the police. The N.Y.P.D. approach may be effective theoretically, Meares says, but it comes with high costs. The police must make large numbers of stops in order to make the threat of being stopped credible -- that's expensive. And, to the extent that communities view such tactics as unfair, the police lose legitimacy.
''There is a direct link between the feeling that police are illegitimate and high levels of violence,'' said David M. Kennedy, who helped design Operation Ceasefire. ''When you get into the communities that are the most distressed, the feeling that the police are not legitimate goes up and violence goes up.'' (In New York a recent curtailing of stop-and-frisk has, in fact, coincided with a decline in homicides.) If academic theories of legitimacy are correct, the police can encourage high-crime neighborhoods to comply with the law by making some fairly simple changes to their own behavior: by explaining police actions, by listening to people's grievances and by demonstrating respect. In principle, it's straightforward. But it would take another tragedy to bring this understanding to Watts.
When Branden Bullard, known as Baby Loc, the head of a crew of Grape Street Crips, was shot in the face at 9:40 a.m. on Christmas morning 2005, everyone knew there would be consequences. The first Blood to die was shot within an hour. In the months that followed, a violent feud between Bounty Hunter Bloods and Grape Street Crips led to more than 20 shootings and at least 8 deaths. (Bullard actually survived the initial shooting, but he was killed at a party a few years later.) The level of violence prompted the office of Janice Hahn, a city councilwoman who represented the area, to create a new community group: the Watts Gang Task Force.
What they created is no ordinary neighborhood watch. Its president is Betty Day, a Grape Street resident and the mother of the legendary Grape Street Crips gang member Wayne Day. Another prominent member, the Rev. Maudlin Clark, has grandchildren involved in a violent Crips ''click'' known as the Fudgetown Mafia. Yet every week, the L.A.P.D. makes a point of sitting down with the parents and grandparents of the people they are trying to arrest. It's a strange, symbiotic relationship, with each side eager for information on the other's next move.
The task force also includes a transformed Mendenhall, who successfully made the switch from gang member to peacemaker. She became disenchanted with the gang life in the late '80s, found her calling in community activism and was elected president of the Imperial Courts residents' council. She started meeting with politicians; a feud with Representative Maxine Waters about Mendenhall's plan to start a charter school in Imperial Courts attracted favorable attention from local Republicans. But shaking hands with politicians while also selling dope was a tricky business, particularly when, as occurred on one occasion, a customer tried to buy some product at a political event.
''I made the decision to walk away from everything,'' Mendenhall says. In Watts, that isn't so simple.
Anthony (Little Tony) Owens was Mendenhall's second child, born in 1981. ''Such a pretty boy,'' she says. ''He got along with everybody.'' She made a point of showing him and his younger brother, Darrian, as much of the world as she could. ''I took them to everybody's community,'' she says proudly. ''They weren't hoodbound.''
But on Aug. 31, 2006, while standing outside Imperial Courts, Owens was shot and killed in a drive-by shooting carried out by the Carver Park Compton Crips. He wasn't the intended victim.
Paramedics raced Owens to nearby St. Francis hospital, but by the time Mendenhall arrived, he was dead. By then a large and volatile group of PJ Crips, Grape Street Crips and Bounty Hunter Bloods had gathered at the hospital. The mood of the crowd was murderous. Mendenhall decided not to announce her son's death. Instead, she went to the waiting room and asked everyone to gather for a prayer vigil at Imperial Courts the following morning. There she announced that her son had died and pleaded with the crowd not to seek revenge. The police honored her as a peacemaker, providing a motorcycle escort to the funeral (and a protective presence at a repast afterward). Mayor Antonio Villaraigosa attended the service.
Three months later, at 7 a.m. on a Saturday, sheriff's deputies spotted Darrian driving near Imperial Courts in a brand-new Dodge Charger, a preferred car among gang members. The deputies turned on their flashers. Darrian, who had an illegal handgun in his car, sped off to a nearby senior-housing development, where Mendenhall had a job as a property manager. Once he got to the housing development, during a struggle with the police and in front of his mother, Darrian pulled the gun and shot himself in the head.
''That was when I stared into the face of the devil,'' she says.
The crowd outside heard the shot and concluded that the police had killed him. By the time Capt. Rick Jacobs, who was assigned to the Watts area, arrived at the scene, a crowd was pelting the sheriff's deputies and L.A.P.D. with rocks and bottles. It could have easily escalated into a riot. Jacobs asked Mendenhall to go outside and explain what happened. She walked out and told the crowd that her son had killed himself. The rock-throwing stopped; the crowd dispersed. The cycle of violence started by Owens's killing stopped.
In 2006, Beck became deputy chief for South Bureau, responsible for the safety of all of South Los Angeles. Working with the civil rights lawyer Connie Rice, he developed a plan to train, certify and deploy gang-intervention workers to the city's hot spots. Mayor Villaraigosa rolled out a new approach to dealing with gang violence. Villaraigosa spent $21 million of his office's budget a year on the city's Gang Reduction and Youth Development program. Schools in neighborhoods with the highest gang presence, including Watts, now systematically identify the most at-risk children for extra services; gang-intervention workers receive city financing; and the city provides summer activities through its Summer Night Lights programs, which keeps parks and recreation centers open later in high-crime neighborhoods.
In 2009, after seven years as chief of the L.A.P.D., Bratton announced that he was resigning and moving to the private sector. Villaraigosa tapped Beck to be his successor, to the applause of people who were once the department's biggest critics. ''Beck is not the Crash officer I met 20 years ago,'' Rice says. ''He transformed himself; for very strategic but also personal reasons he transformed himself.'' Among the personal reasons Rice cites are Beck's children: two of his three children are in the L.A.P.D. Both work South L.A.
Crime has fallen for the past 10 years in Los Angeles. In Watts, violent crime is down nearly 30 percent since 2011. But it's not just Watts. Angelenos are now as safe as New Yorkers, statistically speaking, despite the fact that L.A. has just under two-thirds as many police officers per capita as New York City. Moreover, a 2009 survey showed that 83 percent of Angelenos believe that the department is doing a good or excellent job, and majorities of every major ethnic group in the city said that most L.A.P.D. officers treat them with respect.
''Sometimes you got to pinch yourself,'' says Mendenhall, who is now a gang-intervention worker employed by the city. ''It's like a dream.'' Not for all parties, though.
Like South L.A. as a whole, Watts and its public-housing developments are now predominantly Latino. Many of its residents live in fear of gang violence, says Arturo Ybarra, who heads the Watts/Century Latino Organization. Many Latino newcomers have been attacked, abused or intimidated, he says.
In June of 2012, Mauro Cortez, who moved to L.A. from rural Mexico, was standing on a corner, wearing a purple T-shirt a friend had given him. ''I own a Honda,'' the shirt said. ''Be nice to me.''
As the sun was setting, a teenager in a dark hoodie pedaled by and shot him, wounding Cortez, who was holding his 14-month-old son, Angel. Angel didn't survive the shooting. Word on the street was that a Fudgetown Mafia shooter had mistaken Cortez for a member of the Watts Varrio Grape Street gang, who wear purple. At an emergency meeting of the Watts Gang Task Force, Capt. Phil Tingirides appealed for help in finding a suspect. The mood was tense. Latinos sat on one side of the room, African-Americans on the other. God was invoked. The media were denounced for playing up black-brown tension. Pastor Clark delivered a speech saying that no one should jump to the conclusion that Fudgetown Mafia was involved.
Asked if the community provided information to help solve the case, one detective just laughed. ''None,'' he said. Shortly later the police did get a tip from a neighbor about someone burning a hoodie, which helped lead to the arrest of a 15-year-old member of the Fudgetown Mafia. He was convicted and sentenced last month.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: The Community Safety Partnership, which is made up of the Watts Gang Task Force and members of the Los Angeles Police Department, includes Cynthia Mendenhall (sixth from left)
the chief of the L.A.P.D., Charlie Beck (ninth from left)
Betty Day (11th from left)
Capt. Phil Tingirides (11th from right)
and the Rev. Maudlin Clark (sixth from right). (MM36-MM37)
 Cynthia Mendenhall, also known as SistA Soulja, is a former gang member who now helps keep the peace. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY JEFF MINTON FOR THE NEW YORK TIMES) (MM38) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: GANGS (90%); SHOOTINGS (89%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (72%); WAR & CONFLICT (70%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (63%); MOBILE & CELLULAR TELEPHONES (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (96%) CALIFORNIA, USA (96%) UNITED STATES (96%)

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2013



399 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section RE; Column 0; Real Estate Desk; BIG DEAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1161 words

HEADLINE: How the Rich Get a Nice Big Tax Break

BYLINE: By JULIE SATOW

 BODY:
The rarefied few who can afford to shell out tens of millions of dollars for an apartment in one of the gleaming new condominiums being built across New York City may be searching for luxury, but in some cases they will find an unexpected perk: a break on real estate taxes that can mean tax bills as low as $96 a month.
At 56 Leonard Street, where a penthouse just went into contract for $47 million, the buyers are poised to receive a 76 percent break on their real estate taxes.
At 150 Charles Street, an ultraluxury development in the West Village, the tax break is 70 percent. 
And at One57, the 90-story skyscraper in Midtown where asking prices top $10,500 a square foot, the tax break is an eye-popping 94 percent.
A recent review of the offering plans for some of the city's most expensive new apartment buildings offers an interesting peak into the perquisites and disadvantages of a lavish lifestyle. There are the windfalls, like the generous tax breaks, but there are also oft-overlooked expenses, like mandatory health club and dining-room fees, that can add to a buyer's bottom line.
At 56 Leonard Street, for example, the buyer who is in contract for the record-breaking penthouse would typically pay $140,000 a year in real estate taxes, according to estimates from the offering plan. But because the project laid its foundation in 2008 -- it stalled during the downturn and was resurrected only recently -- it was eligible to apply for a 10-year tax abatement. The city has given its preliminary approval, which means that when the building is completed, the penthouse buyer will pay just $33,000 annually for the first two years, with taxes progressively increasing through the remaining eight.
The tax abatement, known as the 421A program, was established in the 1970s, during the depths of the city's financial crisis, to spur residential construction. In the 1980s, as the economy improved, the program was modified, and affordable-housing requirements were added. In 2008 it was substantially scaled back, although some buildings, like 56 Leonard, made it just under the wire to get the abatements by starting construction before the stricter rules went into effect.
The case for One57 is slightly more complex. Its location on West 57th Street would prohibit the developer from applying for the abatement, but in January the state legislature passed a broad housing bill that included an exemption for the building. The legislation gave a similar pass to several others, including 99 Church Street, otherwise known as 30 Park Place, an ultraluxury condominium that the developer Larry Silverstein is building in Lower Manhattan, and to a site owned by the developer Joseph Sitt at 516 Fifth Avenue in Midtown.
The city has not yet signed off on the abatement, but if it does, a result will be an annual real estate tax bill of under $18,000 for the buyer of the penthouse at One57, assuming it sells for its $115 million list price. That tax bill would more typically apply to a $3 million apartment; for this penthouse, the typical bill would be nearly $300,0000, according to the offering plan. Similarly, the least expensive unit in the building, a 1,000-square-foot one-bedroom, has monthly taxes of just $96, which works out to $1,157 a year -- versus $19,234 without the tax break.
''Yes, we allowed an exemption,'' said Senator Martin J. Golden, who sponsored the bill with Assemblyman Keith L. T. Wright, ''but I am a proponent of the 421A program, and I believe it was the right thing to do.'' An Extell spokeswoman said in a statement that the legislation merely ''remedied an oversight'' in the 421A program.
The exemptions have given some market observers pause, particularly in the case of One57, which was already under way when the legislation was passed and presumably would have been built even without the tax break. ''The idea of the program was that tax subsidies can be an important tool to create residential housing and affordable housing that otherwise wouldn't be built,'' said Vicki Been, the faculty director of the Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy. ''I don't see how giving a tax break to a building like One57 helps either of those goals.''
While some may question whether buyers of multimillion-dollar homes deserve breaks on city taxes, there is no doubt that the benefits are lucrative. But within the fine print of offering plans, which run hundreds of pages and are thick with dense legalese, hidden costs can also crop up. For example, at 432 Park Avenue, which will be the tallest condo in the Northern Hemisphere when it opens in 2015, full-floor penthouses are priced between $72.5 million and $95 million and will be saddled with common charges of more than $17,000 a month. The common charges are several times what the average New Yorker typically pays in rent, and they are most likely being underestimated, experts said.
''Developers have been known to low-ball their estimated figures,'' said Aaron Shmulewitz, a partner at the law firm Belkin Burden Wenig & Goldman. ''I've seen common charges increase 25 percent between the first year and the second year.''
On top of those costly common charges come fees like the mandatory membership in the building's gym, known as The Club at 432 Park Avenue, which bases its charges on the size of the apartment, with larger units owing more. Then there is the $2,000 that owners are required to pay annually toward the building's dining room, and the additional $1,200 in private dining services that owners are required to buy annually, whether or not they use the restaurant.
The budgets included in offering plans can also be overly rosy, said lawyers. They typically cover just the first year of the condominium's operations, allowing developers to fudge important expenses.
''Sponsors are motivated to have their budget seem as affordable as possible -- they shoot low, not high, in many instances,'' said Jeffrey S. Reich, a partner at Wolf Haldenstein Adler Freeman & Herz.
For instance, developers often do not include the cost of maintenance contracts for elevators and other mechanicals, because most of the equipment is still under warranty. They also rarely allocate money to hire an engineer or a lawyer should there be construction defects, which are seldom discovered until a development is inhabited, Mr. Reich said.
There is even the risk that buyers could lose the views for which they have paid so dearly. Both 150 Charles Street and One57, for example, have apartments with ''lot line'' windows -- windows adjacent to neighboring buildings -- which may eventually have to be boarded up and removed if the neighboring buildings are expanded. In the case of One57, the developer estimates the cost of removing the windows at $5,000 per window, to be borne by the owner.
Still, while there are both risks and rewards in buying these exclusive properties, ''none of it should come as a shock to anyone who reads the offering plans,'' Mr. Reich said.

GRAPHIC: PHOTOS: EXEMPTIONS? New condos that may qualify for abatements include (clockwise from far left) 56 Leonard Street, One57 and 150 Charles Street. (PHOTOGRAPHS BY HERZOG & DE MEURON
MARILYNN K. YEE/THE NEW YORK TIMES
 HAYES DAVIDSON) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Correction

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: TAXES & TAXATION (93%); REAL ESTATE (92%); PROPERTY TAX (90%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (90%); CONDOMINIUMS (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); TAX LAW (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOUSING ASSISTANCE (78%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (78%); HOME PRICES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); LEGISLATION (76%); LOW COST HOUSING SCHEMES (75%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (69%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%) NEW YORK, USA (92%) UNITED STATES (92%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013



400 of 937 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 2013 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: July 14, 2013
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section BR; Column 0; Book Review Desk; Pg. 99

LENGTH: 875 words

HEADLINE: Best Sellers: E-Book Nonfiction: Sunday, July 14th 2013

 BODY:
About the Best Sellers:
These lists are an expanded version of those appearing in the July 14, 2013 print edition of the Book Review, reflecting sales for the week ending June 29, 2013. An asterisk (*) indicates that a book's sales are barely distinguishable from those of the book above it. A dagger (&#8224;) indicates that some retailers report receiving bulk orders. For an explanation of our methodology, visit http://www.nytimes.com/best-sellers. 
Weeks&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Best Sellers: E-Book NonfictionThisLastOnWeekWeekList1736PROOF OF HEAVEN, by Eben Alexander. (Simon & Schuster) A neurosurgeon recounts his near death experience during a coma from bacterial meningitis. 2210LET'S EXPLORE DIABETES WITH OWLS, by David Sedaris. (Little, Brown) Essays from the humorist on subjects like French dentistry and a North Carolina Costco. 33101BOSSYPANTS, by Tina Fey. (Reagan Arthur/Little, Brown) A memoir from the former &#34;Saturday Night Live&#34; star and creator of &#34;30 Rock.&#34; 41THE DISAPPEARING SPOON, by Sam Kean. (Little, Brown) Stories of human interest and history connected with the elements of the periodic table. First published in 2010. 5416LEAN IN, by Sheryl Sandberg with Nell Scovell. (Knopf) The chief operating officer of Facebook urges women to pursue their careers without ambivalence. 658HAPPY, HAPPY, HAPPY, by Phil Robertson with Mark Schlabach. (Howard Books) The Duck Commander pays tribute to "faith, family and ducks." 763THE ASTRONAUT WIVES CLUB, by Lily Koppel. (Grand Central Publishing) The wives of the Mercury Seven astronauts met regularly for mutual support; they have now been friends for more than 50 years. 818DAD IS FAT, by Jim Gaffigan. (Crown Archetype) The comedian&#8217;s life with five kids in a two-bedroom New York City apartment. 9124LITTLE PRISONERS, by Casey Watson. (Harper Element) A family&#8217;s courageous effort to rescue two siblings from a world of abuse and suffering. 10964THE GLASS CASTLE, by Jeannette Walls. (Simon & Schuster) The author recalls a bizarre childhood during which she and her siblings were constantly moved from one bleak place to another. 111339KILLING KENNEDY, by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The host of "The O&#8217;Reilly Factor" recounts the events surrounding the assassination of John F. Kennedy. 128127UNBROKEN, by Laura Hillenbrand. (Random House) An Olympic runner&#8217;s story of survival as a prisoner of the Japanese in World War II after his plane went down over the Pacific. 13157THE GUNS AT LAST LIGHT, by Rick Atkinson. (Holt) The final volume of the Liberation Trilogy describes the Allied victory in Europe, from D-Day in June 1944 to the German surrender 11 months later. 141466WILD, by Cheryl Strayed. (Knopf) A woman&#8217;s account of the life-changing 1,100-mile solo hike she took along the Pacific Crest Trail in 1995. 151729THINKING, FAST AND SLOW, by Daniel Kahneman. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux) The winner of the Nobel in economic science discusses how we make choices in business and personal life and when we can and cannot trust our intuitions. 161THE WOLF OF WALL STREET, by Jordan Belfort. (Random House) The explosive rise and ugly fall of a high-living investment-firm founder. First published in 2007; the basis for a new movie. 17106THE UNWINDING, by George Packer. (Farrar, Straus & Giroux) The collapse of American institutions, politics and culture and their replacement by organized money, told through the stories of ordinary people as well as political and cultural figures. 181BURIED DREAMS, by Tim Cahill. (Premier Digital) The ghoulish case of the serial killer John Wayne Gacy. First published in 1986. 193FROZEN IN TIME, by Mitchell Zuckoff. (HarperCollins) An account both of airmen&#8217;s fight for survival in the Arctic after a 1942 crash, and of a 2012 expedition to Greenland to find the remains of a plane that crashed in a rescue attempt. 201152AMERICAN SNIPER, by Chris Kyle with Scott McEwen and Jim DeFelice. (Morrow/HarperCollins) A member of the Navy SEALs who had the most career sniper kills in United States military history discusses his experiences during the Iraq war. Kyle was recently shot to death in Texas. 212431OUTLIERS, by Malcolm Gladwell. (Little, Brown & Company) Why some people succeed &#8212; it has to do with luck and opportunities as well as talent. From the author of "Blink" and "The Tipping Point." 221886KILLING LINCOLN, by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard. (Holt) The host of "The O&#8217;Reilly Factor" recounts the events surrounding the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. 236AN ARMY AT DAWN, by Rick Atkinson. (Owl/Holt) A journalist&#8217;s account of the North African campaigns of World War II; the first book of the Liberation Trilogy. 24165ELEVEN RINGS, by Phil Jackson and Hugh Delehanty. (Penguin Press) An autobiography by the coach known for his multiple N.B.A. championships. 25233AMERICAN GUN, by Chris Kyle with William Doyle. (Morrow/HarperCollins) Kyle, a former member of the Navy SEALs who was shot to death in Texas in February, tells how 10 firearms changed United States history.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: List

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: BOOK REVIEWS (92%); ELECTRONIC BOOKS (90%); NON FICTION LITERATURE (90%); ELECTRONIC PUBLISHING (90%); BOOK SALES (78%); WRITERS (78%); BIOGRAPHICAL LITERATURE (78%); PROFILES & BIOGRAPHIES (75%); RETAILERS (73%); MENINGITIS (72%); INTERNET SOCIAL NETWORKING (70%); PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (68%); NEUROLOGICAL DISORDERS & INJURIES (67%); DIABETES (52%); EXECUTIVES (50%)

COMPANY: SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (56%); FACEBOOK INC (53%); GRAND CENTRAL PUBLISHING (52%)

TICKER: FB (NASDAQ) (53%)

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (53%)

PERSON: SHERYL SANDBERG (66%); TINA FEY (50%); BILL O'REILLY (50%); JOHN F KENNEDY (50%)

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK, NY, USA (72%) NORTH CAROLINA, USA (75%); NEW YORK, USA (72%) UNITED STATES (75%)

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2013

 
