

201 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE OVERVIEW;
A Chilly G.O.P. Response To Clinton's Budget Plan

BYLINE: By JERRY GRAY

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
After President Clinton yielded to Republican demands and submitted a plan late Saturday to balance the Federal budget in seven years, the Republican response today was as chilly as the weather.
The Government, meanwhile, was allowed to resume full operations after the longest shutdown in its history. 
 President Clinton's budget was certified as balanced by the Congressional Budget Office.
That was a condition Congressional leaders had set for allowing the full Federal Government to resume operations for about three weeks, and on Saturday the President signed legislation authorizing an end to the longest Government shutdown in history.
But for the nation's capital, which bore the brunt of the 21-day shutdown of parts of the Government, the huge snowstorm disrupted Federal employees' return to work on Monday. Federal offices here will be closed.
The snowstorm began on Saturday night, as President Clinton was meeting at the White House with the leaders of the Republican majority in Congress -- Speaker Newt Gingrich and Senator Bob Dole, -- to try to reach an agreement on a plan to balance the Federal budget by 2002.
Mr. Clinton opened that meeting by telling the Republicans that at their urging he had prepared his own seven-year plan.
Today, Republicans said that plan did not cut, or do, nearly enough.
"It shows us that Bill Clinton is the big-spending liberal Democrat we always thought he was," Representative John A. Boehner of Ohio, the chairman of the House Republican Conference, said on the CBS News program "Face the Nation." "It doesn't save the solvency of Medicare, it doesn't make the changes in it that will give Medicare recipients the choices they want. It continues welfare as we know it -- there's no real welfare reform."
Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin said today that the Federal Government would face another fiscal problem about a month from now because of the Republicans' refusal to pass legislation to raise the debt ceiling.
"We originally thought that the early part of February would be a problem," Mr. Rubin said on the NBC News program "Meet the Press." "But because of the unexpected increase in revenues to the Federal Government we are now O.K. until the middle of February. In the middle of February we will have a requirement again for additional resources."
Mr. Rubin sidestepped problems earlier in the budget crisis by postponing interest payments to some Federal pension funds and tapping into others for loans to keep the Government's credit line open.
His strategies angered Congressional Republicans, some of whom have asked that he be impeached.
Mr. Rubin said today that the Administration had yet to find another stopgap method to get around next month's anticipated problems.
"What the Congress should do is to not shut down the Government and pass a clean debt ceiling increase," the Treasury Secretary said.
On Saturday, the President signed a separate bill that provided money for certain Federal agencies and programs, chosen by the Republicans, to stay open through September, the end of the Federal budget year.
He also signed legislation that will allow all 285,000 furloughed Federal employees to return to work and restore money for all Government operations through Jan. 26. For most departments whose appropriations bills have not been approved, financing would only be 75 percent.
Unless the Democrats and Republicans can strike a budget deal in the next two weeks the Government would face the prospect of another partial shutdown on Jan. 27.
The Administration's budget plan is a modification of one put forth weeks ago by Senator Tom Daschle, the minority leader, and other Democrats, which was rejected by the Republican-controlled Senate.
According to the analysis by the Congressional Budget Office, the President's plan would save $602 billion over seven years, as compared with the $664 billion savings in the Republican budget plan that Congress approved in November and Mr. Clinton vetoed.
The major differences are on Medicare ($102 billion in savings in the Administration plan, $201 billion with the Republicans), Medicaid (the Administration proposing $52 billion in savings, the Republicans $117 billion), and tax cuts (Mr. Clinton set the target at $87 billion, but said he was willing to give up to $147 billion if the economy performs as well as he expects it will. Republicans want a $241 billion tax cut over the seven years.)
"This plan will show that you can balance the budget in seven years and protect Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment, and provide tax relief to working families," Mr. Clinton said Saturday night during a news conference in the Oval Office. "This is a time of great national promise. We need to find unity and common ground."
The Associated Press reported Mr. Gingrich gave the the President a sharp response to the budget plan at the White House meeting.
One of the Republicans who was there quoted Mr. Gingrich as saying: "If this is where you are, we're so far apart we better start thinking about how we can call this off."
A White House spokeswoman said that the Saturday night session ended bout 11 P.M. with both sides "exchanging ideas" about each other's budget.
Because of the snowstorm, Democrats and Republicans canceled a meeting at the White House today to discuss the budget.
The weather also forced Democrats to drop plans to gather in the Oval Office with the President this afternoon to decide their next move in the budget negotiations.
Both the storm and the Republicans' attacks on the White House budget plan were unrelenting today.
"We're very concerned about whether or not there's two snow jobs going on in Washington," said Senator Trent Lott of Mississippi, the majority whip, who joined Mr. Boehner on "Face the Nation."
"Now, we feel like Charlie Brown, and Lucy has got the football, and every time you think you're going to get a real budget it's jerked away from you," Mr. Lott said. "It is a positive step, I think, and we should give the President that acknowledgment," he continued. "But there are still big differences."
For the last two months, the budget debate has been dominated by the Republicans' insistence that President Clinton submit a plan that balances the budget by 2002 with figures certified by the nonpartisan Congressional Budget Office. They made that a condition under which they would agree to a full reopening of the Government. The Administration submitted four previous budget plans that were analyzed by the Office of Management and Budget, a branch of the White House directly under the President's control.
"Unfortunately after the four tries he made before -- this is his fifth one -- it's still very much an effort to protect the status quo," Mr. Lott said.

GRAPHIC: Table: "THE LIST: Balancing the Budget: Two Ways" highlights the savings in seven-year plans to balance the Federal budget, offered by President Clinton and Congressional Republicans. (Sources: Congressional Budget Office, White House) (pg. 13)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (82%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE NBC UNIVERSAL INC (82%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (95%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATION (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); MEDICARE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BONDS (78%); LIBERALISM (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (76%); PUBLIC HEALTH & WELFARE LAW (75%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); WEATHER (72%); 

PERSON: GRAY, JERRY; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); JOHN BOEHNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



202 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: Clinton's Foreign Policy: Tough Election-Year Test

BYLINE: By STEVEN ERLANGER

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 7

 BODY:
Even in the relatively rarefied world of foreign policy, this is a presidential election year.
Secretary of State Warren Christopher, no naif at 70, says wearily, "I don't do politics," and he is sincere. But he has people to do politics for him, including the formidable Thomas Donilon, his chief of staff, who once had important roles in the presidential campaigns of Jimmy Carter and Walter Mondale. 
 "The most useful thing I could possibly do for him," Mr. Christopher said of President Clinton in an interview Friday evening, "is to keep a steady course." A comprehensive peace in the Middle East would not go down amiss, Mr. Christopher acknowledged, but it should not become an obsession to the neglect of other issues. "I have to be effective in advising the President on an issue that hasn't even arisen yet."
But other senior Clinton Administration officials in the White House and the State Department are blunter when speaking on the condition that they not be identified. They see three areas that could deeply embarrass President Clinton, who is now reveling in the strange, new and finely tailored mantle of a foreign-policy President.
Bosnia, Haiti and the Russian presidential elections in June have the potential to rip the stitches out of the President's new clothes, these officials agree.
In Bosnia, American troops are at risk and the domestic support for their role there is thin. In Haiti, American intervention has hardly produced the foundations for a democracy in a country that may yet unravel further. And in Russia, the possibility of electing a new President who is opposed to economic reform and cooperation with the West clouds one of the few early accomplishments of the Clinton foreign policy.
"The exercise of presidential leadership abroad works wonders so long as the policy succeeds," said one official who has seen other policies fail. "Look at George Bush. His popularity ratings were enormous when the Iraqi Army was on the run, but they dropped pretty quickly when Bush let Saddam Hussein get away."
The new and much-heralded display of American leadership is similarly fragile. After a period of drift, when the United States fled Somalia and turned away from the morass of Bosnia, Adminstration officials are proud that President Clinton could be convinced "to make some decisions and to exercise some needed leadership," one official said, "to the great benefit of both his Presidency and America's position abroad."
"No one talks very much any more of a 'no superpower world,' " another official said.
Mr. Clinton's new decisiveness on Bosnia and Haiti "gives the President a lot of leverage and has a big spillover effect -- everyone from Congress to Hafez Assad has to take him and the United States more seriously," the official said, referring to the Syrian President.
But the same officials admit that leadership is most benefitial when accompanied by success, and Mr. Christopher himself warned: "There are no -- or very few -- final victories in foreign policy."
These officials recognize that particularly in Bosnia -- where 20,000 American troops will be at risk in the middle of a morally muddy civil war in which peace may be just an interlude -- "the domestic consensus is as thin as ice," as one official put it.
Television images of dead American soldiers, as happened in Somalia, could easily erode that consensus in a country that wants to feel like a superpower but rarely any longer wants to pay the price, the officials say.
That is the main reason that Mr. Clinton, with the happy agreement of the Pentagon, pushed for a clear and limited American role in Bosnia that happens to end roughly the same time as the presidential election in November.
Still, Clinton officials say that the President is aware of the need for a steadfast commitment in Bosnia, especially should American soldiers die. "Bosnia isn't Somalia," one official said, implying that Mr. Clinton had learned some lessons there. "We got into Somalia so casually that the President didn't realize how committed we had become."
Michael D. McCurry, the President's spokesman, said Mr. Clinton sees his main political vulnerabilities simply: "It's force projection and putting U.S. personnel in harm's way with all the regional instability in the world."
"What he worries about most is his duties as Commander in Chief as opposed to his political duties," Mr. McCurry said. If Mr. Clinton fails at that task, "he feels he will, and should, pay a price," Mr. McCurry added. "He knows that's the political reality."
At the same time, he acknowledged that there is a political benefit to being involved "in those places we make a difference in peace." Bosnia was one such place, he said, and so were the Middle East, Northern Ireland and South Africa, the more politically beneficial spots for a Democratic President.
"One of the lessons of my three years," Mr. Christopher said, "is how essential presidential leadership is -- to be called on in essential moments in Dayton, to make calls -- and we'll be calling on him in the Middle East at critical moments. You can't do without presidential leadership."
While European diplomats here generally acknowledged the usefulness of American involvement in a messy world, especially in Bosnia, they also expressed significant worries about the depth of Mr. Clinton's commitment to stay the course.
Among America's NATO allies, who are said to be relieved at the display of American leadership and commitment, there is little support for the American idea of equipping and training the Bosnian army to better defend itself after the peacekeepers leave.
"The British, French and Germans think it's stupid and dangerous," one official said, though the Turks, Muslims like many of the Bosnians, seem happy enough to help.
Other areas matter but not as much, at least not politically. While Administration officials describe themselves as torn about how best to deal with China -- which has been both belligerent and overly sensitive in their view -- they do not regard China policy as a major political issue for many Americans.
Beijing's brutality on human rights and the apparent American inability to soften it create pressure in Congress and on opinion pages to deny China most-favored-nation trade status, officials acknowledged. "But we tried that road once," said one official who said he believed that Mr. Clinton stood to lose by restricting American trade with China. The Chinese leadership, nervous about its legitimacy and stability as the reign of Deng Xiaoping closes, could not afford to be seen as softening its domestic policies.
While denying that he does politics, Mr. Christopher was happy to attack, like his President, the freshmen Republicans in Congress.
"It concerns me that they want the benefits of leadership without undertaking the responsibilities of leadership," he said. "There's a disconnect between people who talk the talk of leadership, but who are not prepared to give us the tools, the resources to lead. I hope that over time, as they work through some of these issues, they'll understand that equation."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

COMPANY: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); 

ORGANIZATION: CLINTON ADMINISTRATION (75%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; HAITI; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; UNITED STATES (97%); HAITI (94%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); IRAQ (79%); SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; ELECTION ISSUES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); ARMIES (68%); ARMED FORCES (65%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); ERLANGER, STEVEN BILL CLINTON (93%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); JIMMY CARTER (58%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



203 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 33; Column 6; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 795 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Advice Now In Technology: Be Selective

BYLINE: By LAWRENCE M. FISHER

 BODY:
There was fear and loathing in Silicon Valley last week. Technology stocks plummeted as one high-tech company after another reported disappointing fourth-quarter results or advised analysts to revise their estimates downward.
Like witnesses to an accident, analysts had a number of explanations for what happened. But most agreed about what investors should do next: buy, selectively. 
 For Michael Murphy, editor of The California Technology Stock Letter, who had been warning for months of a market "correction" in technology stocks, it was a week to say "We told you so." Mr. Murphy said nearly all of the disappointments could be attributed to bloated personal computer inventories, which in turn were caused by hyped expectations for the Microsoft Corporation's new operating system, Windows 95.
"Windows 95 wound up selling about two-thirds of what they said it would sell -- about 20 million copies instead of 30 million, and it had a profound ripple effect," Mr. Murphy said. "A lot of companies spent money on research and development, and on marketing for new products, counting on a big boost from Windows 95, and the boxes are just sitting on dealers' shelves."
Among companies that Mr. Murphy considers wounded by the Windows 95 fallout were Cirrus Logic, a maker of graphics chips for PC's; Apple Computer, which also suffered from self-inflicted wounds, and Adobe Systems, victim of a software upgrade cycle that never came. "People like Adobe couldn't get shelf space because of Windows 95 and then Windows 95 didn't sell," he said.
Adobe was the biggest single loser in last week's sell-off, with its shares giving up nearly one-third of their value after the company reported a fourth-quarter loss and operating income much lower than analysts had expected. The Nasdaq composite index, which includes Adobe and is heavily weighted toward information-technology stocks, was down 1.77 percent for the week.
Shares of Microsoft, which were in the $95 range in Nasdaq trading early in December, have edged steadily downward since then, closing Friday at $86.375, down $1.325 for the week.
Mr. Murphy said he thought that major corporations would not upgrade to Windows 95 in quantity until March, and that it would take the computer industry that long to work off inventories, so various Windows-related hardware and software stocks would remain depressed. "We're treating it as an opportunity to buy the best names when they look cheap," he said, naming Cirrus Logic, Adobe, the Intel Corporation and Autodesk Inc. "These are great companies and they're going to get nailed," he said.
Bruce Lupatkin, director of research at Hambrecht & Quist, is another who blames disappointing Windows 95 sales and sluggish PC sales in the corporate market. "That impacts the whole food chain," he said, noting that chip makers have too much inventory, and software vendors are still waiting for the next upgrade cycle to kick in.
Mr. Lupatkin's advice to investors?
"Absolutely be selective," he said. "You can go down the line in almost any category and find winners and losers." He likes S3 Inc. in graphics chips and Compaq Computer in PC's.
But one major technology investor said he believed that there were more fundamental issues at work in the technology selloff than a few companies missing their quarter's targets.
"There are some things going on here that are peculiar to Wall Street, that have nothing to do with technology, per se," said Roger McNamee, a principal of Integral Capital Partners, a $500 million technology investment fund in Menlo Park, Calif. "It's really a flow-of-funds issue."
Mr. McNamee said 1995 was the first year that a lot of general-purpose fund managers bought technology stocks, and they bought them only because they had to outperform the overall market in the second half of the year. With that performance pressure removed with the beginning of a new year, these managers are dumping technology shares, retreating to stocks they understand.
"The way you can tell is the selling is indiscriminate," he said. "Some of the stocks getting hit have no fundamental problems at all."
Looking ahead, Mr. McNamee predicted that technology stocks would suffer in the short term from slowdowns in the United States and European economies, but would benefit longer term from the growing adoption of computers and communications technologies in developing countries and the former Communist bloc.
"On Wall Street you have all these people saying 'I'm never going to own another tech stock as long as I live,' " Mr. McNamee said. "But there are very powerful waves in technology that are going to be 10 years in evolving. Developing countries will invest in computers before they invest in roads and factories."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: INTC (NASDAQ) (84%); ADBE (NASDAQ) (84%); ADB (FRA) (84%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (83%); ADSK (NASDAQ) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (84%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (84%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (84%); NAICS541512 COMPUTER SYSTEMS DESIGN SERVICES (82%); SIC7373 COMPUTER INTEGRATED SYSTEMS DESIGN (82%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (50%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

CITY: SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: INTEL CORP (84%); ADOBE SYSTEMS INC (84%); MICROSOFT CORP (83%); AUTODESK INC (82%); HAMBRECHT & QUIST CALIFORNIA (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PERSONAL COMPUTERS (90%); COMPUTER OPERATING SYSTEMS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (89%); STOCK INDEXES (89%); RESEARCH & DEVELOPMENT (78%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); COMPUTING & IT SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CORPORATE BONDS (78%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (77%); COMPUTER MAKERS (75%); COMPUTING & IT TRADE (74%); COMPUTER CHIPS (73%); COMPANY LOSSES (73%); PRODUCT ENHANCEMENTS (71%); BONDS (71%); NEW PRODUCTS (67%); 

PERSON: FISHER, LAWRENCE M MICHAEL MURPHY (75%); ROGER MCNAMEE (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



204 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 5; National Desk

LENGTH: 287 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
Contractors Walk A Precarious Path

BYLINE: By ALAN MYERSON

 BODY:
Even as they struggle to launch the space shuttle Endeavor this Thursday with most of their NASA counterparts just coming back to work, the more than 12,000 contract employees working at the Johnson Space Center in Houston are conducting another countdown.
By the end of this month, money for their companies' Federal contracts will run out. And even with the return of Federal workers this week, parts of the Government may shut down again on Jan. 26 if there is no budget agreement, leaving no pay for these workers, even though they carry out most of the shuttle and space station preparations. 
 Other Government contractors have already suffered the same fate. Companies cleaning up the E.P.A.'s Superfund sites are sinking deeper every day. Top executives of Weston Incorporated of West Chester, Pa., are sorting through lists of stop orders, partial shutdowns, and emergency go-aheads to decide how many more employees to furlough. Although about 50 are already laid off, the company is weighing the fate of at least another 100.
The uncertainty has already led corporations like Rockwell International, the prime space shuttle contractor, to cut back on travel and other expenses needed to keep the space program running over the long term. Some of their employees are saying they are delaying major purchases.
A memo to all Rockwell employees from Glynn S. Lunney, the manager of its Houston operations, told the workers that they could be confident of being paid only through Jan. 29.
NASA, told by President Clinton himself to stick to its plans, has decided to proceed with this week's shuttle launching. But losing the contractors would jeopardize the mission set for Feb. 15. ALAN MYERSON

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ROK (NYSE) (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP (72%); NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL AERONAUTICS AND SPACE ADMINISTRATION (NASA) NATIONAL AERONAUTICS & SPACE ADMINISTRATION (91%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); LYNDON B JOHNSON SPACE CENTER (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); TEXAS, USA (93%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; SPACE; SPACE SHUTTLE SPACECRAFT (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); SPACE SHUTTLE (90%); SPACE & AERONAUTICS AGENCIES (90%); SPACE EXPLORATION (90%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); LAYOFFS (77%); US ENVIRONMENTAL LAW (74%); SPACE STATIONS (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (71%); SUPERFUND (69%); EXECUTIVES (69%); 

PERSON: MYERSON, ALAN BILL CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



205 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 3593 words

HEADLINE: Egg Donations Meet a Need And Raise Ethical Questions

SERIES: THE FERTILITY MARKET: Buying Eggs -- Second of four articles

BYLINE: By JAN HOFFMAN

DATELINE: WALTHAM, Mass.

 BODY:
Dana O., a 33-year-old nurse with three children of her own, may be genetically related to one, two or perhaps three other children. She will probably never know.
That is because Dana donated her eggs anonymously through IVF America-Boston, a fertility clinic here, and through another clinic nearby. Each time, she was paid $1,500 for undergoing extensive screening, three weeks of hormone injections and outpatient surgery to retrieve her eggs. They were then mixed with sperm in a petri dish and implanted in the uterus of an infertile woman. 
 The money was the least of it, she said. Haunted by a sister's nine-year struggle with infertility, Dana realized that her eggs, which would be lost through menstruation every month, did not have to go to waste.
"I don't feel like I'm giving someone a child, but a chance at a child," she said. Then she laughed self-consciously, her blue eyes crinkling. "I hope they told the recipient that I have really dry skin."
Receiving eggs from donors like Dana has become an increasingly sought-after and available option for thousands of women who cannot conceive on their own. In 1993, the last year for which the American Society for Reproductive Medicine has statistics, 135 fertility clinics were offering to retrieve eggs from donors and give them to other women, up from 26 clinics in 1988. About 80 percent of the donors were anonymous; the others were relatives or friends of the women who received the eggs.
Although the first egg donor babies were born in the mid-1980's, it was not until about five years ago, when the technique was simplified, that egg donation began to take off: of the 2,500 babies born from donated eggs through 1993, 1,000 were conceived just in that year. Individual clinics report that their numbers have continued to climb, particularly as patients discover that the success rate of this procedure can be about 50 percent.
But more than any other area of reproductive technology, egg donation raises an array of ethical concerns: whether donors are victimized, whether clinics give recipients truthful information about the donors, whether the whole process has become too commercial. The fees paid donors are rising as demand soars. Some critics are troubled at what they see as the crassness of the advertisements run by clinics and by brokers who act as intermediaries between donors and recipients.
"You can see ads for donors that say, 'We Pay Top Dollar,' and that's distasteful when you're talking about medical treatment," said Dr. Mark V. Sauer, who helped pioneer egg donation at the University of Southern California.
For recipients, egg donation is usually the end of the line. By the time most consider becoming pregnant with another woman's egg, they have descended through all the circles of infertility hell, having spent many years and thousands of dollars on inseminations, surgery and in vitro fertilization.
Most recipients are women in their late 30's to mid-40's who have an irreversible, age-related condition: their ovaries can no longer produce eggs of sufficient quality to fertilize into embryos. Other recipients may have entered premature menopause, some as early as their late 20's. And still others may carry genetic diseases or have received radiation therapy for cancer that damaged their ovaries. Even so, doctors say many such patients, whose only significant problem is their eggs, can sustain a pregnancy -- if they use a healthy woman's eggs.
The donors, by contrast, tend to be fertile women in their 20's and early 30's, who usually learn about donation from advertisements. Some are attracted by the fees; others, like Dana, have altruistic motives.
Critics of egg donation are legion. Some countries, including Germany and Switzerland, ban the procedure. The Roman Catholic Church condemns egg donation and other artificial aids to conception. Some ethicists warn that donors, usually younger and poorer than the recipients, can be exploited if they are not sufficiently counseled about medical risks or the psychological consequences of giving away their genetic material.
Arthur Caplan, a philosophy professor who is the director of the Center for Bioethics at the University of Pennsylvania, said that the field of egg donation lacks industry-wide standards. "Should donors be paid?" he asked. "What's a fair price? Who should the donors be? And who should be allowed to use the egg donor services?"
Egg recipients are also vulnerable, said Dr. Hilary Hanafin, a psychologist at the Center for Surrogate Parenting and Egg Donation in Beverly Hills, Calif. "I have no doubt that some clinics leave out information about donors, intentionally to 'dress them up' or unintentionally in their desire to get a match," said Dr. Hanafin.
For many infertile couples, egg donation is a gamble worth taking, because they can have a child who is half theirs genetically. The price of a donor egg cycle is comparable to adoption, ranging from $14,000 to $20,000, depending on the donor's fee, legal costs and the extent of medical preparation.
During a recent interview at the IVF America-Boston clinic here, Patty S., a 43-year-old accountant's assistant, merrily chased after her 18-month-old son, who was conceived here with a donor egg. "He's the joy of our lives," she said. "The donor made our lives complete. I can never thank her enough."
 
Recipients
One Last Chance To Be Pregnant
When Mary D. turned 35, she and her husband, both producers in the entertainment industry, tried to have a baby. During the next six years, they went through fertility drugs, surgery to correct endometriosis and fibroid tumors, inseminations and three attempts at in vitro fertilization. Mary said that when she was still childless at 41, "I was completely depressed and my husband was ready to give up."
Her doctor in Santa Monica, Calif., proposed egg donation, but Mary's husband initially recoiled. "He had wanted a child with me," said Mary, who, like most of the donors and recipients contacted, spoke on the understanding that only her first name and last initial would be used, to protect the privacy of her child. "He was more comfortable with adoption than having just one of us give up a genetic tie to a baby."
But Mary's interest was piqued. "Even if it wasn't my egg," she said during a telephone interview, "I really wanted to carry the baby."
Many couples agree to try a donated egg only after great anguish, hacking their way through a thicket of difficult questions: How will the mother's relationship with the child be affected by the fact that she has no genetic tie? Should the parents reveal the child's unusual heritage to grandparents? Friends? The child? And when?
"I was worried that I'd feel like an outsider," Mary said, "less connected to her than my husband and his family."
Eventually Mary and her husband decided to proceed. To them, a successful egg donation had many advantages over adoption. Mary could fulfill her dream of being pregnant and not have to worry, as she would in an adoption, about whether the birth mother had had prenatal care. They would be able to learn a lot about their donor's background and would not have to be concerned about a birth father's reclaiming the child. And a custody claim from an egg donor seemed highly unlikely; no such case has yet surfaced.
After a few months, Mary's doctor found a donor. Following the California fashion of openness, Mary and her husband met the donor for lunch. "I wanted to learn what type of person she was, her level of sincerity," recalled Mary. "We liked her immediately. She had two boys of her own and needed money for their school. She knew someone who had been infertile and she thought, if she could donate her eggs, why not?"
It took almost a month of injections and monitoring to synchronize the two women's menstrual cycles. While Mary's donor took hormone stimulants to help her produce a high number of eggs (typically between 8 and 15), Mary took hormones to thicken her uterine lining for the embryo implant. Just before the donor ovulated, the donor went to a hospital and was given anesthesia. Her eggs were removed through her vagina with a fine needle. The procedure lasted about half an hour.
That same day, the husband's sperm were mixed with the donor's eggs. Two days later, the doctor implanted five embryos in Mary's uterus. Within two weeks, Mary finally heard the news that had eluded her for six years: she was pregnant. One month shy of her 42d birthday, she delivered a 9-pound girl.
"I was thrilled to be given the opportunity to carry her," she said. "I breast-fed her for 14 months." Her fears about not being sufficiently connected to her child vanished. "My little baby needs me and I'm her Mom," she said.
Mary's and her husband's wish list for a donor was typical: someone with the wife's coloring, who was healthy, reasonably bright and "a nice person."
But many couples specify a religious or ethnic heritage. Asian-American and Jewish donors are particularly hard to find. Because of the tradition of matrilineal descent, some Jewish women believe that the donor has to be Jewish for the child to be considered Jewish. But some rabbis refute that view, saying that a child born of a Jewish womb is automatically Jewish.
Other couples, who feel stripped of control by infertility, fantasize about the perfect donor. A doctor who does egg donations recalled one couple who said, "We'd like her to look like Christie Brinkley, have graduated from an Ivy League school -- but Seven Sisters is O.K. -- and now be getting a Ph.D., although medicine or law is acceptable."
Dr. David Keefe, an infertility specialist at the Yale University School of Medicine, said he reminds couples: "What you're dealing with in genetics is potentialities. Besides, every egg from every woman is different. With any child you get dealt a card. With donor egg babies, you just may not know who the dealer was."
 
Donors
'I Feel Like A Good Soldier'
Nearly three years ago, Monica Loustalot, who is married to the property manager of a San Diego condominium complex, figured out something extra to do while staying at home caring for their two children: With her husband's wary approval, Mrs. Loustalot became a surrogate mother and then an egg donor.
"I'm comfortable with controversy," she said as she sat in the Beverly Hills offices of the Center for Surrogate Parenting and Egg Donation, an agency that helps match recipients and donors.
In 1994 she gave birth to one child for a couple, and she is now pregnant with twins for another. In between, she donated eggs to a couple who subsequently had a daughter. "No more," said Mrs. Loustalot, who is 30. "I'm maxed out." After this next birth, she thinks her body will have had enough.
"For now, this is perfect for me," said Mrs. Loustalot, a high school graduate who worked her way up through the administrative ranks of a ceramic tile company before becoming a mother. "I'm not going to just sit home and bake cookies for my kids. I can accomplish things."
The money didn't hurt -- $12,000 for the first surrogate pregnancy, $15,000 for this one and $2,000 for the egg donation -- but it was not her main motivation, Mrs. Loustalot said. At first, she said, she felt uncomfortable being paid to donate her eggs.
"But I was driving to the doctor's office in L.A. from San Diego every other day," she said, "taking my shots, going for tests, so I worked really hard at this. And I thought, everyone else who works gets compensated. Why shouldn't I?"
She is delighted that her donated eggs helped end one couple's 10-year battle with infertility. "They tried so hard to make it happen that the success is that much sweeter," she said. "And I feel like a good soldier, as if God said to me, 'Hey, girl, I've done a lot for you and now I want you to do something for Me.' "
Donors give many reasons for donating. Some want to compensate for phantom children they lost through abortions. Many had friends who suffered infertility. Some, like Mrs. Loustalot, love their children so profoundly that they want another woman to share that joy. Many younger women say: If I ever want children and have this problem, I hope someone will do this for me. The notion of women helping women runs through their language.
Many clinics seek these donors by advertising in parenting magazines, weekly Pennysavers and nursing journals, as well as general-interest publications.
And while some ethicists and feminists once predicted that a donor's fee would entice poor women to turn their reproductive capacities into a commodity, that dire forecast now seems overstated. Although donors are almost always less well-off than recipients, who tend to be older and more established in their careers, they come from a cross-section of backgrounds.
Recipients selecting a donor at the Genetics and I.V.F. Institute in Fairfax, Va., for example, would find a list of potential donors that includes students, a police officer, a lawyer, several nannies, a copy editor, a secretary and a podiatrist.
 
The Marketplace
Bidding Wars And Finder's Fees
Egg donation threatens to become a victim of its own success: as more women seek it out, more clinics have begun to offer the procedure, stoking what is becoming a bidding war for scarce donors. In California, a middle tier of entrepreneurs known as donor brokers has emerged: mostly lawyers, nurses and psychotherapists, they charge recipients a finder's fee to locate donors.
The clinics' rates for donors range from $1,500 to $3,000. But some couples and donor finders run their own ads in college newspapers, offering to pay even more. An ad that ran in The Harvard Crimson last October said: "Jewish ovum donor needed for infertile couple willing to pay a fee of $3,500 plus expenses."
Guidelines from the American Society for Reproductive Medicine, an association of fertility specialists, say a donor should not be paid for her eggs, but rather for her considerable time and effort. The fee should be fixed, the guidelines say, regardless of how many eggs she produces.
"If we don't believe in buying and selling babies, then why are we comfortable buying and selling sperm and eggs?" asked Professor Caplan of the University of Pennsylvania. "Does anyone really believe that donors are just being compensated for their time?"
Many practitioners are alarmed at the rising fees and the pall that economics may cast over donation. "A donor's motive used to be primarily altruistic but nowadays it's becoming for financial reward," said Dr. Sauer, who recently joined the Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons.
Under his stewardship, the program at Columbia follows the tradition of sperm donation, and seeks egg donors among childless college students, whom practitioners see as fertile, bright and in need of extra cash. "I'm a little uncomfortable with it," Dr. Sauer said. "I want to do it responsibly, in a way that's not exploitative."
Critics say that college students are too young to appreciate the consequences of what they are donating. And pragmatically speaking, unless they have had abortions, their fertility has not been proven. Moreover, the critics ask, how will the donors feel if years later, they try to become pregnant, only to discover that they have become infertile?
"In a perfect world, you'd have only married women with children donating," said Susan L. Crockin, co-author of the forthcoming book, "Family Building Through Egg and Sperm Donation" (Jones & Bartlett). "But you wouldn't get a lot of donors that way and you wouldn't demand it of men."
Being accepted as an egg donor is hardly automatic. Many clinics screen potential donors extensively over a series of appointments, a factor that drives up costs. The Reproductive Medicine society's guidelines say a donor must undergo thorough medical screening; the group also recommends psychological counseling. Sperm donors, by contrast, are screened medically but rarely psychologically.
There is an inherent conflict, however: Clinics have a lot to gain by persuading both donors and recipients to go through with the procedure. George Annas, a professor of health law at Boston University, said: "I don't have much faith in counseling, unless it's done by someone completely independent of the clinic. Is someone from the clinic going to say, 'Don't do this'?"
Donors face the same medical risks as recipients: Fertility drugs can cause temporary bloating, removal of the eggs may cause cramping, and at least one disputed study has suggested a slight connection between ovarian cancer and long-term use of fertility drugs.
"My job is to talk donors out of it," said Dr. Susan Cooper, a psychologist with IVF America-Boston. "That's not because we don't need them, but we want to sleep at night. They're not likely to ever forget they donated and we want that to be an experience they never regret."
Not all egg donation programs even include a psychologist. Some therapists are preparing standardized guidelines for counselors, urging them to watch for economic stability and coping skills in a donor, and to be wary of anyone with a chaotic life or who seems to have been coerced by a partner.
As a safety precaution for donors, most clinics limit them to four cycles. The guidelines of the Reproductive Medicine society also say that donors should contribute to no more than 10 live births, which reduces the chances -- already infinitesimal -- that a child would ever meet and mate with half-siblings.
 
Privacy
Fears of Demands From Strangers
While many donors agree to be contacted after the child turns 18, most want assurance that they will have no financial or familial obligation.
Donors sign consent forms releasing them from any parental rights or responsibilities. More than 30 states have laws that guarantee sperm donors their independence from any offspring, but only a handful so far have comparable laws for egg donation. Under the legal theory of equal protection, said Ms. Crockin, the sperm donation model would extend to egg donors.
While Mary D., the California entertainment producer, met her donor for lunch, Elizabeth M., a 42-year-old mother through egg donation at the IVF America-Boston clinic here, has never seen a picture of her donor and does not know her name. The clinic, however, did give her nonidentifying information about the woman.
"It was anonymous on both sides," Elizabeth said as she breast-fed her infant daughter. "But the law could change tomorrow. I'd support my daughter if she chose to try to locate the donor so long as she respected the donor's need for privacy."
Will children conceived with a donor egg someday want to meet donors, in the way that many adopted children search for birth parents? No one knows, because most donor children are under 5 years old. Much depends on whether parents even tell their children about their origins.
In trying to gauge the future, clinics around the country vary greatly in how much information about donors they give recipients. At many East Coast clinics, the matches are made by doctors and nurses. Following the model of anonymous sperm donation, they tell recipients about the donor's physical characteristics and a few other nonidentifying facts, but that is all. Donors like Dana learn nothing about the recipients, not even if they became pregnant.
These programs reflect the recipients' fears that a donor could somehow find them and claim the child, the same kind of fear often expressed by adoptive parents. Donors, in turn, do not want a stranger knocking on their door in 18 years, looking for financial or emotional succor.
Contrast that philosophy with the one at the Center for Surrogate Parenting and Egg Donation in Beverly Hills, a high-end donor broker agency that charges each recipient $6,000, which covers the agency's own fee for recruiting and screening donors as well as the donor's fee.
Each couple works with a psychologist to choose a donor from a list of about 150. The couple receives a dossier on the donor and her extended family, including photographs and her Social Security number, in case they ever need to contact her. The center urges donors and recipients to meet.
"It is much more work to do open rather than closed donation," said Dr. Elaine Gordon, a psychologist at the center. "Everyone is nervous. But afterwards, they're all so glad they did it that way. They feel more finished with it and there's no residual curiosity."
The intention of the California clinics is to echo open adoption, in which birth parents and adoptive parents meet and sometimes remain in contact. The extensive information made available allows recipients one day to tell a child a story as free of mystery as possible.
"We'll find a way to tell her," said Elizabeth. "I'm so comfortable with it that I'm not worried." Besides, that day of reckoning was still years off; just now, she was blissfully absorbed in burping her daughter.
"Egg donation is a tremendously private decision," she said, "and a couple has to be able to cross all those thresholds. We did it, and now we have this absolutely beautiful child."
 
The Fertility Market
 
YESTERDAY -- Competition for patients and top doctors drives the industry.
 
TODAY -- Increasingly, the infertile buy eggs from healthy, young women.
 
TOMORROW -- The infertile have a cul ture and a language all their own.
 
WEDNESDAY -- Bringing up I.V.F. babies.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Advertisements to recruit egg donors have led to complaints of commercialism; Monica Loustalot was a surrogate mother in 1994, then donated eggs for another couple and is pregnant with twins for a third. (Eduardo Citrinblum for The New York Times) (pg. 10)
 
Table: "Managing a Typical Egg Donation: One Cycle"
 When a donor egg is used for in vitro fertilzation, the reproductive cycles of the donor and the recipient must be synchronized. An egg donor must endure a month of tests and daily injections before her eggs are ready to by retrieved and fertilized. A recipient's uterus must be ready to accept embryos. Table provides a 42 day log chronologizing what must take place with respect to the parts of both the donor's and the recipient's reproductive cycles. (Source: Dr. Mark V. Sauer, Columby University College of Physicians and Surgeons) (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Series

TICKER: INMD (NASDAQ) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS621410 FAMILY PLANNING CENTERS (58%); NAICS541611 ADMINISTRATIVE MANAGEMENT & GENERAL MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (58%); NAICS424210 DRUGS & DRUGGISTS' SUNDRIES MERCHANT WHOLESALERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

COMPANY: INTEGRAMED AMERICA INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (90%); 

SUBJECT: REPRODUCTION (BIOLOGICAL); INFERTILITY; SURVEYS AND SERIES; IMPLANTS; ETHICS; DISCLOSURE OF INFORMATION; PRIVACY, RIGHT OF; ARTIFICIAL INSEMINATION; TEST TUBE BABIES REPRODUCTIVE TECHNOLOGY (92%); REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH CLINICS (90%); IN VITRO FERTILIZATION (90%); ETHICS (90%); FERTILITY & INFERTILITY (90%); INFANTS & TODDLERS (89%); BIRTHS & BIRTH RATES (89%); PREGNANCY & CHILDBIRTH (78%); NURSES & NURSING (78%); SEXUAL & REPRODUCTIVE HEALTH (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (77%); WOMEN'S HEALTH (77%); INFORMATION SECURITY & PRIVACY (60%); 

PERSON: HOFFMAN, JAN HILARY HANAFIN (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



206 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 9; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1440 words

HEADLINE: Study Says Equality Eludes Most Women in Law Firms

BYLINE: By NINA BERNSTEIN

 BODY:
Despite surging numbers of female lawyers, bias against women remains entrenched in the legal profession and results in steep inequities of pay, promotion and opportunity, according to an American Bar Association panel's report, the first of its kind in eight years.
"We expected that our evaluation would yield evidence of steady progress," said Laurel G. Bellows, a Chicago lawyer and chairwoman of the Commission on Women in the Profession, which produced the report. "Our predictions were, unfortunately, too optimistic. Now, we must say that the passage of time and number of women is not going to cure this problem." 
 Though women now sit on the Supreme Court, head the Justice Department and preside over the bar association itself, the stubborn barriers faced by rank and file female lawyers are reflected in pay disparities at every level of experience and in all types of legal practice, the report found. And in the profession's highest echelons, in law firm partnerships, law school faculties and on the bench, the percentage of women, while increasing, remains inexcusably low, the report says, when measured against huge increases in the numbers of qualified women.
In many respects, commission members noted, the findings fly in the face of a perception among male lawyers that the professional playing field has not merely been leveled, but has tilted in favor of women, who now comprise about 23 percent of all the nation's lawyers and nearly half of all law students.
This perception was voiced repeatedly in a male focus group at the A.B.A.'s midyear meeting in Miami, said the organization's former president William W. Falsgraf, a Cleveland lawyer who was vice chairman of the first A.B.A. Commission on Women in the Profession.
He said of the men: "Particularly the younger ones were saying, 'This has gone far enough,' and, 'We're having a heck of a time finding jobs in the law, and if we even find them they're not very good, and it's time to stop giving one group of people special consideration because we're all in trouble.' "
But studies cited by the commission suggest that in fact, women have been disproportionately hurt by the recent shrinking of law firms after a rapid expansion in the 1980's. A 1995 study of eight large New York City firms, for example, found that promotion rates for women, which were already lower than the rates for men, dropped to 5 percent from 15 percent among those who were hired after 1981 and were considered for partnership in the recessionary 1990's. Promotion rates for their male counterparts declined less, to 17 percent, from 21 percent.
Especially troubling to the commission are signs that while job opportunities are shrinking, even the slow and uncertain progress that has been made is being eroded in some areas by a resentful backlash or persistent stereotypes. From law schools come reports of women whose performance has suffered because of a resurgence of overt male hostility that recalls the early 1970's, when only 3 percent of law students were female. Income comparisons, notably a 1993 analysis by local bar associations in Colorado, suggest that though male and female lawyers now start out with equal pay, an earnings gap opens in the first year of practice and widens rapidly.
Among Colorado lawyers with only one to three years of experience, for example, the average annual income was $30,806 for women but $37,500 for men. For those with 10 to 20 years of experience, women averaged 76 percent as much as men, or $68,466 to the men's $90,574. And even as women increasingly replace men as chief legal officers of Fortune 500 companies, national surveys show female corporate counsels earning less than their male counterparts at every level of seniority, with pay gaps that range as high as 35 percent.
"What it suggests is not a glass ceiling at the end, but a process that begins right off the bat, and we're not facing that as a profession yet," said Cathlin Donnell, a veteran Denver lawyer who analyzed the Colorado data.
There are bright spots in the report. To date, a record 31.5 percent of President Clinton's appointments to the Federal bench were women, and over all his nominees received higher ratings for their qualifications than those of previous administrations. The Department of Justice is cited as a leader in creating a hospitable workplace for women, offering part-time work, job-sharing, flexible schedules and on-site child care.
"Equal opportunity for women in the law is important to all of society," Hillary Rodham Clinton, who was chairwoman of the A.B.A.'s first commission on women in 1987, said after being given an advance copy of the report on Friday. "Hopefully, the Administration is leading by example."
Jamie S. Gorelick, President Clinton's appointee as Deputy Attorney General, who spent 18 years in private practice, is not surprised that so many women are drawn to Government service. Currently, they comprise 35 percent of the executive branch's 25,000 lawyers.
"In Government we don't have any minds and talents to waste, unlike the private sector," she said. "There's an opportunity for women to show their stuff and I think that alone will have an enormous effect on the private marketplace."
But the commission report is less optimistic. In the private sector, it notes, very few lawyers -- 1 to 4 percent -- dare to take advantage of the "family friendly" policies adopted by most law firms in the last decade. Those who do often are tarred as not seriously committed to the law.
Even women who have demonstrated their commitment for a decade or more often face a combination of crude and subtle barriers to advancement, like the partner at a large national law firm whose commercial real estate client celebrated the success of a two-year leasing project she had directed by taking her male colleagues to a topless bar. Exclusion from male networks reinforces the belief that women are less effective as "rain makers," lawyers who can bring in business -- a belief used in turn to skew promotion evaluations against them, the commission found.
The gulf between visible progress and persistent bias is captured in studies of law schools in Chicago and Philadelphia that found classes in which women are effectively silenced by male students who heckle them as "femi-Nazis" and overwhelmingly male faculty who ignore them. One male professor in Chicago told students in a discussion of a Supreme Court opinion written by Justice Sandra Day O'Connor that it was written by a woman and "women always change their minds."
Estelle D. Rodgers, a commission member, said, "The status of women in the profession has changed surprisingly little in very important ways that affect people's real lives."
She recalled the testimony of a woman at the first commission hearings in 1988 who described going into labor at her top flight law firm in the middle of an important meeting with Japanese clients and making her presentation between contractions for fear of losing her credibility. Ms. Rodgers, now a lawyer with the American Civil Liberties Union in Washington, graduated from law school in 1973 and left a large private firm for public interest work after the birth of her first child in 1978.
Today's young female lawyers say that they are less willing to make extreme personal sacrifices to adapt to a work culture defined by and for white men, and that they expect employers to accommodate their life needs, the report says. But many are coming to a rude awakening.
In the commission's hearings last year a lawyer who was recently the first to give birth in a firm of 100 lawyers described how on her return from a brief, hard-won maternity leave she asked for more regular hours and instead was assigned to write all the litigation team's overnight and weekend motions.
"Once she said she needed more regular hours, a kind of baiting went on," recalled Mary Cranston, the commission's liaison representing large law firms, and herself a partner in San Francisco's Pillsbury, Madison & Sutro, long a leader in hiring and promoting women.
The good news, the report says, is that women are not giving up. Many who left law firms have formed their own, or gone to corporate law departments where they are gaining the authority to choose which outside lawyers will get company business.
"There's an old girls' network that's starting to develop," Miss Cranston said in a comment echoed across the country.
It is only by taking advantage of the power of their numbers in such ways, the report says, that women lawyers can permanently change the structure of the profession.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "A CLOSER LOOK: Women's Progress As Lawyers" shows findings of a report by an American Bar Association study. (Sources: American Bar Association; Colorado Bar Assocation and Colorado Women's Bar Assocation; The Assocation of the Bar of the City of New York)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN (ABA) AB A M WICKMANS EFTR (92%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN BANKERS ASSN (ABA) AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BAR ASSOCIATION (93%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN BANKERS ASSOCIATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: LEGAL PROFESSION; WOMEN; DISCRIMINATION; JUDGES; PARTNERSHIPS; LAW SCHOOLS; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES LAWYERS (93%); LEGAL SERVICES (92%); WOMEN (92%); LAW SCHOOLS (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); WAGE DISCRIMINATION (78%); EQUAL PAY (78%); RESEARCH REPORTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); RECESSION (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (73%); SUPREME COURTS (73%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (72%); FOCUS GROUPS (72%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (69%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (67%); 

PERSON: BERNSTEIN, NINA

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



207 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 757 words

HEADLINE: Metro Matters;
For Speaker, It's Family First Or First Family

BYLINE: By JOYCE PURNICK

 BODY:
AFTER venturing into City Hall from Queens yesterday to announce his plan for rebuilding the city's schools, Peter F. Vallone all but said that he would not -- repeat not -- be running for mayor next year. The City Council Speaker, who is on just about everyone's list of likely Democratic challengers to Rudolph W. Giuliani, might try for governor. But not mayor.
"Believe me, it's not because I don't think I can't win it, and I don't completely rule it out," the 60-year-old Councilman said, sitting in his office as the snowfall turned the scene of lower Manhattan outside his window into a temporary Currier and Ives. "But running for mayor has two negatives. One, the most important, is personal." 
 Mr. Vallone, father of three and grandfather of five, says his family comes first. "I just can't be successful unless I can go home and be nourished. I need a family life, and I don't know whether this city allows you to have one. I think you can as President. I think you can as Governor. I don't think you can do it as Mayor of the City of New York."
THE other negative is that Mr. Vallone, virtually guaranteed re-election to the Council next year, realizes that there is always a chance he could lose the mayoral race. And if he did, he'd be out of a job since you can't run for two offices at once. So if he tries for higher office, it will probably be governor, even though the candidate-hunting Edward I. Koch would like him to try to topple his nemesis, Mr. Giuliani.
The Speaker's unofficial decision is not new to insiders. Mr. Vallone told Mr. Koch about a year ago, Mr. Koch recalled, that he'd prefer to challenge Gov. George E. Pataki in 1998 -- three years before term limits would end his tenure as Speaker anyway.
Mr. Vallone's closest advisers, noting his strong identification with the Council, question whether he has a fire in his belly for another office, and doubt his ability to win votes upstate; he has never run outside his own district, and the centrist Democrat is not a household name even in the city. Many Democrats give more of a chance to other Democrats who might run for governor, including Representative Charles E. Schumer of Brooklyn and Queens, and State Comptroller H. Carl McCall.
Mr. Vallone says: "I would have thought the same thing until I looked around. Almost everybody who votes outside of the City of New York is Italian."
THE Speaker insists that his new display of energy -- including yesterday's rare Sunday news conference and tomorrow's well-publicized State of the City speech -- is unrelated to his own political ambitions. "This is essential," he said of his new plan to channel dedicated tax revenues to decaying schools. "Otherwise the city is going to die, the same as it would have died if we didn't make the city safe again."
But since Mr. Vallone runs the Council as if it were a one-room schoolhouse and he the headmaster, anything the Council does reflects directly on him and his political standing.
So far, the Council has only occasionally taken on the Republican Mayor, choosing to accommodate him more often than challenge him, especially on the all-important budget. The Speaker even sided with Mr. Giuliani over City Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi, a fellow Democrat who is trying to stop the Mayor from selling the city's water system.
The school proposal is an indication that the Council might be ready to provide an alternative to Republican budget-cutting policies of Washington, Albany and the Giuliani administration; the plan would perpetuate the income tax surcharge set to expire at the end of the year and spend the money -- used originally to expand the police force -- on the city's schools. The idea is a direct challenge to the Mayor, who has been slashing the school budget ever since he took office.
IN a way that only City Hall regulars would recognize, Mr. Vallone's decision to hold a news conference on a Sunday could signal a change, too. Sunday hours are not associated with the Speaker, who manages most days to spend only mornings at City Hall. Afternoons he generally leaves City Hall to practice law in his Queens office.
"I have a very good work ethic," Mr. Vallone says. "I get up early, and do an awful lot of work. But I do it within a budgeted amount of time." Mayors of New York seem to work 24 hours a day. "The public has come to expect that, and that's the trouble."
Mr. Vallone said he will decide officially next spring what office he will seek. Then, after answering a few more questions, he left for home.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; MAYORS MAYORS (92%); CITIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); FAMILY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); GOVERNORS (89%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); TERM LIMITS (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); PRESS CONFERENCES (73%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (72%); 

PERSON: PURNICK, JOYCE; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER); GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR) RUDY GIULIANI (77%); CHARLES SCHUMER (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



208 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 823 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE LONG VIEW;
Politicians May Be Up in Arms About Government Deficits, but Economists Aren't

BYLINE: By LOUIS UCHITELLE

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 7

 BODY:
In the midst of the debate in Washington over balancing the budget and ending the deficit, it is hard to find an economist at the annual meeting of the American Economic Association, held here this weekend, who is alarmed about the deficit as a problem today.
For most, the deficit no longer represents a national account badly out of balance and in need of quick correction to avoid imminent disaster. Instead, it has become the centerpiece in an altered debate over the role of Government. The "deficit crisis," dormant now, will re-emerge in the 21st Century, the new argument goes, as the penalty for failing to cut Government's role as a provider of Medicare and Medicaid and even Social Security. 
 Everyone agrees on one point: the deficit, the shortage of Federal revenues to pay for expenses, has fallen from 5 percent of the nation's total income in 1992 to 2.2 percent today. That is as if a homeowner with a $100,000 income and $5,000 in mortgage payments found his income three years later up to $120,000 and his mortgage payments cut to $2,600 -- a much more affordable situation.
"The people around here are content with the fact that the deficit is on a downward path today," said Robert M. Solow, a Nobel laureate in economics at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, referring to the more than 2,000 economists at the three-day convention, which ended today. "What the deficit has become now is a powerful way of saying, 'I don't want the Government to go on doing as much as it is doing.' "
Before the deficit declined as a percentage of national income, the debate at the annual conventions was much different. Heavier government borrowing to finance a rising deficit, the economists warned, raised interest rates for all borrowers. They argued that so much deficit spending raised the inflation rate, and they warned that foreigners, who were big lenders to the American Government, might stop lending, causing a financial crisis. At the very least, the foreigners, particularly the Japanese, would in time siphon off wealth in the form of huge interest payments on the loans they had made.
Now all that talk has disappeared, although the national debt -- the accumulation of all the annual deficits -- is still at a very high level, having not yet followed the deficit down as a percent of national income. What remained this weekend from the dire warnings voiced at earlier conventions was the cry for less Government spending, but with a different rationale. The new rationale, focusing economic theory on health care costs, is gradually becoming the economic framework for the political debate in Washington over a balanced budget.
The process was very much in evidence Saturday, at a crowded session in which two Republicans, Michael Boskin and John B. Taylor, Stanford University economists who had served in the Bush and Reagan Administrations, respectively, debated two Democratic economists, Rudiger W. Dornbusch of M.I.T., and Lawrence H. Summers, the Deputy Treasury Secretary.
Ever-larger outlays for Medicare and Medicaid are the real source of the deficit, Mr. Boskin and Mr. Taylor argued, and unless the rate of growth of these outlays is cut back soon by even more than the Republicans in Congress are proposing, the deficit will balloon. "We talk a great deal about balancing the budget by 2002," Mr. Boskin said, "but nary a peep about how to keep it in balance. We'll need a huge tax increase to pay for Medicare after 2002."
For the two Democratic economists, that argument amounted to an abrupt shift in income from the elderly, who would receive less Medicare, to younger Americans, who would save on taxes, and from the poor, who would get less Medicaid, to better off Americans, who would not have to pay the taxes to care for the poor. But neither Mr. Summers nor Mr. Dornbusch disputed the alarming deficit projections offered by the Republicans. And they did not challenge the concept of cutting the deficit. They argued instead for more time to make the adjustments.
Other economists at the convention disputed the projections that rising health-care costs would require such a big increase in taxes to hold down the deficit. And nearly everyone noted that if the nation could return to strong economic growth the deficit would not be a problem.
The deficit has fallen in recent years because of a temporary spurt in economic growth, and spending cuts originating in the Clinton Administration, as well as lower interest rates on debt, including Government debt.
But none of the economists saw a way of returning the nation to a sustained period of the sort of strong economic growth that characterized the 1950's and 1960's when a more robust economy promised enough tax revenue to pay all the bills without a deficit.
"The best way to solve the problem is to try to make the economy grow faster," Mr. Solow said, "but we don't really know how to do this."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ECONOMICS ASSN MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (67%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMICS ASSN AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (84%); MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FORECASTS; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; MEDICINE AND HEALTH; MEDICARE; MEDICAID; SOCIAL SECURITY (US) BUDGETS (91%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); SOCIAL SECURITY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); POLITICAL DEBATES (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INFLATION (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NOBEL PRIZES (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); MORTGAGE LOANS (72%); MEDICAID (70%); 

PERSON: UCHITELLE, LOUIS MICHAEL BOSKIN (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



209 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 1055 words

HEADLINE: In Roosevelt, School Woes Go Beyond A Takeover

BYLINE: By DOREEN CARVAJAL

DATELINE: ROOSEVELT, L.I., Jan. 5

 BODY:
The crossing between Roosevelt and Merrick is a short, wistful drive for Janie West, an eighth-grade teacher who envies the order and comfort of the wealthier suburban schools east of the Meadowbrook State Parkway.
Her own district in Roosevelt, target of the first state school takeover in the history of New York, struggles to provide basic textbooks for its largely black student body, many of whom are so poor that more than half of the district's 2,600 students qualify for free lunches. Across the parkway, the Bellmore-Merrick district spends almost 25 percent more on its students, who are more than 90 percent white and college bound. 
 "In Merrick, I see stability," said Ms. West, who makes do with 46 textbooks for her 123 students in her Roosevelt classroom. "Here, we just keep trying to do the best we can. It's not equal. You can walk right out of Roosevelt, cross the bridge and then you can see schools where they have every need met."
In the old South, segregation was once law. But in the North, housing patterns created schools segregated by race and class, a reality that makes the state's effort to make over Roosevelt an enormous challenge and perhaps -- doubters say -- an impossible task.
"This is a classically segregated suburb and grossly unequal," said Jonathan Kozol, who studied Long Island school districts for his book on American education, "Savage Inequalities." "There's no question that stability, efficient government, integrity and wise administration are crucial. But there is a pattern across the country: that de facto segregation creates school districts that are separate and unequal and poorly funded. And almost inevitably, they end up with mediocre administration."
Since the late 1960's, when Roosevelt was transformed by an exodus of white residents, the community has struggled to maintain its schools with a tax base of mostly modest one-family homes, little industry and a strip of small businesses.
In 1976, state officials arrived in Roosevelt to prevent a financial collapse when the school board revealed that the district had a $2.4 million deficit and almost defaulted on $4 million in loans. A special administrator was appointed by the State Education Department to monitor the financial planning of the district.
History repeated itself this week with the arrival of another leader, Daniel A. Domenech, a lanky, blunt-spoken administrator. He will oversee the district until elections are held to replace the five-member board that was dismissed by the State Board of Regents earlier this week.
On Friday, he stalked the halls of the junior-senior high school, shaking hands with visiting teachers and picking his way past repair crews preparing for the reopening of the school, which board members closed shortly before their removal because they said the schools lacked fire and safety certifications.
Dr. Domenech's appearance was cause for jubilation among many teachers, who were elated by the replacement of the board's president, Seretta McKnight, who they accused of micro-managing the district to the point of picking paid advisers for the high school's homecoming festival. Ms. McNight did not return phone calls seeking comment.
The teachers also blamed the board for administrative confusion and a steady reduction of administrators who performed essential tasks, like ordering textbooks for the district. Since 1992, the district has been supervised by eight different superintendents, while the high school has been led by five principals.
"We need a rational working situation," said David Carroll, a 33-year veteran teacher at the school and president of the Roosevelt Teachers Association. "That's been nonexistent."
But critics say it will be difficult to fashion a rational solution for the school district, which is part of a classic system -- seen around the country -- in which wealthier school districts can afford to outspend poorer neighboring ones.
In Hartford, Conn., civil rights lawyers appeared before the State Supreme Court in September to demand integration of Hartford's heavily minority schools with those in its largely white suburbs. In the summer, the poorer school districts on Long Island -- including Roosevelt -- unsuccessfully pressed the State Court of Appeals for a greater share of state aid because of local financing disparities.
But the court ruled that the districts, "simply do not state a claim that these disparities have caused students in the poorer districts to receive less than a sound basic education, which is all that they are guaranteed by our Constitution."
In the Roosevelt district, the elementary students perform well, with 90 percent of the third graders reading above state mean levels, said Alan Singer, an assistant professor of education at Hofstra University who has studied Roosevelt's schools. But by 10th grade, their scores plunge; last year, only 18 percent of them could pass a state test in United States history.
The solution, Mr. Singer maintained, is a consolidated district of wealthy and poor districts in Nassau County that could pool resources and raise educational standards.
"It's a sancrosant issue," he conceded. "People who moved to Nassau County schools moved to avoid populations that are different from them. I think what's being raised by the problems now is that these issues cannot be avoided. They follow you."
Dr. Domenech, however, remains optimistic that the takeover will succeed despite disparities in spending by local school districts and the pessimism of educators critical of state takeovers that have already happened in California, New Jersey and Missouri.
"I am aware of that and I frankly don't see that as a problem in Roosevelt," he said. "I see Roosevelt as a very proud community. And what I see happening is the community becoming engaged, along with the opportunity to bring resources from state and federal levels to help with the financial problems."
"I think they can bring around the school district to reach parity with others in Nassau County," said Dr. Domenech, who noted that it is unlikely that Roosevelt could challenge the schools in Great Neck, an affluent North Shore community that spends more than $16,000 a year on each student. "But they can certainly reach parity with the school district average."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Janie West, an eighth-grade teacher in Roosevelt. (Vic DeLucia/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: ROOSEVELT TEACHERS ASSOCIATION (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ROOSEVELT (NY); NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); TEXTBOOKS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); SUBURBS (89%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); UNIVERSITY ADMINISTRATION (74%); HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SCHOOL BOARDS (69%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); FINANCIAL PLANNING (66%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (65%); FIRE PREVENTION & SAFETY (61%); 

PERSON: CARVAJAL, DOREEN JONATHAN KOZOL (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



210 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 572 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL;
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position

BYLINE: By PETER PASSELL

 BODY:
Although Congress and the White House have agreed to reopen the Federal Government temporarily, uncertainty over the budget impasse remains. And the 21-day shutdown has already taken its toll on workers, home buyers, government contractors and businesses, from media giants to tourist cabins.
The Clinton Administration is estimating that the Government shutdown slowed the economy by a quarter of a percentage point in the fourth quarter of last year. The bond and stock markets took sudden dips last week as budget negotiations stalled. 
 Republicans and President Clinton seemed to make significant progress over the weekend, and if that continues, financial markets could rally. But some business executives and financial analysts are still worried that matters could get worse if the budget deadlock continues.
"If they can't get their act together in Washington, said Robert G. Liberatore, the head of the Chrysler Corporation's office in Washington, "it creates a psychology that could be very damaging to financial markets and to consumer confidence."
Rudolph Penner, a managing director of Barents Group consultants at KPMG, warned that an already sluggish economy could be stopped in its tracks by political leaders' inability to balance the Federal budget and keep the Government running. "Little shocks have a way of building," he said. "I think the economy is in a precarious position."
While such a scenario is plausible, it is not inevitable; the economy is still growing, and the Federal Reserve is apparently ready to cut interest rates enough to prevent a recession. Still, analysts who are generally inclined to discount such gloomy predictions are growing edgy. "If this lasts another month, it will be a whole new ball game," said Robert Reischauer, the former director of the Congressional Budget Office.
The initial economic effect of the Federal shutdown is akin to that of a big industrial strike or natural disaster -- devastating, but generally not long-term.
But a shutdown is less disruptive than a strike because most furloughed Federal workers, unlike many workers on strike, have both "the resources and the motivation to keep on spending," Mr. Penner said. Most are middle class, and all can look forward to recouping their lost pay.
The deeper, if less tangible, risk is from what Joseph Stiglitz, President's Clinton economic adviser, calls disruption from "a thousand pinpricks."
Taken individually, the pinprick disruptions to Government and business are of modest consequence. Collectively, though, they create a climate of business uncertainty that some think could tilt an already weak economy into a recession. Mr. Penner points to the parallels with the summer of 1990, when Iraq's invasion of Kuwait had a small tangible impact on the economy but had a negative effect on business and consumer confidence.
Under one scenario, the downturn could come with a sharp correction in stock and bond prices. Van Doorn Ooms, director of research for the Committee for Economic Development, a public policy group that reflects business interests, points out that the financial markets did not blink when Washington rolled up the sidewalks, presumably because investors remained confident that a balanced budget accord was in the works. If they lose heart, stocks could fall and businesses could face an increase in long-term interest rates of at least half a percentage point.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The partial Government shutdown has taken a toll on businesses around the nation. A paddlewheeler that takes visitors on tours of Lake Mead National Recreation Area in Arizona has been docked for the duration. (John Gurzinski for The New York Times); Larry Lazaros, the owner of a pizzeria in Philadelphia across from a Federal office building, said he had been forced to reduce employees' hours as the Government shutdown had cut his business in half. (Bill Cramer for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (50%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (69%); NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (50%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (69%); AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (50%); NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK GIANTS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); IRAQ (79%); KUWAIT (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; HOUSING; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; STOCKS AND BONDS BUDGETS (93%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); RECESSION (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (89%); BONDS (89%); CIVIL SERVICES (78%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (78%); STRIKES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (77%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (76%); BOND MARKETS (76%); PSYCHOLOGY (68%); NATURAL DISASTERS (62%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); PASSELL, PETER BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



211 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 480 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
Businesses Waiting For Federal Services

BYLINE: By LESLIE WAYNE

 BODY:
From the industry titans who are arranging the $19 billion merger of Capital Cities/ABC and the Walt Disney Company to small-business executives, like Frank Tucci, owner of El Barrio Sneakers in East Harlem, the impact of the Federal Government shutdown has been broad.
It has particularly hurt small businesses that rely on Government contracts or were awaiting loans from the Small Business Administration. 
 Gary P. Petrazzuolo, president of the Avanti Corporation in Annandale, Va., received two "stop work" orders on Government contracts to provide technical support services to the Environmental Protection Agency, which had been closed. These contracts represent 95 percent of his annual revenue of $1.5 million. With that cut in income, Mr. Petrazzuolo has been paying the salaries of his 16 employees -- $2,200 a day -- out of the $50,000 in profits from last year.
Mr. Petrazzuolo said, "We've gone through our 1995 profits and, right now, I don't know if we're going to get paid back or not."
Mr. Petrazzuolo estimates that if he were to let his employees go, it would cost the Government $600 a day in lost taxes and unemployment payments. But if he keeps them on, he could go out of business.
In East Harlem, Mr. Tucci has had to cut back the hours of some employees at his sneaker store and has halted purchases of new inventory because a $350,000 loan from the Small Business Administration has been held up. "I need this new inventory to remain competitive," Mr. Tucci said. "It would be nice if Congress would resolve this little play."
The closing of the Federal Communications Commission has delayed a number of pending telecommunications deals, including the biggest, the $19 billion acquisition of Capital Cities/ABC by the Walt Disney Company. Shareholders approved the acquisition this week.
An F.C.C. spokesman, who spoke on the condition of anonymity, said it was impossible to predict how long these deals would be delayed. "When people get back here, there will be a huge backlog -- like the pig in the python," the F.C.C. spokesman said. "That will cost the economy millions it won't get back."
Because the Commerce Department has not been giving out any export licenses -- it issues about 30 a day -- exports of goods worth an estimated $2.4 billion have been delayed since the closing began, according to Carol Hamilton, a department spokeswoman.
The closing of the E.P.A. has been felt by the marine engine industry, which has been working with the agency to come up with emissions guidelines that will be incorporated into the designs for their 1996 models, the first time this has been done. "We haven't worked on that rule for 19 days," said Loretta Ucelli, an agency spokeswoman. "It's likely the marine engine industry will miss a model year. Who knows what that will cost in specific dollars and cents?" LESLIE WAYNE

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (93%); SNPS (NASDAQ) (72%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (93%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (93%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (93%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (93%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (72%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (72%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION WALT DISNEY CO (93%); SYNOPSYS INC (72%); ABC INC (58%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); SMALL BUSINESS ADMINISTRATION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); VIRGINIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; SHUTDOWNS (INSTITUTIONAL); MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES BUDGETS (90%); PUBLIC CONTRACTING (90%); SMALL BUSINESS (90%); SMALL BUSINESS ASSISTANCE (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); MERGERS (89%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (86%); ACQUISITIONS (78%); SMALL BUSINESS LENDING (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); BUSINESS CLOSINGS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); ENVIRONMENTAL DEPARTMENTS (77%); AIR QUALITY REGULATION (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (73%); APPROVALS (73%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (73%); SHOE STORES (72%); TECHNICAL SUPPORT (71%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (68%); EXPORT & IMPORT LAW (64%); EXPORT TRADE (60%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (60%); EXPORT CONTROLS (60%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

PERSON: GARY P PETRAZZUOLO (90%); FRANK TUCCI (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



212 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 2; National Desk

LENGTH: 363 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
A Credit Crunch With Wide Effects

BYLINE: By SAUL HANSELL

 BODY:
The decision to pay Federal workers and reopen some closed agencies will help relieve the credit, bill-paying and mortgage problems of Federal workers and home buyers.
Mortgage guarantees from the Federal Housing Administration and the Veterans Administration should resume soon, although there will be a backlog. And the paying of workers will alleviate the credit and bill-paying problems. But the suspension of the two popular loan guarantee programs has already rippled through the real estate market. 
 "The stuff we thought was sold is not sold," said J.D. Williams, who runs the Century 21 real estate office in Riverdale, Md., a Washington suburb. A real estate closing he scheduled for Monday was postponed for two weeks because of delays in processing the F.H.A. loan application.
"We have to ask the seller to amend the contract to agree to delay the settlement. The buyer will have to go back to his current housing to extend, although the landlord could say no because it's already been rented. If either party gets cold feet, they can now walk away," he said.
Because Mr. Williams's real estate agency serves a large number of Government workers, inquiries from people looking to buy new houses have been down as well, he said.
Dozens of banks and credit card companies announced programs to offer easier payment terms and emergency loans to customers who had been furloughed by the Government. The Bank of Boston got 100 applications in the first two days of its program to grant interest-free, 60-day loans to furloughed workers.
"I took an application from one lady in a Government hospital, then she passed the phone to the next person," said Denise M. Parrillo, a telephone sales representative for the Bank of Boston. "I ended up talking to four people in one call."
Nationsbank, the largest bank in the Washington area, will let employees who were furloughed postpone payments without penalty for 30 days. While this forbearance program had just been introduced when Congress decided to call workers back to work, "we will leave it hanging out there, in case they are off again on the 26th," said a spokeswoman, Julie Turner. SAUL HANSELL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BAC (NYSE) (91%); BAC (LSE) (91%); 8648 (TSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (91%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (91%); NAICS533110 LESSORS OF NONFINANCIAL INTANGIBLE ASSETS (EXCEPT COPYRIGHTED WORKS) (57%); SIC6794 PATENT OWNERS & LESSORS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION; VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT BANK OF AMERICA CORP (91%); CENTURY 21 REAL ESTATE CORP (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL HOUSING ADMINISTRATION; VETERANS AFFAIRS DEPARTMENT

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; HOUSING; MORTGAGES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FINANCES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES REAL ESTATE (90%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CREDIT CRISIS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE CONTRACTS (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (78%); VETERANS (77%); RENTAL PROPERTY (77%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (76%); SALES FORCE (75%); CREDIT CARDS (73%); PAYMENT CARDS & SERVICES (69%); 

PERSON: HANSELL, SAUL

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



213 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 8, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 12; Column 4; National Desk

LENGTH: 299 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET: THE TOLL
Uncertainty Over the Budget Leaves the Economy in a Precarious Position;
In Tourism Industry, Many Are Bruised

BYLINE: By EDWIN MCDOWELL

 BODY:
From mangrove swamps in Florida to a former penitentiary off the coast of California, businesses that rely heavily on tourism have been eagerly awaiting the reopening of Federal parks and other sites.
But many concessionaires and owners of nearby businesses are angry about losses they suffered during the shutdown, losses they say they can never recoup. 
 "We're not on any interstate or main thoroughfare," said Frank Hodnett, a vice president of the Cavern Supply Company in Carlsbad Caverns National Park in New Mexico, "so to get here, you really have to want to come. And if you can't come when you want, chances are you won't come back."
Cavern Supply operates a gift shop and two restaurants in the park. While the park partially reopened last month with state and local financing, Mr. Hodnett said business had been down 40 to 50 percent.
Some business owners are bitter because laid-off Federal workers will receive back pay and benefits, but their laid-off workers have to cope as best they can.
"We had to lay off a staff of 55, including a single mother of three children," said Linda Broadhead of Boulder City, Nev., a lodge manager at the adjoining Lake Mead National Recreation Area.
Mariposa County, Calif., which contains most of Yosemite National Park, was hit hard by the shutdown, with layoffs in the private sector estimated at well over 1,000. Yosemite Concession Services, which operates the park's hotels, restaurants and tours, estimated that it had lost up to $300,000 a day from Christmas to New Year's and has lost $100,000 a day since then.
The Red & White Fleet in San Francisco, a National Park Service concessionaire for boat tours to the former penitentiary on Alcatraz island, reported a decrease of 3,000 passengers a day. EDWIN MCDOWELL

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: YOSEMITE CONCESSION SERVICES (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW MEXICO, USA (92%); FLORIDA, USA (92%); NEVADA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; WAGES AND SALARIES; LAYOFFS (LABOR); LABOR; WAGES AND SALARIES; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS; NATIONAL PARKS, MONUMENTS AND SEASHORES LAYOFFS (91%); NATIONAL PARKS (91%); TOURISM (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (90%); LODGING (90%); CIVIL SERVICES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TRAVEL INDUSTRY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); SIGHTSEEING TRANSPORTATION SERVICES (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (78%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); RESTAURANTS (74%); CHRISTMAS (74%); BACK PAY (72%); LAKES (65%); SINGLE PARENTS (52%); 

PERSON: MCDOWELL, EDWIN FRANK HODNETT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



214 of 823 DOCUMENTS


Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996
Late Edition - Final

SECTION: Section 1; Column 0; Editorial Desk; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 607 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan's Grip

BYLINE: By TIMOTHY A. CANOVA. 
Timothy A. Canova, who teaches at the University of Miami School of Law, specializes in banking and finance.

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla. 

 BODY:
The word is that President Clinton may reappoint Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve when his term expires this spring. The chairman's support of the Mexican bailout and his support for increasing the debt limit to avoid government default has helped the White House at crucial moments.
But while Mr. Greenspan may have prevented the financial house of cards from collapsing, his overall handling of monetary policy has harmed the economy. For much of the last year, the weight of indicators has shown both a sluggish economy and negligible inflation of 2.6 percent. But the Fed has reacted with a tardy gradualism. 
 Last summer and again in December, the Fed lowered short-term interest rates by a paltry one-quarter of a percentage point. Each time, Wall Street bulls pushed stock prices higher, then immediately craved another tiny fix. Optimists may hope that a vibrant stock market will lead the economy out of the doldrums, but there is a danger that the market is actually a lagging indicator and that weak earnings could burst the bubble. 
 Fed economists are aware of this possibility. Some believe that interest rates should not be lowered too much or too quickly for fear of encouraging the bubble to expand even more. But the reverse may be more likely: corporate earnings could fall too far to sustain the current stock prices, unless the Fed lowers interest rates significantly and quickly. 
 If the economy then takes a dive, we are sure to hear a drumbeat of voices blaming the Federal deficit. Mr. Greenspan, it would seem, is prepared for this scenario. In November 1995 he warned: "If, for some unforeseen reason, the political process fails, and [a balanced budget] agreement is not reached, it would signal that the United States is not capable of putting its fiscal house in order, with serious, adverse consequences for financial markets and economic growth." 
 The political establishment can be expected to react to any bad economic news with renewed demands for more fiscal austerity since the consensus for a balanced budget wrongly assumes that high deficits are the sole cause of today's high interest rates. 
 But contrary to that view and Mr. Greenspan's assertions, the nation has been keeping its fiscal house in order, with the deficits declining over the past three years. The 1992 budget deficit of $290 billion was 4.9 percent of the gross domestic product; the 1995 fiscal year deficit of $164 billion is only 2.3 percent. 
 But this decline did not stop the Fed from raising interest rates six times in 1994. Real interest rates (adjusted for inflation) began to rise dramatically in the early 1980's (from less than 1 percent to about 5 percent on long-term government securities), not because of the deficits but because of the Fed's reliance on high interest rates as the sole anti-inflation policy. 
 But persistently high real rates have retarded investment and slowed economic growth. As a consequence, governments are now burdened by much larger "passive deficits" as they collect less in tax revenues and spend more on jobless compensation and enormous interest costs on their debts. By increasing debt service costs of the private sector as well as of Federal, state and local governments by hundreds of billions of dollars a year, higher interest rates constitute the most important and most hidden of the so-called unfunded Federal mandates. 
 With economic storm clouds on the horizon, the Administration may be wary of creating an open rift with the Fed. But without a change, the Administration will remain dependent on the dubious crisis management skills of Mr. Greenspan. 

GRAPHIC: Drawing 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

DOCUMENT-TYPE: Op-Ed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

SUBJECT: US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); DEBT CEILING (77%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (62%)

PERSON: ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); BILL CLINTON (73%)

GEOGRAPHIC: FLORIDA, USA (79%) UNITED STATES (79%)

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010



215 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 3226 words

HEADLINE: Francois Mitterrand Dies at 79; Champion of a Unified Europe

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY 

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Francois Mitterrand, who revived France's Socialist Party into a modern political force and whose election as President ended decades of Gaullist rule, died this morning in his official residence here of prostate cancer. He was 79.
"It is a great figure who has left us, and I salute him with emotion and with respect," said President Jacques Chirac, a conservative Gaullist and longtime political adversary of Mr. Mitterrand, who succeeded him last May. 
 Mr. Mitterrand will be buried after a private funeral Thursday morning in Jarnac, the southwestern French village where he was born. A public Mass will be celebrated for him at the same time at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Friends said Mr. Mitterrand did not want a state funeral, but Mr. Chirac declared Thursday a day of national mourning and ordered flags to be flown at half-staff.
As President, Mr. Mitterrand embraced the cause of European unity as his intended legacy. He evidently sought in this crusade propitiation for the political sins of his youth. For most of his political career, Mr. Mitterrand kept hidden his service in the wartime collaborationist rule of Marshal Philippe Petain in Vichy, emphasizing instead his work with the Resistance, which he joined only at the end of 1943.
It was only in the twilight of his life, after one of his most notorious former associates -- a Vichy police officer -- was accused of deporting thousands of French Jews to German camps, that Mr. Mitterrand allowed a biographer to disclose the details of his own time as a Vichy bureaucrat.
He dedicated his 14-year presidency, the longest since the Fifth Republic was established in 1958, to building a more united Europe on the foundation of close Franco-German relations.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, his closest ally, led the first of many tributes by European leaders today. "Europe has lost a great statesman in Francois Mitterrand," he said. "I am mourning a good friend."
Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, now Lady Thatcher, said that while their political views were very different, she liked and respected Mr. Mitterrand. "Over his many years as President, and by his bearing and his culture, he seemed to symbolize for the rest of the world something of the essential France," she said.
In the United States, former President George Bush said he would remember Mr. Mitterrand "for his love of France, his pride, his extraordinary sweep of history and the fact that he put value as we did on the strength of the relationship" between France and the United States.
Though weakened by his illness, Mr. Mitterrand had spent the Christmas holidays in Aswan, in southern Egypt, with his wife, Danielle, and the former President's daughter from outside the marriage, Mazarine Pingeot.
They, the Mitterrands' two sons, Mr. Mitterrand's brother Robert and other relatives were with him when he died at 8:30 A.M. today in his official apartment near the Ecole Militaire on the Left Bank, according to his doctor, Jean-Pierre Tarot.
Mr. Mitterrand's election to the first of two terms in 1981 crowned his singlehanded revival of the French Socialist Party, which he had headed for more than a decade.
The first Socialist to lead his country since Leon Blum in the 1930's, Mr. Mitterrand was elected President on his third try, having lost to De Gaulle in 1965 and Valery Giscard d'Estaing in 1974, both by narrow margins.
In 1981, he solidly defeated Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, partly through support in the runoff of the French Communist Party, whose opposition to Mr. Mitterrand in the first round of the election led to their worst showing at the polls in 45 years.
Mr. Mitterrand's election represented the biggest shift in French politics since the end of World War II. Mr. Mitterrand was the first non-Gaullist to occupy Elysee Palace in the brief history of France's Fifth Republic, and tens of thousands of Parisians celebrated his victory far into the night, marching along the Boulevard Beaumarchais singing the "Marseillaise" and holding a rally at the Bastille.
But if Mr. Mitterrand's election elated his supporters, it produced apprehension in Washington, London and Bonn, where fears arose that the new Socialist President would allow the Communists too strong a voice in a leftist French coalition. But Mr. Mitterrand managed to marginalize the Communist influence and the party returned to the opposition in 1984 and were never again the force they once were.
In his first months in office, Mr. Mitterrand and the new National Assembly, in which the Socialists and leftist parties had a majority, nationalized banks and major industries, raised the French minimum wage, and increased government spending.
But these efforts failed to halt unemployment and rising inflation and French voters began to have second thoughts about the Socialist's policies. When control of the National Assembly was returned to the rightist parties in 1986, Mr. Mitterrand tried to work with a Prime Minister from the opposition, Mr. Chirac. This attempt at "cohabitation," as Mr. Mitterrand called it, ended as enough of a success that Mr. Mitterrand was re-elected President two years later.
Pragmatic centrism rather than doctrinaire socialism characterized much of Mr. Mitterrand's 14-year tenure.
He considered among his greatest accomplishments the abolition of the death penalty in the first year of his presidency and a policy of steady decentralization, which gradually returned authority to the regions, which had been ruled tightly from Paris since before the French Revolution.
Mr. Mitterrand's presidency was also marked by grand public works that changed the face of Paris, including a gigantic square-edged modern arch at the city's western portals, a modern opera house at the Bastille, and a vast new National Library built on the eastern side at the end of his second term.
But of all of his legacies to the city, he was proudest of the revitalization of the Museum of the Louvre, a project capped by the construction of a new entrance under a frame-and-glass pyramid designed by I. M. Pei and placed in the palace's western courtyard.
 
Political Smorgasbord
Disciple of Voltaire In a United Europe
Mr. Mitterrand was a complex figure who had been a conservative lawyer from the Cognac region of western France.
A disciple of traditional French literature and thought, Mr. Mitterrand possessed a skill with words. "I observe -- and I write," he said in one of his dozen books. "I like the written word. Language, philology, grammar. I believe that real literature is born from the exact correspondence of word and thing."
Mr. Mitterrand said his greatest intellectual hero was Voltaire, the essence of French wit, intelligence and republican spirit. For him France's greatest villain was Charles de Talleyrand, who directed French foreign policy for kings, revolutionaries, and Napoleon Bonaparte alike. "He sold out France -- to everybody," was Mr. Mitterrand's withering judgment.
Mr. Mitterrand said he believed that close cooperation between France and Germany was the keystone of European unity, and the Socialist French leader established close ties with Helmut Kohl after he became Chancellor of West Germany in 1982.
Their relationship came under strain with the collapse of the Berlin Wall in late 1989 when Mr. Kohl pressed ahead, too vigorously for Mr. Mitterrand's taste, toward Bonn's goal of reunification in 1990. Keeping Germany committed to a more closely integrated Europe, a goal that coincided with Mr. Kohl's vision, became the centerpiece of Mr. Mitterrand's strategy to preserve French influence despite Germany's greater economic strength.
After German reunification, Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Kohl were the two principal architects of the treaty signed in the Dutch city of Maastricht in late 1991 that created the European Union out of the European Community, itself an expansion of the old Common Market. The tie between the two leaders remained unbroken, and they remained close friends.
Mr. Mitterrand's efforts to restore France's stature in world affairs reflected the fact that the French had never fully adjusted to the breakup of the French empire that followed World War II.
Echoing De Gaulle, Mr. Mitterrand insisted that France was still a great power, with a vast sphere of influence in its former colonial domains in Africa and other Francophone countries around the world. He supported the independent nuclear deterrent De Gaulle established, carrying out even more atomic weapons tests -- 86 -- than the General had permitted.
Also like De Gaulle, Mr. Mitterrand had no fear of telling off the United States when he thought it was wrong. In this he was often encouraged by his wife, the former Danielle Gouze, whom he married in 1944 and who was active in political causes of her own.
One of Mrs. Mitterrand's interests was Cuba, which she visited often and whose leader, Fidel Castro, she befriended. She persuaded her husband to invite Mr. Castro to Paris for a visit in early 1995, an occasion Mr. Mitterrand used to describe the continuing American embargo of Cuba as "stupid."
One of the high points of French-American cooperation in the Mitterrand era came in 1991 when France sent troops to join the American-led coalition that drove Iraq out of Kuwait during the Persian Gulf war.
France also sent thousands of troops to serve with the United Nations force in the Balkans and Mr. Mitterrand himself made a dramatic and daring visit to Sarajevo in June 1992 that opened the way for an international airlift to the Bosnian capital.
 
Early Years
From Vichy To the Resistance
Francois Maurice Marie Mitterrand was born on Oct. 26, 1916, in the town of Jarnac, near Cognac, the brandy-distilling center, one of eight children of Joseph Mitterrand and Yvonne Lorrain. His father was an employee of the Paris-Orleans railroad company who later went on to become a businessman and an executive of Marcel Dassault's group of aviation companies, a mainstay of the French defense industry.
Strongly influenced by his Roman Catholic upbringing, Mr. Mitterrand attended the College Saint-Paul in Angouleme, a religious school not far from his home in Jarnac, before moving to Paris to study law and political science.
Much of his political activity between the time he arrived in Paris as a student in 1934 and the time he emerged as a member of the Resistance to Nazi occupation in 1943 were until recently shrouded in mystery.
But later in life, as if wanting to set the record straight before his death, he collaborated with a writer named Pierre Pean on "A French Youth: Francois Mitterrand 1934-1947."
The book, published in 1994, was a revelation. The young Mr. Mitterrand, it turned out, had not been a socialist dreamer but an ultraconservative French nationalist who joined a paramilitary group, the League of National Volunteers.
After the League of National Volunteers was banned by the government authorities, the young Mr. Mitterrand flirted with other ultranationalist paramilitary groups, Mr. Pean wrote, but did not join them.
Sent to the front as an army sergeant after the war broke out in 1939, Mr. Mitterrand was wounded by a shell explosion in June 1940 and taken to a prison camp near the city of Kassel, Germany, from which he escaped at the end of 1941.
With France under Nazi occupation, Mr. Mitterrand initially sought to help the collaborationist Government of Marshal Petain in Vichy. He worked initially as a minor official of its commissariat for repatriated prisoners of war.
Mr. Pean wrote that he found no evidence that Mr. Mitterrand had had anything to do with the anti-Semitic measures taken by the Vichy government, and Mr. Mitterrand told the author, "I didn't think about the anti-Semitism" when he was employed by Vichy.
Toward the end of his life, Mr. Mitterrand told Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and a Holocaust survivor, in a book the two of them published in April of 1995, "Memoirs in Two Voices," that seeing French Jews forced to wear a yellow star was one of the things that turned him against the Vichy Government.
After the war, he became friendly with the former Secretary General of the Vichy police, Rene Bousquet, who was responsible for the deportation of thousands of French Jews to Germany's death camps. Mr. Bousquet was charged with treason but acquitted in 1949. Mr. Mitterrand told Mr. Wiesel that he met Mr. Bousquet then and continued to see him until 1986, when he again came under investigation for committing war crimes.
Mr. Bousquet was charged anew in 1991 for ordering the deportation of more than 2,000 French Jews in 1942. He was assassinated by Christian Didier, a writer whom the police described as "deranged," in June 1993, before he came to trial.
 
Changing Sides
A Political Game Of Musical Chairs
It was not until after receiving "La Francisque," Vichy's highest civilian medal, for his work with the former prisoners of war, that Mr. Mitterrand became disabused, in 1943, of the notion that a collaborationist government could preserve French independence.
He switched his loyalties and offered his services to the anti-Nazi Resistance movement, journeying to London and then to Algiers in December 1943 for a meeting with General De Gaulle, who asked him to forge a single former prisoners' organization from those of the Resistance, the Communists and the one he had run for Vichy.
After the liberation of Paris in August 1944, he served as secretary general of the Organization of Prisoners of War, War Victims and Refugees in De Gaulle's first postwar provisional government. He then established a newspaper and began a political career that would not be tied to the fortunes of the General.
"After the war, a man of my age didn't know where to go," he said later. "I did not feel like a man of the right, because I disagreed with certain points, especially on social justice. I was tempted by socialism, but not by the parties that represented it."
He won election to the new National Assembly in 1946 as a member of a center-left party from the Nievre constituency, a largely hilly department in central France. He held this Assembly seat until 1958, when De Gaulle formed the Fifth Republic.
It was a time when governments rose and fell frequently, and Mr. Mitterrand maneuvered into a variety of cabinet posts under a succession of prime ministers. In 1954 and 1955, he held the key post of Minister of the Interior in the Cabinet of Pierre Mendes-France, and in 1956 and 1957, he held the Justice portfolio under Guy Mollet.
After the foundation of the Fifth Republic, Mr. Mitterrand formed a center-left opposition to De Gaulle and he was soon recognized as the principal political threat to Gaullism. Mr. Mitterrand ran unsuccessfully against De Gaulle in 1965 as the candidate of the left, uniting the socialists and the Communists. By winning 32 percent of the vote on the first round, Mr. Mitterrand forced De Gaulle into a runoff, which De Gaulle won narrowly.
But it was not until 1971 that Mr. Mitterrand took over as leader of the Socialist Party, which had won barely 5 percent of the vote in the previous elections. He reorganized the party and forged tactical alliances with the Communists to increase its appeal to French voters.
He ran for President again in 1974 and lost by a narrow margin to Mr. Giscard d'Estaing. But seven years later, in a major upset, he defeated him with 51.76 percent of the vote.
 
At Elysee
Fear and Trembling By the Bourgeoisie
Mr. Mitterrand was elected to his first term by voters who had warmed to his words about solidarity and human generosity and to the socialist agenda, including economic growth, the creation of jobs, and the redistribution of wealth. His social policies ranged from reducing the price of false teeth to providing greater protection for tenants.
But as President, he seemed initially to be more dogmatic. His Socialist-Communist coalition set about nationalizing banks and big industries and frightening France's moneyed classes so badly that many of them sold their luxury apartments in Paris and sought refuge abroad for families and fortunes.
But the measures failed to achieve economic gains and they weakened the franc. Many wage earners saw their purchasing power decline. Unemployment rose. Before long, public opinion polls were indicating that Mr. Mitterrand's policies, including his austerity measures, had become highly unpopular.
Four decades in the hurly-burly of French politics had taught Mr. Mitterrand flexibility and brought him a reputation as a pragmatist. After the economy deteriorated, he changed policies.
By 1984, the French Communist Party broke with Mr. Mitterrand, and in early 1986, the Socialists lost control of the National Assembly. Mr. Chirac, the head of the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic, became Prime Minister.
For the remainder of Mr. Mitterrand's first term as President, he shared power uneasily with Mr. Chirac, who retained the Prime Minister's post until 1988, when he unsuccessfully challenged Mr. Mitterrand for the presidency. The dual arrangement -- known as "cohabitation" -- added to the blurring of distinctions between the left and the right in French politics.
By the end of his first term, Mr. Mitterrand and the Socialist Party had substantially softened their economic views. They were no longer pledged to nationalizing major industries. In other economic spheres, their economic doctrine contained only small differences from the free-market liberalism of Mr. Chirac.
During the re-election campaign, it was Mr. Mitterrand who presented himself successfully as the soul of caution and legitimacy. By the time he was re-elected President, his popularity had rebounded, and his personal following was far larger than that of his party.
Despite that success, Mr. Mitterrand was dogged by many other problems. They included the growth of the far-right in French politics and a considerable degree of disorientation, within the French populace, that stemmed from the end of the cold war.
In March 1993, the Socialists were trounced in parliamentary elections by a conservative coalition, and from then until the end of his second term in May 1995, Mr. Mitterrand was again forced to co-habit with an opposition Prime Minister, Edouard Balladur.
In September 1992, Mr. Mitterrand had undergone surgery for prostate cancer and seemed to recover well. But after a second operation in July 1994, followed by chemotherapy, he began to look pale and drawn.
To the end, Mr. Mitterrand maintained his habit of speaking in long sentences peppered with references reflecting his traditional education in Latin and Greek.
For all his erudition, Mr. Mitterrand's personal style was simple. After taking office as President, and thereby becoming master of Elysee Palace on the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore, he continued to live relatively modestly in his home on the Rue de Bievre on the Left Bank.
He is survived by his wife; their sons, Jean-Christophe, a consultant, and Gilbert, a law professor and socialist politician in Aquitaine, and a daughter from outside the marriage, Mazarine Pingeot, a student at the Ecole Normale Superieure. He is also survived by two brothers and four sisters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Francois Mitterrand. (Reuters) (pg. 1); The political life of former President Francois Mitterrand of France, who died yesterday, was one of remarkable transformations. Clockwise, from left: After army service in World War II, he worked for the collaborationist Vichy government before joining the Resistance in 1943. After building the Socialist Party in the 1950's and '60's, he campaigned successfully for President in 1981. An avid reader, he lost himself in a book as he posed for sculpture in 1983. A proponent of the Western alliance who sent French troops to the Persian Gulf war and to Bosnia, he met with Chancellor Kohl of Germany and President Clinton in 1993. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); EGYPT (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: SOCIALIST PARTY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIALIST PARTY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); EGYPT (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS BILL CLINTON (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



216 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Ford Says More Buyers Behind On Automobile Loan Payments

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The number of Americans who are behind on their car payments is rising, a senior executive at the Ford Motor Company said tonight.
Edsel B. Ford 2d, the president and chief operating officer of the Ford Motor Credit Company, said that the car finance unit had recently noticed a 10 percent increase in the number of its delinquent accounts, which include car loans and leases. The finance company declares a debt to be delinquent if a payment is 30 or more days overdue. 
 Mr. Ford minimized the implications of the rising delinquencies for the Ford Motor Company. "We ought to worry about it, because it's a concern, but we ought not to go into a panic about it," he said.
Many banks and consumer loan companies have experienced higher levels of delinquencies in recent months. Mr. Ford, a great grandson of Henry Ford, said that about half the increase at his company reflected current economic conditions, notably the high level of consumer indebtedness, and half reflected his company's recent move to lend more money to customers with riskier credit histories.
Mr. Ford declined to give precise figures on delinquencies at Ford but said that, in general, the company seldom has more than one-half of 1 percent of its accounts that are 90 or more days overdue. He spoke to reporters after giving a speech tonight at the Automotive News World Congress here, a trade conference.
In other comments, Mr. Ford dismissed recent reports that his family, the largest shareholder in Ford, was unhappy with its chairman, Alexander Trotman, over the company's stagnant stock price and high product-development costs.
Some auto industry analysts and executives at other car companies have expressed worries recently that cars are becoming too expensive for too many American families to afford. Last week, Mr. Trotman dismissed the question of affordability, but Mr. Ford said tonight that "from any point of view, the market has become very price-sensitive."
And today, Ross Roberts, a Ford vice president and general manager of the Ford division, said the company was planning to introduce a new round of price incentives to spur sales. He declined to say whether the incentives would be offered to buyers of the new Taurus and Sable models, which have been selling slower than expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (72%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CREDIT; RENTING AND LEASING CONSUMER LENDING (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; FORD, EDSEL B 2D HENRY FORD II (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



217 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1665 words

HEADLINE: Second Thoughts on India;
Enron Project on Track, but Policy Doubts Remain

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Jan. 8

 BODY:
When the Government of Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao began dismantling India's socialist economic system and replacing it with free-market policies in 1991, the country's image in corporate board rooms around the world underwent a striking transformation.
As recently as last summer, corporate leaders like Michael D. Eisner, chairman of the Walt Disney Company, were adding their voices to the chorus of Western executives who have described a new India -- with at least 130 million middle-class consumers among its 930 million people -- as the world's most promising market. 
 But recent events have caused a sobering reassessment.
"India seems to have a knack for shooting itself in the foot," said Claude Smadja, an economist who follows the country for the World Economic Forum, based in Geneva. At a conference last month in New Delhi, Mr. Smadja joined other participants in urging the Rao Government to push the changes forward after a year in which little new was done to overhaul an economy still poised uneasily between a socialist past and a free-enterprise future.
"It's time to stop talking about 'India's huge potential' and to start realizing it," Mr. Smadja said.
On Monday, India went part of the way toward meeting concerns about the economic changes when the state government of Maharashtra agreed to revive the largest single foreign investment ever made here, a power plant south of Bombay that is to be built by an American consortium led by the Enron Corporation of Houston. The cancellation of the project in August, after Enron and its partners had spent $300 million, sent warning signals around the world about the uncertainties of doing business here.
But to many who worry about India's economic policies, getting the Enron project back on track was only a start. While the country has avoided a protracted legal battle by Enron to recover its losses from Maharashtra, the lessons that seem likely from the affair will hardly be positive.
As the cost of getting the cancellation reversed, for example, Enron and its partners in the Dabhol Power Company, the Indian subsidiary that is to build the plant, were forced to reconfigure the project to cut $300 million from the original price tag of $2.8 billion. Some fear that the step could set a precedent for other state governments that want signed contracts revised.
Also, the Enron controversy is only one issue dogging India's economy. While the revival of the power plant was being negotiated in Bombay, Finance Minister Manmohan P. Singh, who has been the chief architect of the free-market changes, conceded that the Government had run out of steam in its eagerness to make India competitive with its fast-developing Asian neighbors. Nor can Mr. Singh, or anyone else, say with any confidence when the process of change will start rolling again.
Starting almost a year ago, Mr. Rao, who has feared a backlash against the changes in a general election to be held in April, signaled that there would be no big new steps toward overhauling the economic system until after the voting. Nonetheless, opinion polls in recent months have suggested that the ruling Congress Party could lose the election to opposition groups that have ambiguous attitudes about the changes, including Hindu nationalists and leftists who have threatened to restrict foreign investment and to defer other moves.
At meetings around the country, Mr. Singh has sounded a valedictory note. "The reforms do not depend on one man," he has said. And he has urged skeptics to look beyond the election to what he calls an unstoppable process. "There has been a sea change in the minds of Indians in the past four years," he said recently. "I think foreign investors know that there is a new India in the making."
Like Mr. Rao, Mr. Singh, a former governor of India's central bank, was a late convert to market economics. But on his first day as Finance Minister in June 1991, he told Mr. Rao that India could only avert default on $90 billion in foreign debt by opening the economy. Since then, the two men have pushed through changes that have allowed foreign companies to own up to 100 percent of a business in India, slashed maximum import duties from 300 percent to 50 percent and cut corporate taxes to levels comparable to those of other Asian countries.
Other key changes have rolled back a system of licensing under which New Delhi made vital decisions for virtually every business on the size of work forces, the scale of investments and the type and volume of products. Industries that were Government monopolies, like power generation, have been opened to competition; in the airline industry, a small group of private carriers has already taken 40 percent of domestic passenger traffic from the Government-owned Indian Airlines. Insurance, a state-owned industry with labor unions wary of job losses, is one of the few big industries still closed to foreigners.
Mr. Singh also offers an economic score card that he says reflects the benefits India has already gained from the changes: a 1994 growth rate of 6.2 percent, up from 1.5 percent in 1991; gains in industrial production of 10 percent annually, up from near-stagnation levels, and lower inflation and Government deficits. And $3 billion in foreign equity investments in the last two years has doubled all the foreign investments in India between 1947 and 1991.
But many Indians say the halt in the free-market changes has come as the most difficult part, dismantling some of the most stubborn parts of the socialist legacy, still lies ahead.
"When is the Government going to put its foot down and say, 'This cannot go on'?" said an exasperated Abhaykumar N. Firodia, chairman of Bajaj Tempo Ltd., a producer of commercial vehicles that lost 21 of 25 working days at a plant in Madhya Pradesh state in November because a state electrical utility -- part of a national network of Government-owned power companies -- could not generate enough electricity to run the plant.
In fact, the Enron project was intended to kick-start a Government program for drawing private investment to meet India's estimated need to triple power production by 2007.
Before today's official revival of the project, it had been mothballed for five months, at a loss to Enron and its partners that they estimate at $250,000 a day. After weeks of internal wrangling, the state government in Maharashtra settled for terms not much different than Enron offered last fall, after the project was canceled. In the meantime, the two Hindu nationalist parties that form the state government used the issue as a political football, telling voters that Enron and other American companies looking at Indian markets needed to be "taught a lesson" about not exploiting India.
India's chronic power problems are but one of the difficulties that make it a museum for outdated economic practices. The country's best-selling car is the Hindustan Ambassador, produced in a Government-owned plant in Calcutta. But the car is a barely updated version of Britain's 1951 Morris Oxford. And only eight million people have telephones, while at least 20 million others wait for connections.
And because of an uncontrolled birth rate that has nearly tripled the population since 1947, proportionately as many people -- 350 million, by Government estimates -- live in poverty as when British rule ended.
Despite all this, many powerful groups are allied to the opposition political parties in their effort to slow down the changes. Armies of officials in government offices, banks, ports, airports and railway stations maintain a tangled bureaucratic system that makes even the former Soviet Union look efficient. And powerful labor unions have flexed their muscles to insure that more than 240 state-owned industries, nearly half of them big loss-makers for years, escape privatization.
Some examples are almost farcical: The Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation, owned by the Government, has employed 1,550 people at a technically flawed plant that opened at a cost of $1.2 billion near Calcutta in 1979. But it has yet to produce a pound of fertilizer or anything else marketable.
Many foreign companies that came into India in the rush after 1991 have also begun to learn that things taken for granted in other countries are absent in India. Even Mr. Singh, the Finance Minister, has acknowledged the "appalling state" of the country's economic infrastructure. Cargos sit on docksides for weeks for lack of rail cars, ports are antiquated and roads are a nightmare.
While these factors have been enough to deter some foreign companies, others are bullish on India. Last week, the Ford Motor Company became the latest of scores of American corporations to place its bet, announcing a tentative agreement on a joint venture with an Indian vehicle maker, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., to build a car plant in Madras. Eventually, the two companies see an investment of up to $700 million and production of up to 100,000 vehicles a year.
In choosing Madras, the capital of Tamil Nadu state in southern India, Ford settled on a site that illustrated many of India's strengths and drawbacks. The Tamil Nadu government, led by a former movie star, Jayalalitha Jayaram, is widely considered one of India's most corrupt, and has been accused by opponents of using violence, including acid-throwing, against those who cross it. But Madras also has a surplus of engineers and other professionals, and is the hub of an auto parts industry that began before World War II.
"We have made a strategic decision, and it is simple: to be in India," said John Parker, a Ford executive who will be managing director of the venture, which is expected to start production in 1998. Ford joins other foreign auto makers, including General Motors, Honda Motor of Japan, Fiat of Italy and Daewoo of South Korea, that have announced plans to build vehicles here to compete for a fast-growing car market.

GRAPHIC: Photos: About 350 million people in India live in poverty. Many live in squatters' camps like this one in New Delhi.; Despite chronic power problems, bad roads and a tangled bureaucratic system, some American companies are still drawn to the Indian economy. (Photographs by John Giannini for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Imports," "Foreign Direct Investment," and "Growth in G.D.P." show India's figures from 1990 to 1994. (Source: The World Bank group; Confederation of Indian Industry) (pg. 47)
 
"A Bumpy Ride" shows the changes in the value of a $10,000 investment in the closed-end India Growth Fund shares from 1988 to 1995. (Source: Morningstar) (pg. 48)
 
Map of Maharashtra, India: An Enron project in Maharashtra has been revived, with changes. (pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); 

COMPANY: ENRON CORP ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (85%); WALT DISNEY CO (84%); WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; MAHARASHTRA STATE (INDIA); INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TRENDS (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; RAO, P V NARASIMHA (PRIME MIN) P V NARASIMHA RAO (92%); MICHAEL D EISNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



218 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Japan Coalition Names Candidate Likely to Become Premier

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The governing coalition today selected Ryutaro Hashimoto as its candidate for Prime Minister, virtually assuring that he will be chosen by Parliament on Thursday to head the Japanese Government.
Mr. Hashimoto, the Trade Minister and president of the Liberal Democratic Party, Japan's dominant political party, would succeed Tomiichi Murayama, who announced his resignation on Friday. 
 The three parties in the governing coalition have almost no policy positions in common, but they have agreed on a vague platform that is supposed to guide Mr. Hashimoto's administration.
The platform calls for "the realignment and reduction" of American military bases in Okinawa, and seeks "visible results within a year" in reducing the burden of the bases on the people of Okinawa.
Despite urging from the Socialists, however, the platform does not make any specific commitment to curtailing the bases, which Mr. Hashimoto tends to support. The platform expresses support for the Japan-United States security treaty, which is the underpinning of the bases.
The security treaty and the bases have been sharply criticized within Japan in the last few months, particularly since the rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan girl, for which three American servicemen have been charged, focused attention on the hostility that many Okinawans feel for the bases.
The coalition refused to include a reference in the platform to Mr. Murayama's apology in August for Japanese aggression in World War II. The result may be to raise anxieties elsewhere in Asia about whether Mr. Murayama's speech, the most direct apology any Japanese leader has ever given for brutality during World War II, really represents Japan's thinking.
Instead, the platform struck a compromise by leaving out any reference to Japanese aggression during the war, and instead including an ambiguous phrase about "learning the lessons of the past."
Tonight, Mr. Hashimoto shook hands with the leaders of the other two parties in the coalition -- Mr. Murayama and Masayoshi Takemura of the New Party Sakigake -- and pledged to do his best if elected Prime Minister.
"I'm very grateful for this," Mr. Hashimoto told reporters. "I'll do my best to build trust among the parties in the coalition."
Mr. Hashimoto said that the economy was slowly improving, a point that the coalition has emphasized in rejecting calls for new general elections.
"I don't think we need new elections before the fall," Koichi Kato, the secretary general of Liberal Democratic Party, said tonight.
New elections do not have to be held for another 18 months. But many people have been angered by the prospect of the Prime Minister's office being turned over to the leader of another party without consulting the voters.
The leadership of the New Frontier Party, the main opposition group, tried a new strategy today to demand immediate new elections. The party leadership tried to get all of its 170 members of Parliament -- one-third of the total -- to resign en masse to dramatize its protest against the change in prime ministers without an election.

 The strategy failed. One faction in the New Frontier Party, led by former Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, resisted the idea and it was dropped at least for now.
The failure of the effort underscores the cracks in the opposition and represents a defeat for Ichiro Ozawa, the president of the New Frontier Party. Mr. Ozawa, who will be the main candidate running against Mr. Hashimoto when the Parliament selects a new Prime Minister on Thursday, had to settle for new demands that the Parliament be dissolved and new elections called.
The governing coalition responded by repeating its accusations that the New Frontier Party is a front for a religious organization, Soka Gakkai. A Buddhist group, Soka Gakkai supports the New Frontier but is regarded by many Japanese as a cult.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW FRONTIER PARTY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW FRONTIER PARTY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; OKINAWA AND OTHER RYUKYU ISLANDS; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); MILITARY OFFENSES (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN); MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI (PRIME MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (94%); TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



219 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: As the N.A.A.C.P. Regroups, Many Blacks Doubt its Relevance

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES 

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 5

 BODY:
As the host of a call-in show on New Orleans's major black radio station, Bill Rouselle knows what people in this city's African-American community have on their minds.
Daily, Mr. Rouselle hears their views on education, politics, relations with the police and a variety of other issues. But, one subject almost never comes up: the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
 "It's not a relevant organization to most of those people," he said.
Rocked by scandal and mired in debt, the N.A.A.C.P. board has revamped its leadership in the past year and pledged to restore the organization to prominence. It elected Myrlie Evers-Williams, the widow of the slain civil rights worker Medgar Evers, as its new chairwoman, and it replaced Benjamin F. Chavis Jr. with Representative Kweisi Mfume, a Maryland Democrat, as executive director.
But as the new hierarchy takes over the 86-year-old civil rights organization and tries to revitalize it, it must confront the sobering fact that many blacks have questions about the N.A.A.C.P.'s purpose in today's world and its relation to their daily lives. Indeed, interviews with more than a score of black people in this city, which once served as a kind of staging area for civil rights volunteers who worked in tough areas like the Mississippi Delta, found that when people consider the N.A.A.C.P. at all, it often is in the past tense.
Ronnie Burns, 44, owner of Quick Courier Services, the largest black-owned courier company in Louisiana, said: "When I think about the N.A.A.C.P., what I think about is the struggle that a lot of African-Americans have gone through and the sacrifices they made so that people like myself are able to own a business, run a business and compete in corporate America."
Asked what he thought of the group's new leadership, Mr. Burns said, "The new leader? Is it still Ben Chavis?"
Like Mr. Burns, many interviewed have not closely followed the internal struggles that have wracked the organization since disclosures in 1994 that Mr. Chavis had committed the organization's money to forestall a sexual-harassment and sex-discrimination suit by a former employee. In part, the lack of knowledge of the organization reflects a natural inattention of people busy with their daily lives. In part, it reflected a sense of alienation resulting from the group's recent travails.
"I know they had a scandal going on sometime last year with some lady that Chavis had employed," said Herbert Gilson, 44, a plumber with the local housing authority. "After that, I just deleted them out of my mind."
For some, particularly the young and the poor for whom the organization often says it speaks, the lack of familiarity with the N.A.A.C.P. was jarring.
"I've never heard of them," said Lucinda Carter, a 20-year-old mother on welfare.
Asked about the group's new leaders, Melvin Scott, 47, a construction worker looked perplexed and thought for a moment. Nearby, one of his buddies, who would not give his name, tried to help out. "It's a lady," the friend said in a stage whisper. "Husband got shot in Mississippi. I'm trying to give you a hint."
Even among some familiar with the organization there seemed to be questions about the need to be a part of it.
"Not yet, not yet," David Thomas, 17, a freshman at Southern University's New Orleans Campus, when asked if he was a member. "I've always been able to deal with my life. I think I can provide for myself. I may join later on in my life, but not right now. I've got college right now."
To be sure, among many blacks active in business and politics, the selection of Mr. Mfume as president and chief executive, drew praise. As the former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, he is viewed as someone who would bring to the organization a measure of political acumen they say has been sorely missing in recent years.
"If he calls he's going to get a response," said Mayor Marc H. Morial, 38, of New Orleans, whose father Ernest Morial was president of the local N.A.A.C.P. branch in the 1960's and a New Orleans mayor in the '80s. "If he calls, people are going to know he's not calling with some foolishness -- that it's something that's going to have a sense of political sophistication."
As president of Louisiana's largest black-owned bank, Alden McDonald, has worked in the past with Mr. Mfume who, when the Democrats were in control, served on the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee.
"He's been very helpful to the minority banking industry, minority contractors, all the minority professional groups," Mr. McDonald said. "He's been supportive without asking for anything. That means he's made a lot of friends in the entire country who are ready to support him. He's not even going to need a letter to get our financial contributions."
But even among strong supporters of Ms. Evers-Williams and Mr. Mfume, there was little consensus of what the N.A.A.C.P. should -- or could -- do. Doubts about the organization's role seemed particularly acute given the large number of blacks who have been elected to office -- particularly in the South -- since the 1970's.
"I think that, in the past, the N.A.A.C.P. was so important in the South, particularly in the pre-black electoral era," Mr. Morial said. "But to a great extent in the electoral era -- and I can only speak from the perspective of this city -- the advent of African-Americans serving in elected positions, plus our increasing ability to influence elected leaders, has probably created a necessity to question the relevance of the organization."
Sheila Williams, 33, current president of the New Orleans branch said she feels the organization needs to hone its purpose to a few issues or programs, like housing or employment discrimination, and carry them off well, rather than trying to take on every issue that relates to blacks, and handling them all ineffectively.
"I think nationally, we have to set an agenda, a very targeted agenda," she said. "You can pick any issue today and it would monopolize the whole time for a branch and the national office to mobilize their forces. I think in the past, we have just tried to be everything to everybody."
In interviews, person after person expressed an unease that, without the stark and tangible racism embodied in legalized segregation, the black community was fracturing. To them, a national organization like the N.A.A.C.P. is needed to unify blacks, but unifying them around what remained an open question.
"The N.A.A.C.P.'s purpose has to change at this point," said Matt Suarez, 57, who worked in Mississippi in the 1960's as a volunteer for the Congress of Racial Equality, and now operates a day care center. "We as a people are becoming fragmented; splitting, dividing into a lot of different little groups. People like to say it's the haves and have nots, but it's not that simple. We're separating and splitting among ourselves in terms of politics, philosophies, economics, regions, all sorts of influences that didn't have as much importance in our lives during the civil rights movement."
Mr. Suarez added: "More and more the pressures of American life, American society, American politics are dividing us. The N.A.A.C.P.'s role has to be to find those avenues that will reunite us as a people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A civil rights volunteer in Mississippi in the 1960's, Matt Suarez today operates a day care center in New Orleans. He says the N.A.A.C.P. must change to reflect the varied interests and priorities of black people. (David Rae Morris/Impact Visuals for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; PUBLIC OPINION MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SCANDALS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (64%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CHAVIS, BENJAMIN F JR (REV) KWEISI MFUME (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



220 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1163 words

HEADLINE: Flat Tax, Once Obscure Idea, Is Set to Enter Campaign Debate

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The idea of discarding the elaborate Federal tax system in favor of a simple flat tax is about to go from an obscure academic discussion among economists to a full-throated debating issue in the Presidential campaign.
The release later this week of a study on how to simplify the tax system, sponsored formally if not wholeheartedly by Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, and Speaker Newt Gingrich, will almost certainly add momentum to the debate and thrust the flat tax into Republican policy discussions. 
 In the last few weeks, Steve Forbes has offered the most vivid demonstration of the issue's appeal. He has used the flat tax effectively as one of his weapons in the self-financed advertising blitz that has propelled him from a novelty candidate to someone who is getting enough attention to warrant consistent attacks from his rivals.
The basic idea of a flat tax is to jettison the sliding scale of tax rates and make all taxpayers pay the same percentage of their income. At the same time, almost all deductions would be eliminated so wealthy people could not reduce their taxes by festooning their returns with deductions available only to the rich. About 75 percent of tax returns do not claim any special deductions.
Edmund G. Brown Jr., a Democrat and a former governor of California, campaigned for President advocating a flat tax in 1992 but was unable to gain any traction with it in his party. This time around, the issue will be featured on the Republican side, becoming all but unavoidable for any Republican Presidential hopeful, said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster.
"It's got tremendous appeal," Mr. Luntz said in an interview. "It goes to some basic issues -- Americans' effort to simplify their lives as well as the increasing resentment of government that many feel."
The major Republican candidates have spoken positively, if ambiguously, in favor of some form of a flat tax. Senator Phil Gramm of Texas is expected to issue soon his own version of a proposal, which is likely to preserve deductions for charitable donations and home-mortgage interest.
Yet some surveys show that while the flat tax has wide appeal, that support may prove to be shallow because of the inevitable trade-offs: a flat tax large enough to replace the current system could carry a high rate -- 21 percent or more, according to some estimates -- and might mean the end of the home-mortgage and charity deductions. The vigorous debate over how high the rate would have to be is linked to equally contentious arguments over how deeply the Federal budget could be cut to accommodate less revenue.
Although there is the inevitable discord among economic studies, many say a flat tax would be a boon to the rich and cause most middle-class taxpayers to pay more.
Mr. Forbes's proposal, which is similar to one introduced in Congress by Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, is the only one currently on the table in the Republican campaign. It has these basic elements:
*The tax rate would be set at 17 percent for everyone.
*Couples filing jointly would be able to exempt the first $26,000 of income -- $13,000 for individuals -- and $5,000 per child. Thus, a family of four would not pay taxes on the first $36,000 of income.
*Virtually all other deductions would be eliminated, including those for home-mortgage interest, charitable contributions, and state and local taxes.
*Businesses would no longer be able to deduct the cost of fringe benefits.
The appeal, both opponents and supporters agree, is twofold.
First, a flat tax is simple. Now, even professional tax preparers struggle to figure out the complexities of the tax code. Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who campaigned on a flat tax before he dropped out of the Republican Presidential race last year, said that he had always drawn the greatest response during appearances when he had pulled out of his pocket a postcard-size facsimile of what a tax return would look like under a flat tax.
Second, the simplicity suggests fairness to voters because it promises the elimination of the loopholes typically available to filers who can hire accountants and tax consultants. It could also mean the shrinking of the unbeloved Internal Revenue Service.
"It has enormous appeal," Mr. Forbes said in an interview. "It would bring simplicity and honesty to the tax code, and people believe that the current complexity means that a lot of people are getting away with something."
Mr. Forbes has nothing bad to say about the flat tax. The elimination for charitable deductions would not cripple charities, he says, because "Americans do not have to be bribed by the tax code to give." People will not object to allowing wealthy individuals to avoid paying taxes on income from interest and stocks, he contends, because they would understand that the income would be taxed at the corporate level.
But the political vulnerabilities of that argument were evident when Patrick J. Buchanan, the Republican candidate who has styled himself a populist, told an audience in Manchester, N.H., on Sunday that Mr. Forbes's proposals would benefit the rich. Mr. Buchanan said he would keep an exemption for mortgages while taxing unearned income.
Mr. Luntz, the Republican pollster, said his surveys showed that more than a fourth of the electorate strongly favored the concept of a flat tax and that nearly half liked it but had less enthusiasm.
Yet Democratic strategists argue that once the fine print is attached to any proposal, voters will be wary. One White House official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the flat tax issue was analogous to the health care issue for the White House. President Clinton's plan to overhaul health care started out as a winning idea in 1993 but eventually collapsed under the weight of its complexity.
"Everybody agrees there's a need for change, that what we have now is flawed," the official said. "But when you start presenting the details, you find it's easy for opponents to beat up on you."
The official said the Democrats would be eager to run against such a specific tax proposal.
That reasoning is seemingly shared, at least in part, by Mr. Dole, the apparent front-runner in the Republican race. Initially, his sponsorship of the Republican tax study was a handy way for Mr. Dole to put off questions on tax policy.
But recently, as the publication of that study approaches, Mr. Dole's supporters have persuaded the study panel to keep its recommendations vague and not recommend a specify flat tax rate.
The idea of a flat tax has several powerful institutional opponents, like the nation's bankers, insurance agents and real estate companies, all of whom rely on the mortgage deduction to keep Americans buying homes. Those lobbies are influential both in Washington and in all the nation's 435 Congressional districts, each of which has at least one bank, realtor and insurance agent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: The Flat Tax" shows possible selling point and pitfalls of the flat tax system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (98%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); CHARITIES (65%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A; FORBES, STEVE NEWT GINGRICH (57%); PHIL GRAMM (57%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



221 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 3; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Allow Limits on Indecent RAdio and TV Shows

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The Supreme Court today rejected a constitutional challenge to a Federal law that bans indecent programming on radio and broadcast television during the day and in prime-time evening hours.
The Court took the action without comment, leaving intact a sharply divided Federal appeals court ruling that upheld the 1992 law last June. The debate over Federal regulation of indecent and sexually explicit speech is certain to continue, however, both within and outside the Court. 
 Congress is considering curbs against transmitting obscene and indecent material over computer networks, and the Justices themselves recently agreed to review a separate Federal law intended to curb access to indecent programming on certain cable television channels. Also awaiting action by the Justices is a challenge to the Federal Communications Commission's approach to imposing fines on broadcasters for indecent programming.
In light of the continued ferment over the issue of indecency, the Justices' quick action today in refusing to hear the challenge to Section 16a of the Public Telecommunications Act of 1992, limiting indecent programming to late-night and pre-dawn hours, was somewhat surprising.
The Clinton Administration, while defending the constitutionality of the law, urged the Court to defer action until after it decides the cable television case, set for argument on Feb. 21. The Court's decision in the cable case, Denver Area Consortium v. F.C.C., No. 95-124, "could affect the analysis and disposition of this case," the Administration's brief in the new case told the Court.
The F.C.C. defines indecency as "language that depicts or describes, in terms patently offensive as measured by contemporary community standards for the broadcast medium, sexual or excretory activities or organs." In 1978, in a ruling commonly known as the "seven dirty words" case, the Court upheld the commission's authority to regulate indecency. But as the constant flow of new legal challenges makes clear, that decision left many questions.
The question presented by the case today was the constitutional adequacy of the late-night "safe harbor" that the 1992 law provided to broadcasters of indecent material. In 1988 Congress directed the F.C.C. to ban indecent programming 24 hours a day, but the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck that law down on the ground that the First Amendment required there to be some time of day when broadcasters could offer indecent programming to a willing adult audience.
Congress then enacted the 1992 law, which permits indecent broadcasts from midnight to 6 A.M. for commercial stations and 10 P.M. to 6 A.M. for public radio and television stations that go off the air at or before midnight. In 1993, a panel of the appellate court declared the new law unconstitutional as well.
That panel was made up of the court's three most liberal members, Judges Harry T. Edwards, Patricia M. Wald and Abner J. Mikva, who later resigned to become the White House counsel. The full appellate court quickly vacated the panel's opinion and upheld the law by a vote of 7 to 4, on the ground that the law served the Government's interest in "supporting parental supervision of what children see and hear on the public airwaves."
Two coalitions of broadcasters filed Supreme Court appeals from that ruling. One appeal, Pacifica Foundation v. F.C.C., No. 95-509, was filed by a group of noncommercial broadcasters and by literary figures, including the poet Allen Ginsberg. Their brief said that the result of the ruling would be to limit the American adult audience "to watching and hearing only programming fit for children."
Another group, including the commercial networks and civil liberties groups, argued that the indecency standard was unconstitutionally vague and that the law intruded into families' varying approaches on child rearing. That appeal was Action for Children's Television, No. 95-520.
There were also these actions today at the Court, the only major institution of Government open in the snowbound capital:
 
Condom Distribution
The Court, also without comment, turned down an appeal by a group of religious conservatives from a ruling that upheld a program of distributing condoms to junior and senior high school students in a Massachusetts public school district.
Parents of four students challenged the program, which was put in place by the Falmouth, Mass., school board in 1992. Under the program, students may receive condoms from a school nurse without charge or from bathroom vending machines for 75 cents. The parents argued that while no student was required to participate, the availability of the condoms violated the constitutional right of parents to guide their children's upbringing.
In a ruling last July rejecting that challenge, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court stressed the voluntary nature of the program. "The plaintiff parents are free to instruct their children not to participate," the state court said. The case was Curtis v. School Committee of Falmouth, No. 95-617.
 
Speech Restriction
The Court refused to hear an appeal by Katherine Ann Power, the former fugitive who turned herself in 23 years after participating as an antiwar protester in a fatal bank robbery.
Facing a potential life sentence, Ms. Power pleaded guilty in Massachusetts state court in 1993 to armed robbery and manslaughter and received a sentence of 8 to 12 years in prison, followed by 20 years of probation. In the case today, Power v. Mass., No. 95-277, she was challenging a condition the trial judge placed on her probation, a prohibition against receiving any direct or indirect "profit or benefit" from telling her story, including her life as a fugitive.
The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court last year upheld that order as a reasonable condition of probation, rejecting the argument that it amounted to an unconstitutional prior restraint on speech.
 
Citizenship
The Justices turned down a challenge to a provision of Federal immigration law that draws a distinction between two groups of illegitimate children born abroad to one parent who was a United States citizen and one who was not.
If the citizen-parent was the mother, the child is deemed under the law, the Nationality Act of 1940, to have acquired United States citizenship at birth. But if the citizen-parent was the father, the child has the right to citizenship only if paternity has been established by the child's 21st birthday.
The law was challenged as a violation of the constitutional guarantee of equal protection by a Philippines-born woman whose father was an American member of the armed forces. She did not learn her father's identity until she was in her mid-30's, at which point she traced him and obtained genetic testing results that proved he was her father. But because she had passed her 21st birthday, the woman, Luzvisaminda Ablang, was not entitled to claim automatic citizenship.
Judge Irving Hill of Federal District Court in Los Angeles declared the law unconstitutional in 1993, in a decision that was overturned last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.
The appellate court said that despite the current availability of reliable genetic testing, the rationale for the 1940 law was still valid. "We cannot say that Congress's desire to promote early ties to this country and to those relatives who are citizens of this country is not a rational basis for the requirements," the court said. The appeal was Ablang v. Reno, No. 95-505.
 
No Smoking
The Court refused to hear a constitutional challenge to a regulation in North Miami, Fla., that bars the hiring of smokers for any city job. Under the regulation, no one can be hired without signing a statement that he or she has not smoked or used tobacco products in the preceding 12 months.
The regulation was challenged by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a woman who passed the city's employment examination and was invited to apply for a job as a clerk-typist. But when she said she could not sign the no-smoking statement, the interview ended and she was not called back.
The city's stated rationale for the policy, which does not apply to workers already on the payroll when it was adopted in 1990, was an economic one: the city said smokers had costlier health problems and required the taxpayers to spend more for the medical coverage of municipal workers who smoke.
A state appeals court in Florida declared the policy unconstitutional as a violation of the right to privacy guaranteed by the Florida Constitution. The Florida Supreme Court overturned that ruling last year, finding no violation of any state or Federal constitutional right.
The woman, Arlene Kurtz, challenged the policy as a violation of constitutional due process. She said the state court's decision would permit governments to "open up virtually every aspect of a person's private life to intrusive governmental regulation in the supposed interest of cost-cutting." The case was Kurtz v. North Miami, No. 95-545.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; NORTH MIAMI (FLA); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) FCC CO LTD (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FALMOUTH (MASS); ; NORTH MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; TELEVISION; RADIO; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CONDOMS; VIETNAM WAR; BANK ROBBERIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES ; HIRING AND PROMOTION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURTS (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); REFUGEES (79%); VERDICTS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); OBSCENITY (78%); SMOKING (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ROBBERY (64%); BANK ROBBERY (59%); VIETNAM WAR (59%); 

PERSON: POWER, KATHERINE ANN HARRY T EDWARDS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



222 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1087 words

HEADLINE: Lockheed to Acquire Loral In a Deal Worth $10 Billion

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 8

 BODY:
In a startling move that accelerates the consolidation of military contractors and is likely to lead to more layoffs, the Lockheed Martin Corporation announced today that it planned to acquire most of the Loral Corporation in a complex deal that is valued at more than $10 billion.
The announcement came as a surprise, in large part because Lockheed Martin was itself a result of a merger, in 1994, and it is still struggling to digest that combination. But the announcement underscored pressure from the markets -- and from the Pentagon -- for military contractors to grow larger and more efficient through consolidation to survive at a time of declining military procurement budgets. 
 Just last week the Northrop Grumman Corporation said it was acquiring the military electronics businesses of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation for the equivalent of $3.6 billion. Loral had been a losing bidder in that deal.
Analysts also said they expected the merger to result in several thousand layoffs, at least some of them in the New York area, where Loral, a big electronics company, has its headquarters and the two companies employ about 10,000 people.
Loral's shareholders will benefit, because they will receive the equivalent of about $45.50 per share for each share they own. Loral's stock jumped $8.25 today, to $44.50. Lockheed Martin stock rose $2.875, to $80.25.
The deal will create two new entities that will be huge competitors in their businesses. Lockheed Martin will absorb the highly regarded military electronics business of Loral. It will emerge as by far the country's largest maker of military hardware, with annual revenues of about $30 billion.
The company will produce everything from the F-16 and F-22 jet fighters to missiles, commercial and military rocket launchers and electronic defense systems for the Navy.
In addition, the deal will result in the creation of a new company, to be called the Loral Space and Communications Corporation. This company will be involved in the growing civilian business of satellite telecommunications for individuals and businesses, particularly in Southeast Asia and other regions.
Up until now, this business has been regarded as a promising but untested new way to expand the telecommunications market. Today's announcement, and especially the fact that Loral's respected chairman, Bernard L. Schwartz, will be leading the new company, will bring new focus on this emerging industry, analysts said. In fact, Mr. Schwartz indicated that the company was already preparing some acquisitions to increase its presence in the business.
Under the terms of the transaction, shareholders in Loral will receive $38 in cash for each share, plus one share in the new company. Lockheed Martin will then purchase a 20 percent stake in Loral Space and Communications for $344 million. That gives the new shares an estimated value of $7.50 each, which makes the transaction worth roughly $45.50 per share for Loral shareholders.
Lockheed Martin will thus pay roughly $7 billion in cash for Loral's shares and will assume an additional $2.1 billion of Loral's debt. The new space company will have a value of about $1 billion, which brings the total value of the acquisition and spinoff to about $10.1 billion.
The deal is also interesting for what it does for Mr. Schwartz, who recently turned 70. Analysts said they expected this wealthy entrepreneur, who built Loral over the last two decades from a modest company to a behemoth in its business, to stay active in the new space business.
"The nice thing about this is that it's not just a finale," said Lior Bregman, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. "The company has a new start. Schwartz is not just taking his money and going to Florida. It's very exciting."
Analysts also said the combination would force other military contractors to hasten any planned mergers and to make the remaining American companies even more competitive in selling military hardware overseas.
"Bernard Schwartz and Norm Augustine have been the two visionaries in this industry, and that makes this an important transaction," said Jon B. Kutler, the president of Quarterdeck Investment Partners, an investment bank that specializes in the military industry. Norman R. Augustine, the former Under Secretary of the Army in the Defense Department, is now the president and chief executive of Lockheed Martin.
One clear benefit of the acquisition is that it will produce a fortune for Mr. Schwartz, who earned $6.24 million in compensation last year. He owns stock that is now worth about $160 million.
In a press conference today, the heads of the companies were at pains to stress that the number of layoffs would be relatively modest and that, over time, the employment rolls of the combined company, more than 200,000, would grow. But they did acknowledge that some layoffs were inevitable.
Mr. Bregman estimated that perhaps 4 percent of the combined staff of the companies would be cut. That would amount to about 8,000 people.
"Ours is an industry that has to change," said Mr. Augustine, who added that the business of military contracting was going through "Darwinian times."
While there is likely to be a review by the Justice Department of whether the creation of such a huge company would be anti-competitive, analysts said they did not expect the Government to block the deal, which was put together in secret over four months. The top executives have already discussed the transaction with the Pentagon.
The new Lockheed Martin will receive about $17 billion a year of its $30 billion in revenues from defense electronics. About 60 percent of its revenues will come from military contracts, and the remainder from civilian businesses.
The deal will also make it an even more formidable competitor to foreign military contractors, particularly the big European companies. Mr. Augustine said that Lockheed Martin currently received about 17 percent of its revenues from overseas, and that that figure was likely to grow in the future.
A number of factors brought the two sides together, among them the pressure by the Pentagon to consolidate as well as the low interest rates available because of the weak economy.
Lockheed Martin will borrow about $10 billion to complete the transaction, and its executives stressed that taking on so much debt -- it will have a total of $12.5 billion after the deal -- was made far easier by the fact that interest rates are at their lowest levels in years.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Joining Forces" looks at how some of the biggest military contractors rank. (Sources: Aerospace Industries Association of America, Department of Defense) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%); CBS (NYSE) (70%); NOC (NYSE) (70%); LORL (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (95%); NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (70%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (70%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LORAL CORP; LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP; LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS CORP LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%); LORAL CORP (95%); WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (70%); CBS CORP (70%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (70%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LORAL CORP; LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP; LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS CORP AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; SCHWARTZ, BERNARD L BERNARD L SCHWARTZ (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



223 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 59; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 501 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Morgan Stanley in Partnership To Acquire Hotels in Mexico

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: MEXICO CITY, Jan. 8

 BODY:
In a move that some investors believe is a sign that the Mexican economy is turning around, Morgan Stanley & Company and the Mexican hotel operator Grupo Posadas announced plans today to invest roughly $200 million over the next 18 months to buy a number of Mexican hotels.
The money represents the first major influx of capital into the Mexican tourism industry since the peso was devalued in December 1994. 
 Michael Happel, an acquisition director for the Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund involved in the project, portrayed it as a vote of confidence in the long-term health of the Mexican economy.
"We have the view that the economy in Mexico will be improving over the next 18 months," Mr. Happel said in a telephone interview from New York this afternoon.
Grupo Posadas is the largest operator of hotels in Latin America. The company operates about 40 hotels in Mexico and is investing in projects in Colombia and Venezuela.
Mr. Happel said the partners in the joint venture were looking to buy hotels in Mexican cities and resorts and eventually in other Latin American countries. They believe there are bargains to be found, primarily because banks have foreclosed on many hotels since the peso was devalued.
Analysts said they believed the new partners might also be interested in buying hotels in which the Mexican Government still holds an interest, like the Camino Real in Mexico City.
The joint venture was first reported in The Wall Street Journal today.
Grupo Posadas wants to further strengthen its already dominant position in Mexico by taking advantage of low prices and the need of banks to unload hotels they do not really want to run, said Lourdes Castro, an analyst at Interacciones, a Mexico City City brokerage firm.
"They can probably buy some properties at very low prices," Mrs. Castro said. "Posadas needed an injection of capital and this partnership looks beneficial."
Tourism had been expected to be one of the few nonexporting industries to benefit from the devaluation of the peso and the subsequent economic crisis. Mexican vacations became vastly cheaper for tourists, especially those from the United States, who arrived with dollars.
However, increases in occupancy were not enough to compensate for huge rises in debt payments caused by the devaluation and soaring interest rates.
Mr. Happel and Grupo Posadas believe that the banks that control some of the hotels will be eager to sell.
"There are assets in the hands of people who are not logical long-term owners, but there have not been sales," Mr. Happel said. "I think there will be more sales activity this year, and good opportunities for well-capitalized investors."
The Morgan Stanley Real Estate Fund, which announced its alliance with Grupo Posadas, holds about $1 billion in assets and has already purchased three properties in the United States. An earlier Morgan Stanley fund had invested $3.5 billion over the last four years in real estate, mostly in the United States.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MS (NYSE) (95%); POSADAS (BMV) (92%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (95%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (95%); NAICS721110 HOTELS (EXCEPT CASINO HOTELS) & MOTELS (92%); SIC6531 REAL ESTATE AGENTS & MANAGERS (58%); 

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

COMPANY: MORGAN STANLEY & CO; MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE FUND; GRUPO POSADAS MORGAN STANLEY (95%); GRUPO POSADAS SAB DE CV (92%); MORGAN STANLEY INTERNATIONAL LTD (91%); MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE CO (58%); WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: MORGAN STANLEY & CO; MORGAN STANLEY REAL ESTATE FUND; GRUPO POSADAS

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; MEXICO (99%); LATIN AMERICA (92%); UNITED STATES (92%); COLOMBIA (79%); VENEZUELA, BOLIVARIAN REPUBLIC OF (79%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); MEXICO CITY, MEXICO (92%); 

SUBJECT: HOTELS AND MOTELS; MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (90%); CURRENCIES (89%); DEVALUATION (89%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (78%); LODGING (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); TOURISM (77%); FORECLOSURE (76%); INTERVIEWS (76%); JOINT VENTURES (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (71%); INTEREST RATES (65%); ECONOMIC NEWS (65%); 

PERSON: MICHAEL HAPPEL (92%); LOURDES CASTRO (62%); JOHN MAJOR (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



224 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Snow Slows, Doesn't Stop, Stock Markets

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The East Coast blizzard of '96, one of the biggest storms of the century, caused major disruptions at financial markets yesterday, but some exchanges managed to open for limited trading. Trading today is expected to be practically normal.
Stocks were traded only between 11 A.M. and 2 P.M. on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market. "We didn't make any money today," said Edward L. Goldberg, an executive vice president of Merrill Lynch. "But over all we functioned fine." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 16.25 points, to 5,197.68, and the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index lost ground.
Bond volume was also restricted after the Public Securities Association recommended that trading end at noon. As a result, only about $9.7 billion worth of Treasuries changed hands, compared with the recent daily average of $69 billion. In that market, "It was essentially like the Brooklyn Bridge during the day: empty," said William K. Joseph, senior vice president of Smith Barney.
Bonds ended little changed in light trading, with the yield of the bellwether 30-year Treasury bond steady at 6.04 percent. There was no regular auction of Treasury bills because of the partial shutdown of the Federal Government.
There was also no commodities trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the Commodity Exchange, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange and the New York Cotton Exchange. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange did not open trading in many of its index products until the leading stock exchanges began to trade. And the dollar was little changed, rising to 105.30 Japanese yen from 105.27.
The exchanges and brokerage firms in New York said that their work forces and customer business were at about one-third the normal levels.
That was reflected in yesterday's turnover on the Big Board, which totaled 130.4 million shares, the lightest since the Thanksgiving period. Volume was 437.1 million shares Friday, while the 1995 average daily volume was about 350 million shares.
"The stock market didn't get much of a chance to move a lot one way or another," said Hugh A. Johnson, senior vice president of the First Albany Corporation. "It's so quiet that the traders look like they are almost asleep."
Andrew Schwarz, a specialist on the American Stock Exchange, said: "The difference is the camaraderie that existed on the floor. Everyone was helping each other out. I told all those on my staff who made it in that I'd give them an extra day's pay."
The preparation for opening the markets yesterday in the midst of a snow emergency began on Sunday. The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve Board, the big exchanges and the member firms were in contact throughout the day as the storm's intensity grew.
"We wanted to make sure that everyone was tied in to the loop," said Richard Lindsey, the S.E.C.'s director of market regulation. "Our preference is to have the markets open."
The most important participant among the marketplaces was the New York Stock Exchange. And Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of that exchange, had left New York Sunday morning for a meeting in Seoul with the Korean Stock Exchange, although he kept in touch by telephone.
Senior officials of the Big Board spent Sunday night at New York hotels and conducted their first meeting yesterday at 7:45 A.M. By 9:30 A.M., they determined that they would have a delayed opening, and about an hour later, they decided to start at 11 A.M.
"Our dollar cost in the loss of volume was far exceeded on the plus side by giving investors the opportunity to buy and sell stocks if they wanted to," said Robert Fagenson, a specialist on the exchange and a member of its board. "I determined to be here the earliest and leave the latest."
A personal tragedy struck at the New York Stock Exchange before the opening. William Weyer, a 55-year-old clerk who had worked there since he was 18, collapsed on the floor, apparently from a heart attack, at 9 A.M. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Beekman Downtown Hospital.
Among the market indicators, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 1.75 points, to 618.46, and the Nasdaq composite fell 1.10 points, to 1032.37. Advancing issues exceeded decliners on the New York exchange by 1,261 to 904.
Military stocks were particularly strong. In the aerospace group, Boeing benefited from a report that it might soon win a $3 billion order for up to 60 planes, gaining 1 3/4, to 80 1/4. It was followed by Allied Signal, which advanced 3/8, to 49 1/8, and United Technologies, which increased 1 1/8, to 94 1/8.
And Loral surged 8 1/4, to 44 1/2, after Lockheed Martin offered to buy most of the company for $9.1 billion. Lockheed Martin soared 2 7/8, to 80 1/4, McDonnell Douglas increased 3 1/4, to 95 3/4, and Rockwell rose 1 3/4, to 54 3/4.
There was continuing weakness in some technology issues, though. Motorola declined 3/4, to 56 1/4; Micron dropped 1/2, to 38 5/8, and Sun Microsystems fell3/8, to 40 1/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); CME (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GLEACHER & CO INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); CME GROUP INC (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; WEATHER; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FIBER MARKETS (78%); WEATHER (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COFFEE (73%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANDREW SMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



225 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 62; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 486 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Little Changed in a Shortened Session

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Bond prices showed little change yesterday in a short trading session as the blizzard in the Northeast prevented many traders and investors from getting to work.
"Not only do you not have a lot of the traders in, a lot of the customers based in New York are out, too," said James Kenney, head trader at Prudential Securities in New York. 
 The yield on the Treasury's 30-year bond remained steady at 6.04 percent. The two-year note's yield was also unchanged at 5.18 percent.
Because of the snowstorm, the Public Securities Association recommended that bond trading close at noon.
And the Treasury delayed its weekly auction of $28 billion of three- and six-month bills until today.
About $9.7 billion in Treasury securities traded through most of the major bond brokers yesterday, according to Govpx Inc., a bond pricing service, down sharply from a daily average of about $69 billion during the last three months.
Municipal bonds were little changed ahead of a spate of new sales expected to take place this week, traders said. Mortgage bonds also showed little movement amid concern that interest rates were poised to fall further and pare the bonds' returns.
The blizzard kept Federal employees in the Washington area home on the first day after President Clinton signed a bill to end a 21-day partial shutdown of the Government.
The President and Congressional Republicans have been at odds over a plan to balance the Federal budget in seven years. Some traders and investors said prospects for a deficit-reduction accord were receding.
"A budget deal is going to be more difficult than some people are currently thinking," said William Westgate, a vice president at HSBC Securities in London. "This is going to be a long, drawn-out fight between two sides who don't want to reach a compromise."
A balanced budget could drive bond prices higher and interest rates lower because the supply of Treasury securities would dwindle as the Government sold less debt.
Companies postponed borrowing yesterday because of the blizzard. Still, borrowers are lining up in what is shaping up as a busy month for corporate bond sales, with $2 billion in debt sales expected this week.
This week's borrowers will join the Procter & Gamble Company, Eli Lilly & Company and other companies that have already taken advantage of low interest rates to sell more than $2.5 billion of bonds so far this year.
The Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation, or Freddie Mac, is expected today to sell $500 million in 10-year notes.
Time Warner Inc. will borrow the most this week. The company is expected to raise as much as $750 million in the corporate bond market, according to MCM Corporate Watch, which tracks sales of fixed income and other securities. Time Warner carries a below-investment-grade Ba1 rating by Moody's Investors Service and a BBB- investment-grade rating by the Standard & Poor's Corporation.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TWX (NYSE) (80%); LLY (SWX) (62%); LLY (NYSE) (62%); PGP (PAR) (62%); PG (NYSE) (62%); IAP (LSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (80%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (80%); NAICS325412 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2834 PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS (62%); NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (62%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (62%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (62%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (62%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (62%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (62%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (62%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (62%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

COMPANY: TIME WARNER INC (80%); ELI LILLY & CO (62%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (62%); PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (62%); ICAP PLC (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (57%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (57%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); LONDON, ENGLAND (78%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS; WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS BONDS (94%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); BUDGETS (89%); CORPORATE BONDS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (89%); INTEREST RATES (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (87%); SALES PROJECTIONS (87%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (79%); MORTGAGE INVESTMENTS (79%); WEATHER (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (75%); LEGISLATION (74%); DEBT FINANCING (74%); MORTGAGE BROKERS (73%); SECURITIES BROKERS (73%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (73%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (70%); US PRESIDENTS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); CIVIL SERVICES (67%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



226 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: A Less Harmful Budget

 BODY:
The budget proposal released by the White House over the weekend answers critics who have harshly, though accurately, accused President Clinton of stalling on his promise to deliver a plan that would balance the budget in seven years using Congressional scorekeeping.
Mr. Clinton tried valiantly to protect spending on the poor and education and other public investments. But his plan is littered with time bombs that make its protections partly illusory. There was no way to adopt the Republican budget target and yet preserve the progressive economic agenda that he had used to win the White House. 
 In this latest budget plan, Mr. Clinton would wipe out $60 billion from corporate subsidies. He would also cut taxes by $87 billion, which is less than half the Republicans' target but still $87 billion too high in a plan that aims to reduce the deficit.
Nevertheless, the lower tax cut allowed him to propose trimming Medicare, Medicaid and other programs for the needy by about half of what the Republican-led Congress passed. He preserves food stamps and Medicaid as Federal entitlements. On balance, these trade-offs make a powerful case for preferring Mr. Clinton's plan.
Even so, part of the advantage is illusory. The President would pile up cuts in non-military discretionary spending in the last two years of the plan. By 2002, spending on everything from protecting the environment to patrolling the border might be cut by 30 percent or more.
The plight of discretionary programs is even worse than these numbers indicate. Mr. Clinton says his tax cut -- for families with children and for some educational expenses -- would be temporary unless the economy grows more quickly than Congressional scorekeepers expect. Political reality will probably dictate that the cut, once enacted, will not be withdrawn. If so, Congress would, under existing budget rules, be required to make even deeper cuts in discretionary and entitlement programs after 2002 than the President has so far outlined. Cuts that large would mean that Mr. Clinton would have to abandon any vestige of his original agenda for investing in infrastructure, research, education and job training.
He could have preserved more of these plans by jettisoning tax cuts entirely, but that would be politically hazardous as the G.O.P. waves the promise of even bigger cuts in front of nearly every non-poor voter.
Nor does the Clinton plan take on some powerful constituencies. It does not go after subsidies to wealthy farmers. It sets low Medicare premiums for wealthy retirees. As hard as the White House tried to protect the poor, its plan envisions a budget that would cut foods stamps by hundreds of dollars a year per family and throw many disabled children off cash assistance programs.
Yet each of these flaws is magnified in the Republican plan, even taking into account agreements yesterday to whittle down proposed cuts in Medicare, Medicaid and programs for the poor. They cynically keep the costs of their tax cuts on capital gains and retirement accounts modest during the seven-year life of the budget plan, but allow them to explode soon thereafter, committing Congress to huge cuts in spending even after the seven years have elapsed.
Further, the Republican plan not only cuts off many disabled children from cash assistance, but also reduces cash allowances for most of the children who remain in the program. It cuts off food stamps and other aid to some legal immigrants even after they become citizens. Compared with the Republicans', Mr. Clinton's budget occupies the higher ground; but compared with the needs of the poor and the economy, it comes up very short.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); FAMILY (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MEDICAID (57%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



227 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Facing the Storm

 BODY:
New York disappeared under the Blizzard of '96, only to emerge as a new city. Roadways were as bare as the tundra, and like the tundra they were crisscrossed by hunters who trudged their way up- and downtown in search of their offices, groceries or a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
The underground city, however, was doing business. At times like this New York's subway system, often the subject of more unfavorable comment than Vlad the Impaler, reveals itself as a miracle. Non-New-Yorkers might also find it miraculous that above ground, strangers jumped in to help liberate stuck cars, that restaurants gave out free food to stranded travelers or that bus passengers urged their driver to wait an extra few minutes for a straggling family to make its way to the stop. 
 But city residents know that New Yorkers are almost always subject to these kindly impulses. The problem is getting their attention, and nothing focuses the municipal mind like a couple of feet of newly fallen snow.
These days are an Event, a Milestone -- like the legendary Blizzards of 1888 and 1947, exclamation points in history. Chronic competitors rooted for a record-breaker. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani assured the population that Staten Island and the Bronx had already gone over 1947's record 26.4-inch marker. Could Central Park be far behind?
The novelty of the vehicle-free streets, the cross-country skiers in the parks and the ice floes in the Hudson almost obscured the disruption the event caused. Normal life in the tri-state area came to a dead halt. The blizzard closed schools, shut down all the area airports and brought economic havoc to a city that was for all practical purposes cut off from the outside world.
New York and New Jersey declared states of emergency. Roofs collapsed under the weight of the snow. Emergency vehicles were stranded in drifts, and normal vehicular traffic was banned altogether from New York City. Bus service was suspended, along with much of the suburban train service.
Even the Post Office canceled deliveries, a cause for dismay for all those who have long taken that "neither-rain-nor-snow" slogan literally. Mayor Giuliani, who may have tempted the fates by slashing this year's snow-removal budget, put 1,663 plows on around-the-clock duty.
At times like these the citizenry may be more eager to see a snowplow than a politician. Still, and perhaps for reasons of reassurance, ancient custom dictates that politicians of rank be visibly on the move. While Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey drove a snowplow and helped evacuate a trailer camp, New York's Governor was unhappily trapped in Albany, where, irony of ironies, there was not enough snow to warrant even a personal inspection. But Mayor Giuliani, wearing what appeared to be a new Christmas sweater, roamed the boroughs tirelessly, rallying sanitation workers and setting a tone of efficient concern. New York would take this storm seriously, but not be cowed by it.
Advice abounded. Stay dry. Wear layers. Clear out fire hydrants. Shovel in small scoops, without lifting above your shoulder. Stay off sloped roofs. Keep your hat on outdoors. Refrain from driving snowmobiles on the highway.
Most New Yorkers, wisely, opted to keep smiling and enjoy the show. They knew it was only a matter of time before the miracle of nature became a grimy sea of sidewalk obstruction, and the spirit of shared experience faded into carping about unplowed side streets and unshoveled walks. They reveled for a moment at the cusp of a natural disaster, when its images are still vivid and its costs are yet to be tallied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; EDITORIALS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TRAINS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); SKIING (67%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



228 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: The Legacy of Francois Mitterrand

 BODY:
Francois Mitterrand, who died yesterday at age 79, was, with Charles de Gaulle, one of the two dominant French political leaders of the postwar era. Though Mr. Mitterrand served longer than de Gaulle as President -- longer, in fact, than anyone in the history of France's five republics -- his legacy was more ambiguous.
Mr. Mitterrand strengthened France's alliance with Germany, the core of the European Union. He also improved relations with the United States, ended the Gaullist chill toward Israel and even earned the personal respect of his frequent adversary Margaret Thatcher, a woman he once described as having "the lips of Marilyn Monroe and the eyes of Caligula." 
 It was Mr. Mitterrand who began the long moratorium on French nuclear testing that his successor, Jacques Chirac, recklessly abandoned last year. At home, Mr. Mitterrand abolished the death penalty and added the final touches to France's cherished system of social benefits, another achievement his successor has tried to reverse.
Leading an alliance of Socialists and Communists to victory in 1981, Mr. Mitterrand brought the long-marginalized French left a greater combination of executive and legislative power than it had ever known in modern times. But within two years, Mr. Mitterrand pragmatically sacrificed his left-wing platform to the demands of an increasingly integrated European market.
Market necessity dictated most of the policy changes. But an unwise commitment to a European currency union led to punishingly high interest rates that translated into chronic double-digit unemployment. Mr. Mitterrand's Socialists paid heavily at the polls and twice the Socialist President was forced to share power with right-wing legislative majorities. Last year Mr. Chirac, running on a platform of economic populism, captured the presidency for the right as well.
Mr. Mitterrand was a master political tactician with few immutable principles. Not only his Socialist beliefs were lightly held. Even his record of resistance in World War II was ambiguous. In the early 1940's he worked uncomfortably closely with the Vichy regime and maintained lifelong friendships with some of Vichy's more odious figures.
Throughout his presidential term, Mr. Mitterrand refused to offer France's apologies for Vichy's wartime roundups of Jews, most of whom ended up in Nazi death camps. Extending that overdue apology was one of Mr. Chirac's first and most admirable gestures.
On other issues, however, President Mitterrand's record was more positive, and when he left office he could boast that France's economic foundations were stronger and its alliances firmer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; DEATHS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO (76%); HOLOCAUST (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS JACQUES CHIRAC (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



229 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan's Grip

BYLINE: By Timothy A. Canova; Timothy A. Canova, who teaches at the University of Miami School of Law, specializes in banking and finance.

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla.

 BODY:
The word is that President Clinton may reappoint Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve when his term expires this spring. The chairman's support of the Mexican bailout and his support for increasing the debt limit to avoid government default has helped the White House at crucial moments.
But while Mr. Greenspan may have prevented the financial house of cards from collapsing, his overall handling of monetary policy has harmed the economy. For much of the last year, the weight of indicators has shown both a sluggish economy and negligible inflation of 2.6 percent. But the Fed has reacted with a tardy gradualism. 
 Last summer and again in December, the Fed lowered short-term interest rates by a paltry one-quarter of a percentage point. Each time, Wall Street bulls pushed stock prices higher, then immediately craved another tiny fix. Optimists may hope that a vibrant stock market will lead the economy out of the doldrums, but there is a danger that the market is actually a lagging indicator and that weak earnings could burst the bubble.
Fed economists are aware of this possibility. Some believe that interest rates should not be lowered too much or too quickly for fear of encouraging the bubble to expand even more. But the reverse may be more likely: corporate earnings could fall too far to sustain the current stock prices, unless the Fed lowers interest rates significantly and quickly.
If the economy then takes a dive, we are sure to hear a drumbeat of voices blaming the Federal deficit. Mr. Greenspan, it would seem, is prepared for this scenario. In November 1995 he warned: "If, for some unforeseen reason, the political process fails, and [a balanced budget] agreement is not reached, it would signal that the United States is not capable of putting its fiscal house in order, with serious, adverse consequences for financial markets and economic growth."
The political establishment can be expected to react to any bad economic news with renewed demands for more fiscal austerity since the consensus for a balanced budget wrongly assumes that high deficits are the sole cause of today's high interest rates.
But contrary to that view and Mr. Greenspan's assertions, the nation has been keeping its fiscal house in order, with the deficits declining over the past three years. The 1992 budget deficit of $290 billion was 4.9 percent of the gross domestic product; the 1995 fiscal year deficit of $164 billion is only 2.3 percent.
But this decline did not stop the Fed from raising interest rates six times in 1994. Real interest rates (adjusted for inflation) began to rise dramatically in the early 1980's (from less than 1 percent to about 5 percent on long-term government securities), not because of the deficits but because of the Fed's reliance on high interest rates as the sole anti-inflation policy.
But persistently high real rates have retarded investment and slowed economic growth. As a consequence, governments are now burdened by much larger "passive deficits" as they collect less in tax revenues and spend more on jobless compensation and enormous interest costs on their debts. By increasing debt service costs of the private sector as well as of Federal, state and local governments by hundreds of billions of dollars a year, higher interest rates constitute the most important and most hidden of the so-called unfunded Federal mandates.
With economic storm clouds on the horizon, the Administration may be wary of creating an open rift with the Fed. But without a change, the Administration will remain dependent on the dubious crisis management skills of Mr. Greenspan.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: CANOVA, TIMOTHY A (PROF); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



230 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Death for Chinese Children

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL 

 BODY:
Thousands of Chinese children die in orphanages every year from deliberate medical neglect and starvation. This is policy, part of Beijing's technique of controlling the increased number of children abandoned by parents who either could not feed them or feared the regime would cut the rations for the whole family for the crime of having more than one or two children.
This report, detailed by Human Rights Watch, is of course sad. But do we still have the right to mourn? 
 America, people and leadership, has known for decades that every Chinese Communist regime used forced abortion and starvation to control population growth, slave labor as an intricately planned part of its economic program, and torture and prison as fundamental instruments of political power.
The American response, bottom line: Shut up, or the Chinese may forbid us to enrich them with trade that might one day turn a little profit for American businessmen.
So be thankful that the nasty comedy of the Government shutdown, plus the blizzard, so far have saved us from hearing the Administration or top leaders of either party run on mourning the abandoned children.
The U.S. Government and Western society in general have sold for theoretical trade profit the right to mourn the orphans. They didn't get much more for the deal than Chinese political slaps in the American face and military provocations.
The U.S., and its allies, have betrayed not only orphans and women forced to abort but the principles and safety of our democratic society.
So be it. But those Americans who have the right given by consistent protest against Beijing's horrors to mourn for the orphans can serve them best by speaking up again.
The issue is simple. How long will Americans tolerate the wealth they created under freedom to be used to give dictatorship the strength it needs to destroy freedom wherever its writ extends?
This problem confronted America much of this century. More often than not, the decision was to permit American wealth to bolster dictatorships. But their very nature drove them to use their power, reinforced by American trade, to create a military threat that led to war. See Germany, Italy, Japan and Iraq.
In the China trade, profits go mostly to China. It sells the U.S. eight times more than it buys. Since wages are so low in China, and in labor camps nonexistent, this will mean loss of jobs to America.
And, predictably, most of China's profits go to its armed forces and the huge police force that enables the Communists to stay in power.
In memory of the orphans, please note: Their death is more refutation of the myth, spread by Western apologists, that human rights progress will follow economic progress.
Like all dictatorships, Beijing uses increased economic power for increased police power. The more powerful the police state, the better it hides its atrocities behind barbed wire and coerced denials.
After corporate America decided that profits were worth the risk of building up China, President Clinton decided it was worth breaking his own word to submit. He scrapped his executive order pledging to use trade tariffs to persuade the Chinese Communists to ease, however slightly, the repression of their own people and the occupied Tibetans.
This did soil Mr. Clinton's honor, naturally, but it turned out to carry no penalty here on earth. Republican Presidential candidates, except Patrick Buchanan, trot behind the China lobby. And our allies, as great as Germany and small as Israel, are also busy at the Communist trough.
Yet those Americans who care are not powerless. Republican and Democratic politicians who never surrendered faith in freedom or disgust with tyranny can make murdered orphans, forced abortion, religious oppression and slave labor an issue at the Presidential conventions. They can demand tariff penalties for these instruments of Beijing's governance.
Other Americans can make them an issue at stockholders' meetings, in churches and synagogues; remember South Africa. We can boycott Chinese imports and investments in companies that feed at the trough, uncaring of the blood therein.
That can be our flower, for the graves of the orphans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ABORTION; BOYCOTTS; ORPHANS AND ORPHANAGES ORPHANS (90%); STARVATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); TORTURE (76%); ABORTION (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BOYCOTTS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



231 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Let New Jerseyans Spend to Bolster Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Time Bomb in Governor Whitman's Tax Cut" (Op-Ed, Jan. 3): Neil Upmeyer says the New Jersey economy is weak and concludes that higher taxes and higher levels of government expenditures are needed to correct it. This Keynesian remedy does not work on the state level, and even neo-Keynesian economists doubt if it works on the national level. 
 It makes little sense to cite the weak economic condition of the state economy and the labor market in particular. Why does an unemployment rate that is higher than the national level mean that taxpayers should not be entitled to retain a higher percent of their earnings? If anything, the burdensome tax structure and excessive regulations have contributed to the weak economy.
It is almost always possible to find some value in services proposed for cuts. But that is not the proper economic comparison. Rather, it is more valid to compare the goods and services that consumers may be able to purchase of their own choosing with those that are imposed upon them by bureaucrats who rely on the taxing powers of government to finance their own initiatives and pet programs.
 
PATRICK A. GAUGHAN
Dir., N.Y.-N.J. Economic Research
Center, Fairleigh Dickinson U.
Madison, N.J., Jan. 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); 

PERSON: UPMEYER, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



232 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Science Desk 

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: New Balloon Technology Stars In a World Race With No Trophy

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE 

 BODY:
WITH the morning sun gleaming from its aluminized plastic skin, a 150-foot-high balloon piloted by a lone American rose above South Dakota yesterday to begin a race in which three teams will try to be the first balloonists to circle the globe nonstop.
Cheers rose from a crowd as the huge balloon, the Solo Challenger, climbed smoothly away from the Stratobowl, a natural rock formation near Rapid City that offers protection from the wind on three sides. At the controls for the perilous trip, which is expected to last at least two weeks, was Steve Fossett, a 51-year-old commodities broker, yachtsman and champion balloonist. 
 No balloonist has ever succeeded in circling the earth nonstop, and Mr. Fossett is the first to attempt the trip without a crew. Two competing teams of balloonists, one British and one Dutch, expect to launch next week. Both groups believe they can make much better time than Mr. Fossett because they will fly at higher altitudes, where the speed of the jet stream is greater. The speed of the jet stream can be as great as 200 miles an hour, but a balloon riding the wind is subject to no aerodynamic buffeting and the crew feels no sensation of speed except by observing the craft's rapid progress over land or sea.
The Solo Challenger, with its unpressurized pilot capsule, quickly ascended more than 6,000 feet and entered a wind system expected to carry it over Nebraska, Iowa, Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky and South Carolina, reaching the Atlantic coast tomorrow, said a spokesman, Timothy E. Kemper, assistant vice president of Loyola University of Chicago. Meteorologists forecast that after crossing the Atlantic Ocean Mr. Fossett would make landfall over Portugal and subsequently fly across Spain, the Mediterranean and North Africa.
"New York's blizzard won't affect Steve at all," Mr. Kemper said. "He'll be flying at between 16,000 and 18,000 feet by the time he reaches the coast, and even if he should drift toward the storm he can easily get above it."
Because the Solo Challenger has a metalized skin, it will be visible from the ground for most of its trip.
The informal race, which has neither an organizer nor a prize, pits experienced long-distance balloonists and some new technical innovations against each other in a grueling and dangerous ordeal.
Each of the three balloons is setting out from a different country, Morocco, the Netherlands and the United States. Whoever (if anyone) first circumnavigates the globe will win the honor of an entry in the record books for achieving the last great goal of lighter-than-air flight.
The race will take place amid persistent fears that the armed forces of several nations over which the balloons may drift may open fire on the aeronauts, or at least force them down. Last September an international hydrogen-balloon race that started in Switzerland ended when two American balloonists were shot down and killed by a Belarus military helicopter.
Although all the crews in the forthcoming race have sought assurances of safe passage from the 100 or so countries over which they may fly, several governments have not responded. A particular concern had been Iraq, but Erin Porter, speaking for the British team, said yesterday that the Iraqi Government had granted permission to the balloonists to fly over the country. However, balloonists have also expressed concern about Afghanistan, Libya and North Korea, among other countries.
"The real risk for all of us is not equipment failure," Mr. Fossett said shortly before his departure. "It is the military risk. Getting clearance from government leaders -- even prime ministers -- is one thing. Getting the word down to military officers commanding border posts or fighters is quite another."
In some respects, Mr. Fossett's balloon is the most primitive of the three in the race. Accommodating only one person, its tiny capsule is too low for Mr. Fossett to stand fully. Because the capsule is not pressurized, he will have to breathe oxygen from a mask throughout most of the two-week trip, much of which will be at an altitude of about 20,000 feet. He will subsist on military field rations and 15 gallons of water. While some elaborately equipped balloons have plumbing and pressurized toilets, Mr. Fossett has only a bucket, which will be emptied through a hatch.
Mr. Fossett takes pride in having launched his project on a shoestring. The cost of his balloon and related expenses, he said yesterday, is $300,000, all paid by Mr. Fossett himself. The competing British and Dutch teams spent $5 million to $7 million, Mr. Fossett estimated, both financed by advertising sponsors. Neither the British nor the Dutch team has disclosed the cost of its balloon.
But the Solo Challenger, built by the British designer Don Cameron, has some innovations that may help it. Among its instruments is a newly devised automatic pilot that senses altitude, and fires up the propane burners to keep the balloon from descending when temperatures drop at night. This will permit Mr. Fossett to sleep for short periods.
The Solo Challenger is also equipped with a reflective Mylar tent extending over the top of the balloon. The tent is held up by a small helium balloon instead of a tent pole, and a solar-powered fan circulates cool air between the tent and the top of the balloon to prevent overheating during daylight hours.
Shortly after Mr. Fossett's launching yesterday his competitors sent him telegrams of congratulation.
The British balloon, called the Virgin Global Challenger, is to be flown by Richard Branson, chairman of Virgin Atlantic Airways; Per Lindstrand, chairman of Lindstrand Balloons Ltd. of Oswestry, England, and an Irish balloonist, Rory McCarthy. Mr. Branson and Mr. Lindstrand, who have set several ballooning records, were the first pilots of hot-air balloons to cross both the Atlantic Ocean, in 1987, and the Pacific, in 1991.
Mr. Lindstrand said that because of unfavorable weather patterns over England he and his colleagues had decided to launch their Virgin Global Challenger from a military airfield at Marrakech, Morocco.
To move the big crew capsule, balloon and accessories, the British group chartered a Beluga transport plane -- a modified Airbus 300 similar to the Pregnant Guppy aircraft used by NASA to transport large rocket components. The flight to Morocco is scheduled for Friday, and Mr. Lindstrand said the balloon launching would probably take place a day or so later.
Mr. Branson, chairman of the multifaceted Virgin Group, which includes Virgin Atlantic Airways, believes that his competitor, Mr. Fossett, faces grave risks.
"Because his capsule is not pressurized," Mr. Branson said in an interview, "Steve will have to stay at around 20,000 feet, which is usually well below the core of the jet stream. That could slow him down a lot. We will be at 30,000 to 35,000 feet, where our chances of riding the high-speed jet stream are much better.
"Steve is incredibly brave, and if anyone should beat us, I'd rather it was he."
The Dutch team, led by Henk Brink, recently tested the inflation of its Unicef Flyer balloon at Cape Kennedy in NASA's huge Vehicle Assembly Building, where space shuttles are prepared for flight. Mr. Brink, who intends to launch his balloon from Nijmegen, the Netherlands, is a helicopter instructor and veteran balloonist. In 1986, he, his wife, Evelien, and William Hageman, a Dutch fighter pilot, became the first European balloonists to cross the Atlantic; so precise was their navigation that they landed within a few miles of Mr. Brink's home in the Netherlands.
Although balloons must travel in the same direction as the wind that carries them along, a pilot can navigate to some extent by changing altitude to seek wind headed in the desired direction. Even a small change in altitude can result in a large change in direction.
The Unicef Flyer flight suffered a setback on Dec. 26 when its third crew member, Wouter Bakker, resigned from the flight crew "for personal reasons." Days before the expected launching this week, Mr. Brink said in an interview that he had advertised for a replacement, stipulating that the third crew member should be an airline captain. "We're down to three candidates," Mr. Brink said on Friday, "and all of them are completely familiar with our navigation and communication equipment. For the launch and landing, I will do the piloting."
All three teams are flying Rozier balloons -- a type that has achieved many long-distance records in recent years. A modern Rozier is kept aloft by helium gas, but to add extra lift, the balloon is compartmentalized and the lower part can be filled with hot air from a gas burner. This enables the balloon to maintain altitude at night, when cold air and the lack of sunlight cools the helium and lessens its lifting power.
Since the first manned balloon flight in 1783 by Jean Francois Pilatre de Rozier and the Marquis Francois Laurent d'Arlandes in a Montgolfier hot-air balloon, many balloonists have attempted round-the-world flights, but all have failed, and some have died trying. Five unsuccessful attempts were made by a single team led by Larry Newman of Scottsdale, Ariz., in his Earthwinds balloon before Mr. Newman abandoned his efforts one year ago.
The Rozier balloon is named after its inventor, who was forced to use inflammable hydrogen in his 18th-century version, since a century was to pass before the discovery of nonflammable helium. Rozier was killed in 1785 while trying to cross the English Channel; his hydrogen-and-hot-air hybrid balloon caught fire and crashed.
From that time until 1960, balloonists relied almost exclusively on hydrogen or helium for lift, since hot-air burners were regarded as too dangerous.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Fossett's balloon, the Solo Challenger, lifting off from the floor of the Stratobowl, south of Rapid City, S.D., into a dark Black Hills sky. (Associated Press)(pg. 13)
 
Diagrams: "Cramped Quarters for Explorers"
The three-person crew of the Virgin Global Challenger is to share a split-level capsule ringed by propane tanks. The lower deck (cross section at right) offers sleeping quarters, stowage space and a centrally located toilet. A raised center portion (below) provides just enough clearance for a crewmember to stand while wearing a helmet.
(Source: Virgin Group)(pg. 13);
 
"A Balloon With a Sun Shade"
A novel balloon design has a Mylar tent, supported by a helium balloon, enclosing cool air that circulates above the main gas cell.
(Source: Steve Fossett)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SPAIN (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%); PORTUGAL (68%); MOROCCO (53%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); NEBRASKA, USA (69%); 

CITY: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SPAIN (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%); PORTUGAL (68%); MOROCCO (53%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); NEBRASKA, USA (69%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BALLOONS; AROUND-THE-WORLD TRIPS; SOLO CHALLENGER (BALLOON) AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); METEOROLOGY (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (55%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (55%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W; FOSSETT, STEVE STEVE FOSSETT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



233 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Trump Moves to Put Taj Mahal in His Company

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
In a sign that his financial recovery is gathering speed, Donald J. Trump moved yesterday to fold his Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City into his publicly traded casino company.
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, his publicly traded company, is doing well enough that Mr. Trump expects to attract new investors. He plans to raise $59 million in equity above the costs of transferring ownership of the Taj. 
 Trump Hotels is offering to buy 1.35 million class A shares of the Taj Mahal Holding Corporation for $30 in cash or in Trump Hotels stock. That values those shares, which equal half of the Taj equity, at $40.5 million.
For his own half, Mr. Trump is to receive additional stock in Trump Hotels. Alan C. Marcus, a Trump spokesman, said that "to my knowledge" Mr. Trump would not get any cash out of the deal. Trump Hotels expects to issue $140 million in new stock to make the offer to shareholders and to raise cash. In addition, to replace the existing Taj bonds, $750 million of new debt will be sold by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Mr. Marcus said. That would value the Taj at about $890 million.
Because Mr. Trump owns about 40 percent of Trump Hotels, and half of the Taj, the deal announced yesterday could slightly increase his stake in the publicly traded company. Mr. Marcus said he did not believe Mr. Trump's share would exceed 44 percent when the deal was completed, which he said should be in April.
Trump Hotels closed yesterday unchanged at $21.75. The 10 million publicly traded shares have risen 55 percent since they came to market last June at $14.
The deal announced yesterday is conditional on the stock's remaining at $20 or higher.
In many ways Mr. Trump's turnaround has mirrored the fortunes of the Taj, which opened in April 1990. The Taj cost more than $1 billion to build, but it failed to generate enough cash to make interest payments on its original $675 million of junk bond debt issued by Merrill Lynch. Mr. Trump's stake in the Taj was halved in his negotiations with bondholders and other creditors whom he could not repay as promised.
The Taj was a crucial factor in Mr. Trump's 1990 financial crisis, during which one of his lawyers, Thomas Cerabino, testified that Mr. Trump was just one day away from uncontrolled bankruptcy unless casino regulators approved a deal with creditors. In 1991 Mr. Trump prepared a document showing that he had $44.7 million in personal bills coming due and only $1.6 million in projected income.
Mr. Trump avoided financial collapse through a series of deals he and Stephen Bollenbach, then his finance chief, negotiated with creditors who were owed more than $3 billion. Last fall, Mr. Trump, in a speech, claimed he owed $8.8 billion.
The deals with creditors won approval from the New Jersey Casino Control Commission even though it found that he did not meet the requirement in state law that he prove he was financially stable. The commission held that since creditors were negotiating with Mr. Trump he might eventually regain financial stability.
Since 1990 Mr. Trump has been forced to relinquish most of his Manhattan properties, including the Plaza Hotel. But by focusing on his three Atlantic City casinos he has managed to slowly rebuild his financial position.
Mr. Trump also hired Dennis Gomes, a respected casino executive, to run the Taj. But last fall Mr. Trump and Mr. Gomes came to a parting of the ways.
Last year, the Taj won $506.1 million from players, up 9.7 percent from 1994's winnings of $461.5 million, or just about the same percentage increase as all 12 Atlantic City casinos.
But in December, the amount the Taj won from players declined 8.9 percent, to $38.9 million compared with a year ago, largely because the casino lacked the high-rollers that were brought in a year earlier by Mr. Gomes and his team.
Last month builders in Florida launched the Trump Princess, a 290-foot riverboat that is to open to gamblers near Gary, Ind., in April. The Indiana operation, owned by Trump Hotels, expects to draw gamblers from nearby Chicago.
 The article omitted the current findings of New Jersey casino regulators regarding Mr. Trump. They have found that he is now financially stable.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions of Business Day on Tuesday about Donald J. Trump's latest casino plans misidentified the period in which, Mr. Trump asserted, he owed $8.8 billion. It was 1991; the assertion was made last fall.
The article also misstated Mr. Trump's ownership interest in his Manhattan properties. Mr. Trump retains control of some his Manhattan properties, retains a minority interest without control in others and has invested in additional properties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRMP (NASDAQ) (94%); MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (ATLANTIC CITY); TRUMP HOTELS & CASINO RESORTS INC TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (ATLANTIC CITY); TRUMP HOTELS & CASINO RESORTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CASINOS (95%); RESORTS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (67%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; TRUMP, DONALD DONALD TRUMP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



234 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 3225 words

HEADLINE: Francois Mitterrand Dies at 79; Champion of a Unified Europe

BYLINE: By CRAIG R. WHITNEY

DATELINE: PARIS, Jan. 8

 BODY:
Francois Mitterrand, who revived France's Socialist Party into a modern political force and whose election as President ended decades of Gaullist rule, died this morning in his official residence here of prostate cancer. He was 79.
"It is a great figure who has left us, and I salute him with emotion and with respect," said President Jacques Chirac, a conservative Gaullist and longtime political adversary of Mr. Mitterrand, who succeeded him last May. 
 Mr. Mitterrand will be buried after a private funeral Thursday morning in Jarnac, the southwestern French village where he was born. A public Mass will be celebrated for him at the same time at Notre Dame Cathedral in Paris. Friends said Mr. Mitterrand did not want a state funeral, but Mr. Chirac declared Thursday a day of national mourning and ordered flags to be flown at half-staff.
As President, Mr. Mitterrand embraced the cause of European unity as his intended legacy. He evidently sought in this crusade propitiation for the political sins of his youth. For most of his political career, Mr. Mitterrand kept hidden his service in the wartime collaborationist rule of Marshal Philippe Petain in Vichy, emphasizing instead his work with the Resistance, which he joined only at the end of 1943.
It was only in the twilight of his life, after one of his most notorious former associates -- a Vichy police officer -- was accused of deporting thousands of French Jews to German camps, that Mr. Mitterrand allowed a biographer to disclose the details of his own time as a Vichy bureaucrat.
He dedicated his 14-year presidency, the longest since the Fifth Republic was established in 1958, to building a more united Europe on the foundation of close Franco-German relations.
Chancellor Helmut Kohl, his closest ally, led the first of many tributes by European leaders today. "Europe has lost a great statesman in Francois Mitterrand," he said. "I am mourning a good friend."
Former Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher of Britain, now Lady Thatcher, said that while their political views were very different, she liked and respected Mr. Mitterrand. "Over his many years as President, and by his bearing and his culture, he seemed to symbolize for the rest of the world something of the essential France," she said.
In the United States, former President George Bush said he would remember Mr. Mitterrand "for his love of France, his pride, his extraordinary sweep of history and the fact that he put value as we did on the strength of the relationship" between France and the United States.
Though weakened by his illness, Mr. Mitterrand had spent the Christmas holidays in Aswan, in southern Egypt, with his wife, Danielle, and the former President's daughter from outside the marriage, Mazarine Pingeot.
They, the Mitterrands' two sons, Mr. Mitterrand's brother Robert and other relatives were with him when he died at 8:30 A.M. today in his official apartment near the Ecole Militaire on the Left Bank, according to his doctor, Jean-Pierre Tarot.
Mr. Mitterrand's election to the first of two terms in 1981 crowned his singlehanded revival of the French Socialist Party, which he had headed for more than a decade.
The first Socialist to lead his country since Leon Blum in the 1930's, Mr. Mitterrand was elected President on his third try, having lost to De Gaulle in 1965 and Valery Giscard d'Estaing in 1974, both by narrow margins.
In 1981, he solidly defeated Mr. Giscard d'Estaing, partly through support in the runoff of the French Communist Party, whose opposition to Mr. Mitterrand in the first round of the election led to their worst showing at the polls in 45 years.
Mr. Mitterrand's election represented the biggest shift in French politics since the end of World War II. Mr. Mitterrand was the first non-Gaullist to occupy Elysee Palace in the brief history of France's Fifth Republic, and tens of thousands of Parisians celebrated his victory far into the night, marching along the Boulevard Beaumarchais singing the "Marseillaise" and holding a rally at the Bastille.
But if Mr. Mitterrand's election elated his supporters, it produced apprehension in Washington, London and Bonn, where fears arose that the new Socialist President would allow the Communists too strong a voice in a leftist French coalition. But Mr. Mitterrand managed to marginalize the Communist influence and the party returned to the opposition in 1984 and were never again the force they once were.
In his first months in office, Mr. Mitterrand and the new National Assembly, in which the Socialists and leftist parties had a majority, nationalized banks and major industries, raised the French minimum wage, and increased government spending.
But these efforts failed to halt unemployment and rising inflation and French voters began to have second thoughts about the Socialist's policies. When control of the National Assembly was returned to the rightist parties in 1986, Mr. Mitterrand tried to work with a Prime Minister from the opposition, Mr. Chirac. This attempt at "cohabitation," as Mr. Mitterrand called it, ended as enough of a success that Mr. Mitterrand was re-elected President two years later.
Pragmatic centrism rather than doctrinaire socialism characterized much of Mr. Mitterrand's 14-year tenure.
He considered among his greatest accomplishments the abolition of the death penalty in the first year of his presidency and a policy of steady decentralization, which gradually returned authority to the regions, which had been ruled tightly from Paris since before the French Revolution.
Mr. Mitterrand's presidency was also marked by grand public works that changed the face of Paris, including a gigantic square-edged modern arch at the city's western portals, a modern opera house at the Bastille, and a vast new National Library built on the eastern side at the end of his second term.
But of all of his legacies to the city, he was proudest of the revitalization of the Museum of the Louvre, a project capped by the construction of a new entrance under a frame-and-glass pyramid designed by I. M. Pei and placed in the palace's western courtyard.
 
Political Smorgasbord
Disciple of Voltaire In a United Europe
Mr. Mitterrand was a complex figure who had been a conservative lawyer from the Cognac region of western France.
A disciple of traditional French literature and thought, Mr. Mitterrand possessed a skill with words. "I observe -- and I write," he said in one of his dozen books. "I like the written word. Language, philology, grammar. I believe that real literature is born from the exact correspondence of word and thing."
Mr. Mitterrand said his greatest intellectual hero was Voltaire, the essence of French wit, intelligence and republican spirit. For him France's greatest villain was Charles de Talleyrand, who directed French foreign policy for kings, revolutionaries, and Napoleon Bonaparte alike. "He sold out France -- to everybody," was Mr. Mitterrand's withering judgment.
Mr. Mitterrand said he believed that close cooperation between France and Germany was the keystone of European unity, and the Socialist French leader established close ties with Helmut Kohl after he became Chancellor of West Germany in 1982.
Their relationship came under strain with the collapse of the Berlin Wall in late 1989 when Mr. Kohl pressed ahead, too vigorously for Mr. Mitterrand's taste, toward Bonn's goal of reunification in 1990. Keeping Germany committed to a more closely integrated Europe, a goal that coincided with Mr. Kohl's vision, became the centerpiece of Mr. Mitterrand's strategy to preserve French influence despite Germany's greater economic strength.
After German reunification, Mr. Mitterrand and Mr. Kohl were the two principal architects of the treaty signed in the Dutch city of Maastricht in late 1991 that created the European Union out of the European Community, itself an expansion of the old Common Market. The tie between the two leaders remained unbroken, and they remained close friends.
Mr. Mitterrand's efforts to restore France's stature in world affairs reflected the fact that the French had never fully adjusted to the breakup of the French empire that followed World War II.
Echoing De Gaulle, Mr. Mitterrand insisted that France was still a great power, with a vast sphere of influence in its former colonial domains in Africa and other Francophone countries around the world. He supported the independent nuclear deterrent De Gaulle established, carrying out even more atomic weapons tests -- 86 -- than the General had permitted.
Also like De Gaulle, Mr. Mitterrand had no fear of telling off the United States when he thought it was wrong. In this he was often encouraged by his wife, the former Danielle Gouze, whom he married in 1944 and who was active in political causes of her own.
One of Mrs. Mitterrand's interests was Cuba, which she visited often and whose leader, Fidel Castro, she befriended. She persuaded her husband to invite Mr. Castro to Paris for a visit in early 1995, an occasion Mr. Mitterrand used to describe the continuing American embargo of Cuba as "stupid."
One of the high points of French-American cooperation in the Mitterrand era came in 1991 when France sent troops to join the American-led coalition that drove Iraq out of Kuwait during the Persian Gulf war.
France also sent thousands of troops to serve with the United Nations force in the Balkans and Mr. Mitterrand himself made a dramatic and daring visit to Sarajevo in June 1992 that opened the way for an international airlift to the Bosnian capital.
 
Early Years
From Vichy To the Resistance
Francois Maurice Marie Mitterrand was born on Oct. 26, 1916, in the town of Jarnac, near Cognac, the brandy-distilling center, one of eight children of Joseph Mitterrand and Yvonne Lorrain. His father was an employee of the Paris-Orleans railroad company who later went on to become a businessman and an executive of Marcel Dassault's group of aviation companies, a mainstay of the French defense industry.
Strongly influenced by his Roman Catholic upbringing, Mr. Mitterrand attended the College Saint-Paul in Angouleme, a religious school not far from his home in Jarnac, before moving to Paris to study law and political science.
Much of his political activity between the time he arrived in Paris as a student in 1934 and the time he emerged as a member of the Resistance to Nazi occupation in 1943 were until recently shrouded in mystery.
But later in life, as if wanting to set the record straight before his death, he collaborated with a writer named Pierre Pean on "A French Youth: Francois Mitterrand 1934-1947."
The book, published in 1994, was a revelation. The young Mr. Mitterrand, it turned out, had not been a socialist dreamer but an ultraconservative French nationalist who joined a paramilitary group, the League of National Volunteers.
After the League of National Volunteers was banned by the government authorities, the young Mr. Mitterrand flirted with other ultranationalist paramilitary groups, Mr. Pean wrote, but did not join them.
Sent to the front as an army sergeant after the war broke out in 1939, Mr. Mitterrand was wounded by a shell explosion in June 1940 and taken to a prison camp near the city of Kassel, Germany, from which he escaped at the end of 1941.
With France under Nazi occupation, Mr. Mitterrand initially sought to help the collaborationist Government of Marshal Petain in Vichy. He worked initially as a minor official of its commissariat for repatriated prisoners of war.
Mr. Pean wrote that he found no evidence that Mr. Mitterrand had had anything to do with the anti-Semitic measures taken by the Vichy government, and Mr. Mitterrand told the author, "I didn't think about the anti-Semitism" when he was employed by Vichy.
Toward the end of his life, Mr. Mitterrand told Elie Wiesel, the Nobel Peace Prize laureate and a Holocaust survivor, in a book the two of them published in April of 1995, "Memoirs in Two Voices," that seeing French Jews forced to wear a yellow star was one of the things that turned him against the Vichy Government.
After the war, he became friendly with the former Secretary General of the Vichy police, Rene Bousquet, who was responsible for the deportation of thousands of French Jews to Germany's death camps. Mr. Bousquet was charged with treason but acquitted in 1949. Mr. Mitterrand told Mr. Wiesel that he met Mr. Bousquet then and continued to see him until 1986, when he again came under investigation for committing war crimes.
Mr. Bousquet was charged anew in 1991 for ordering the deportation of more than 2,000 French Jews in 1942. He was assassinated by Christian Didier, a writer whom the police described as "deranged," in June 1993, before he came to trial.
 
Changing Sides
A Political Game Of Musical Chairs
It was not until after receiving "La Francisque," Vichy's highest civilian medal, for his work with the former prisoners of war, that Mr. Mitterrand became disabused, in 1943, of the notion that a collaborationist government could preserve French independence.
He switched his loyalties and offered his services to the anti-Nazi Resistance movement, journeying to London and then to Algiers in December 1943 for a meeting with General De Gaulle, who asked him to forge a single former prisoners' organization from those of the Resistance, the Communists and the one he had run for Vichy.
After the liberation of Paris in August 1944, he served as secretary general of the Organization of Prisoners of War, War Victims and Refugees in De Gaulle's first postwar provisional government. He then established a newspaper and began a political career that would not be tied to the fortunes of the General.
"After the war, a man of my age didn't know where to go," he said later. "I did not feel like a man of the right, because I disagreed with certain points, especially on social justice. I was tempted by socialism, but not by the parties that represented it."
He won election to the new National Assembly in 1946 as a member of a center-left party from the Nievre constituency, a largely hilly department in central France. He held this Assembly seat until 1958, when De Gaulle formed the Fifth Republic.
It was a time when governments rose and fell frequently, and Mr. Mitterrand maneuvered into a variety of cabinet posts under a succession of prime ministers. In 1954 and 1955, he held the key post of Minister of the Interior in the Cabinet of Pierre Mendes-France, and in 1956 and 1957, he held the Justice portfolio under Guy Mollet.
After the foundation of the Fifth Republic, Mr. Mitterrand formed a center-left opposition to De Gaulle and he was soon recognized as the principal political threat to Gaullism. Mr. Mitterrand ran unsuccessfully against De Gaulle in 1965 as the candidate of the left, uniting the socialists and the Communists. By winning 32 percent of the vote on the first round, Mr. Mitterrand forced De Gaulle into a runoff, which De Gaulle won narrowly.
But it was not until 1971 that Mr. Mitterrand took over as leader of the Socialist Party, which had won barely 5 percent of the vote in the previous elections. He reorganized the party and forged tactical alliances with the Communists to increase its appeal to French voters.
He ran for President again in 1974 and lost by a narrow margin to Mr. Giscard d'Estaing. But seven years later, in a major upset, he defeated him with 51.76 percent of the vote.
 
At Elysee
Fear and Trembling By the Bourgeoisie
Mr. Mitterrand was elected to his first term by voters who had warmed to his words about solidarity and human generosity and to the socialist agenda, including economic growth, the creation of jobs, and the redistribution of wealth. His social policies ranged from reducing the price of false teeth to providing greater protection for tenants.
But as President, he seemed initially to be more dogmatic. His Socialist-Communist coalition set about nationalizing banks and big industries and frightening France's moneyed classes so badly that many of them sold their luxury apartments in Paris and sought refuge abroad for families and fortunes.
But the measures failed to achieve economic gains and they weakened the franc. Many wage earners saw their purchasing power decline. Unemployment rose. Before long, public opinion polls were indicating that Mr. Mitterrand's policies, including his austerity measures, had become highly unpopular.
Four decades in the hurly-burly of French politics had taught Mr. Mitterrand flexibility and brought him a reputation as a pragmatist. After the economy deteriorated, he changed policies.
By 1984, the French Communist Party broke with Mr. Mitterrand, and in early 1986, the Socialists lost control of the National Assembly. Mr. Chirac, the head of the neo-Gaullist Rally for the Republic, became Prime Minister.
For the remainder of Mr. Mitterrand's first term as President, he shared power uneasily with Mr. Chirac, who retained the Prime Minister's post until 1988, when he unsuccessfully challenged Mr. Mitterrand for the presidency. The dual arrangement -- known as "cohabitation" -- added to the blurring of distinctions between the left and the right in French politics.
By the end of his first term, Mr. Mitterrand and the Socialist Party had substantially softened their economic views. They were no longer pledged to nationalizing major industries. In other economic spheres, their economic doctrine contained only small differences from the free-market liberalism of Mr. Chirac.
During the re-election campaign, it was Mr. Mitterrand who presented himself successfully as the soul of caution and legitimacy. By the time he was re-elected President, his popularity had rebounded, and his personal following was far larger than that of his party.
Despite that success, Mr. Mitterrand was dogged by many other problems. They included the growth of the far-right in French politics and a considerable degree of disorientation, within the French populace, that stemmed from the end of the cold war.
In March 1993, the Socialists were trounced in parliamentary elections by a conservative coalition, and from then until the end of his second term in May 1995, Mr. Mitterrand was again forced to co-habit with an opposition Prime Minister, Edouard Balladur.
In September 1992, Mr. Mitterrand had undergone surgery for prostate cancer and seemed to recover well. But after a second operation in July 1994, followed by chemotherapy, he began to look pale and drawn.
To the end, Mr. Mitterrand maintained his habit of speaking in long sentences peppered with references reflecting his traditional education in Latin and Greek.
For all his erudition, Mr. Mitterrand's personal style was simple. After taking office as President, and thereby becoming master of Elysee Palace on the Rue du Faubourg Saint-Honore, he continued to live relatively modestly in his home on the Rue de Bievre on the Left Bank.
He is survived by his wife; their sons, Jean-Christophe, a consultant, and Gilbert, a law professor and socialist politician in Aquitaine, and a daughter from outside the marriage, Mazarine Pingeot, a student at the Ecole Normale Superieure. He is also survived by two brothers and four sisters.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Francois Mitterrand. (Reuters) (pg. 1); The political life of former President Francois Mitterrand of France, who died yesterday, was one of remarkable transformations. Clockwise, from left: After army service in World War II, he worked for the collaborationist Vichy government before joining the Resistance in 1943. After building the Socialist Party in the 1950's and '60's, he campaigned successfully for President in 1981. An avid reader, he lost himself in a book as he posed for sculpture in 1983. A proponent of the Western alliance who sent French troops to the Persian Gulf war and to Bosnia, he met with Chancellor Kohl of Germany and President Clinton in 1993. (pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); EGYPT (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

COMPANY: SOCIALIST PARTY (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIALIST PARTY (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (99%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); GERMANY (91%); EGYPT (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (88%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; DEATHS DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); POLITICS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CONSERVATISM (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (77%); MEN'S HEALTH (77%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (75%); PROSTATE DISEASE (73%); CHRISTMAS (73%); PROSTATE CANCER (72%); WORLD WAR II (71%); BRITISH PRIME MINISTERS (66%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: WHITNEY, CRAIG R; MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS BILL CLINTON (78%); JACQUES CHIRAC (73%); GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



235 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 383 words

HEADLINE: Ford Says More Buyers Behind On Automobile Loan Payments

BYLINE: By KEITH BRADSHER

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The number of Americans who are behind on their car payments is rising, a senior executive at the Ford Motor Company said tonight.
Edsel B. Ford 2d, the president and chief operating officer of the Ford Motor Credit Company, said that the car finance unit had recently noticed a 10 percent increase in the number of its delinquent accounts, which include car loans and leases. The finance company declares a debt to be delinquent if a payment is 30 or more days overdue. 
 Mr. Ford minimized the implications of the rising delinquencies for the Ford Motor Company. "We ought to worry about it, because it's a concern, but we ought not to go into a panic about it," he said.
Many banks and consumer loan companies have experienced higher levels of delinquencies in recent months. Mr. Ford, a great grandson of Henry Ford, said that about half the increase at his company reflected current economic conditions, notably the high level of consumer indebtedness, and half reflected his company's recent move to lend more money to customers with riskier credit histories.
Mr. Ford declined to give precise figures on delinquencies at Ford but said that, in general, the company seldom has more than one-half of 1 percent of its accounts that are 90 or more days overdue. He spoke to reporters after giving a speech tonight at the Automotive News World Congress here, a trade conference.
In other comments, Mr. Ford dismissed recent reports that his family, the largest shareholder in Ford, was unhappy with its chairman, Alexander Trotman, over the company's stagnant stock price and high product-development costs.
Some auto industry analysts and executives at other car companies have expressed worries recently that cars are becoming too expensive for too many American families to afford. Last week, Mr. Trotman dismissed the question of affordability, but Mr. Ford said tonight that "from any point of view, the market has become very price-sensitive."
And today, Ross Roberts, a Ford vice president and general manager of the Ford division, said the company was planning to introduce a new round of price incentives to spur sales. He declined to say whether the incentives would be offered to buyers of the new Taurus and Sable models, which have been selling slower than expected.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); NAICS522220 SALES FINANCING (72%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (72%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO LLC (72%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CREDIT CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; CREDIT; RENTING AND LEASING CONSUMER LENDING (90%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (90%); EXECUTIVES (90%); PERSONAL DEBT (78%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (78%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); FAMILY (72%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (70%); GRANDCHILDREN (68%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (64%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); TRADE SHOWS (50%); 

PERSON: BRADSHER, KEITH; FORD, EDSEL B 2D HENRY FORD II (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



236 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1664 words

HEADLINE: Second Thoughts on India;
Enron Project on Track, but Policy Doubts Remain

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS

DATELINE: NEW DELHI, Jan. 8

 BODY:
When the Government of Prime Minister P. V. Narasimha Rao began dismantling India's socialist economic system and replacing it with free-market policies in 1991, the country's image in corporate board rooms around the world underwent a striking transformation.
As recently as last summer, corporate leaders like Michael D. Eisner, chairman of the Walt Disney Company, were adding their voices to the chorus of Western executives who have described a new India -- with at least 130 million middle-class consumers among its 930 million people -- as the world's most promising market. 
 But recent events have caused a sobering reassessment.
"India seems to have a knack for shooting itself in the foot," said Claude Smadja, an economist who follows the country for the World Economic Forum, based in Geneva. At a conference last month in New Delhi, Mr. Smadja joined other participants in urging the Rao Government to push the changes forward after a year in which little new was done to overhaul an economy still poised uneasily between a socialist past and a free-enterprise future.
"It's time to stop talking about 'India's huge potential' and to start realizing it," Mr. Smadja said.
On Monday, India went part of the way toward meeting concerns about the economic changes when the state government of Maharashtra agreed to revive the largest single foreign investment ever made here, a power plant south of Bombay that is to be built by an American consortium led by the Enron Corporation of Houston. The cancellation of the project in August, after Enron and its partners had spent $300 million, sent warning signals around the world about the uncertainties of doing business here.
But to many who worry about India's economic policies, getting the Enron project back on track was only a start. While the country has avoided a protracted legal battle by Enron to recover its losses from Maharashtra, the lessons that seem likely from the affair will hardly be positive.
As the cost of getting the cancellation reversed, for example, Enron and its partners in the Dabhol Power Company, the Indian subsidiary that is to build the plant, were forced to reconfigure the project to cut $300 million from the original price tag of $2.8 billion. Some fear that the step could set a precedent for other state governments that want signed contracts revised.
Also, the Enron controversy is only one issue dogging India's economy. While the revival of the power plant was being negotiated in Bombay, Finance Minister Manmohan P. Singh, who has been the chief architect of the free-market changes, conceded that the Government had run out of steam in its eagerness to make India competitive with its fast-developing Asian neighbors. Nor can Mr. Singh, or anyone else, say with any confidence when the process of change will start rolling again.
Starting almost a year ago, Mr. Rao, who has feared a backlash against the changes in a general election to be held in April, signaled that there would be no big new steps toward overhauling the economic system until after the voting. Nonetheless, opinion polls in recent months have suggested that the ruling Congress Party could lose the election to opposition groups that have ambiguous attitudes about the changes, including Hindu nationalists and leftists who have threatened to restrict foreign investment and to defer other moves.
At meetings around the country, Mr. Singh has sounded a valedictory note. "The reforms do not depend on one man," he has said. And he has urged skeptics to look beyond the election to what he calls an unstoppable process. "There has been a sea change in the minds of Indians in the past four years," he said recently. "I think foreign investors know that there is a new India in the making."
Like Mr. Rao, Mr. Singh, a former governor of India's central bank, was a late convert to market economics. But on his first day as Finance Minister in June 1991, he told Mr. Rao that India could only avert default on $90 billion in foreign debt by opening the economy. Since then, the two men have pushed through changes that have allowed foreign companies to own up to 100 percent of a business in India, slashed maximum import duties from 300 percent to 50 percent and cut corporate taxes to levels comparable to those of other Asian countries.
Other key changes have rolled back a system of licensing under which New Delhi made vital decisions for virtually every business on the size of work forces, the scale of investments and the type and volume of products. Industries that were Government monopolies, like power generation, have been opened to competition; in the airline industry, a small group of private carriers has already taken 40 percent of domestic passenger traffic from the Government-owned Indian Airlines. Insurance, a state-owned industry with labor unions wary of job losses, is one of the few big industries still closed to foreigners.
Mr. Singh also offers an economic score card that he says reflects the benefits India has already gained from the changes: a 1994 growth rate of 6.2 percent, up from 1.5 percent in 1991; gains in industrial production of 10 percent annually, up from near-stagnation levels, and lower inflation and Government deficits. And $3 billion in foreign equity investments in the last two years has doubled all the foreign investments in India between 1947 and 1991.
But many Indians say the halt in the free-market changes has come as the most difficult part, dismantling some of the most stubborn parts of the socialist legacy, still lies ahead.
"When is the Government going to put its foot down and say, 'This cannot go on'?" said an exasperated Abhaykumar N. Firodia, chairman of Bajaj Tempo Ltd., a producer of commercial vehicles that lost 21 of 25 working days at a plant in Madhya Pradesh state in November because a state electrical utility -- part of a national network of Government-owned power companies -- could not generate enough electricity to run the plant.
In fact, the Enron project was intended to kick-start a Government program for drawing private investment to meet India's estimated need to triple power production by 2007.
Before today's official revival of the project, it had been mothballed for five months, at a loss to Enron and its partners that they estimate at $250,000 a day. After weeks of internal wrangling, the state government in Maharashtra settled for terms not much different than Enron offered last fall, after the project was canceled. In the meantime, the two Hindu nationalist parties that form the state government used the issue as a political football, telling voters that Enron and other American companies looking at Indian markets needed to be "taught a lesson" about not exploiting India.
India's chronic power problems are but one of the difficulties that make it a museum for outdated economic practices. The country's best-selling car is the Hindustan Ambassador, produced in a Government-owned plant in Calcutta. But the car is a barely updated version of Britain's 1951 Morris Oxford. And only eight million people have telephones, while at least 20 million others wait for connections.
And because of an uncontrolled birth rate that has nearly tripled the population since 1947, proportionately as many people -- 350 million, by Government estimates -- live in poverty as when British rule ended.
Despite all this, many powerful groups are allied to the opposition political parties in their effort to slow down the changes. Armies of officials in government offices, banks, ports, airports and railway stations maintain a tangled bureaucratic system that makes even the former Soviet Union look efficient. And powerful labor unions have flexed their muscles to insure that more than 240 state-owned industries, nearly half of them big loss-makers for years, escape privatization.
Some examples are almost farcical: The Hindustan Fertilizer Corporation, owned by the Government, has employed 1,550 people at a technically flawed plant that opened at a cost of $1.2 billion near Calcutta in 1979. But it has yet to produce a pound of fertilizer or anything else marketable.
Many foreign companies that came into India in the rush after 1991 have also begun to learn that things taken for granted in other countries are absent in India. Even Mr. Singh, the Finance Minister, has acknowledged the "appalling state" of the country's economic infrastructure. Cargos sit on docksides for weeks for lack of rail cars, ports are antiquated and roads are a nightmare.
While these factors have been enough to deter some foreign companies, others are bullish on India. Last week, the Ford Motor Company became the latest of scores of American corporations to place its bet, announcing a tentative agreement on a joint venture with an Indian vehicle maker, Mahindra & Mahindra Ltd., to build a car plant in Madras. Eventually, the two companies see an investment of up to $700 million and production of up to 100,000 vehicles a year.
In choosing Madras, the capital of Tamil Nadu state in southern India, Ford settled on a site that illustrated many of India's strengths and drawbacks. The Tamil Nadu government, led by a former movie star, Jayalalitha Jayaram, is widely considered one of India's most corrupt, and has been accused by opponents of using violence, including acid-throwing, against those who cross it. But Madras also has a surplus of engineers and other professionals, and is the hub of an auto parts industry that began before World War II.
"We have made a strategic decision, and it is simple: to be in India," said John Parker, a Ford executive who will be managing director of the venture, which is expected to start production in 1998. Ford joins other foreign auto makers, including General Motors, Honda Motor of Japan, Fiat of Italy and Daewoo of South Korea, that have announced plans to build vehicles here to compete for a fast-growing car market.

GRAPHIC: Photos: About 350 million people in India live in poverty. Many live in squatters' camps like this one in New Delhi.; Despite chronic power problems, bad roads and a tangled bureaucratic system, some American companies are still drawn to the Indian economy. (Photographs by John Giannini for The New York Times)
 
Graphs: "Imports," "Foreign Direct Investment," and "Growth in G.D.P." show India's figures from 1990 to 1994. (Source: The World Bank group; Confederation of Indian Industry) (pg. 47)
 
"A Bumpy Ride" shows the changes in the value of a $10,000 investment in the closed-end India Growth Fund shares from 1988 to 1995. (Source: Morningstar) (pg. 48)
 
Map of Maharashtra, India: An Enron project in Maharashtra has been revived, with changes. (pg. 48)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4911 ELECTRIC SERVICES (85%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (84%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (84%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (84%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); 

STATE: MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); 

CITY: NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); 

COMPANY: ENRON CORP ENRON CREDITORS RECOVERY CORP (85%); WALT DISNEY CO (84%); WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: ENRON CORP WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD BANK GROUP (59%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); WORLD ECONOMIC FORUM (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: INDIA; MAHARASHTRA STATE (INDIA); INDIA (99%); UNITED STATES (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); MAHARASHTRA, INDIA (94%); WEST INDIA (79%); NEW DELHI, INDIA (93%); MUMBAI, INDIA (88%); 

SUBJECT: FOREIGN INVESTMENTS; ELECTRIC LIGHT AND POWER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; ELECTION ISSUES; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT ECONOMIC POLICY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); POWER PLANTS (86%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (73%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (73%); TRENDS (67%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (64%); PLANT CONSTRUCTION (50%); 

PERSON: BURNS, JOHN F; RAO, P V NARASIMHA (PRIME MIN) P V NARASIMHA RAO (92%); MICHAEL D EISNER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



237 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk

LENGTH: 645 words

HEADLINE: Japan Coalition Names Candidate Likely to Become Premier

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The governing coalition today selected Ryutaro Hashimoto as its candidate for Prime Minister, virtually assuring that he will be chosen by Parliament on Thursday to head the Japanese Government.
Mr. Hashimoto, the Trade Minister and president of the Liberal Democratic Party, Japan's dominant political party, would succeed Tomiichi Murayama, who announced his resignation on Friday. 
 The three parties in the governing coalition have almost no policy positions in common, but they have agreed on a vague platform that is supposed to guide Mr. Hashimoto's administration.
The platform calls for "the realignment and reduction" of American military bases in Okinawa, and seeks "visible results within a year" in reducing the burden of the bases on the people of Okinawa.
Despite urging from the Socialists, however, the platform does not make any specific commitment to curtailing the bases, which Mr. Hashimoto tends to support. The platform expresses support for the Japan-United States security treaty, which is the underpinning of the bases.
The security treaty and the bases have been sharply criticized within Japan in the last few months, particularly since the rape of a 12-year-old Okinawan girl, for which three American servicemen have been charged, focused attention on the hostility that many Okinawans feel for the bases.
The coalition refused to include a reference in the platform to Mr. Murayama's apology in August for Japanese aggression in World War II. The result may be to raise anxieties elsewhere in Asia about whether Mr. Murayama's speech, the most direct apology any Japanese leader has ever given for brutality during World War II, really represents Japan's thinking.
Instead, the platform struck a compromise by leaving out any reference to Japanese aggression during the war, and instead including an ambiguous phrase about "learning the lessons of the past."
Tonight, Mr. Hashimoto shook hands with the leaders of the other two parties in the coalition -- Mr. Murayama and Masayoshi Takemura of the New Party Sakigake -- and pledged to do his best if elected Prime Minister.
"I'm very grateful for this," Mr. Hashimoto told reporters. "I'll do my best to build trust among the parties in the coalition."
Mr. Hashimoto said that the economy was slowly improving, a point that the coalition has emphasized in rejecting calls for new general elections.
"I don't think we need new elections before the fall," Koichi Kato, the secretary general of Liberal Democratic Party, said tonight.
New elections do not have to be held for another 18 months. But many people have been angered by the prospect of the Prime Minister's office being turned over to the leader of another party without consulting the voters.
The leadership of the New Frontier Party, the main opposition group, tried a new strategy today to demand immediate new elections. The party leadership tried to get all of its 170 members of Parliament -- one-third of the total -- to resign en masse to dramatize its protest against the change in prime ministers without an election.

 The strategy failed. One faction in the New Frontier Party, led by former Prime Minister Tsutomu Hata, resisted the idea and it was dropped at least for now.
The failure of the effort underscores the cracks in the opposition and represents a defeat for Ichiro Ozawa, the president of the New Frontier Party. Mr. Ozawa, who will be the main candidate running against Mr. Hashimoto when the Parliament selects a new Prime Minister on Thursday, had to settle for new demands that the Parliament be dissolved and new elections called.
The governing coalition responded by repeating its accusations that the New Frontier Party is a front for a religious organization, Soka Gakkai. A Buddhist group, Soka Gakkai supports the New Frontier but is regarded by many Japanese as a cult.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

COMPANY: NEW FRONTIER PARTY (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW FRONTIER PARTY (82%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; OKINAWA AND OTHER RYUKYU ISLANDS; JAPAN (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); ASIA (79%); KYUSHU, JAPAN (73%); TOKYO, JAPAN (78%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE; MILITARY BASES AND INSTALLATIONS; SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; JAPAN-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); WORLD WAR II (89%); ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); RESIGNATIONS (77%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (77%); MILITARY WEAPONS (75%); MILITARY OFFENSES (75%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (67%); 

PERSON: KRISTOF, NICHOLAS D; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN); MURAYAMA, TOMIICHI (PRIME MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (94%); TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



238 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 6; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1220 words

HEADLINE: As the N.A.A.C.P. Regroups, Many Blacks Doubt its Relevance

BYLINE: By STEVEN A. HOLMES

DATELINE: NEW ORLEANS, Jan. 5

 BODY:
As the host of a call-in show on New Orleans's major black radio station, Bill Rouselle knows what people in this city's African-American community have on their minds.
Daily, Mr. Rouselle hears their views on education, politics, relations with the police and a variety of other issues. But, one subject almost never comes up: the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
 "It's not a relevant organization to most of those people," he said.
Rocked by scandal and mired in debt, the N.A.A.C.P. board has revamped its leadership in the past year and pledged to restore the organization to prominence. It elected Myrlie Evers-Williams, the widow of the slain civil rights worker Medgar Evers, as its new chairwoman, and it replaced Benjamin F. Chavis Jr. with Representative Kweisi Mfume, a Maryland Democrat, as executive director.
But as the new hierarchy takes over the 86-year-old civil rights organization and tries to revitalize it, it must confront the sobering fact that many blacks have questions about the N.A.A.C.P.'s purpose in today's world and its relation to their daily lives. Indeed, interviews with more than a score of black people in this city, which once served as a kind of staging area for civil rights volunteers who worked in tough areas like the Mississippi Delta, found that when people consider the N.A.A.C.P. at all, it often is in the past tense.
Ronnie Burns, 44, owner of Quick Courier Services, the largest black-owned courier company in Louisiana, said: "When I think about the N.A.A.C.P., what I think about is the struggle that a lot of African-Americans have gone through and the sacrifices they made so that people like myself are able to own a business, run a business and compete in corporate America."
Asked what he thought of the group's new leadership, Mr. Burns said, "The new leader? Is it still Ben Chavis?"
Like Mr. Burns, many interviewed have not closely followed the internal struggles that have wracked the organization since disclosures in 1994 that Mr. Chavis had committed the organization's money to forestall a sexual-harassment and sex-discrimination suit by a former employee. In part, the lack of knowledge of the organization reflects a natural inattention of people busy with their daily lives. In part, it reflected a sense of alienation resulting from the group's recent travails.
"I know they had a scandal going on sometime last year with some lady that Chavis had employed," said Herbert Gilson, 44, a plumber with the local housing authority. "After that, I just deleted them out of my mind."
For some, particularly the young and the poor for whom the organization often says it speaks, the lack of familiarity with the N.A.A.C.P. was jarring.
"I've never heard of them," said Lucinda Carter, a 20-year-old mother on welfare.
Asked about the group's new leaders, Melvin Scott, 47, a construction worker looked perplexed and thought for a moment. Nearby, one of his buddies, who would not give his name, tried to help out. "It's a lady," the friend said in a stage whisper. "Husband got shot in Mississippi. I'm trying to give you a hint."
Even among some familiar with the organization there seemed to be questions about the need to be a part of it.
"Not yet, not yet," David Thomas, 17, a freshman at Southern University's New Orleans Campus, when asked if he was a member. "I've always been able to deal with my life. I think I can provide for myself. I may join later on in my life, but not right now. I've got college right now."
To be sure, among many blacks active in business and politics, the selection of Mr. Mfume as president and chief executive, drew praise. As the former chairman of the Congressional Black Caucus, he is viewed as someone who would bring to the organization a measure of political acumen they say has been sorely missing in recent years.
"If he calls he's going to get a response," said Mayor Marc H. Morial, 38, of New Orleans, whose father Ernest Morial was president of the local N.A.A.C.P. branch in the 1960's and a New Orleans mayor in the '80s. "If he calls, people are going to know he's not calling with some foolishness -- that it's something that's going to have a sense of political sophistication."
As president of Louisiana's largest black-owned bank, Alden McDonald, has worked in the past with Mr. Mfume who, when the Democrats were in control, served on the House Banking, Finance and Urban Affairs Committee.
"He's been very helpful to the minority banking industry, minority contractors, all the minority professional groups," Mr. McDonald said. "He's been supportive without asking for anything. That means he's made a lot of friends in the entire country who are ready to support him. He's not even going to need a letter to get our financial contributions."
But even among strong supporters of Ms. Evers-Williams and Mr. Mfume, there was little consensus of what the N.A.A.C.P. should -- or could -- do. Doubts about the organization's role seemed particularly acute given the large number of blacks who have been elected to office -- particularly in the South -- since the 1970's.
"I think that, in the past, the N.A.A.C.P. was so important in the South, particularly in the pre-black electoral era," Mr. Morial said. "But to a great extent in the electoral era -- and I can only speak from the perspective of this city -- the advent of African-Americans serving in elected positions, plus our increasing ability to influence elected leaders, has probably created a necessity to question the relevance of the organization."
Sheila Williams, 33, current president of the New Orleans branch said she feels the organization needs to hone its purpose to a few issues or programs, like housing or employment discrimination, and carry them off well, rather than trying to take on every issue that relates to blacks, and handling them all ineffectively.
"I think nationally, we have to set an agenda, a very targeted agenda," she said. "You can pick any issue today and it would monopolize the whole time for a branch and the national office to mobilize their forces. I think in the past, we have just tried to be everything to everybody."
In interviews, person after person expressed an unease that, without the stark and tangible racism embodied in legalized segregation, the black community was fracturing. To them, a national organization like the N.A.A.C.P. is needed to unify blacks, but unifying them around what remained an open question.
"The N.A.A.C.P.'s purpose has to change at this point," said Matt Suarez, 57, who worked in Mississippi in the 1960's as a volunteer for the Congress of Racial Equality, and now operates a day care center. "We as a people are becoming fragmented; splitting, dividing into a lot of different little groups. People like to say it's the haves and have nots, but it's not that simple. We're separating and splitting among ourselves in terms of politics, philosophies, economics, regions, all sorts of influences that didn't have as much importance in our lives during the civil rights movement."
Mr. Suarez added: "More and more the pressures of American life, American society, American politics are dividing us. The N.A.A.C.P.'s role has to be to find those avenues that will reunite us as a people."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A civil rights volunteer in Mississippi in the 1960's, Matt Suarez today operates a day care center in New Orleans. He says the N.A.A.C.P. must change to reflect the varied interests and priorities of black people. (David Rae Morris/Impact Visuals for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: LOUISIANA, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (57%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL ASSN FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR THE ADVANCEMENT OF COLORED PEOPLE (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); LOUISIANA, USA (94%); NEW ORLEANS, LA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BLACKS; PUBLIC OPINION MINORITY BUSINESSES (91%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (90%); CIVIL RIGHTS (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); SCANDALS (89%); DISCRIMINATION (74%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (72%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); EXECUTIVES (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (64%); PACKAGE SHIPPING (64%); 

PERSON: HOLMES, STEVEN A; CHAVIS, BENJAMIN F JR (REV) KWEISI MFUME (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



239 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 7; Column 1; National Desk

LENGTH: 1162 words

HEADLINE: Flat Tax, Once Obscure Idea, Is Set to Enter Campaign Debate

BYLINE: By NEIL A. LEWIS

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The idea of discarding the elaborate Federal tax system in favor of a simple flat tax is about to go from an obscure academic discussion among economists to a full-throated debating issue in the Presidential campaign.
The release later this week of a study on how to simplify the tax system, sponsored formally if not wholeheartedly by Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the majority leader, and Speaker Newt Gingrich, will almost certainly add momentum to the debate and thrust the flat tax into Republican policy discussions. 
 In the last few weeks, Steve Forbes has offered the most vivid demonstration of the issue's appeal. He has used the flat tax effectively as one of his weapons in the self-financed advertising blitz that has propelled him from a novelty candidate to someone who is getting enough attention to warrant consistent attacks from his rivals.
The basic idea of a flat tax is to jettison the sliding scale of tax rates and make all taxpayers pay the same percentage of their income. At the same time, almost all deductions would be eliminated so wealthy people could not reduce their taxes by festooning their returns with deductions available only to the rich. About 75 percent of tax returns do not claim any special deductions.
Edmund G. Brown Jr., a Democrat and a former governor of California, campaigned for President advocating a flat tax in 1992 but was unable to gain any traction with it in his party. This time around, the issue will be featured on the Republican side, becoming all but unavoidable for any Republican Presidential hopeful, said Frank Luntz, a Republican pollster.
"It's got tremendous appeal," Mr. Luntz said in an interview. "It goes to some basic issues -- Americans' effort to simplify their lives as well as the increasing resentment of government that many feel."
The major Republican candidates have spoken positively, if ambiguously, in favor of some form of a flat tax. Senator Phil Gramm of Texas is expected to issue soon his own version of a proposal, which is likely to preserve deductions for charitable donations and home-mortgage interest.
Yet some surveys show that while the flat tax has wide appeal, that support may prove to be shallow because of the inevitable trade-offs: a flat tax large enough to replace the current system could carry a high rate -- 21 percent or more, according to some estimates -- and might mean the end of the home-mortgage and charity deductions. The vigorous debate over how high the rate would have to be is linked to equally contentious arguments over how deeply the Federal budget could be cut to accommodate less revenue.
Although there is the inevitable discord among economic studies, many say a flat tax would be a boon to the rich and cause most middle-class taxpayers to pay more.
Mr. Forbes's proposal, which is similar to one introduced in Congress by Representative Dick Armey of Texas, the majority leader, is the only one currently on the table in the Republican campaign. It has these basic elements:
*The tax rate would be set at 17 percent for everyone.
*Couples filing jointly would be able to exempt the first $26,000 of income -- $13,000 for individuals -- and $5,000 per child. Thus, a family of four would not pay taxes on the first $36,000 of income.
*Virtually all other deductions would be eliminated, including those for home-mortgage interest, charitable contributions, and state and local taxes.
*Businesses would no longer be able to deduct the cost of fringe benefits.
The appeal, both opponents and supporters agree, is twofold.
First, a flat tax is simple. Now, even professional tax preparers struggle to figure out the complexities of the tax code. Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania, who campaigned on a flat tax before he dropped out of the Republican Presidential race last year, said that he had always drawn the greatest response during appearances when he had pulled out of his pocket a postcard-size facsimile of what a tax return would look like under a flat tax.
Second, the simplicity suggests fairness to voters because it promises the elimination of the loopholes typically available to filers who can hire accountants and tax consultants. It could also mean the shrinking of the unbeloved Internal Revenue Service.
"It has enormous appeal," Mr. Forbes said in an interview. "It would bring simplicity and honesty to the tax code, and people believe that the current complexity means that a lot of people are getting away with something."
Mr. Forbes has nothing bad to say about the flat tax. The elimination for charitable deductions would not cripple charities, he says, because "Americans do not have to be bribed by the tax code to give." People will not object to allowing wealthy individuals to avoid paying taxes on income from interest and stocks, he contends, because they would understand that the income would be taxed at the corporate level.
But the political vulnerabilities of that argument were evident when Patrick J. Buchanan, the Republican candidate who has styled himself a populist, told an audience in Manchester, N.H., on Sunday that Mr. Forbes's proposals would benefit the rich. Mr. Buchanan said he would keep an exemption for mortgages while taxing unearned income.
Mr. Luntz, the Republican pollster, said his surveys showed that more than a fourth of the electorate strongly favored the concept of a flat tax and that nearly half liked it but had less enthusiasm.
Yet Democratic strategists argue that once the fine print is attached to any proposal, voters will be wary. One White House official, speaking on the condition of anonymity, said the flat tax issue was analogous to the health care issue for the White House. President Clinton's plan to overhaul health care started out as a winning idea in 1993 but eventually collapsed under the weight of its complexity.
"Everybody agrees there's a need for change, that what we have now is flawed," the official said. "But when you start presenting the details, you find it's easy for opponents to beat up on you."
The official said the Democrats would be eager to run against such a specific tax proposal.
That reasoning is seemingly shared, at least in part, by Mr. Dole, the apparent front-runner in the Republican race. Initially, his sponsorship of the Republican tax study was a handy way for Mr. Dole to put off questions on tax policy.
But recently, as the publication of that study approaches, Mr. Dole's supporters have persuaded the study panel to keep its recommendations vague and not recommend a specify flat tax rate.
The idea of a flat tax has several powerful institutional opponents, like the nation's bankers, insurance agents and real estate companies, all of whom rely on the mortgage deduction to keep Americans buying homes. Those lobbies are influential both in Washington and in all the nation's 435 Congressional districts, each of which has at least one bank, realtor and insurance agent.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "AT ISSUE: The Flat Tax" shows possible selling point and pitfalls of the flat tax system.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); KANSAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION TAXES & TAXATION (98%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); TAX REFORM (90%); POLITICAL DEBATES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); TAX LAW (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); INTERVIEWS (76%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); SPONSORSHIP (76%); UPPER INCOME PERSONS (72%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (72%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (72%); MARKETING CAMPAIGNS (72%); POLLS & SURVEYS (69%); GOVERNORS (68%); BUDGET CUTS (66%); CHARITIES (65%); CHARITABLE GIVING (60%); MORTGAGE LOANS (60%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, NEIL A; FORBES, STEVE NEWT GINGRICH (57%); PHIL GRAMM (57%); JERRY BROWN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



240 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 25; Column 3; National Desk

LENGTH: 1524 words

HEADLINE: Supreme Court Roundup;
Justices Allow Limits on Indecent RAdio and TV Shows

BYLINE: By LINDA GREENHOUSE

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 8

 BODY:
The Supreme Court today rejected a constitutional challenge to a Federal law that bans indecent programming on radio and broadcast television during the day and in prime-time evening hours.
The Court took the action without comment, leaving intact a sharply divided Federal appeals court ruling that upheld the 1992 law last June. The debate over Federal regulation of indecent and sexually explicit speech is certain to continue, however, both within and outside the Court. 
 Congress is considering curbs against transmitting obscene and indecent material over computer networks, and the Justices themselves recently agreed to review a separate Federal law intended to curb access to indecent programming on certain cable television channels. Also awaiting action by the Justices is a challenge to the Federal Communications Commission's approach to imposing fines on broadcasters for indecent programming.
In light of the continued ferment over the issue of indecency, the Justices' quick action today in refusing to hear the challenge to Section 16a of the Public Telecommunications Act of 1992, limiting indecent programming to late-night and pre-dawn hours, was somewhat surprising.
The Clinton Administration, while defending the constitutionality of the law, urged the Court to defer action until after it decides the cable television case, set for argument on Feb. 21. The Court's decision in the cable case, Denver Area Consortium v. F.C.C., No. 95-124, "could affect the analysis and disposition of this case," the Administration's brief in the new case told the Court.
The F.C.C. defines indecency as "language that depicts or describes, in terms patently offensive as measured by contemporary community standards for the broadcast medium, sexual or excretory activities or organs." In 1978, in a ruling commonly known as the "seven dirty words" case, the Court upheld the commission's authority to regulate indecency. But as the constant flow of new legal challenges makes clear, that decision left many questions.
The question presented by the case today was the constitutional adequacy of the late-night "safe harbor" that the 1992 law provided to broadcasters of indecent material. In 1988 Congress directed the F.C.C. to ban indecent programming 24 hours a day, but the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit struck that law down on the ground that the First Amendment required there to be some time of day when broadcasters could offer indecent programming to a willing adult audience.
Congress then enacted the 1992 law, which permits indecent broadcasts from midnight to 6 A.M. for commercial stations and 10 P.M. to 6 A.M. for public radio and television stations that go off the air at or before midnight. In 1993, a panel of the appellate court declared the new law unconstitutional as well.
That panel was made up of the court's three most liberal members, Judges Harry T. Edwards, Patricia M. Wald and Abner J. Mikva, who later resigned to become the White House counsel. The full appellate court quickly vacated the panel's opinion and upheld the law by a vote of 7 to 4, on the ground that the law served the Government's interest in "supporting parental supervision of what children see and hear on the public airwaves."
Two coalitions of broadcasters filed Supreme Court appeals from that ruling. One appeal, Pacifica Foundation v. F.C.C., No. 95-509, was filed by a group of noncommercial broadcasters and by literary figures, including the poet Allen Ginsberg. Their brief said that the result of the ruling would be to limit the American adult audience "to watching and hearing only programming fit for children."
Another group, including the commercial networks and civil liberties groups, argued that the indecency standard was unconstitutionally vague and that the law intruded into families' varying approaches on child rearing. That appeal was Action for Children's Television, No. 95-520.
There were also these actions today at the Court, the only major institution of Government open in the snowbound capital:
 
Condom Distribution
The Court, also without comment, turned down an appeal by a group of religious conservatives from a ruling that upheld a program of distributing condoms to junior and senior high school students in a Massachusetts public school district.
Parents of four students challenged the program, which was put in place by the Falmouth, Mass., school board in 1992. Under the program, students may receive condoms from a school nurse without charge or from bathroom vending machines for 75 cents. The parents argued that while no student was required to participate, the availability of the condoms violated the constitutional right of parents to guide their children's upbringing.
In a ruling last July rejecting that challenge, the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court stressed the voluntary nature of the program. "The plaintiff parents are free to instruct their children not to participate," the state court said. The case was Curtis v. School Committee of Falmouth, No. 95-617.
 
Speech Restriction
The Court refused to hear an appeal by Katherine Ann Power, the former fugitive who turned herself in 23 years after participating as an antiwar protester in a fatal bank robbery.
Facing a potential life sentence, Ms. Power pleaded guilty in Massachusetts state court in 1993 to armed robbery and manslaughter and received a sentence of 8 to 12 years in prison, followed by 20 years of probation. In the case today, Power v. Mass., No. 95-277, she was challenging a condition the trial judge placed on her probation, a prohibition against receiving any direct or indirect "profit or benefit" from telling her story, including her life as a fugitive.
The Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court last year upheld that order as a reasonable condition of probation, rejecting the argument that it amounted to an unconstitutional prior restraint on speech.
 
Citizenship
The Justices turned down a challenge to a provision of Federal immigration law that draws a distinction between two groups of illegitimate children born abroad to one parent who was a United States citizen and one who was not.
If the citizen-parent was the mother, the child is deemed under the law, the Nationality Act of 1940, to have acquired United States citizenship at birth. But if the citizen-parent was the father, the child has the right to citizenship only if paternity has been established by the child's 21st birthday.
The law was challenged as a violation of the constitutional guarantee of equal protection by a Philippines-born woman whose father was an American member of the armed forces. She did not learn her father's identity until she was in her mid-30's, at which point she traced him and obtained genetic testing results that proved he was her father. But because she had passed her 21st birthday, the woman, Luzvisaminda Ablang, was not entitled to claim automatic citizenship.
Judge Irving Hill of Federal District Court in Los Angeles declared the law unconstitutional in 1993, in a decision that was overturned last year by the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, in San Francisco.
The appellate court said that despite the current availability of reliable genetic testing, the rationale for the 1940 law was still valid. "We cannot say that Congress's desire to promote early ties to this country and to those relatives who are citizens of this country is not a rational basis for the requirements," the court said. The appeal was Ablang v. Reno, No. 95-505.
 
No Smoking
The Court refused to hear a constitutional challenge to a regulation in North Miami, Fla., that bars the hiring of smokers for any city job. Under the regulation, no one can be hired without signing a statement that he or she has not smoked or used tobacco products in the preceding 12 months.
The regulation was challenged by the American Civil Liberties Union on behalf of a woman who passed the city's employment examination and was invited to apply for a job as a clerk-typist. But when she said she could not sign the no-smoking statement, the interview ended and she was not called back.
The city's stated rationale for the policy, which does not apply to workers already on the payroll when it was adopted in 1990, was an economic one: the city said smokers had costlier health problems and required the taxpayers to spend more for the medical coverage of municipal workers who smoke.
A state appeals court in Florida declared the policy unconstitutional as a violation of the right to privacy guaranteed by the Florida Constitution. The Florida Supreme Court overturned that ruling last year, finding no violation of any state or Federal constitutional right.
The woman, Arlene Kurtz, challenged the policy as a violation of constitutional due process. She said the state court's decision would permit governments to "open up virtually every aspect of a person's private life to intrusive governmental regulation in the supposed interest of cost-cutting." The case was Kurtz v. North Miami, No. 95-545.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

CITY: MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SUPREME COURT (US) FCC CO LTD (54%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUPREME COURT (US) FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FALMOUTH (MASS);; NORTH MIAMI (FLA); UNITED STATES (92%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DECISIONS AND VERDICTS; PORNOGRAPHY AND OBSCENITY; TELEVISION; RADIO; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; CONDOMS; VIETNAM WAR; BANK ROBBERIES; IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; HIRING AND PROMOTION; GOVERNMENT EMPLOYEES; SMOKING AND TOBACCO; SUITS AND CLAIMS AGAINST GOVERNMENT SUPREME COURTS (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (91%); CABLE TELEVISION (90%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (90%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (90%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); APPEALS COURTS (89%); LEGISLATION (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (89%); APPELLATE DECISIONS (89%); REFUGEES (79%); VERDICTS (78%); FREEDOM OF PRESS (78%); OBSCENITY (78%); SMOKING (78%); RADIO BROADCAST INDUSTRY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (74%); IMMIGRATION (74%); PUBLIC RADIO (73%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (73%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (73%); LIBERALISM (71%); FINES & PENALTIES (71%); ROBBERY (64%); BANK ROBBERY (59%); VIETNAM WAR (59%); 

PERSON: POWER, KATHERINE ANN HARRY T EDWARDS (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



241 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 1086 words

HEADLINE: Lockheed to Acquire Loral In a Deal Worth $10 Billion

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 8

 BODY:
In a startling move that accelerates the consolidation of military contractors and is likely to lead to more layoffs, the Lockheed Martin Corporation announced today that it planned to acquire most of the Loral Corporation in a complex deal that is valued at more than $10 billion.
The announcement came as a surprise, in large part because Lockheed Martin was itself a result of a merger, in 1994, and it is still struggling to digest that combination. But the announcement underscored pressure from the markets -- and from the Pentagon -- for military contractors to grow larger and more efficient through consolidation to survive at a time of declining military procurement budgets. 
 Just last week the Northrop Grumman Corporation said it was acquiring the military electronics businesses of the Westinghouse Electric Corporation for the equivalent of $3.6 billion. Loral had been a losing bidder in that deal.
Analysts also said they expected the merger to result in several thousand layoffs, at least some of them in the New York area, where Loral, a big electronics company, has its headquarters and the two companies employ about 10,000 people.
Loral's shareholders will benefit, because they will receive the equivalent of about $45.50 per share for each share they own. Loral's stock jumped $8.25 today, to $44.50. Lockheed Martin stock rose $2.875, to $80.25.
The deal will create two new entities that will be huge competitors in their businesses. Lockheed Martin will absorb the highly regarded military electronics business of Loral. It will emerge as by far the country's largest maker of military hardware, with annual revenues of about $30 billion.
The company will produce everything from the F-16 and F-22 jet fighters to missiles, commercial and military rocket launchers and electronic defense systems for the Navy.
In addition, the deal will result in the creation of a new company, to be called the Loral Space and Communications Corporation. This company will be involved in the growing civilian business of satellite telecommunications for individuals and businesses, particularly in Southeast Asia and other regions.
Up until now, this business has been regarded as a promising but untested new way to expand the telecommunications market. Today's announcement, and especially the fact that Loral's respected chairman, Bernard L. Schwartz, will be leading the new company, will bring new focus on this emerging industry, analysts said. In fact, Mr. Schwartz indicated that the company was already preparing some acquisitions to increase its presence in the business.
Under the terms of the transaction, shareholders in Loral will receive $38 in cash for each share, plus one share in the new company. Lockheed Martin will then purchase a 20 percent stake in Loral Space and Communications for $344 million. That gives the new shares an estimated value of $7.50 each, which makes the transaction worth roughly $45.50 per share for Loral shareholders.
Lockheed Martin will thus pay roughly $7 billion in cash for Loral's shares and will assume an additional $2.1 billion of Loral's debt. The new space company will have a value of about $1 billion, which brings the total value of the acquisition and spinoff to about $10.1 billion.
The deal is also interesting for what it does for Mr. Schwartz, who recently turned 70. Analysts said they expected this wealthy entrepreneur, who built Loral over the last two decades from a modest company to a behemoth in its business, to stay active in the new space business.
"The nice thing about this is that it's not just a finale," said Lior Bregman, an analyst at Oppenheimer & Company. "The company has a new start. Schwartz is not just taking his money and going to Florida. It's very exciting."
Analysts also said the combination would force other military contractors to hasten any planned mergers and to make the remaining American companies even more competitive in selling military hardware overseas.
"Bernard Schwartz and Norm Augustine have been the two visionaries in this industry, and that makes this an important transaction," said Jon B. Kutler, the president of Quarterdeck Investment Partners, an investment bank that specializes in the military industry. Norman R. Augustine, the former Under Secretary of the Army in the Defense Department, is now the president and chief executive of Lockheed Martin.
One clear benefit of the acquisition is that it will produce a fortune for Mr. Schwartz, who earned $6.24 million in compensation last year. He owns stock that is now worth about $160 million.
In a press conference today, the heads of the companies were at pains to stress that the number of layoffs would be relatively modest and that, over time, the employment rolls of the combined company, more than 200,000, would grow. But they did acknowledge that some layoffs were inevitable.
Mr. Bregman estimated that perhaps 4 percent of the combined staff of the companies would be cut. That would amount to about 8,000 people.
"Ours is an industry that has to change," said Mr. Augustine, who added that the business of military contracting was going through "Darwinian times."
While there is likely to be a review by the Justice Department of whether the creation of such a huge company would be anti-competitive, analysts said they did not expect the Government to block the deal, which was put together in secret over four months. The top executives have already discussed the transaction with the Pentagon.
The new Lockheed Martin will receive about $17 billion a year of its $30 billion in revenues from defense electronics. About 60 percent of its revenues will come from military contracts, and the remainder from civilian businesses.
The deal will also make it an even more formidable competitor to foreign military contractors, particularly the big European companies. Mr. Augustine said that Lockheed Martin currently received about 17 percent of its revenues from overseas, and that that figure was likely to grow in the future.
A number of factors brought the two sides together, among them the pressure by the Pentagon to consolidate as well as the low interest rates available because of the weak economy.
Lockheed Martin will borrow about $10 billion to complete the transaction, and its executives stressed that taking on so much debt -- it will have a total of $12.5 billion after the deal -- was made far easier by the fact that interest rates are at their lowest levels in years.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Joining Forces" looks at how some of the biggest military contractors rank. (Sources: Aerospace Industries Association of America, Department of Defense) (pg. 50)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LMT (NYSE) (97%); CBS (NYSE) (70%); NOC (NYSE) (70%); LORL (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS334511 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEM & INSTRUMENT MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336414 GUIDED MISSILE & SPACE VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (97%); NAICS336411 AIRCRAFT MANUFACTURING (97%); SIC3812 SEARCH, DETECTION, NAVIGATION, GUIDANCE, AERONAUTICAL & NAUTICAL SYSTEMS & INSTRUMENTS (95%); NAICS811118 OTHER AUTOMOTIVE MECHANICAL & ELECTRICAL REPAIR & MAINTENANCE (70%); SIC7539 AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR SHOPS, NEC (70%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (70%); SIC4833 TELEVISION BROADCASTING STATIONS (70%); NAICS541511 CUSTOM COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); NAICS336611 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC7371 COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES (70%); SIC3731 SHIP BUILDING & REPAIRING (70%); SIC3721 AIRCRAFT (70%); NAICS517410 SATELLITE TELECOMMUNICATIONS (53%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (53%); SIC4899 COMMUNICATIONS SERVICES, NEC (53%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (53%); 

COUNTRY: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: LORAL CORP; LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP; LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS CORP LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP (97%); LORAL CORP (95%); WESTINGHOUSE ELECTRIC CO LLC (70%); CBS CORP (70%); NORTHROP GRUMMAN CORP (70%); LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS INC (53%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: LORAL CORP; LOCKHEED MARTIN CORP; LORAL SPACE & COMMUNICATIONS CORP AEROSPACE INDUSTRIES ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SOUTH-EASTERN ASIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES; LABOR; LAYOFFS (LABOR) DEFENSE CONTRACTING (92%); LAYOFFS (90%); MERGERS (90%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (90%); ELECTRONICS (89%); DEFENSE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (89%); FIGHTERS & BOMBERS (89%); SHAREHOLDERS (89%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (89%); SATELLITE INDUSTRY (89%); DEFENSE ELECTRONICS (89%); COMPUTER & ELECTRONICS MFG (88%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (78%); AEROSPACE INDUSTRY (73%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); MISSILE SYSTEMS (68%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SECTOR PERFORMANCE (68%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (58%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES; SCHWARTZ, BERNARD L BERNARD L SCHWARTZ (81%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



242 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 47; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 838 words

HEADLINE: Snow Slows, Doesn't Stop, Stock Markets

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE

 BODY:
The East Coast blizzard of '96, one of the biggest storms of the century, caused major disruptions at financial markets yesterday, but some exchanges managed to open for limited trading. Trading today is expected to be practically normal.
Stocks were traded only between 11 A.M. and 2 P.M. on the New York Stock Exchange, the American Stock Exchange and the Nasdaq stock market. "We didn't make any money today," said Edward L. Goldberg, an executive vice president of Merrill Lynch. "But over all we functioned fine." 
 The Dow Jones industrial average rose 16.25 points, to 5,197.68, and the technology-laden Nasdaq composite index lost ground.
Bond volume was also restricted after the Public Securities Association recommended that trading end at noon. As a result, only about $9.7 billion worth of Treasuries changed hands, compared with the recent daily average of $69 billion. In that market, "It was essentially like the Brooklyn Bridge during the day: empty," said William K. Joseph, senior vice president of Smith Barney.
Bonds ended little changed in light trading, with the yield of the bellwether 30-year Treasury bond steady at 6.04 percent. There was no regular auction of Treasury bills because of the partial shutdown of the Federal Government.
There was also no commodities trading on the New York Mercantile Exchange, the Commodity Exchange, the Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange and the New York Cotton Exchange. The Chicago Mercantile Exchange did not open trading in many of its index products until the leading stock exchanges began to trade. And the dollar was little changed, rising to 105.30 Japanese yen from 105.27.
The exchanges and brokerage firms in New York said that their work forces and customer business were at about one-third the normal levels.
That was reflected in yesterday's turnover on the Big Board, which totaled 130.4 million shares, the lightest since the Thanksgiving period. Volume was 437.1 million shares Friday, while the 1995 average daily volume was about 350 million shares.
"The stock market didn't get much of a chance to move a lot one way or another," said Hugh A. Johnson, senior vice president of the First Albany Corporation. "It's so quiet that the traders look like they are almost asleep."
Andrew Schwarz, a specialist on the American Stock Exchange, said: "The difference is the camaraderie that existed on the floor. Everyone was helping each other out. I told all those on my staff who made it in that I'd give them an extra day's pay."
The preparation for opening the markets yesterday in the midst of a snow emergency began on Sunday. The Securities and Exchange Commission, the Federal Reserve Board, the big exchanges and the member firms were in contact throughout the day as the storm's intensity grew.
"We wanted to make sure that everyone was tied in to the loop," said Richard Lindsey, the S.E.C.'s director of market regulation. "Our preference is to have the markets open."
The most important participant among the marketplaces was the New York Stock Exchange. And Richard A. Grasso, the chairman of that exchange, had left New York Sunday morning for a meeting in Seoul with the Korean Stock Exchange, although he kept in touch by telephone.
Senior officials of the Big Board spent Sunday night at New York hotels and conducted their first meeting yesterday at 7:45 A.M. By 9:30 A.M., they determined that they would have a delayed opening, and about an hour later, they decided to start at 11 A.M.
"Our dollar cost in the loss of volume was far exceeded on the plus side by giving investors the opportunity to buy and sell stocks if they wanted to," said Robert Fagenson, a specialist on the exchange and a member of its board. "I determined to be here the earliest and leave the latest."
A personal tragedy struck at the New York Stock Exchange before the opening. William Weyer, a 55-year-old clerk who had worked there since he was 18, collapsed on the floor, apparently from a heart attack, at 9 A.M. He was pronounced dead on arrival at Beekman Downtown Hospital.
Among the market indicators, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index increased 1.75 points, to 618.46, and the Nasdaq composite fell 1.10 points, to 1032.37. Advancing issues exceeded decliners on the New York exchange by 1,261 to 904.
Military stocks were particularly strong. In the aerospace group, Boeing benefited from a report that it might soon win a $3 billion order for up to 60 planes, gaining 1 3/4, to 80 1/4. It was followed by Allied Signal, which advanced 3/8, to 49 1/8, and United Technologies, which increased 1 1/8, to 94 1/8.
And Loral surged 8 1/4, to 44 1/2, after Lockheed Martin offered to buy most of the company for $9.1 billion. Lockheed Martin soared 2 7/8, to 80 1/4, McDonnell Douglas increased 3 1/4, to 95 3/4, and Rockwell rose 1 3/4, to 54 3/4.
There was continuing weakness in some technology issues, though. Motorola declined 3/4, to 56 1/4; Micron dropped 1/2, to 38 5/8, and Sun Microsystems fell3/8, to 40 1/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GLCH (NASDAQ) (63%); NDAQ (NASDAQ) (57%); CME (NASDAQ) (54%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (90%); GLEACHER & CO INC (63%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); NYSE MKT LLC (57%); NASDAQ OMX GROUP INC (57%); SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (55%); CME GROUP INC (54%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE; AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE; NASDAQ STOCK MARKET AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (91%); AMERICAN STOCK EXCHANGE (83%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); PUBLIC SECURITIES ASSOCIATION (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (54%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK COTTON EXCHANGE (54%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (54%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); ILLINOIS, USA (54%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; WEATHER; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (93%); COMMODITIES TRADING (91%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (91%); STOCK INDEXES (91%); BONDS (91%); COTTON MARKETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); EXECUTIVES (89%); FIBER MARKETS (78%); WEATHER (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); LABOR FORCE (74%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); COFFEE (73%); COTTON & COTTONSEED (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (70%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD ANDREW SMITH (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



243 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 613 words

HEADLINE: A Less Harmful Budget

 BODY:
The budget proposal released by the White House over the weekend answers critics who have harshly, though accurately, accused President Clinton of stalling on his promise to deliver a plan that would balance the budget in seven years using Congressional scorekeeping.
Mr. Clinton tried valiantly to protect spending on the poor and education and other public investments. But his plan is littered with time bombs that make its protections partly illusory. There was no way to adopt the Republican budget target and yet preserve the progressive economic agenda that he had used to win the White House. 
 In this latest budget plan, Mr. Clinton would wipe out $60 billion from corporate subsidies. He would also cut taxes by $87 billion, which is less than half the Republicans' target but still $87 billion too high in a plan that aims to reduce the deficit.
Nevertheless, the lower tax cut allowed him to propose trimming Medicare, Medicaid and other programs for the needy by about half of what the Republican-led Congress passed. He preserves food stamps and Medicaid as Federal entitlements. On balance, these trade-offs make a powerful case for preferring Mr. Clinton's plan.
Even so, part of the advantage is illusory. The President would pile up cuts in non-military discretionary spending in the last two years of the plan. By 2002, spending on everything from protecting the environment to patrolling the border might be cut by 30 percent or more.
The plight of discretionary programs is even worse than these numbers indicate. Mr. Clinton says his tax cut -- for families with children and for some educational expenses -- would be temporary unless the economy grows more quickly than Congressional scorekeepers expect. Political reality will probably dictate that the cut, once enacted, will not be withdrawn. If so, Congress would, under existing budget rules, be required to make even deeper cuts in discretionary and entitlement programs after 2002 than the President has so far outlined. Cuts that large would mean that Mr. Clinton would have to abandon any vestige of his original agenda for investing in infrastructure, research, education and job training.
He could have preserved more of these plans by jettisoning tax cuts entirely, but that would be politically hazardous as the G.O.P. waves the promise of even bigger cuts in front of nearly every non-poor voter.
Nor does the Clinton plan take on some powerful constituencies. It does not go after subsidies to wealthy farmers. It sets low Medicare premiums for wealthy retirees. As hard as the White House tried to protect the poor, its plan envisions a budget that would cut foods stamps by hundreds of dollars a year per family and throw many disabled children off cash assistance programs.
Yet each of these flaws is magnified in the Republican plan, even taking into account agreements yesterday to whittle down proposed cuts in Medicare, Medicaid and programs for the poor. They cynically keep the costs of their tax cuts on capital gains and retirement accounts modest during the seven-year life of the budget plan, but allow them to explode soon thereafter, committing Congress to huge cuts in spending even after the seven years have elapsed.
Further, the Republican plan not only cuts off many disabled children from cash assistance, but also reduces cash allowances for most of the children who remain in the program. It cuts off food stamps and other aid to some legal immigrants even after they become citizens. Compared with the Republicans', Mr. Clinton's budget occupies the higher ground; but compared with the needs of the poor and the economy, it comes up very short.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

COMPANY: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICAID (83%); MEDICARE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS BUDGETS (94%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); MEDICARE (89%); TAX LAW (89%); CHILDREN (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); BUDGET CUTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (76%); FAMILY (76%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (74%); INCOME ASSISTANCE (72%); BORDER CONTROL (72%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (70%); MEDICAID (57%); INSURANCE PREMIUMS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



244 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 604 words

HEADLINE: Facing the Storm

 BODY:
New York disappeared under the Blizzard of '96, only to emerge as a new city. Roadways were as bare as the tundra, and like the tundra they were crisscrossed by hunters who trudged their way up- and downtown in search of their offices, groceries or a once-in-a-lifetime experience.
The underground city, however, was doing business. At times like this New York's subway system, often the subject of more unfavorable comment than Vlad the Impaler, reveals itself as a miracle. Non-New-Yorkers might also find it miraculous that above ground, strangers jumped in to help liberate stuck cars, that restaurants gave out free food to stranded travelers or that bus passengers urged their driver to wait an extra few minutes for a straggling family to make its way to the stop. 
 But city residents know that New Yorkers are almost always subject to these kindly impulses. The problem is getting their attention, and nothing focuses the municipal mind like a couple of feet of newly fallen snow.
These days are an Event, a Milestone -- like the legendary Blizzards of 1888 and 1947, exclamation points in history. Chronic competitors rooted for a record-breaker. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani assured the population that Staten Island and the Bronx had already gone over 1947's record 26.4-inch marker. Could Central Park be far behind?
The novelty of the vehicle-free streets, the cross-country skiers in the parks and the ice floes in the Hudson almost obscured the disruption the event caused. Normal life in the tri-state area came to a dead halt. The blizzard closed schools, shut down all the area airports and brought economic havoc to a city that was for all practical purposes cut off from the outside world.
New York and New Jersey declared states of emergency. Roofs collapsed under the weight of the snow. Emergency vehicles were stranded in drifts, and normal vehicular traffic was banned altogether from New York City. Bus service was suspended, along with much of the suburban train service.
Even the Post Office canceled deliveries, a cause for dismay for all those who have long taken that "neither-rain-nor-snow" slogan literally. Mayor Giuliani, who may have tempted the fates by slashing this year's snow-removal budget, put 1,663 plows on around-the-clock duty.
At times like these the citizenry may be more eager to see a snowplow than a politician. Still, and perhaps for reasons of reassurance, ancient custom dictates that politicians of rank be visibly on the move. While Gov. Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey drove a snowplow and helped evacuate a trailer camp, New York's Governor was unhappily trapped in Albany, where, irony of ironies, there was not enough snow to warrant even a personal inspection. But Mayor Giuliani, wearing what appeared to be a new Christmas sweater, roamed the boroughs tirelessly, rallying sanitation workers and setting a tone of efficient concern. New York would take this storm seriously, but not be cowed by it.
Advice abounded. Stay dry. Wear layers. Clear out fire hydrants. Shovel in small scoops, without lifting above your shoulder. Stay off sloped roofs. Keep your hat on outdoors. Refrain from driving snowmobiles on the highway.
Most New Yorkers, wisely, opted to keep smiling and enjoy the show. They knew it was only a matter of time before the miracle of nature became a grimy sea of sidewalk obstruction, and the spirit of shared experience faded into carping about unplowed side streets and unshoveled walks. They reveled for a moment at the cusp of a natural disaster, when its images are still vivid and its costs are yet to be tallied.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATEN ISLAND TERMINAL (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); ALBANY, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; EDITORIALS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS CITY LIFE (90%); CITIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (78%); WEATHER (78%); GOVERNORS (77%); INTERURBAN BUS TRANSPORTATION (74%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (72%); PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (70%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (69%); AIRPORTS (69%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (69%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TRAINS (69%); MOTOR VEHICLES (69%); SKIING (67%); 

PERSON: RUDY GIULIANI (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



245 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 442 words

HEADLINE: The Legacy of Francois Mitterrand

 BODY:
Francois Mitterrand, who died yesterday at age 79, was, with Charles de Gaulle, one of the two dominant French political leaders of the postwar era. Though Mr. Mitterrand served longer than de Gaulle as President -- longer, in fact, than anyone in the history of France's five republics -- his legacy was more ambiguous.
Mr. Mitterrand strengthened France's alliance with Germany, the core of the European Union. He also improved relations with the United States, ended the Gaullist chill toward Israel and even earned the personal respect of his frequent adversary Margaret Thatcher, a woman he once described as having "the lips of Marilyn Monroe and the eyes of Caligula." 
 It was Mr. Mitterrand who began the long moratorium on French nuclear testing that his successor, Jacques Chirac, recklessly abandoned last year. At home, Mr. Mitterrand abolished the death penalty and added the final touches to France's cherished system of social benefits, another achievement his successor has tried to reverse.
Leading an alliance of Socialists and Communists to victory in 1981, Mr. Mitterrand brought the long-marginalized French left a greater combination of executive and legislative power than it had ever known in modern times. But within two years, Mr. Mitterrand pragmatically sacrificed his left-wing platform to the demands of an increasingly integrated European market.
Market necessity dictated most of the policy changes. But an unwise commitment to a European currency union led to punishingly high interest rates that translated into chronic double-digit unemployment. Mr. Mitterrand's Socialists paid heavily at the polls and twice the Socialist President was forced to share power with right-wing legislative majorities. Last year Mr. Chirac, running on a platform of economic populism, captured the presidency for the right as well.
Mr. Mitterrand was a master political tactician with few immutable principles. Not only his Socialist beliefs were lightly held. Even his record of resistance in World War II was ambiguous. In the early 1940's he worked uncomfortably closely with the Vichy regime and maintained lifelong friendships with some of Vichy's more odious figures.
Throughout his presidential term, Mr. Mitterrand refused to offer France's apologies for Vichy's wartime roundups of Jews, most of whom ended up in Nazi death camps. Extending that overdue apology was one of Mr. Chirac's first and most admirable gestures.
On other issues, however, President Mitterrand's record was more positive, and when he left office he could boast that France's economic foundations were stronger and its alliances firmer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (95%); EUROPE (94%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (92%); UNITED STATES (79%); GERMANY (72%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS; DEATHS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); DEATHS & OBITUARIES (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); POLITICS (78%); EUROPEAN UNION (78%); EURO (76%); HOLOCAUST (73%); VOTERS & VOTING (72%); MONETARY UNIONS (71%); JEWS & JUDAISM (70%); WORLD WAR II (67%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (53%); INTEREST RATES (50%); ECONOMIC NEWS (50%); 

PERSON: MITTERRAND, FRANCOIS JACQUES CHIRAC (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



246 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 610 words

HEADLINE: Greenspan's Grip

BYLINE: By Timothy A. Canova; Timothy A. Canova, who teaches at the University of Miami School of Law, specializes in banking and finance.

DATELINE: CORAL GABLES, Fla.

 BODY:
The word is that President Clinton may reappoint Alan Greenspan as chairman of the Federal Reserve when his term expires this spring. The chairman's support of the Mexican bailout and his support for increasing the debt limit to avoid government default has helped the White House at crucial moments.
But while Mr. Greenspan may have prevented the financial house of cards from collapsing, his overall handling of monetary policy has harmed the economy. For much of the last year, the weight of indicators has shown both a sluggish economy and negligible inflation of 2.6 percent. But the Fed has reacted with a tardy gradualism. 
 Last summer and again in December, the Fed lowered short-term interest rates by a paltry one-quarter of a percentage point. Each time, Wall Street bulls pushed stock prices higher, then immediately craved another tiny fix. Optimists may hope that a vibrant stock market will lead the economy out of the doldrums, but there is a danger that the market is actually a lagging indicator and that weak earnings could burst the bubble.
Fed economists are aware of this possibility. Some believe that interest rates should not be lowered too much or too quickly for fear of encouraging the bubble to expand even more. But the reverse may be more likely: corporate earnings could fall too far to sustain the current stock prices, unless the Fed lowers interest rates significantly and quickly.
If the economy then takes a dive, we are sure to hear a drumbeat of voices blaming the Federal deficit. Mr. Greenspan, it would seem, is prepared for this scenario. In November 1995 he warned: "If, for some unforeseen reason, the political process fails, and [a balanced budget] agreement is not reached, it would signal that the United States is not capable of putting its fiscal house in order, with serious, adverse consequences for financial markets and economic growth."
The political establishment can be expected to react to any bad economic news with renewed demands for more fiscal austerity since the consensus for a balanced budget wrongly assumes that high deficits are the sole cause of today's high interest rates.
But contrary to that view and Mr. Greenspan's assertions, the nation has been keeping its fiscal house in order, with the deficits declining over the past three years. The 1992 budget deficit of $290 billion was 4.9 percent of the gross domestic product; the 1995 fiscal year deficit of $164 billion is only 2.3 percent.
But this decline did not stop the Fed from raising interest rates six times in 1994. Real interest rates (adjusted for inflation) began to rise dramatically in the early 1980's (from less than 1 percent to about 5 percent on long-term government securities), not because of the deficits but because of the Fed's reliance on high interest rates as the sole anti-inflation policy.
But persistently high real rates have retarded investment and slowed economic growth. As a consequence, governments are now burdened by much larger "passive deficits" as they collect less in tax revenues and spend more on jobless compensation and enormous interest costs on their debts. By increasing debt service costs of the private sector as well as of Federal, state and local governments by hundreds of billions of dollars a year, higher interest rates constitute the most important and most hidden of the so-called unfunded Federal mandates.
With economic storm clouds on the horizon, the Administration may be wary of creating an open rift with the Fed. But without a change, the Administration will remain dependent on the dubious crisis management skills of Mr. Greenspan.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (60%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; STOCKS AND BONDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); BONDS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); DEBT CEILING (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (75%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (60%); 

PERSON: CANOVA, TIMOTHY A (PROF); GREENSPAN, ALAN (CHMN) ALAN GREENSPAN (91%); BILL CLINTON (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



247 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 702 words

HEADLINE: On My Mind;
Death for Chinese Children

BYLINE: By A. M. ROSENTHAL

 BODY:
Thousands of Chinese children die in orphanages every year from deliberate medical neglect and starvation. This is policy, part of Beijing's technique of controlling the increased number of children abandoned by parents who either could not feed them or feared the regime would cut the rations for the whole family for the crime of having more than one or two children.
This report, detailed by Human Rights Watch, is of course sad. But do we still have the right to mourn? 
 America, people and leadership, has known for decades that every Chinese Communist regime used forced abortion and starvation to control population growth, slave labor as an intricately planned part of its economic program, and torture and prison as fundamental instruments of political power.
The American response, bottom line: Shut up, or the Chinese may forbid us to enrich them with trade that might one day turn a little profit for American businessmen.
So be thankful that the nasty comedy of the Government shutdown, plus the blizzard, so far have saved us from hearing the Administration or top leaders of either party run on mourning the abandoned children.
The U.S. Government and Western society in general have sold for theoretical trade profit the right to mourn the orphans. They didn't get much more for the deal than Chinese political slaps in the American face and military provocations.
The U.S., and its allies, have betrayed not only orphans and women forced to abort but the principles and safety of our democratic society.
So be it. But those Americans who have the right given by consistent protest against Beijing's horrors to mourn for the orphans can serve them best by speaking up again.
The issue is simple. How long will Americans tolerate the wealth they created under freedom to be used to give dictatorship the strength it needs to destroy freedom wherever its writ extends?
This problem confronted America much of this century. More often than not, the decision was to permit American wealth to bolster dictatorships. But their very nature drove them to use their power, reinforced by American trade, to create a military threat that led to war. See Germany, Italy, Japan and Iraq.
In the China trade, profits go mostly to China. It sells the U.S. eight times more than it buys. Since wages are so low in China, and in labor camps nonexistent, this will mean loss of jobs to America.
And, predictably, most of China's profits go to its armed forces and the huge police force that enables the Communists to stay in power.
In memory of the orphans, please note: Their death is more refutation of the myth, spread by Western apologists, that human rights progress will follow economic progress.
Like all dictatorships, Beijing uses increased economic power for increased police power. The more powerful the police state, the better it hides its atrocities behind barbed wire and coerced denials.
After corporate America decided that profits were worth the risk of building up China, President Clinton decided it was worth breaking his own word to submit. He scrapped his executive order pledging to use trade tariffs to persuade the Chinese Communists to ease, however slightly, the repression of their own people and the occupied Tibetans.
This did soil Mr. Clinton's honor, naturally, but it turned out to carry no penalty here on earth. Republican Presidential candidates, except Patrick Buchanan, trot behind the China lobby. And our allies, as great as Germany and small as Israel, are also busy at the Communist trough.
Yet those Americans who care are not powerless. Republican and Democratic politicians who never surrendered faith in freedom or disgust with tyranny can make murdered orphans, forced abortion, religious oppression and slave labor an issue at the Presidential conventions. They can demand tariff penalties for these instruments of Beijing's governance.
Other Americans can make them an issue at stockholders' meetings, in churches and synagogues; remember South Africa. We can boycott Chinese imports and investments in companies that feed at the trough, uncaring of the blood therein.
That can be our flower, for the graves of the orphans.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); HUMAN RIGHTS WATCH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; UNITED STATES (98%); CHINA (97%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); IRAQ (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (94%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: FREEDOM AND HUMAN RIGHTS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; CHILDREN AND YOUTH; ABORTION; BOYCOTTS; ORPHANS AND ORPHANAGES ORPHANS (90%); STARVATION (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); CHILDREN (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (77%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (76%); TORTURE (76%); ABORTION (75%); LAYOFFS (74%); ELECTIONS (74%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (74%); POLITICS (74%); POLITICAL PARTIES (74%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (74%); BOYCOTTS (74%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (72%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (71%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (64%); POLICE FORCES (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENTHAL, A M

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



248 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 30; Column 4; Editorial Desk

LENGTH: 212 words

HEADLINE: Let New Jerseyans Spend to Bolster Economy

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "The Time Bomb in Governor Whitman's Tax Cut" (Op-Ed, Jan. 3): Neil Upmeyer says the New Jersey economy is weak and concludes that higher taxes and higher levels of government expenditures are needed to correct it. This Keynesian remedy does not work on the state level, and even neo-Keynesian economists doubt if it works on the national level. 
 It makes little sense to cite the weak economic condition of the state economy and the labor market in particular. Why does an unemployment rate that is higher than the national level mean that taxpayers should not be entitled to retain a higher percent of their earnings? If anything, the burdensome tax structure and excessive regulations have contributed to the weak economy.
It is almost always possible to find some value in services proposed for cuts. But that is not the proper economic comparison. Rather, it is more valid to compare the goods and services that consumers may be able to purchase of their own choosing with those that are imposed upon them by bureaucrats who rely on the taxing powers of government to finance their own initiatives and pet programs.
 
PATRICK A. GAUGHAN
Dir., N.Y.-N.J. Economic Research
Center, Fairleigh Dickinson U.
Madison, N.J., Jan. 5, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS TAXES & TAXATION (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); TAX LAW (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (88%); TRENDS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (72%); 

PERSON: UPMEYER, NEIL

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



249 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 11; Column 1; Science Desk

LENGTH: 1630 words

HEADLINE: New Balloon Technology Stars In a World Race With No Trophy

BYLINE: By MALCOLM W. BROWNE

 BODY:
WITH the morning sun gleaming from its aluminized plastic skin, a 150-foot-high balloon piloted by a lone American rose above South Dakota yesterday to begin a race in which three teams will try to be the first balloonists to circle the globe nonstop.
Cheers rose from a crowd as the huge balloon, the Solo Challenger, climbed smoothly away from the Stratobowl, a natural rock formation near Rapid City that offers protection from the wind on three sides. At the controls for the perilous trip, which is expected to last at least two weeks, was Steve Fossett, a 51-year-old commodities broker, yachtsman and champion balloonist. 
 No balloonist has ever succeeded in circling the earth nonstop, and Mr. Fossett is the first to attempt the trip without a crew. Two competing teams of balloonists, one British and one Dutch, expect to launch next week. Both groups believe they can make much better time than Mr. Fossett because they will fly at higher altitudes, where the speed of the jet stream is greater. The speed of the jet stream can be as great as 200 miles an hour, but a balloon riding the wind is subject to no aerodynamic buffeting and the crew feels no sensation of speed except by observing the craft's rapid progress over land or sea.
The Solo Challenger, with its unpressurized pilot capsule, quickly ascended more than 6,000 feet and entered a wind system expected to carry it over Nebraska, Iowa, Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky and South Carolina, reaching the Atlantic coast tomorrow, said a spokesman, Timothy E. Kemper, assistant vice president of Loyola University of Chicago. Meteorologists forecast that after crossing the Atlantic Ocean Mr. Fossett would make landfall over Portugal and subsequently fly across Spain, the Mediterranean and North Africa.
"New York's blizzard won't affect Steve at all," Mr. Kemper said. "He'll be flying at between 16,000 and 18,000 feet by the time he reaches the coast, and even if he should drift toward the storm he can easily get above it."
Because the Solo Challenger has a metalized skin, it will be visible from the ground for most of its trip.
The informal race, which has neither an organizer nor a prize, pits experienced long-distance balloonists and some new technical innovations against each other in a grueling and dangerous ordeal.
Each of the three balloons is setting out from a different country, Morocco, the Netherlands and the United States. Whoever (if anyone) first circumnavigates the globe will win the honor of an entry in the record books for achieving the last great goal of lighter-than-air flight.
The race will take place amid persistent fears that the armed forces of several nations over which the balloons may drift may open fire on the aeronauts, or at least force them down. Last September an international hydrogen-balloon race that started in Switzerland ended when two American balloonists were shot down and killed by a Belarus military helicopter.
Although all the crews in the forthcoming race have sought assurances of safe passage from the 100 or so countries over which they may fly, several governments have not responded. A particular concern had been Iraq, but Erin Porter, speaking for the British team, said yesterday that the Iraqi Government had granted permission to the balloonists to fly over the country. However, balloonists have also expressed concern about Afghanistan, Libya and North Korea, among other countries.
"The real risk for all of us is not equipment failure," Mr. Fossett said shortly before his departure. "It is the military risk. Getting clearance from government leaders -- even prime ministers -- is one thing. Getting the word down to military officers commanding border posts or fighters is quite another."
In some respects, Mr. Fossett's balloon is the most primitive of the three in the race. Accommodating only one person, its tiny capsule is too low for Mr. Fossett to stand fully. Because the capsule is not pressurized, he will have to breathe oxygen from a mask throughout most of the two-week trip, much of which will be at an altitude of about 20,000 feet. He will subsist on military field rations and 15 gallons of water. While some elaborately equipped balloons have plumbing and pressurized toilets, Mr. Fossett has only a bucket, which will be emptied through a hatch.
Mr. Fossett takes pride in having launched his project on a shoestring. The cost of his balloon and related expenses, he said yesterday, is $300,000, all paid by Mr. Fossett himself. The competing British and Dutch teams spent $5 million to $7 million, Mr. Fossett estimated, both financed by advertising sponsors. Neither the British nor the Dutch team has disclosed the cost of its balloon.
But the Solo Challenger, built by the British designer Don Cameron, has some innovations that may help it. Among its instruments is a newly devised automatic pilot that senses altitude, and fires up the propane burners to keep the balloon from descending when temperatures drop at night. This will permit Mr. Fossett to sleep for short periods.
The Solo Challenger is also equipped with a reflective Mylar tent extending over the top of the balloon. The tent is held up by a small helium balloon instead of a tent pole, and a solar-powered fan circulates cool air between the tent and the top of the balloon to prevent overheating during daylight hours.
Shortly after Mr. Fossett's launching yesterday his competitors sent him telegrams of congratulation.
The British balloon, called the Virgin Global Challenger, is to be flown by Richard Branson, chairman of Virgin Atlantic Airways; Per Lindstrand, chairman of Lindstrand Balloons Ltd. of Oswestry, England, and an Irish balloonist, Rory McCarthy. Mr. Branson and Mr. Lindstrand, who have set several ballooning records, were the first pilots of hot-air balloons to cross both the Atlantic Ocean, in 1987, and the Pacific, in 1991.
Mr. Lindstrand said that because of unfavorable weather patterns over England he and his colleagues had decided to launch their Virgin Global Challenger from a military airfield at Marrakech, Morocco.
To move the big crew capsule, balloon and accessories, the British group chartered a Beluga transport plane -- a modified Airbus 300 similar to the Pregnant Guppy aircraft used by NASA to transport large rocket components. The flight to Morocco is scheduled for Friday, and Mr. Lindstrand said the balloon launching would probably take place a day or so later.
Mr. Branson, chairman of the multifaceted Virgin Group, which includes Virgin Atlantic Airways, believes that his competitor, Mr. Fossett, faces grave risks.
"Because his capsule is not pressurized," Mr. Branson said in an interview, "Steve will have to stay at around 20,000 feet, which is usually well below the core of the jet stream. That could slow him down a lot. We will be at 30,000 to 35,000 feet, where our chances of riding the high-speed jet stream are much better.
"Steve is incredibly brave, and if anyone should beat us, I'd rather it was he."
The Dutch team, led by Henk Brink, recently tested the inflation of its Unicef Flyer balloon at Cape Kennedy in NASA's huge Vehicle Assembly Building, where space shuttles are prepared for flight. Mr. Brink, who intends to launch his balloon from Nijmegen, the Netherlands, is a helicopter instructor and veteran balloonist. In 1986, he, his wife, Evelien, and William Hageman, a Dutch fighter pilot, became the first European balloonists to cross the Atlantic; so precise was their navigation that they landed within a few miles of Mr. Brink's home in the Netherlands.
Although balloons must travel in the same direction as the wind that carries them along, a pilot can navigate to some extent by changing altitude to seek wind headed in the desired direction. Even a small change in altitude can result in a large change in direction.
The Unicef Flyer flight suffered a setback on Dec. 26 when its third crew member, Wouter Bakker, resigned from the flight crew "for personal reasons." Days before the expected launching this week, Mr. Brink said in an interview that he had advertised for a replacement, stipulating that the third crew member should be an airline captain. "We're down to three candidates," Mr. Brink said on Friday, "and all of them are completely familiar with our navigation and communication equipment. For the launch and landing, I will do the piloting."
All three teams are flying Rozier balloons -- a type that has achieved many long-distance records in recent years. A modern Rozier is kept aloft by helium gas, but to add extra lift, the balloon is compartmentalized and the lower part can be filled with hot air from a gas burner. This enables the balloon to maintain altitude at night, when cold air and the lack of sunlight cools the helium and lessens its lifting power.
Since the first manned balloon flight in 1783 by Jean Francois Pilatre de Rozier and the Marquis Francois Laurent d'Arlandes in a Montgolfier hot-air balloon, many balloonists have attempted round-the-world flights, but all have failed, and some have died trying. Five unsuccessful attempts were made by a single team led by Larry Newman of Scottsdale, Ariz., in his Earthwinds balloon before Mr. Newman abandoned his efforts one year ago.
The Rozier balloon is named after its inventor, who was forced to use inflammable hydrogen in his 18th-century version, since a century was to pass before the discovery of nonflammable helium. Rozier was killed in 1785 while trying to cross the English Channel; his hydrogen-and-hot-air hybrid balloon caught fire and crashed.
From that time until 1960, balloonists relied almost exclusively on hydrogen or helium for lift, since hot-air burners were regarded as too dangerous.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Steve Fossett's balloon, the Solo Challenger, lifting off from the floor of the Stratobowl, south of Rapid City, S.D., into a dark Black Hills sky. (Associated Press)(pg. 13)
 
Diagrams: "Cramped Quarters for Explorers"
The three-person crew of the Virgin Global Challenger is to share a split-level capsule ringed by propane tanks. The lower deck (cross section at right) offers sleeping quarters, stowage space and a centrally located toilet. A raised center portion (below) provides just enough clearance for a crewmember to stand while wearing a helmet.
(Source: Virgin Group)(pg. 13);
 
"A Balloon With a Sun Shade"
A novel balloon design has a Mylar tent, supported by a helium balloon, enclosing cool air that circulates above the main gas cell.
(Source: Steve Fossett)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2329 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING, NEC (62%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SPAIN (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%); PORTUGAL (68%); MOROCCO (53%); 

STATE: SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); NEBRASKA, USA (69%); 

CITY: RAPID CITY, SD, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

COMPANY: SICOME SA (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NETHERLANDS (90%); NORTHERN AFRICA (79%); AFRICA (79%); SPAIN (78%); MEDITERRANEAN (74%); PORTUGAL (68%); MOROCCO (53%); SOUTH DAKOTA, USA (91%); ATLANTIC OCEAN (91%); MISSOURI, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); KENTUCKY, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (74%); NEBRASKA, USA (69%); RAPID CITY, SD, USA (88%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (54%); 

SUBJECT: BALLOONS; AROUND-THE-WORLD TRIPS; SOLO CHALLENGER (BALLOON) AIRCRAFT PILOTS (78%); METEOROLOGY (72%); COMMODITIES TRADING (55%); COMMODITIES BROKERS (55%); 

PERSON: BROWNE, MALCOLM W; FOSSETT, STEVE STEVE FOSSETT (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



250 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 9, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 50; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: Trump Moves to Put Taj Mahal in His Company

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON

 BODY:
In a sign that his financial recovery is gathering speed, Donald J. Trump moved yesterday to fold his Taj Mahal Casino Resort in Atlantic City into his publicly traded casino company.
Trump Hotels and Casino Resorts, his publicly traded company, is doing well enough that Mr. Trump expects to attract new investors. He plans to raise $59 million in equity above the costs of transferring ownership of the Taj. 
 Trump Hotels is offering to buy 1.35 million class A shares of the Taj Mahal Holding Corporation for $30 in cash or in Trump Hotels stock. That values those shares, which equal half of the Taj equity, at $40.5 million.
For his own half, Mr. Trump is to receive additional stock in Trump Hotels. Alan C. Marcus, a Trump spokesman, said that "to my knowledge" Mr. Trump would not get any cash out of the deal. Trump Hotels expects to issue $140 million in new stock to make the offer to shareholders and to raise cash. In addition, to replace the existing Taj bonds, $750 million of new debt will be sold by Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, Mr. Marcus said. That would value the Taj at about $890 million.
Because Mr. Trump owns about 40 percent of Trump Hotels, and half of the Taj, the deal announced yesterday could slightly increase his stake in the publicly traded company. Mr. Marcus said he did not believe Mr. Trump's share would exceed 44 percent when the deal was completed, which he said should be in April.
Trump Hotels closed yesterday unchanged at $21.75. The 10 million publicly traded shares have risen 55 percent since they came to market last June at $14.
The deal announced yesterday is conditional on the stock's remaining at $20 or higher.
In many ways Mr. Trump's turnaround has mirrored the fortunes of the Taj, which opened in April 1990. The Taj cost more than $1 billion to build, but it failed to generate enough cash to make interest payments on its original $675 million of junk bond debt issued by Merrill Lynch. Mr. Trump's stake in the Taj was halved in his negotiations with bondholders and other creditors whom he could not repay as promised.
The Taj was a crucial factor in Mr. Trump's 1990 financial crisis, during which one of his lawyers, Thomas Cerabino, testified that Mr. Trump was just one day away from uncontrolled bankruptcy unless casino regulators approved a deal with creditors. In 1991 Mr. Trump prepared a document showing that he had $44.7 million in personal bills coming due and only $1.6 million in projected income.
Mr. Trump avoided financial collapse through a series of deals he and Stephen Bollenbach, then his finance chief, negotiated with creditors who were owed more than $3 billion. Last fall, Mr. Trump, in a speech, claimed he owed $8.8 billion.
The deals with creditors won approval from the New Jersey Casino Control Commission even though it found that he did not meet the requirement in state law that he prove he was financially stable. The commission held that since creditors were negotiating with Mr. Trump he might eventually regain financial stability.
Since 1990 Mr. Trump has been forced to relinquish most of his Manhattan properties, including the Plaza Hotel. But by focusing on his three Atlantic City casinos he has managed to slowly rebuild his financial position.
Mr. Trump also hired Dennis Gomes, a respected casino executive, to run the Taj. But last fall Mr. Trump and Mr. Gomes came to a parting of the ways.
Last year, the Taj won $506.1 million from players, up 9.7 percent from 1994's winnings of $461.5 million, or just about the same percentage increase as all 12 Atlantic City casinos.
But in December, the amount the Taj won from players declined 8.9 percent, to $38.9 million compared with a year ago, largely because the casino lacked the high-rollers that were brought in a year earlier by Mr. Gomes and his team.
Last month builders in Florida launched the Trump Princess, a 290-foot riverboat that is to open to gamblers near Gary, Ind., in April. The Indiana operation, owned by Trump Hotels, expects to draw gamblers from nearby Chicago.
 The article omitted the current findings of New Jersey casino regulators regarding Mr. Trump. They have found that he is now financially stable.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 13, 1996, Saturday

 CORRECTION:
An article in some editions of Business Day on Tuesday about Donald J. Trump's latest casino plans misidentified the period in which, Mr. Trump asserted, he owed $8.8 billion. It was 1991; the assertion was made last fall.
The article also misstated Mr. Trump's ownership interest in his Manhattan properties. Mr. Trump retains control of some his Manhattan properties, retains a minority interest without control in others and has invested in additional properties.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TRMP (NASDAQ) (94%); MLY (LSE) (58%); MER (NYSE) (58%); 8675 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS721120 CASINO HOTELS (94%); SIC7011 HOTELS & MOTELS (94%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (58%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (58%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (58%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (58%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (58%); SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (ATLANTIC CITY); TRUMP HOTELS & CASINO RESORTS INC TRUMP ENTERTAINMENT RESORTS INC (94%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (58%); CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES USA LLC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAJ MAHAL CASINO RESORT (ATLANTIC CITY); TRUMP HOTELS & CASINO RESORTS INC

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (93%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CASINOS (95%); RESORTS (92%); HOTELS & MOTELS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (89%); BONDS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (77%); HOLDING COMPANIES (77%); APPROVALS (77%); SHAREHOLDERS (76%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (67%); LAWYERS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; TRUMP, DONALD DONALD TRUMP (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 1996



251 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 297 words

HEADLINE: William Bloor, 86, Columbia University Treasurer

BYLINE: By WOLFGANG SAXON 

 BODY:
William Bloor, who arrived at Columbia University as a freshman in 1928 and retired in 1979 as its treasurer, overseeing a portfolio of $500 million in securities and real-estate investments, died on Monday at Roosevelt Hospital. He was 86 and a longtime resident of the New York Athletic Club on Central Park South.
Mr. Bloor, who was born in Manhattan, graduated from the college in 1932 and joined the treasurer's office as a manager of buildings on Morningside Heights. He advanced to assistant treasurer in 1948 and became treasurer seven years later. 
 Mr. Bloor, who watched both investments and cash flow for Columbia, was in charge of the fifth largest university endowment portfolio in the country. In the 15 years since his retirement, the endowment has grown to $2.2 billion.
During his tenure, Columbia's neighborhood was deteriorating, and the university came under attack for its handling of its real-estate holdings in the area. Some community groups accused Columbia of seeking to drive the poor and minority tenants from buildings it bought for faculty housing.
One point of tension was the Bryn Mawr, a six-story single-room-occupancy building at the northeast corner of the campus that was a known haven for drug dealers and prostitutes. After quarreling in and out of the courts, Columbia and other neighborhood institutions took possession in 1965, and it was eventually torn down for a Barnard College dormitory.
In the 1960's, with economic and social conditions on the Upper West Side in decline, Mr. Bloor's office turned to investing outside New York City, including high-rise faculty housing just across the George Washington Bridge.
Mr. Bloor, who never married, is survived by a brother, James, of Hilton Head Island, S.C.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (90%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK ATHLETIC CLUB INC (58%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); COLUMBIA UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); COLUMBIA, SC, USA (90%); HILTON HEAD, SC, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (96%); REAL ESTATE (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (78%); ENDOWMENTS (78%); DRUG TRAFFICKING (65%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (64%); 

PERSON: BLOOR, WILLIAM; SAXON, WOLFGANG WILLIAM BLOOR (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



252 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 729 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Hafez Answers Chris

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Sunday's column was about how Secretary of State Warren Christopher should address Syria's President, Hafez al-Assad, when they meet in Damascus tomorrow. Here's what Mr. Assad would answer if he were speaking candidly:
Chris, it's good to see you again. I love it when you talk tough with me -- especially that line about how this is going to be your last visit to Damascus. Ha, ha, ha. You really crack me up sometimes. 
 Now you listen to me, Mr. Secretary of State: Do you take me for a fool? Do you think I just fell off a watermelon truck from Aleppo? We both know what keeps pulling you back here. I'm the moosehead you want to mount on your wall. I'm your ticket to a Nobel Peace Prize. Well, Chris, here I am. If you want me you'll have to come and get me, and it's going to take a few more trips.
Now Chris, you tell me I have to make a personal, emotional appeal to the Israeli public -- "a psychological breakthrough," you called it -- just like those bootlickers Sadat, Arafat and Hussein did. Chris, I'm not the President of Norway. If I were the kind of leader capable of personal, touching and emotional appeals, I never would have survived as ruler here for 27 years.
I've read my Machiavelli, Chris, and he taught that it is better to be feared than loved. Love is something people grant or withdraw according to their whims. But fear, Chris, is like a cold hand resting on your shoulder that you can't remove. Haven't you seen how my ministers tremble in our meetings? They are terrified of me. But you want me to persuade the Israelis to trust me? Trust -- that is such an American concept. Fear, Chris: ruling is about fear. You could use some of that yourself.
But Chris, it's not only my people who are afraid. I am too. I come from a minority in Syria -- the Alawite tribe. The Sunni Muslim majority here watches every move I make. They will pounce on me in a second if I go too far. I think about that constantly. Haven't you noticed that I never send Alawites to negotiate with you or Israel -- only Syrian Muslims and Christians? That's because I want them to be held responsible for any deal.
So let's be clear: I am ready to sign a peace treaty with the Israelis in order to get my Golan Heights back. I am ready to give them the security arrangements they need, provided that they give me the same. I am even ready to attend a signing ceremony with Shimon Peres. But I am not ready to embrace the Israelis or show them any warmth, and I am not ready to open the Syrian economy to their businessmen. You cannot force such a psychological breakthrough from the top. That can only emerge over time. I want peace, but without any ideological or human reconciliation with the Zionist state.
There is still plenty in it for Peres and his people. A peace treaty with me means an end to the state of war between Israel and its most dangerous enemy. It also means an end to the Arab-Israeli conflict, because if I do a deal with Israel, all the other Arabs, including Saudi Arabia, will fall into line. The Arab world comes with me. That is a big deal, Chris, and I will sell that deal to my own people in order to get back the Golan Heights, but don't ask me to sell it to the Israelis as well. To sell this deal to my own people I need to maintain a high level of fear. To sell this deal to the Israeli people, someone has to soothe their fears. That's not my thing. Peres is good at soothing fears. I'm good at generating them. Don't confuse our roles. I will deliver Syria; let Peres deliver Israel.
When the Israeli people see what's on the table -- peace with Syria and peace with the Arab world -- they will eventually come along. And Peres will come along too, because I will not only deliver him all of these strategic benefits, but I will get him re-elected as well. Maybe he'll even win like me -- with 99.6 percent of the vote! You know, Chris, after my last election one of my aides came to me and said: "Mr. President, you won 99.6 percent of the vote. It means only four-tenths of 1 percent of the Syrian people didn't vote for you. What more could you ask for?" And I said: "Their names." Ha, ha, ha.
So there you have it, Chris. I'm ready to do business with the Israelis -- but not therapy. I'm in no hurry, but it looks to me like you and Peres are, so you'll be back and your room at the Sheraton will be waiting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); 

CITY: DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; SYRIA; ISRAEL; SYRIA (94%); ISRAEL (94%); UNITED STATES (93%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (90%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; SYRIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); MUSLIMS & ISLAM (87%); AWARDS & PRIZES (73%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (68%); NOBEL PRIZES (68%); RELIGION (65%); PEACE PROCESS (63%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (50%); 

PERSON: CHRISTOPHER, WARREN M (SEC); ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L SHIMON PERES (58%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



253 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 787 words

HEADLINE: About New York;
A Tepee Comes Down, and Hackles Are Raised

BYLINE: By DAVID GONZALEZ 

 BODY:
CHRIS RAMOS wants his tepee back on Rockaway Parkway. And his sweat lodge, too.
So what if the Canarsie man can go to Brighton Beach for a steam bath? He can't learn the ways of the Turtle Clan in Little Odessa. 
 Mr. Ramos is no holdover from Brooklyn's past, when Indian villages dotted its southern reaches. He was taken in by a broad-minded group of Mohawks who had built a small encampment on an unused strip of Parks Department land hugging the Belt Parkway. For weeks, he and his friends huddled inside the moist, meditative warmth of the sweat lodge as a medicine man taught them about Native American traditions.
Last Friday, he learned a really old lesson: the Government tore down the tepee and took back the land.
The Mohawks, who had ambitious, if unfinanced, plans to build a museum and cultural center on the land, said the Parks Department had reneged on its commitments after the parcel had been cleared of stolen cars, garbage and weeds. Parks Department officials lauded the volunteers for cleaning up the place but noted that the permit for the tepee and sweat lodge expired on the last day of December. Any plans to build anything on the site needed to go through the usual complicated process of permits, hearings and variances.
The Mohawks and their supporters feel slighted and unwanted after two months of sharing their culture -- actually a blend of different tribal traditions, since the sweat lodge and conical tepee are not part of the Mohawk way. Then again, this Brooklyn group is perhaps the only one to have elected a Jewish man, Morris Fischer, as a sub-chief.
"You don't have to be Native American to be down with the Native Americans," said Mr. Ramos, a 22-year-old unemployed painter. "The sweat lodge is actually very good for the skin, to tell you the truth. It cleanses the soul."
NOW he is searching his soul.
"Straight up, let me tell you, I'm a future Marine," he said. "Now I'm supposed to defend the same Government that takes people's rights away?"
The encampment went up in November, after the city granted the Native American Longhouse Society permission to erect a cultural exhibit for two months. Schoolchildren, neighbors from the housing projects across the street and long-time Canarsie residents soon made their curious way to the tepee by the Seaview Diner.
There were powwows where the locals got free food and native crafts, as well as smaller celebrations of Native American life, said Gia:iatah Crosstherivers, the group's medicine man, who said he was raised shuttling between Canarsie and Mohawk land in Canada.
"We brought them into our sweat, where they go through a cleansing process and bring them closer to Mother Earth," he said. "We educated them about the pine tree, the cedar tree and the red willow."
What the city taught them, he said, was the ways of the red tape. He did not have the right permits. The land belonged to the people of New York, even though the city had let it pretty much rot over the years.
He refused to take down his encampment, even though the permit for structures was good only for two months. After a few days of negotiations, Parks Department workers showed up with chain saws and removed the tepee and lodge.
"They took away my church," Mr. Crosstherivers said. "It was a General Custer type thing. That's the way I took it. Had I lived back then, they would have had no mercy on my people. Two hundred years ago, they would have killed everybody in sight."
Henry J. Stern, the Parks Commissioner, said he was ready to continue talking with members of the group about future plans as long as they showed community and financial support for their proposed museum. But he faulted them for not living up to their word.
"It undermines your feelings on how to deal with them if they're not responsible," he said. "You wish they would do something, but they must act responsibly."
MR. CROSSTHERIVERS dismisses such criticism as another insult in a long line of broken promises made by European colonists. And he is angry at what he says is the city's lack of concern for a burial ground in a wooded area near the lot. As proof, he said a parks worker once uncovered three skulls on the site.
Of course, this is Brooklyn.
"That was landfill when they built the Belt Parkway," Mr. Stern said. "It is thoroughly chewed up and excavated. They were more likely to be skulls from Bensonhurst or Bath Beach."
Whatever the case, Mr. Crosstherivers vowed to continue his quest in court and in the tradition of peace.
Mr. Ramos knows a few other traditions, too, like how to raise a ruckus.
"We could start some havoc over here, you know what I'm saying?" he said. "They're into peace. I'm into getting even."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) MOTHER EARTH NEWS (50%); PARKS DEPARTMENT (83%); NATIVE AMERICAN LONGHOUSE SOCIETY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS AND RECREATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) PARKS DEPARTMENT (83%); NATIVE AMERICAN LONGHOUSE SOCIETY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); CANADA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MOHAWK INDIANS; PARKS AND OTHER RECREATION AREAS PARKS & PLAYGROUNDS (90%); NATIVE AMERICANS (89%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (68%); CHILDREN (50%); 

PERSON: GONZALEZ, DAVID CHRIS RAMOS (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



254 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 707 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Few Takers For Japanese Finance Post

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 9

 BODY:
The job of running the world's second-largest economy is about to become vacant, and nobody seems to want it.
Ryutaro Hashimoto, who is expected to be named Japan's next Prime Minister on Thursday, is assembling his Cabinet. But he appears to be having a hard time finding a candidate for one of the most important posts: Finance Minister. 
 Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama's Cabinet will resign on Thursday, and the current Finance Minister, Masayoshi Takemura, has declined to be reappointed. Mr. Takemura's shoes are rather awkward ones to fill: He was chosen last year by Euromoney magazine as the world's worst finance minister for the year.
The field is wide open for replacement candidates, since a background in finance is not necessary. The minister relies heavily on the ministry's bureaucrats.
"Expertise or knowledge in finance should not be an absolute condition," Mr. Takemura told reporters recently. "It is very important to study the issues, but flexibility and a broad sense of politics is more important than expertise or specific knowledge."
Local news reports say that Mr. Hashimoto offered the job to Seiroku Kajiyama, a tough-minded, loose-talking leading member of the Liberal Democratic Party, which Mr. Hashimoto heads.
Mr. Kajiyama, who continues to be a strong candidate for the job, has a controversial past and no previous experience in finance. He is most remembered in the United States for remarks he made in 1990, when he was Justice Minister, that compared foreign prostitutes in Tokyo to American blacks who move into white neighborhoods and, in his words, "ruin the atmosphere."
Two years ago, there were reports in the Japanese press that he was under suspicion of having taken bribes, but no official action was taken against him.
Mr. Kajiyama is said to have responded tartly to Mr. Hashimoto's offer of the post. "Unless the person is willing to die for you, he won't be able to bear the job," he said, according to Asahi Shimbun, a leading daily.
Hiroshi Mitsuzuka, a former secretary general of the Liberal Democratic Party, is also a candidate for the post. But Mr. Kajiyama's gruff and firm manner may be exactly what Mr. Hashimoto wants in a Finance Minister.
"The next minister should be tactical and sophisticated," said Takao Toshikawa, publisher of the newsletter Tokyo Inside Line. "He wants somebody, a big shot, to make the Ministry of Finance's high-ranking officials become obedient."
The ministry, made up of the nation's most elite bureaucrats, is considered the most powerful institution in Japan. But the Finance Minister himself has always been a political appointee who sails in above the career officers and usually ends up having less influence than they do.
Still, for a politician, the post has usually been regarded as a highly coveted one, a prestigious and influential seat traditionally considered a passport to even better things. Mr. Hashimoto, for instance, was Finance Minister from 1989 to 1991.
But now Japan is mired in a mess of bad loans, and the next Finance Minister has a sticky mission ahead of him later this month: He must persuade the Parliament to dip into taxpayers' funds to pay for the cost of cleaning up some of the numerous bad housing loans. Whoever is chosen is sure to be savaged in Parliament by members of the other parties who are critical of the Government's bailout proposal.
"There is a Japanese saying: No one is willing to pick out the chestnut from the hot fire," said Toru Nakakita, a professor of economics at Toyo University. "This is going to be dynamite."
Moreover, other measures announced by the Finance Ministry last year may also come under fire. Plans for a sweeping overhaul of the ministry's management of the nation's banks have led to some calls for the supervisory function of the ministry to be split off and operated separately.
Some ministry officials fear that such a trend could bring wider demands to break up the ministry, which governs the financial markets, the banks, tax collection and the budget process.
"The new Finance Minister needs strong political clout and there are no volunteers," a senior Government official said. "This is a very difficult job at this stage." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: FINANCE MINISTRY (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (89%); POLITICS (89%); APPOINTMENTS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (64%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (64%); PROSTITUTION (50%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN); TAKEMURA, MASAYOSHI (MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (92%); SEIROKU KAJIYAMA (78%); MASAYOSHI TAKEMURA (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



255 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 403 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Wariness About Federal Budget Produces Mixed Day for Dollar

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
The uncertainty about the Federal budget continued to afflict the foreign exchange market yesterday, leaving the dollar mixed against major currencies as traders sought safety by nullifying their positions.
A report of an increase in unemployment in Germany and hints of lower interest rates there failed to have much effect on the dollar, leaving it unchanged against the mark. 
 The dollar changed little during the day against the Japanese yen, but finished with a slight loss, as traders apparently were unfazed by Japan's economic and political gyrations.
In late New York trading, the dollar was quoted at 104.65 yen, down from 105.30 late Monday. The dollar was worth 1.4395 marks in New York, unchanged from Monday.
Negotiations between President Clinton and Congressional Republicans were suspended yesterday afternoon after the two sides failed to reach agreement on a plan to balance the budget in seven years. Earlier, traders said they were hesitant to take strong positions in the currency markets as long as there was uncertainty about the talks.
 "This whole budget thing is at the forefront of everything; as the Republicans said, 'Today is the day,' " said David Solin, a partner at Foreign Exchange Analytics, an investment advisory firm. "People are nervous. Nobody wants to be positioned either way in front of these meetings."
As the talks had dragged on this week after the end of the partial Government shutdown, the dollar appeared to be poised to make strong gains against the mark after two events in Germany.
First, the Government reported yesterday that unemployment surged in the final months of 1995 and that the trend was likely to continue into the new year.
Second, three officials of the German central bank said that interest rates could stand to be lowered again. The earliest drop, according to Johann Wilhelm Gaddum, a member of the central bank, could occur today with a change in the bank's securities repurchase rate.
When a country's interest rates drop, its debt assets become less attractive to investors, who as a result are less likely to buy the currency needed to acquire the assets.
But the dollar, despite rising temporarily yesterday, failed to close above its level of the day before against the mark.
Against the British pound, however, the dollar rose. The pound was quoted at $1.5487 yesterday, compared with $1.5520 on Monday. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FOREIGN EXCHANGE LTD (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); GERMAN MARK (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (78%); BRITISH POUND (78%); TRENDS (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); INVESTMENT ADVISERS (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



256 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Unemployment in Germany Rose to 9.9% in December

BYLINE: By NATHANIEL C. NASH 

DATELINE: FRANKFURT, Jan. 9

 BODY:
Germany endured a barrage of negative economic news today -- in particular, that unemployment soared in December -- creating a sense of gloom that has not been seen since the country began to climb out of its worst postwar recession more than two years ago.
And if the conventional wisdom is true that as the German economy goes, so goes Europe, the reports mean that much of the Continent this year will see little growth, rising unemployment, depressed business and consumer activity, and a further falling behind the United States. 
 The federal Labor Office reported that unemployment in December posted the greatest one-month surge in years, rising to 9.9 percent for all of Germany from 9.3 percent in November.
More than 211,000 people lost their jobs, in part the result of seasonal layoffs of workers. But beyond that, high wages and an overvalued mark have made German exports less competitive, inducing companies to cut back work forces here and open plants abroad, according to Labor Office officials.
Factoring out seasonal shifts in joblessness, permanent unemployment increased by almost 70,000 in December.
So gloomy is the business environment that economists predicted that the country was certain to pass the psychological barrier of 10 percent unemployment early this year, and that more than four million people would soon be out of work.
Labor Minister Norbert Blum called the unemployment figures an "alarm signal of the highest urgency," and called on unions, corporations and Government officials to create programs to generate jobs.
A central bank official quickly said that such weak economic statistics could justify a lowering of lending rates later this week.
And Steven Englander, international economist at Smith Barney in Paris, said: "Germany is clearly very weak. I think this means that unemployment rates across Europe are going to remain very high and they are not going to come down any time this century."
Adding to the gloom, the Economics Ministry reported that manufacturing orders for western Germany fell seven-tenths of 1 percent in November, a harbinger of further weakness in the economy.
A survey of Germany's midsized companies found that 81 percent of them described the economic outlook for 1996 as "bad" or "poor."
And the highly regarded German Institute for Economic Research cut in half its forecast for 1996 national growth, to 1 percent from 2 percent, a rate that effectively means economic stagnation. A year ago, many economists were predicting growth this year of 3 percent.
Economists at the research institute said the moderate recovery from recession in 1994 and 1995 had been Germany's weakest postwar rebound.
So far, a full-blown recession is not being predicted either for Germany or Europe. That is mainly true in the latter case because some countries -- Italy and Spain, among them -- are not as weak as Germany, France, Switzerland or Belgium, and are expected to buoy the European economic region somewhat.
But the weak data mean that Europe's biggest problem -- persistently high levels of unemployment -- is not about to go away soon. There are now a total of 14 million unemployed, many of them with little prospect of finding anything but minimum-wage jobs.
And though generous social-welfare programs are now keeping the unemployed out of poverty, once such funds begin to dry up, European nations risk a kind of social problem not seen in decades -- structural poverty and the threat of social unrest.
Governments are also hard pressed to find solutions because they are under enormous pressure to reduce their budget deficits in order to qualify for participation in a common European currency, the first stage of which is to take effect in 1999.
Low growth means lower tax revenue and thus bigger budget deficits at a time when many are calling for relief from high tax burdens.
If there is hope among economists, it seems to be in the ability of Germany's central bank to take center stage and again cut interest rates to stimulate the economy.
Over the years the central bank, or Bundesbank, has rejected the idea of helping Europe as a whole by lowering interest rates, saying that its charter is to look out for Germany's economy and monetary stability. But now, conveniently, at a time when Europe needs economic stimulation, Germany appears to need it more, providing the bank with an acceptable rationale for helping the entire Continent.
While some economists have predicted another cut in the discount rate by March, others say that given the recent weak economic data, that could be moved forward.
Franz-Christoph Zeitler, a member of the Bundesbank's central council, said the bank might lower one short-term rate on Wednesday -- the securities-repurchase, or repo, rate. He said that the economic research institute's forecast had been too pessimistic and that 1996 national growth would be 2 percent.
But private economists remained grim. "So far, the labor market has not at all reflected the economic upswing of 1994, and there is little hope for this year, as well," said Holger Fahrinkrug, economist at the Union Bank of Switzerland here. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (53%); 

COUNTRY: GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); 

STATE: FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (74%); 

COMPANY: SMITH BARNEY HOLDINGS INC (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; GERMANY (94%); EUROPE (94%); FRANCE (92%); SWITZERLAND (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); SPAIN (79%); BELGIUM (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (74%); FRANKFURT AM MAIN, GERMANY (79%); PARIS, FRANCE (74%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (89%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (89%); RECESSION (89%); LAYOFFS (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); JOB CREATION (78%); LABOR FORCE (78%); BUSINESS CLIMATE & CONDITIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (76%); SEASONAL WORKERS (75%); STATISTICS (75%); DISMISSALS (74%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); INTEREST RATES (64%); 

PERSON: NASH, NATHANIEL C; BLUM, NORBERT (MIN)

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



257 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bonds Drop On Impasse Over Budget

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
The bond market fell sharply yesterday, posting its biggest decline in three weeks, after President Clinton and Republican Congressional leaders broke off their negotiations on the Federal budget.
Investors are "truly scared of a problem in the budget process," said Fabio Savoldelli, who helps manage $68 billion of investments at the Chase Manhattan Private Bank in New York. "This really could have an unhappy ending." 
 The 30-year Treasury bond plunged about 1 point, or $10 per $1,000 bond, pushing its yield up to 6.11 percent, from 6.04 percent on Monday. Shorter-term interest rates also rose, with the yield on the two-year notes rising to 5.20 percent from 5.18 percent.
Bonds doubled a loss of about half a point after the budget negotiations were suspended until next Wednesday. "We have some fundamental differences," Bob Dole, the Senate majority leader, said. The talks would be "in recess" until "the White House has new ideas to present," he said.
Many investors bought bonds in recent weeks to bet that Republicans and Democrats would set aside differences and agree on a plan to balance the budget in seven years. Such a plan would drive yields lower in part by curbing the supply of Government bonds.
The suspension in the budget negotiations is not expected to last past Wednesday, and President Clinton stressed the positive side of yesterday's talks. "We are moving closer together on the spending numbers," he said.
Even so, yields will head higher without a plan soon, said Eric Cheung, who manages $3.5 billion of bonds at the Wilmington Trust Corporation. "If everybody walks away from the talks, the market will tank," he added.
Investors have "high expectations for significant cuts" in social programs, said Kenneth Lynch, who manages $200 million of bonds at the Pitcairn Trust Company in Jenkintown, Pa. Republican plans still call for about $100 billion more of those cuts than the President will accept, he said.
Some investors say they are not rushing to buy or sell bonds based on each new twist in the budget negotiations. "After all the sound and fury, we still won't know for seven years whether it really does anything," said Jim Somers, who manages $2.25 billion of bonds at Martindale Andres & Compay in West Conshohocken, Pa.
Bonds initially rose yesterday after the Mitsubishi Bank/Schroder Wertheim weekly same-store sales report showed retail sales slipped 2.6 percent for the week ended Saturday, the biggest drop in at least 10 months.
Later, bonds fell after a second study on the week's retail trade, by the Johnson Redbook Service, suggested that business could be better than expected. The service reported that January's sales were on track to exceed December's pace by 1 percent.
Even so, "any pickup in activity was pretty much a function of very heavy discounting that kicked in before Christmas," said Matthew Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston. "Budget news is still the single most important determinant of what happens in the market over the course of the next two or three weeks."
Following are the results of the Treasury's regular weekly auction of three-month and six-month bills:
 
(000 omitted in dollar figures)

 	 	 	3-Mo. Bills	6-Mo. Bills	 	Average Price	98.729	97.462	Discounted Rate	5.03%	5.02%	Coupon Yield	5.18%	5.24%	High Price	98.734	97.472	Discounted Rate	5.01%	5.00%	Coupon Yield	5.16%	5.22%	Low Price	98.726	97.462	Discounted Rate	5.04%	5.02%	Coupon Yield	5.19%	5.24%	Accepted at low price	40%	70%	Total applied for	$44,884,545	$58,554,929	Accepted	$14,064,545	$14,081,381	Noncompetitive	$1,573,617	$1,339,712	
 
Both issues are dated Jan. 11, 1996. The three-month bills mature on April 11, 1996, and the six-month bills mature on July 11, 1996.

GRAPHIC: Graphs: "Treasury Yield Curve" plots yields of selected Treasury securities, in percent. Yields for short-term maturities are shown on a bond equivalent basis. Horizontal scale is a ratio scale. (Source: Technical Data); "3-Month Treasury Bills" tracks average discounted rate, in percent at weekly auction, since September. (Source: The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: JPM (NYSE) (58%); JPM (LSE) (58%); 8634 (TSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (66%); NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (58%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (58%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (58%); SIC6022 STATE COMMERCIAL BANKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: WILMINGTON TRUST CORP (66%); JPMORGAN CHASE & CO (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS; STOCKS AND BONDS BUDGETS (95%); BONDS (95%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TALKS & MEETINGS (89%); SALES FIGURES (89%); RETAIL SALES (83%); BANKING & FINANCE (78%); SAME STORE SALES (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (77%); RETAIL TRADE FIGURES (76%); RETAIL SECTOR PERFORMANCE (74%); INTEREST RATES (55%); ECONOMIC NEWS (55%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



258 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 667 words

HEADLINE: John Gronouski, 76, Kennedy-Era Postal Chief

BYLINE: By ROBERT McG. THOMAS Jr. 

 BODY:
John A. Gronouski, a rumpled economics professor who parlayed an academic tax study and his ethnic background into a public service career that included stints as Postmaster General and Ambassador to Poland, died on Sunday in a hospital in Green Bay, Wisc. He was 76 and had lived in Green Bay since retiring in 1989 as a professor at the Lyndon B. Johnson School of Public Affairs at the University of Texas.
His family said the cause was complications from a stroke. 
 When he was tapped by President John F. Kennedy in the summer of 1963 to be Postmaster General, Mr. Gronouski was a highly regarded Wisconsin tax commissioner who had provided a crucial endorsement to Kennedy in the 1960 campaign.
Mr. Gronouski had a reputation as a militant Democrat from his role in an unsuccessful campaign to unseat Wisconsin's red-baiting Republican Senator, Joseph R. McCarthy, and as a tough-minded administrator who had revamped the Wisconsin tax system. But Mr. Gronouski had what many saw as an even more important political credential: his Polish background.
Mr. Gronouski was not only the first person of Polish extraction to serve in the Cabinet, he was also believed to be the first Cabinet officer to have actually earned a Ph.D.
Whatever reservations he may have had about being seen as an ethnic token in Presidential politics, Mr. Gronouski, whose mother was Irish, did not disappoint his patrons.
In his first 14 months in office, Mr. Gronouski, whose candor and pipe-smoking informality endeared him to the Washington press corps, held 63 news conferences, traveled 127,000 air miles, visited 132 cities and gave 445 speeches, an average of more than one a day, many of them to Polish-American groups.
But for all his political forays, Mr. Gronouski found time to become a highly effective postal administrator. Among other things he moved aggressively against racial discrimination in postal employment and spearheaded the transition to the five-digit ZIP code (after conceding that he did not know his own).
He also ordered bulk mailers to presort their own mail and moved to close many marginal post offices. It was a reflection of his unsentimental approach to postal economy that he endorsed a plan to save $4,417 a year by eliminating the rural carrier position in his own birthplace, the Wisconsin hamlet of Dunbar.
After being named Ambassador to Poland in 1965, Mr. Gronouski continued his barnstorming ways. Operating as what amounted to President Johnson's personal envoy to Eastern Europe, he used Poland as a base for what were billed as "bridge-building" trips to other Soviet bloc countries seeking to promote trade and other ties with the United States.
After President Johnson left office in 1969, Mr. Gronouski, who had helped run Hubert H. Humphrey's abortive bid for the Presidency in 1968, helped design the curriculum at the Johnson school in Austin and served as its first dean.
In 1977, he was called back to Federal service by President Jimmy Carter to become chairman of the Board for International Broadcasting, which ran Radio Free Europe and Radio Liberty.
Mr. Gronouski, who grew up in Oshkosh, graduated from the University of Wisconsin before serving as an Air Force navigator on bombing missions over Germany in World War II. When his plane was shot down, he was forced to bail out and survived even though he had worn his parachute upside down.
After the war, he earned his Ph.D. at the University of Wisconsin, held a series of teaching positions, including one at Wayne State University in Detroit and wrote a number of articles on tax policy, among them a study of the Wisconsin tax system that led to a job with the state tax department.
In 1960, less than a year after he passed a civil service exam to become research director, he was named tax commissioner.
He is survived by his wife, Mary; two daughters, Julie of Seattle and Stacey of Green Bay; a sister, Rita Wilson of Sun City, Ariz., and four grandchildren.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); 

CITY: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); POLAND (90%); EUROPE (79%); EASTERN EUROPE (73%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (92%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (90%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (95%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (89%); ETHNIC GROUPS (89%); CAUCASIAN AMERICANS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); CURRICULA (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (76%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (76%); POLITICS (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); RACIAL DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (73%); TAX AUTHORITIES (73%); DISCRIMINATION (73%); PRESS CONFERENCES (64%); SMOKING (50%); RACE & RACISM (50%); 

PERSON: GRONOUSKI, JOHN A (PROF); THOMAS, ROBERT MCG JR JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



259 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 340 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
As Snow Cuts Northeast Traffic, Prices for Gasoline Trade Lower

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Gasoline prices skidded yesterday on concerns about a drop in demand because of the blizzard this week in the Northeast, which brought East Coast traffic to a standstill.
The February contract lost 1.83 cents and settled near the day's low on the New York Mercantile Exchange. The exchange was closed on Monday because of the storm, so its full impact on prices hit yesterday. 
 "Any time you have the Governor of New Jersey forbidding people from driving, you're going to put a dent in demand," said Tim Evans, an analyst with the Pegasus Econometric Group in New York. Gov. Christine Todd Whitman had declared a state emergency and travel ban because of the storm.
The Coffee, Sugar and Cocoa Exchange in New York remained closed yesterday. On other markets, wheat and soybean futures surged in response to rumors of new exports.
The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 commodities rose 0.36 point from Monday, at 246.28.
Gasoline futures were also hurt by the latest industry data showing a rise of 5.1 million barrels last week in the nation's gasoline stocks.
Despite the storm and frigid temperatures, heating-oil futures closed lower, erasing sharp gains earlier in the session. Traders said the market was disappointed that crude oil failed to rise. Also, weather forecasts call for a warming trend over much of the nation later this week.
Crude for February delivery lost 31 cents and settled at $19.95 a barrel; February heating oil was 0.21 cent lower at 60.43 cents a gallon; February gasoline was 1.83 cents lower at 58.65 cents a gallon, and February natural gas was 1.2 cents higher at $2.928 for 1,000 cubic feet.
On the Chicago Board of Trade, optimism over exports propelled wheat and soybeans to substantial gains. The market was dominated by rumors that China was buying soybeans and possibly wheat, and that Russia was in the wheat market.
Wheat for March delivery gained 12 1/4 cents, settling at $4.95 3/4 a bushel, and January soybeans were 8 3/4 cents higher at $7.36 1/4 a bushel. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (56%); COFFEE SUGAR & COCOA EXCHANGE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (92%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; OIL (PETROLEUM) AND GASOLINE; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES); WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS OIL & GAS PRICES (94%); FUTURES (94%); GASOLINE MARKETS (92%); GASOLINE PRICES (92%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); WEATHER (90%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (90%); WHEAT MARKETS (90%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); HEATING OIL (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); GASOLINE (79%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); PETROLEUM PRODUCTS (78%); HEATING OIL PRICES (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); GOVERNORS (76%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (73%); GRAIN EXPORTS & IMPORTS (73%); TRENDS (72%); COFFEE (69%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (68%); 

PERSON: CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



260 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 19; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 831 words

HEADLINE: Ex-Congressman Mike Synar, Oklahoma Liberal, Dies at 45

BYLINE: By DAVID BINDER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 9

 BODY:
Mike Synar, a liberal Democrat who served eight terms in Congress from the generally conservative state of Oklahoma, died of brain cancer today at his home in Arlington, Va. He was 45.
In the course of his Congressional career, which started when he was 28 and ended in a primary defeat in 1994, Mr. Synar took on the National Rifle Association, the tobacco industry, Western farmers who profited from low grazing fees on public lands, insurance companies and the predominance of political action committees in financing election campaigns. He refused all PAC offerings. 
 But it was his 1986 challenge to the constitutionality of a plan for deficit reduction that won him lasting renown. The majority of his legislative colleagues, including all seven other Oklahomans in Congress, backed the measure, called Gramm-Rudman for its Republican senatorial sponsors, Phil Gramm of Texas and Warren B. Rudman of New Hampshire.
Mr. Synar was appointed to participate in the House-Senate conference on the Gramm-Rudman bill and succeeded in inserting a clause giving members of Congress the right to bring a legal challenge to its constitutionality. After President Ronald Reagan signed the bill, Mr. Synar took the case to the Supreme Court. His argument, that a provision intended to create an automatic budget-balancing mechanism was unconstitutional, prevailed in the Court.
At the time of his death, deficit reduction and budget balancing remained at the top of the political agenda for both Congress and the White House, but as a result of Mr. Synar's action, no more efforts are under way to deal with the issues by legislative fiat.
"I have probably been the maverick, the reformer, the outsider, probably more than any other person in the United States Congress," Mr. Synar said in 1992.
Those qualities showed in several of his votes: in 1991 against authorizing the use of force in the Persian Gulf and for a waiting period for handgun purchases; in 1992 to close down the space station program and to allow shifting of money to domestic programs from military ones, and in 1993 against requiring parental notification of minors' abortions and for increasing taxes. Although he often voted against President Clinton's programs, he listed himself as a firm supporter of Mr. Clinton.
While few of the causes he pursued in Congress resulted in legislative victories, the battles he fought remain high on the national agenda: raising grazing fees, changing campaign finance and banning tobacco advertising.
He said his political heroes were Thomas Jefferson and Harry S. Truman. In an interview last fall he said he had tried to emulate two of Truman's characteristics: "He fought special interests, and he told it like it was." Last spring he received the John F. Kennedy Profile in Courage award at the Presidential Library in Boston.
His defeat in a September 1994 primary in Oklahoma's Second District was a prelude to the Republican tidal wave that swept the House and Senate two months later. On its face, his loss by a mere 2,609 votes to a 71-year-old retired teacher who had spent only $19,000 on his campaign seemed a fluke. But Mr. Synar calculated that tobacco lobbyists, the National Rifle Association, Western cattlemen and other interests paid about $3 million to engineer his defeat. One opposition billboard carried the message "Stalin, Hitler, Castro, Synar."
"They basically poisoned the well," Mr. Synar said later. The Democrat who beat him, Virgil Cooper, was defeated in the general election by a Republican, Tom Coburn.
After Mr. Synar's loss, President Clinton appointed him chairman of the Federal Bankruptcy Review Commission. He also headed the Campaign for America Project, dedicated to changing campaign financing.
Michael Lynn Synar was born on Oct. 17, 1950, in Vinita, a town of about 5,000 in northeastern Oklahoma where his father, Edmond, was an agricultural agent. His father and five uncles have been prominent ranchers in the region. When Mr. Synar turned 6, his father bought him some cattle, which he raised into a small herd with the help of the 4-H club, the organization sponsored by the Department of Agriculture to instruct rural young people in modern farming methods.
When his college tuition bills started coming in from the University of Oklahoma and later from Northwestern University, Mr. Synar sold off steers to pay them. He also repaid the $7,000 loan with which his father had started the project. He earned a master's degree in economics at Northwestern and later a law degree at Oklahoma. Before entering politics he worked as a farmer and rancher and as a real estate broker.
Asked to define his "fondest memory" a decade ago, Mr. Synar chose being in 4-H, in which he was twice a national champion. He was said to limit his footwear to cowboy boots and a pair of jogging shoes.
Survivors include his father, of Muskogee, Okla.; a brother, Alan, of Edmond, Okla., and a sister, Edwina Synar of Atlanta.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mike Synar (Associated Press, 1986)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Obituary (Obit); Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL RIFLE ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); OKLAHOMA, USA (95%); VIRGINIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); INDIAN OCEAN (53%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DEATHS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION DEATHS & OBITUARIES (97%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); CONSERVATISM (90%); LIBERALISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (87%); ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (78%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); SUPREME COURTS (75%); CONSTITUTIONAL LAW (75%); BUDGET DEFICITS (74%); BRAIN CANCER (73%); CANCER (73%); SPONSORSHIP (73%); GUN CONTROL (71%); INTERVIEWS (71%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (71%); TOBACCO PRODUCTS (71%); APPOINTMENTS (69%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (66%); INSURANCE (56%); SPACE STATIONS (50%); SPACECRAFT (50%); LIBRARIES (50%); 

PERSON: SYNAR, MIKE (REPR); BINDER, DAVID JOHN F KENNEDY (79%); RONALD REAGAN (79%); PHIL GRAMM (78%); BILL CLINTON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



261 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1028 words

HEADLINE: THE BLIZZARD OF 1996: THE COST;
Some Businesses Get a Windfall, But More Suffer With the Snow

BYLINE: By PAM BELLUCK 

 BODY:
Mohammad Iqubal measures the blast of this week's record-book blizzard not in inches, but in dollars.
"I'm losing at least $180 for these past two days on my cab lease, and $100 to $120 a day in cab fares alone," said Mr. Iqubal, 26, who spent hours yesterday excavating his cab from a snowdrift in Astoria, Queens, only to have it blocked in by a parked car. "I've got to get my cab to the shop to fix the heat and the wipers, which aren't working because of the snow. I'm totally stuck." 
 Mr. Iqubal's livelihood was hardly the only one savaged by the snow. Countless businesses, even those that dug out and opened up yesterday, found themselves reckoning with one or two days of lost sales. Work left undone by snowbound employees hurt companies large and small.
Still, some businesses, from ski resorts to video stores, reaped serendipitous profits. And anyone with muscle, moxie or four-wheel drive could make a modest killing.
Jesse Sturgis, a Vietnam veteran who is blind in one eye, was raking in relative riches yesterday with a wobbly blue snow shovel and wet woolen gloves. After just two hours, seven snow-smothered cars and a snatch of sidewalk had netted him $70 and a cup of coffee -- enough that he snubbed a $6-an-hour shoveling gig on Riverside Drive.
"Everytime I see someone struggle with a car, I ask them if they need a hand," said Mr. Sturgis, wending his way via side streets from the Upper West Side to Harlem. "With a snow like this, might as well make me some money."
Commerce continued to be crippled for many retailers, taxi drivers, delivery services and others yesterday.
Federal Express, which normally picks up or delivers hundreds of thousands of packages a day in the Northeast, was experiencing what a spokesman, Bill Carroll, called a "real nightmare" with hobbled airports, messy roads and employees who could not make it to work.
Department stores, even those that were open yesterday, were facing losses of between $30,000 and $80,000 a day for Sunday and Monday, estimated Pamela Rucker, a spokeswoman for the National Retail Federation in Washington.
"When you have a snow closing, you don't recover that business," said Carol Sanger, the spokeswoman for Federated Department Stores, which shut 47 of its 67 Macy's stores Monday and all of its Stern's stores. "We're just happy this happened in January rather than in December."
Ronald Stoppelmann, owner of Irene Leasing in Long Island City, Queens, estimated that he had lost $100,000, with only 45 of his 170 cars running. "You cannot make it up," Mr. Stoppelmann said. "It's an impossibility. This business operates day to day."
Many restaurants across the region were closed from Sunday night until yesterday morning, faced with employees and food deliveries that did not arrive. And in Manhattan, hot-dog and knish vendors stayed inside, left without corners to stand on.
Father & Son Moving and Storage in East Flatbush had to cancel at least five moves in the last two days "until further notice," said Lisa Mills, the assistant manager. Not only is the driving tough, she said, but "it's really hard to move on the snow with dollies." Ms. Mills said some clients were worried about being charged an extra month's rent if they don't move soon.
New York's wholesale flower district, usually bustling at 5:30 in the morning with florists elbowing each other for flora from the Netherlands, Thailand and South America, was nearly deserted yesterday. Only a handful of the two dozen or so wholesale markets around West 28th Street opened, and all had closed by midmorning. And florists looking for exotic purple roses or rare orchids were forced to lower their sights to carnations and chrysanthemums that had been delivered on Saturday before the storm.
Even Elton John, across the ocean in London, suffered a bit of a slight from the storm -- an indeterminate delay in a delivery of digital audio tapes that a Queens courier service was scheduled to ship to him.
Grocery stores were a mixed bag, with some thrilled and some panicked to sell out of staples like milk, bread and meat. By yesterday, most were getting deliveries and bracing for another shopper seige in anticipation of more snow later in the week.
Prognosticators warned that the financial bite of the blizzard would ultimately be in the hundreds of millions of dollars.
Apparel merchants alone lost $400 million in the storm of January 1994, said Carl Steidtmann, an economist at Management Horizons, a division of Price Waterhouse, in Columbus, Ohio. The food business lost about $650 million in that storm, he said.
Insurance claims are sure to follow, for roof damage, frozen pipes, damaged cars. The 20-state storm of March 1993, the fifth most costly national catastrophe, resulted in $1.75 billion of insurance claims.
Still, there were small fortunes yesterday for the unemployed, the home-from-school, or those snow-savvy hustlers who got up at dawn and waited for blizzard-bound banks, pharmacies and other stores to open. Even a guest at the Marriott Marquis hotel in Midtown was picking up a little extra on the side, charging $5 to ferry other guests to boat and boutique shows at the Javits Center.
Video stores were flush with customers, hotels were stocked with the stranded, baby-sitting services, takeout restaurants and tow truck operators were making a mint, and car services that could get around found they could charge up to double the usual fare.
In Manhattan, though nowhere else, people swarmed movie theaters.
The more than 100 screens operated by the Cineplex Odeon Corporation were "busier than ever," said Howard Lichtman, vice president for marketing, "with managers sleeping over and operating the projection booths themselves."
Yesterday morning, Jeswand Singh's livery cab shimmied as he navigated 149th Street in the Bronx. The going was a little rough, but Mr. Singh could not be happier.
"It took me three hours to dig out, but I made $300 yesterday," Mr. Singh said. "I took someone 30 blocks, normally a $7 trip, and they gave me $20. People are so grateful to be taken even a few blocks that they give me really big tips."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Maria Vieira, of Queens, cleared snow from her car at Fifth Avenue and 71st Street yesterday so she could post a note explaining that she intended to have it towed. (Lonnie Schlein/The New York Times); A crew of firefighters thawed out a frozen hydrant at Broadway and Thomas Street in lower Manhattan. Commerce was hampered for many retailers and delivery services. (Fred R. Conrad/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: M (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS452111 DEPARTMENT STORES (EXCEPT DISCOUNT DEPARTMENT STORES) (84%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: MACY'S INC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS RETAILERS (89%); WEATHER (78%); TAXICABS & LIMOUSINES (77%); SKIING (75%); VIDEO SALES & RENTALS (72%); TRENDS (69%); RESORTS (69%); CITIES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

PERSON: BELLUCK, PAM MOHAMMAD IQUBAL (70%); LISA MILLS (61%); RONALD STOPPELMANN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



262 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 711 words

HEADLINE: Ford, in a Shift, Is Offering Rebates to Increase Sales

BYLINE: By ROBYN MEREDITH 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 9

 BODY:
The Ford Motor Company said today that it had started offering $600 rebates and discount financing on nearly all its vehicles in an acknowledgment that it had miscalculated the strength of the market.
Wall Street analysts also said that the rebates reflected the strong reluctance of consumers to pay higher prices for cars. "The market in general has been very sticker sensitive," said Nicholas Lobaccaro, an analyst at S. G. Warburg & Company. For Ford, he added, "the first half of the year is really locked in to be pretty disappointing." 
 Ford said that it would offer rebates or discount interest rates of 4.8 percent over four years on most 1996 models sold through April 2. Typical interest rates on four-year auto loans are now twice that level.
No discounts were offered on Lincolns or several Ford models, including the Explorer, the popular sport utility vehicle; the subcompact Aspire, and the 1997 F-150 pickup, which goes on sale this month. The Bronco sport utility vehicle will offer a $2,000 rebate or the 4.8 percent interest rate.
Analysts generally agreed that Ford had missed the mark in its strategy to add as standard equipment some previously optional features and charge nearly $19,150 for the most basic of its Taurus models. That would be a 5.6 percent increase from the price of the stripped-down 1995 model, which came with a $1,000 rebate last summer. By contrast, the Chevrolet Lumina, a comparable sedan, starts at $16,355, while a Dodge Intrepid from Chrysler starts at $18,445 plus a $1,000 rebate.
Ford's rebates amount to "a recognition that the company has recently overproduced," said Scott F. Merlis, an independent automotive researcher based in Westport, Conn. "Sales were strong, but production was even stronger." He said Ford's per-vehicle incentive costs would probably rise $50 in the first quarter, to about $950.
The announcement came a week after Alexander Trotman, Ford's chairman and chief executive, had insisted that the company's vehicles were fairly priced and did not need the incentives recently introduced by the General Motors Corporation and the Chrysler Corporation on selective models. He stressed then that Ford would not offer discounts on its flagship car, the Taurus, despite its disappointing sales in the fall.
Ross H. Roberts, Ford division general manager, insisted in an interview today that Mr. Trotman, "told you right last week; we had made up our mind to not put any incentives on it."
But then came the results of a test of incentives that Ford conducted last month in the Midwest. The test bolstered sales so much that Ford decided to offer incentives nationally.
In Cincinnati, one of the test cities, sales of selected vehicles jumped 22 percent and Taurus sales climbed 34 percent over the November sales.
The incentives are an embarrassing acknowledgment that Ford misjudged the family-sedan market, where the Taurus has been a best seller for years. Sales in the fall lagged behind 1994 levels, a downturn that Ford attributed to its decision to sell fewer Tauruses to rental fleets. But both customers and dealers have complained about the extensive redesign of the car.
Mr. Roberts said Ford had not misjudged the market. "We are just responding the way that other manufacturers have," with incentives, he said, adding that the Taurus was the industry's best-selling car in the fourth quarter.
The problem is that "the size of the pie" has been shrinking, he said, adding: "The car market has just not been that strong. We are getting a bigger piece of the pie than we had."
Mr. Lobaccaro, the stock analyst, said that on Wednesday he would probably lower his estimate for Ford's 1996 profits to $2.25 a share, from the $3.20 he had estimated in recent weeks and the $3.70 figure he had assigned in the autumn. "The earnings are clearly depressed due to launch costs" associated with the introduction of the new Taurus, Escort and F-150 pickup truck designs, he said.
As for Ford dealers, they praised the new sales incentives today, although several said Ford should have offered $1,000 rebates. Nevertheless, Doug Barbour, sales manager at Capitol Ford in Raleigh, N.C., said that even the $600 discount "should spur car sales significantly." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (98%); F (NYSE) (98%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (98%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (98%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (98%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); MIDWEST USA (50%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORD MOTOR CO FORD MOTOR CO (98%); CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (83%); S G WARBURG & CO LTD (72%); MOTORS LIQUIDATION CO (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: FORD MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (68%); MIDWEST USA (50%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REBATES; CREDIT; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) SALES REBATES (91%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (90%); MOTOR VEHICLES (90%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (90%); SEDANS (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); AUTOMOBILE FINANCING (78%); PRICE INCREASES (77%); PRICE CHANGES (77%); CONSUMER LENDING (77%); AUTOMOTIVE RESEARCH (72%); INTERVIEWS (66%); EXECUTIVES (61%); 

PERSON: MEREDITH, ROBYN

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



263 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 13; Column 3; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 677 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL;
Two Cubans Prepare to Choose Teams and Cash In

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
The Cuban lottery is nearing a close, and Livan Hernandez is apparently about to win big. The only unknown piece of the lottery is which team will hold the winning ticket.
Joe Cubas, agent for Hernandez and a fellow Cuban defector, Osvaldo Fernandez, said yesterday that he has set noon Friday as the deadline for offers for the pitchers. He said he hopes they will reach decisions on the teams soon after that. 
 Cubas declined to discuss offers he has received for the two pitchers, but he acknowledged that one team, which he did not identify, has offered Hernandez a signing bonus of more than $2 million. If Hernandez accepts that offer or another at that level, it would be a record for a player coming into professional baseball in the United States.
Baseball executives following the bidding said yesterday that they have heard that the Tampa Bay Devil Rays, who will not even play in the major leagues until 1998, are prepared to offer $2.5 million and the Baltimore Orioles could go that high or higher, perhaps $2.7 million.
Hernandez, at the age of 20, is more highly thought of than Fernandez, who may be ready to pitch in the majors this season but who is 7 or 9 years older, depending on the source of his age. One executive said Fernandez was expected to receive a $500,000 signing bonus.
Hideo Nomo, who excited baseball fans with his major league debut last season, received $2 million a year ago to sign with the Los Angeles Dodgers. His signing bonus, however, is not compared with bonuses given college or high school players selected high in the amateur June draft because he had played professionally in Japan.
Hernandez is in position to gain a significantly higher bonus than a drafted player because he is a free agent. When he defected on Sept. 25, he became a resident of the Dominican Republic, as Fernandez had done two months earlier. If they had sought asylum in the United States, as other Cuban players had done previously, they would have been subject to the draft.
Cubas, a Miami-based agent, represents two other Cuban defectors, who learned Friday that they had been granted free-agent status. Larry Rodriguez, 21, and Vladimir Nunez, 20, pitched yesterday in the Dominican, Cubas said, with more than 60 representatives of major league clubs watching. The 6-foot-5-inch Nunez, Cubas said, is "another Hernandez with a better body."
Hernandez has received lucrative offers from, among others, the Yankees, Marlins, Orioles and Toronto Blue Jays. One executive said the Yankees were believed to have offered in the $1.5 million to $1.7 million range and the Marlins $1.7 million or $1.8 million.
Chuck LaMar, general manager of the expansion Tampa Bay team, said the Devil Rays had not made an offer but would by the Friday deadline. He declined to say if it would be $2.5 million.
Pat Gillick, the Orioles' general manager, who aggressively pursued Latin players when he was the Blue Jays' general manager, could not be reached to comment on Baltimore's economic interest in Hernandez.
Although LaMar didn't say so, the Devil Rays could develop a marketing program around the young pitcher and point to him as their likely starter in their opening game in 1998.
If the Devil Rays were to sign Hernandez, LaMar said, he would attend their mini-camp for signed players in May, then most likely start pitching for one of the three teams Tampa plans to have in rookie or short-season leagues.

 
 
INSIDE PITCH
 The St. Louis Cardinals continued building what they hope will be a contender for the 1996 season, acquiring pitcher TODD STOTTLEMYRE from the Oakland Athletics and signing second baseman MIKE GALLEGO as a free agent for $300,000. Both played last season under TONY LA RUSSA, the Oakland manager who has become the Cardinals' manager. To get Stottlemyre, who had a 14-7 record last season, the Cardinals gave the Athletics ALLEN BATTLE, one of their reserve outfielders, and three minor league pitchers who were high draft choices in 1993 and '94: BRET WAGNER, JAY WITASICK and CARL DALE.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (76%); CANADA (68%); JAPAN (68%); 

STATE: FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (68%); 

CITY: TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (68%); 

COMPANY: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (56%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (56%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (56%); TAMPA BAY DEVIL RAYS (56%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); BALTIMORE ORIOLES (55%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%); LOS ANGELES DODGERS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CUBA; UNITED STATES (91%); DOMINICAN REPUBLIC (76%); CANADA (68%); JAPAN (68%); FLORIDA, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); ONTARIO, CANADA (68%); TAMPA, FL, USA (91%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); MIAMI, FL, USA (79%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (68%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL BASEBALL (94%); LOTTERIES (90%); BONUS PAY (89%); SPORTS FANS (73%); POLITICAL ASYLUM (72%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY; HEWRNANDEZ, LIVIAN; FERNANDEZ, OSCVALSO JOE CUBAS (81%); OSVALDO FERNANDEZ (75%); CHUCK LAMAR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



264 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 657 words

HEADLINE: Expectations of Weak Earnings Contribute to Plunge in the Dow

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
The stock market fell sharply yesterday, pulled down by a selloff in technology stocks and wide-scale worries about corporate profits.
"Everyone came back from the storm and created a blizzard of selling stocks," said Robert Freedman, chief investment officer of the John Hancock Funds. "We're getting into the earnings season and people are nervous." 
 Many big companies are expected to begin reporting their fourth-quarter results next week, and investors are increasingly concerned that the slowing economy will produce disappointing earnings.
Adding to the day's volatility was the breakdown in the Federal budget negotiations in Washington. Bond prices suffered sharp declines and the yield of the benchmark 30-year Treasury bond rose to 6.11 percent, from 6.04 percent on Monday.
The Dow Jones industrial average sank 67.55 points, or 1.3 percent, to 5,130.13. At one point yesterday, the average was more than 80 points below the Monday close. The loss marked the Dow's biggest one-day drop since it gave up 101.52 on Dec. 8.
But it was the Nasdaq composite index, which is heavily weighted in technology issues, that posted the largest percentage decline among the key stock indicators, plunging 33.56 points, or 3.25 percent, to 998.81. This marked the first time that the Nasdaq closed below the 1,000-point support level since Oct. 10.
"Technology stocks were very weak throughout the day," said Arnold Kaufman, editor of Standard & Poor's Outlook. "Then that weakness spread."
Stocks were also affected by heavy computer-guided trading that set off the Big Board's uptick rule at 3:03 P.M., according to Birinyi Associates, which tracks program trading. The rule, which curbs such trading in an effort to stabilize the market, was invoked for the second time this year.
Declines on the Big Board substantially outnumbered advances, 1,575 to 861. Volume returned to its recent high levels after Monday's abbreviated session, with 417.4 million shares changing hands, compared with 130.4 million on Monday.
The emphasis in the debacle, though, was undoubtedly on technology. The day began with weakness in Symantec, which said late Monday that it only broke even in the December quarter. Then further declines were sparked by pessimistic views about some semiconductor manufacturers by the Soundview Financial Group. By the close, the Philadelphia Semiconductor Index had dropped 14.99 points, to 179.6, about 40 percent below its peak on Sept. 11.
Among the decliners in this group were the day's most actively traded stock, Applied Materials, off 3 3/4, to 33 5/8; National Semiconductor, down 4 3/4, to 17, and Texas Instruments, off 3 5/8, to 45. Symantec, the second-most-active stock, fell 5, to 10 3/8.
Automotive issues were lower after the Ford Motor Company offered financial incentives on some models and reports appeared that more consumers are having difficulty repaying their car loans. Ford closed at 28 1/4, down 5/8; General Motors closed at 49 1/2, down 1 1/8, and Chrysler closed at 53 1/4, down 2 3/8.
Bank companies were also negatively affected by the higher bond yields, which usually narrow bank profit margins. J. P. Morgan declined 1 5/8, to 76; Citicorp dropped 2, to 63 7/8, and BankAmerica fell 1 1/4, to 60 7/8.
Among other issues, Rock Bottom Restaurants, which said fourth-quarter profits would drop below expectations, fell 3 3/4, to 9 1/4. Circuit City declined 1 3/4, to 25 1/2, after Merrill Lynch lowered its fourth-quarter earnings estimate. And Printronix slipped 1 3/4, to 15 3/4, after announcing a decline in fiscal third-quarter net income.
But Agouron Pharmaceuticals climbed 1 1/2, to 38 1/2, after announcing favorable test results from an H.I.V. drug. Herman Miller, which on Monday said its fiscal second-quarter earnings rose 40 percent, jumped 1 15/16, to 31 11/16. And HCC Insurance, which said it intended to buy LDG Management, gained 5 1/8, to 42.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: SYMC (NASDAQ) (52%); TXN (NASDAQ) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (52%); NAICS334413 SEMICONDUCTOR & RELATED DEVICE MANUFACTURING (51%); NAICS333318 OTHER COMMERCIAL & SERVICE INDUSTRY MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (51%); SIC3674 SEMICONDUCTORS & RELATED DEVICES (51%); SIC3578 CALCULATING & ACCOUNTING MACHINERY, EXCEPT ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

COMPANY: SYMANTEC CORP (52%); TEXAS INSTRUMENTS INC (51%); NATIONAL SEMICONDUCTOR CORP (51%); BIG BOARD (62%); 

ORGANIZATION: BIG BOARD (62%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (91%); COMPANY PROFITS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); BONDS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (89%); MARKET OPEN CLOSE (89%); ELECTRONICS (78%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); BUDGETS (75%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (74%); EXECUTIVES (73%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (69%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (64%); SEMICONDUCTORS (64%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (60%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



265 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1823 words

HEADLINE: Lawsuits to End All Lawsuits;
Settlements May Limit Victims' Future Right to Sue

BYLINE: By BARRY MEIER 

 BODY:
Imagine you are diagnosed with a disease linked to a toxic substance, but then discover you can't sue its manufacturer. The reason: A lawsuit settled years earlier limited your ability to do so, even though you never heard about the deal or met the lawyers who made fortunes supposedly representing you.
In a country where thousands of lawsuits are filed daily, the prospect might seem farfetched. But it is one that is increasingly being played out in courts nationwide. 
 A growing number of companies, desperate to limit their exposure to potentially ruinous litigation, are initiating class-action lawsuits against themselves. And they are getting help from an unlikely source: plaintiffs' lawyers. By negotiating settlements that cover those who may someday get sick from their products, companies are able to limit future lawsuits and cap damages.
The irony is that many of the same companies that say they are helpless victims of a predatory legal system are in fact aggressively using that system to protect their financial interests. In some cases, companies have offered to settle complaints on terms that can yield millions of dollars in legal fees. The opposing lawyers will then file and settle class-action claims against the companies resolving the claims of those not yet sick or injured.
Supporters of these so-called futures settlements insist they are an innovative way to unclog courts, cut legal costs and save companies from bankruptcy, while guaranteeing timely compensation payments to people who are truly ill.
Geoffrey Hazard, a legal-ethics expert at the University of Pennsylvania School of Law, said a recent futures agreement on asbestos claims would slash litigation costs. "The money is going to sick people and not the lawyers," he said.
But critics of the plans said they tempt companies and plaintiffs' lawyers to collude and ignore the rights of those who are not sick now but might eventually want to have their day in court. Some also regard the settlements as a de facto tort reform that supplements the broader efforts by Congress to rein in litigation against business.
"I think it is being used not for the class but against the class," said John Leubsdorf, a professor at Rutgers Law School in Newark. Deborah Hensler, director of the Rand Institute for Civil Justice in Santa Monica, Calif., added, "We are trying to bring people into litigation before their time."
Often class-action settlements -- like the pending deal involving suits over silicone breast implants -- seek to resolve both existing and future health claims at the same time. But the recent batch of cases is striking because they only cover future health claims -- those that may arise after the class-action suit is filed and settled.
Some plaintiffs' lawyers, public-interest groups and others have appealed court approval of the futures settlements, arguing, among other things, that future litigants are being stripped of their rights. But defenders of the pacts say that as in other class actions claimants who take part in the proceedings can represent those who do not.
In perhaps the most bitterly contested case, a Federal judge in Philadelphia in 1994 approved a $1.3 billion class-action settlement that would resolve up to 10,000 health claims over the next 10 years from workers and their families against 20 companies that once made asbestos or products with asbestos.
Lawrence Fitzpatrick, the president of the Center for Claims Resolution, a consortium in Princeton, N.J., that represents the companies, said they had sought the settlement so they could be more certain of their future legal exposure.
"One goal was to take asbestos litigation out of tort system," Mr. Fitzpatrick said.
The companies, representing 15 to 20 percent of the asbestos industry's liabilities, began the action by approaching two of the country's leading asbestos plaintiffs' lawyers, Ron Motley of Charleston, S.C., and Gene Locks of Philadelphia.
The lawyers agreed to file the action, but critics say the settlement sold future claimants short, providing them poorer terms than those Mr. Motley, Mr. Locks and other lawyers had just negotiated out- f court for a group of 14,000 workers.
Many of those 14,000 workers had no symptoms, but nonetheless received payments because they were exposed to asbestos. Together, the workers' claims were settled for about $215 million. Assuming an average contingency fee of 33 percent, Mr. Motley, Mr. Locks and lawyers associated with them netted an estimated $71 million in fees.
By contrast, the class-action settlement worked out by the two lawyers provides cash only for workers who actually develop an asbestos-related illness. Payouts to those who develop more serious diseases like mesothelioma, a fatal lung cancer linked to asbestos exposure, may take years, because the companies involved in the Philadelphia plan will only pay a specified number of claims annually. Similarly, only a specified number of future claimants who are unsatisfied with the companies' settlement offer will be permitted to go to court to seek higher damages.
Under the futures agreements, fees to plaintiffs' lawyers, which can range as high as 40 percent, will be cut to about 20 to 25 percent. But some lawyers, including Mr. Motley and Mr. Locks, are likely to do better than others because they have won higher settlement awards for their clients in the past.
Some legal-ethics specialists have accused Mr. Motley and Mr. Locks of selling out the interests of people who will get sick in the future for their own immediate benefit. "I don't think you want people who have a vested interest in cutting a deal deciding for you what your life is going to be like," said Susan P. Koniak, a professor at Boston University Law School, who testified in 1994 against the plan during a fairness hearing as a paid expert witness.
Mr. Hazard, who testified in the hearing as a paid expert favoring the plan, said lawyers could represent unknown, future clients with the same zeal they show toward current ones. "I don't go into shock when somebody says you can't represent someone you haven't met," he said.
Mr. Motley rejected any suggestion of impropriety by the plaintiffs' lawyers. He noted that a Federal judge had dismissed allegations of collusion in approving the plan. And, he argued, workers already involved in lawsuits deserved more because their claims had languished for years in courts -- a fate that he contended awaited other asbestos victims unless new ways continued to be found for dealing with the litigation glut.
"The horizon is even bleaker for asbestos victims if they don't seek alternative methods for dispute resolution," he said.
Legal experts say the 1994 Philadelphia settlement was the first such futures deal. Since then, at least two more have been struck. Among the knotty legal questions they have unleashed is this: How do you make people aware that they have a stake in a lawsuit if they have not even fallen sick?
Consider the case of Martha Parker, a housewife living in Winston-Salem, N.C. Mrs. Parker said it came as a shock to her when she was diagnosed in 1994 with mesothelioma. She said she had never worked around asbestos, but figures she was exposed to it as an infant during World War II, when her father and grandfather worked in shipyards where asbestos was used as insulation. "My daddy and grand-daddy used to come home covered in dust," she said.
Never suspecting she was a candidate for the disease, Mrs. Parker said, she paid no attention to local television ads instructing mesothelioma sufferers who wanted no part of the Philadelphia asbestos settlement to opt out of it. Though she retains the legal right to sue some asbestos manufacturers, her claim against the 20 companies in the Philadelphia case will be determined by an administrative board, not a jury.
Under the terms of the agreement, 97 percent of mesothelioma claims over 10 years will bring on average between $37,000 and $60,000, with the remaining 3 percent -- principally claims those from younger workers or those whose exposure was primarily to the products of the consortium's members -- could potentially bring more than $200,000. After 10 years, the companies can withdraw and face the prospect of being sued again. There is no bond to guarantee that the settlement money will last 10 years, but the court found that the companies had sufficient money to finance the deal.
The labor movement, which once took a united stand on asbestos litigation, is split over the futures deals. The A.F.L.-C.I.O. strongly backs the Philadelphia plan, but some unions and workers with asbestos-related illnesses have balked.
"I felt like my constitutional rights had been disregarded," said Paul Hildebrand, a former boilermaker in Parkersburg, W. Va.
While the Philadelphia agreement started out as a futures settlement, in other cases the prospect of future plaintiffs became more important as the case evolved.
In 1992, residents of Bryan, Tex., living near a chemical plant owned by the American subsidiary of the French multinational Elf Aquitaine, filed a lawsuit accusing the company of polluting local lakes and streams with arsenic, which can cause cancer. Though some health claims were made, the lawsuit principally sought costs related to property damage and creation of a system to monitor residents' health.
But Dennis Reich, a plaintiffs' lawyer in Houston, said that lawyers for the company subsequently approached him seeking to settle the lawsuit if it also included all future health claims from residents. Mr. Reich said that he had agreed to do so after reviewing the subsidiary's finances and deciding that it faced bankruptcy if it lost a major jury verdict arising from the pollution case. The company had already settled individual lawsuits from Bryan residents charging that birth defects and cancer had arisen from the arsenic pollution.
"When you are dealing with companies that are economically fragile, you have to decide whether to resolve the case in one fell swoop or on a piecemeal basis," Mr. Reich said.
The class-action settlement was approved last year by a Federal magistrate. But some lawyers, public-interest groups and Bryan residents have appealed the pact, arguing that the health-compensation component of the $55 million deal will expire in seven years -- too soon to cover diseases that can take far longer to develop.
"There are some people who are going to get some small pittance and if arsenic disease shows up in others at some later date they will be out of luck," said Mark O'Connor, an environmental consultant in Bryan, which is 100 miles north of Houston.
Knox Nunnally, a lawyer for Elf Aquitaine, said there was no evidence of any arsenic-inducted illness in Bryan. And Mr. Reich played down that fear, as well. "You are dealing with a risk level that appears to be small," he said.


GRAPHIC: After settling a class-action lawsuit involving asbestos workers, 20 asbestos companies approached the workers' lawyers, including Ron Motley, top (The Charleston Post and Courier), to reach a settlement of claims for workers who have not yet gotten sick. The $1.3 billion deal was reached in 1994, but some workers, including Paul Hildebrand, above (Gary Truman for The New York Times), say the settlement bypassed their constitutional rights.
 
"The Arsenic Case"
Charts/Photos: "The Asbestos Case"
 In 1992, residents of Bryan, Texas sued a chemical company accusing it of polluting lakes with arsenic. Seeking to settle the lawsuit if it included all future health claims from residents, the company approached a plaintiff's lawyer, Dennis Reich, top. Mr. Reich agreed to the settlement, drawing criticism from people like Mark O'Connor, above, a local environmental consultant. (F. Carter Smith for The New York Times) (pg. D1)
 
 
Chart: "Settling Asbestos Cases"
 
Background
 A consortium of 22 countries faced over 70,000 health claims related to asbestos exposure. Most of the claims were bogged down in court and few were getting to trial.
 
Existing Claims
 In late 1992, plaintiffs' lawyers agree to settle 14,000 claims for about $215 million, including many claims from workers without symptoms. The deal generated an estimated $71 million in lawyers' fees.
 
Future Claims
 At the companies' request, two leading plaintiffs' lawyers who had just settled their existing claims against the companies filed a class-action lawsuit in January 1993 to resolve future health claims from workers and their families. In August 1994, a Federal judge in Philadelphia approved a $1.3 billion deal. It is now under appeal.
 
Those Who Will Collect
 Under the agreement, the companies will pay some 1,000 claims a year for 10 years. The claims will be reviewed by the companies. On average, payments on a claim related to a fatal lung disease will range from $37,000 to $60,000. Workers can still sue manufacters not in the pact.
 
Those Who May Not Collect
 Workers who have evidence of asbestos exposure but no physical symptoms cannot collect until they show signs of disease. Also, payments to those with more serious illnesses may be delayed for years and only a limited number of claimants will be allowed to sue later if they do not like the companies' offer. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: SANTA MONICA PLACE (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); PHILADELPHIA, PA, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; LIABILITY FOR PRODUCTS; ETHICS; CLASS-ACTION SUITS SUITS & CLAIMS (96%); LITIGATION (93%); LAWYERS (90%); COSTS & ATTORNEY FEES (90%); CLASS ACTIONS (90%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); LAW SCHOOLS (89%); ETHICS (88%); TOXIC TORTS (78%); TORTS (78%); TOXIC & HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES (78%); TORT REFORM (77%); LEGAL ETHICS (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (75%); ASBESTOS (73%); APPROVALS (70%); FUTURES (70%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (69%); ASBESTOS & ENVIRONMENTAL LOSS (69%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (67%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (64%); 

PERSON: MEIER, BARRY GENE LOCKS (62%); RON MOTLEY (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



266 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 642 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

First Fidelity Securities Settles Kickback Charges
First Fidelity Securities of Newark agreed to pay $2.3 million to settle charges by the S.E.C. that it paid secret kickbacks to a former New Jersey county official to get lucrative bond underwriting business. The firm neither admitted nor denied any wrongdoing. The action is the first S.E.C. case brought against a broker-dealer firm rather than individuals for such payoffs.
First Fidelity, which First Union acquired last year, said it had installed new controls and dismissed two employees. [Page D4.]
 
Budget Talks Break Off
The Federal budget talks broke off, although President Clinton and Republican congressional leaders promised to resume bargaining next week. But it seemed less certain than ever that there was much left to talk about. Both sides haggled for four hours yesterday, then took to television to declare that they were marooned. Behind the scenes, the prospects for an accord seemed considerably bleaker on both sides. [A1.]
 
The bond market posted its biggest decline in three weeks. The 30-year Treasury bond plunged about 1 point, lifting its yield to 6.11 percent from 6.04 percent. [D5.]
 
Ford Offers $600 Rebates
Ford said it had started offering $600 rebates and discount financing on most of its 1996 models sold through April 2, in an acknowledgement that it miscalculated the consumers' desire to pay higher prices for more fully equipped vehicles. [D2.]
 
Group Seeks Internet Curbs
A leading Jewish group asked Internet access providers to refuse to carry messages that promote racism. The letter from the Simon Wiesenthal Center of Los Angeles is the latest in a growing effort to counter offensive material on the Internet. [A1.]
 
Economic Warning Signs in Germany
Germany said unemployment surged to 9.9 percent, in a report that pointed to gloomy prospects for this year, in Germany and perhaps in other parts of Europe. [D2.]
 
A Tough Act to Follow in Japan
Japan's Finance Minister, chosen last year by Euromoney magazine as the world's worst, is now expected to be named Prime Minister. And the official, Ryutaro Hashimoto, is having difficulty filling his old post. [D2.]
 
Judge in Huge Tobacco Case Dies
The giant class-action lawsuit against the nation's seven largest tobacco companies faced new uncertainty after the death of Okla B. Jones II, the New Orleans Federal district judge presiding over the case. His death will not immediately affect the case, however, because an appeals court is considering important issues. [D4.]
 
Blizzard Adds to Hotels' Troubles
Washington hotels lost 10 percent of their business during the Government shutdown, and now have to climb out from blizzard, as do many hotels and restaurants in the Northeast. Edwin McDowell: Business Travel. [D7.]
 
Businesses large and small lost revenues in New York. Federal Express said it experienced a "nightmare" and department stores chalked up losses. Restaurants could not get food deliveries. [B1.]
 
Fund Managers Under Reins
Fidelity Investments has barred its fund managers from discussing specific companies or stocks in press interviews, after two Fidelity managers, including Jeffrey Vinik, were accused of trying to manipulate the price of certain stocks by making positive statements about them at the same time that Fidelity funds were selling shares. [D4.]
 
Granada Raises Hostile Bid
Granada increased its hostile takeover offer for Forte in Britain by 15 percent by adding a special dividend, but the target company continued to spurn the approach. Some analysts were impressed by the new, $5.9 billion offer. [D2.]
 
Dollar Mixed in Jittery Trading
The dollar turned mixed in jittery trading affected by the uncertainty in the Federal budget negotiations. [D6.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
 
Dow Industrials -- 5,130.13, down 67.55
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.11%, up 0.07
The Dollar -- 104.65, down 0.65

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL EXPRESS CORP (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); EUROPE (79%); CENTRAL EUROPE (68%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (90%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (90%); BONDS (90%); BRIBERY (89%); HOTELS & MOTELS (83%); CLASS ACTIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (75%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (75%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); PRIME MINISTERS (74%); INVESTMENT UNDERWRITERS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (72%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); TOBACCO INDUSTRY (72%); INTERNET & WWW (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (67%); RETAILERS (65%); JUDGES (65%); RESTAURANTS (63%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (60%); LITIGATION (60%); APPEALS COURTS (50%); INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



267 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 14; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 721 words

HEADLINE: Editorial Notebook;
The Unfulfilled Bargain

BYLINE: By MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN 

 BODY:
Russian voters, scared by economic turmoil and furious about Government corruption, turned last month against President Boris Yeltsin's reform Government and toward Communism and nationalism. A nervous Mr. Yeltsin responded by replacing his pro-Western Foreign Minister, Andrei Kozyrev, with Yevgeny Primakov, a former spy chief. Perhaps these events will not slow Russia's traverse to democracy and markets. Perhaps there will be no resurgent militarism. But if democracy and markets thrive, that virtuous outcome will have occurred despite Western bungling.
The decisive moments came in 1991 and 1992. Mr. Yeltsin pulled Russia out of the Soviet Union, declared himself in favor of radical market reforms and democracy and appointed a band of enthusiastic reformers. Then, at the peak of his popularity, he turned westward for desperately needed help. What he got were boisterous promises and a bushel full of excuses. 
 What he did not get was cash. The West cowered. Vested interests pulled Mr. Yeltsin's fragile consensus apart. Reform policies floundered. The Russian economy sank. Voters understandably turned against the message of reform and its messenger. For the West, opportunity was squandered.
This is not merely historical hindsight. In 1991, as Communism was collapsing, prominent Soviet and American analysts -- notably Profs. Graham Allison and Jeffrey Sachs of Harvard and Grigory Yavlinsky, a Russian economist -- drew up a proposal known as the "grand bargain." The proposal called upon the West to help Moscow underwrite a specific set of market and democratic reforms. If reform stopped, the aid would stop. But the key proposal was that the West should risk hard cash early on, as market reforms were begun. The idea was to tilt the political scales in favor of the reformers.
Early in 1991 the idea of a grand bargain, as its authors noted, may have been premature. But it was not so a few months later when Mr. Yeltsin announced a radical plan for moving to a market economy and appointed the pro-reform Yegor Gaidar as Prime Minister. The proposal would have cost about $25 billion a year, of which only $3 billion would come from the United States. Russia, in return, would decontrol prices, privatize state-owned enterprises and control its budget deficit and money supply -- the rudiments of market reform. But price decontrol and other market reforms can be -- and were -- traumatic to people used to Government-supplied goods. The grand bargain would have put up a modest amount of cash to take the sting out of reform. Poland, two years earlier, had showed that Western aid tied to specific reforms could work. Indeed, Poland is now among the fastest-growing countries in Europe.
President Bush did not fully embrace the West-helps-early logic of the grand bargain. Neither did other Western leaders or important financial institutions like the International Monetary Fund. Promises substituted for action. Leaders decided that the possibility of political embarrassment that would result from losing a small amount of money on reforms that might well fail overrode the incalculable benefit that would follow if reforms took hold and Russia tied itself to the industrialized economies. The West provided some short-term credits that had to be quickly repaid. But, according to Mr. Sachs, it kicked in only a measly $1 billion in long-term cash.
No one can say whether a stronger Western commitment, and more active engagement, would have diverted Russia from its later mistakes -- notably an irresponsible monetary policy, the corrupt privatization of prized Government assets and the bailout of companies controlled by vested interests. But surely nothing was gained by denying Mr. Yeltsin help when he needed it.
Critics of the grand bargain point to Poland and Hungary, where, despite Western aid, voters have returned former Communists to power. But they should take another look. In each country, though Communists now run things, the far-reaching policies survived largely intact and command widespread support.
There are still reformers in the old Soviet Union -- in Ukraine, for example -- who are shakily pushing their countries toward markets and democracy. The lesson from Russia is that opportunities squandered are opportunities lost. MICHAEL M. WEINSTEIN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

TITLE: EDITORIAL NOTEBOOK (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); POLAND (92%); EUROPE (79%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SOCIAL CONDITIONS AND TRENDS VOTERS & VOTING (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); TRENDS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CORRUPTION (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); POLITICS (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CORRUPTION (78%); BUDGETS (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (77%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); MONEY SUPPLY (68%); STATE OWNED BUSINESSES (60%); BUDGET DEFICITS (50%); 

PERSON: YELTSIN, BORIS N (PRES); WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M GEORGE W BUSH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



268 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 14; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 509 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Abuse of the Retarded By Their Caretakers

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:
Abuse of the mentally retarded is an investigative perennial. Expose is followed by reform is followed by expose in a dismaying round that leaves one feeling that nothing much can be done to protect the most vulnerable among us from the violence or neglect of their keepers.
In her introduction to "A Horrible Secret," tonight's "Prime Time Live" report, Diane Sawyer recalls the shocking pictures from Willowbrook, the once notorious symbol of the warehousing of the mentally retarded, which led to the closing or scaling down of many such institutions over the last two decades. This investigation, which Ms. Sawyer says took seven months and covered 30 states, found that inmates were still being tormented around the country. 
 Drawing on findings by the Justice Department, interviews with employees of a few institutions and families of the afflicted, and evidence provided by its own hidden cameras (starring one attendant who uses broom or fist or whatever is handy to discipline her charges), "Prime Time Live" reveals mistreatment in Tennessee, Alabama, Oregon and elsewhere. In some places, patients are merely ignored for long periods; in others, they are smacked, kicked, burned. One scene shows attendants folding laundry on top of a girl who is trying to sleep.
What sort of caretakers are these? Checking at an Oregon institution, the producers learned that 9 of 40 employees had criminal records.
What improvement is possible as long as the care of the troubled and troublesome is entrusted to low-paid, ill-trained people doing jobs that few want to do? The program answers that hard question with a wishful reference to the benefits of small community-based group homes. Now, where have we heard that before?
There's good news from, of all places, the Middle East. In a two-part report beginning tomorrow night, Adam Smith travels to Israel, Jordan and the West Bank city of Ramallah, which is now under Palestinian rule. "Adam Smith in the New Middle East" proves to be an upbeat journey: in Israel, Mr. Smith finds economic growth, and elsewhere a growing promise nurtured by hopes for peace.
Tomorrow night at 8 on PBS, Mr. Smith talks with Israeli officials, including Prime Minister Shimon Peres. Next week he meets Jordanian royalty, including Crown Prince Hassan, the brother of King Hussein and his putative heir, and Palestinian businessmen. They speak of the need to break down obstacles to mutually profitable deals and to a natural neighborly trade that has long been held back by enmity and boycotts.
The programs do not fail to note the disagreements within all the countries over future relations and the disparity between Israeli and Arab living standards, which may portend new sorts of troubles. But the main message is that peace and prosperity are healthy for each other.
 
PRIME TIME LIVE
A Horrible Secret
ABC, tonight at 10
(Channel 7 in New York)
 
Terri Lichstein, producer; Ira Rosen, senior producer; Ed Delgado, editor; Phyllis McGrady, executive producer. Diane Sawyer, reporter.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PRIME TIME LIVE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (76%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

COMPANY: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ISRAEL (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); JORDAN (92%); MIDDLE EAST (92%); UNITED STATES (76%); TENNESSEE, USA (76%); NEW YORK, USA (76%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; MENTAL RETARDATION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); MENTAL RETARDATION (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (90%); DISABLED PERSONS (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); RESIDENTIAL CARE (78%); PRIMETIME TELEVISION (76%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (75%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (75%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (70%); LIVING STANDARDS (69%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (61%); BOYCOTTS (61%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (61%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (60%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER DIANE SAWYER (71%); SHIMON PERES (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



269 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 1; Column 3; Living Desk 

LENGTH: 1687 words

HEADLINE: AT BREAKFAST WITH: Godfrey (Budge) Sperling Jr.;
Politicians and the Press, Once Over

BYLINE: By FRANCIS X. CLINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
PASS the jampacked evasions and refried platitudes. It's time for another Sperling Breakfast, the symbiotic feast of question and answer shared for decades here by politicians on the make and political reporters on the make-and-break.
"Of course it's self-serving," said the breakfast host, Godfrey (Budge) Sperling Jr., a genteel Beltway legend impervious to suggestions that any one of the 2,800 breakfast interviews recorded thus far with politicians is as likely to find the attending columnists, bureau chiefs and reporters being had for breakfast on the half shell by the visiting politician as vice versa. 
 "They wouldn't be coming in if it wasn't self-serving," he said after almost 30 years of being the host for the informal early-morning parade of hungry Presidents and wannabes, political spin doctors and midwives in one of the capital's more long-lived, long-winded journalistic devices. "We all know it's self-serving and we all hang onto our wallets every moment. On the other hand, we don't hammer a guy on the head to show our manliness."
Mr. Sperling smiled handsomely at that as he nursed a paper cup of decaf recently at a different sort of Sperling Breakfast, a chat at his neighborhood McDonald's. He stops off there after a walk most mornings when he's not downtown at the Sheraton Carlton's Crystal Ballroom for still another 8 o'clock breakfast gathering of a score or so of scribes (no electronic news media) and a celebrity politician.
The breakfasts are on the record and can be unexpectedly important in a city where ranking journalists are ever hungry for fresh political characters to scout and new agenda items to mulch. Their own careers feed off those of the politicians. Images of rampant egos and catty talk of the near-greats and not-so-hots, of self-inflation and relentless ambition, serve to describe parts of the Beltway press corps as aptly as the candidates' roster.
"Those old guys with a forkful of scrambled eggs up to their mouths," growled one younger Washington reporter, speaking in the craft's preferred Washington mode, protective anonymity, and chafing at too many Sperling Breakfast assignments. "Then came Ed Rollins, self-destructing about the black ministers, and then Newt self-destructed about the Air Force One plane ride. And now the breakfasts are the hottest thing in town again."
Mr. Sperling accepts that ultimate compliment. Particularly since it was he who, with all his Midwestern Candide charm, innocently asked House Speaker Newt Gingrich how the Air Force One trip went. This prompted the Speaker to respond with his now famous "crybaby" rant about Presidential rudeness.
Mr. Sperling feels that the value of the breakfast was shown when Edward J. Rollins Jr., the campaign strategist for Christine Todd Whitman of New Jersey, arrived relaxed at the breakfast fresh from doing the usual riff of talking-head sagacity on television about the Whitman election victory as Governor in 1993. Basking off guard at the breakfast table, he casually bragged of spreading money to New Jersey ministers to suppress the black vote.
"He forgets that we've got arguably some of the best questioners in America," Mr. Sperling said of his regulars from mainline newspapers and magazines. "They're sitting quietly and aren't yelling, showing off to their publishers like you see on TV. But they're good."
By that lunchtime, the print reporters were filing stories in their favored "gaffe" genre, and Mr. Rollins was backpedaling, having been had for breakfast. "Not all of them got the import of the story right away," Mr. Sperling admitted, underlining the occupational risk of overanalyzing the shadows of the Washington cave in the name of news gathering and forgetting how to spot a breaking story.
"I love to get the stories," Mr. Sperling beamed quite simply after eight decades of life, including 50 years as a "newspaper bum" toiling here as The Christian Science Monitor's bureau chief and political correspondent. He has been roaming national elections since Truman gave 'em hell. He smiles happily from his alleged retirement at the simple joy of remaining in the know with his weekly Monitor columns and Sperling Breakfasts.
"That's what I still like to do," he said. "Just feel like I'm a part of what's going on."
He is. Mr. Sperling, who prefers his nickname of Budge far more than the Godfrey in his byline, was honored by the Establishment last September when President Clinton submitted to the Sperling group's breakfast queries and also presided over a White House celebration of Mr. Sperling's 80th birthday.
More significantly, nearly four year ago, before Mr. Clinton was a declared candidate, he volunteered on short notice for a Sperling Breakfast with his wife, Hillary. Mr. Clinton seemed determined to field questions about rumors of his philandering and so get credit for facing the subject head-on at the head table of the print pundits in a city where he was still a stranger.
"He was rarin' to go," said Mr. Sperling, who noted that his sedate regulars were reluctant at first to ask about the subject. But a Clinton aide had privately invited the grilling to better exploit the influential forum. Reporters concluded that Mr. Clinton in effect was attempting self-innoculation, rehearsing his television comments to come months later when he noted that, yes, the Clintons had problems like other couples but were determined to stay close.
Hardly all the breakfasts are that strategic. "Basically, all that happens is people come in, sit around a table, get some information, then leave," Mr. Sperling said, rating most of them, in retrospect, "a yawn." But they at least keep the press responsibly in the hunt during an era of television dominance of political news that veers increasingly toward the your-mother-wears-army-shoes level of confrontation between performance journalists and retread politicians. "I think people will tell you what they really think if you're at least civil to them," Mr. Sperling honestly insisted. "Not necessarily kind -- civil."
The breakfasts began accidentally in 1966 when Mr. Sperling thought some colleagues might want to meet someone he knew from his campaign circuiting: Charles H. Percy, the eventual Senator from Illinois and, for a while thereafter, a hot Presidential prospect. More candidate klatches followed. Because the group could not book a regular lunch spot, they settled for the breakfast hour that became the Sperling trademark.
The attending news organizations pay the cost, about $20 a head these days. For this they get, at a minimum, the chance to hear themselves sound informed early in the morning. Or they can wince at some of the first-name badinage and issue shorthand that seems to threaten Washington life with becoming an adjunct of television pretense. Or once in a while, they can come across news.
By contrast, Mr. Sperling is homespun simple over his own neighborhood morning decaf and apple bran muffin, a hungry old reporter leafing through newspapers at a McDonald's table, ignoring squalling children nearby. The host has a naive edge enviable for Washington. Spending too much time in his presence makes one feel that maybe it can actually be morning again in America.
Mr. Sperling, an octogenarian with crisp recall, remembers Gov. Ronald Reagan nervously combing his hair again and again as he first approached the Washington press corps by way of a Sperling Breakfast. Jimmy Carter seemed no less nervous there the first time he tucked into his grits.
Lately, younger reporters intent on capital immortality have shifted to cereal and fruit and away from the Sperling groaning board of bacon and eggs and fried potatoes. "Some guests never get a chance to eat," Mr. Sperling said. "There's no ceremony. We go to work and tell them the only rule: we're on the record."
Some politicians see the format as a challenge of one's openness and perhaps even courage. But the rap on the breakfasts, aside from the risk of premature boredom on a workday, is that their coziness can invite elitist, if not lazy, newspapering. Mr. Sperling warns the alternative risk is greater. "There's a certain purist who remains aloof, never to be 'corrupted,' " he noted of one sort of stylist. "But his copy will reflect that, because he hasn't really gotten to know these people. He doesn't have the story."
One guest proved hilariously aloof. "Remember Senator S. I. Hayakawa?" Mr. Sperling asked, recalling the idiosyncratic neo-conservative from California swept into the Senate by the voter backlash against counterculture student protesters. "He sat down as the group was just assembling and he hadn't said very much when I see his head droop down and I notice he's sound asleep," the breakfast host went on, obviously amazed at the memory.
"He sleeps for a while and I just let him sit there and we watch," Mr. Sperling continued, conjuring the ultimate riposte to the Washington press corps: a mover and shaker cutting zzzz's before their assembled power.
Thus went the on-the-record nap. When the lawmaker snapped awake, the Sperling Breakfast's grand mood of insiders' privilege was further punctured as the Senator put off questions, the better to wolf down the special breakfast he had ordered. "Four big sardines wallowing in some sort of thick mayonnaise, washed down with something that smelled like sauerkraut juice," the host remembered.
"It fairly turned our stomachs," Mr. Sperling concluded, laughing out loud over his McDonald's coffee at the surprises of politicians.
These days, Mr. Sperling is arranging the breakfasts at the rate of two a week as the election season looms. "Lots of interest, lots of interest," he said, invoking the news worker's mantra. "It's just like being a reporter," he said of the breakfasts. "You kind of set up a momentum in your life, and that's what we did."
After a half-century of questioning politicians for a living, the Sperling Breakfast host is far from sated. "It's simple -- all we're doing is sitting around and talking," Mr. Sperling said, sitting around and talking.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Godfrey Sperling Jr., who is the host of breakfasts at the Sheraton Carlton in Washington, breakfasts on his own at a McDonald's. (Paul Hosefros/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: WASHINGTON, DC, USA (74%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WASHINGTON (DC); UNITED STATES (94%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); WASHINGTON, DC, USA (74%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; NEWS AND NEWS MEDIA; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION POLITICS (90%); WRITERS (89%); NEWS REPORTING (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); JOURNALISM (77%); CELEBRITIES (76%); MILITARY AIRCRAFT (60%); 

PERSON: SPERLING, GODFREY JR; SPERLING, GODFREY JR (BIOGRAPHICAL SKETCH); CLINES, FRANCIS X NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



270 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 15; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 593 words

HEADLINE: Bad Weather? Just Wait

BYLINE: By John Harte and Daniel Lashof; John Harte teaches environmental science at the University of California at Berkeley. Daniel Lashof is a senior scientist specializing in climate change at the Natural Resources Defense Council.

 BODY:
As the Northeast bowed before an extraordinary blizzard, southern Californians basked in record-breaking heat. Some speculated that this freakish weather was further evidence of long-term global climate change. But focusing on individual events would be a mistake. Unusual weather conditions have always been normal.
This does not mean that global climate change is not occurring. A United Nations scientific panel recently concluded for the first time that global warming had begun and would intensify because of rising levels of heat-trapping gases emitted by burning coal, oil and natural gas. The magnitude of the change is uncertain, but over the next 100 years, the panel estimated, the planet's average surface temperature is expected to rise by 1.4 to 6.3 degrees Fahrenheit. 
 The important news about this projected rise is not going to break the way it does for dramatic weather. Continued warming is likely to result in a gradual parching of soil in many regions of the world, possibly leading to declining crop yields even as the global population rises. When does this trend become "news"?
Sea levels will also rise, slowly inundating Asian farmland, entire islands in the South Pacific and coastal cities and harbors throughout the world. Coral reefs will die in the warmer oceans, and grasslands will give way to desert shrubs that can survive on less water, reducing food for grazing animals.
Producers of coal and oil, as well as some economists, say that we should learn to live with these changes because doing so will be far cheaper than reducing carbon dioxide emissions enough to halt global warming.
Leaving aside the fact that such conclusions ignore potential social and ecological disruption that is difficult to put in monetary terms, a growing body of research and experience indicates that reducing emissions sufficiently is not only possible but makes economic sense. Although the challenge is greater in rapidly developing countries where energy demands are rising most, industrialized nations can lead the way in reducing dependence on fossil fuels.
The cost of solving environmental problems has routinely been overestimated. Take the ozone-destroying chlorofluorocarbons. Ten years ago, the chemical industry and other "experts" said that finding an economic alternative to these substances would be impossible. Yet once the industry was forced to find substitutes for them, under international agreements beginning in 1987, it managed to phase them out completely in two-thirds the time allowed for just a 50 percent cut, in many cases at a profit.
Or consider the shift in fuel economy standards. Before minimum standards were established in 1975, the automobile industry claimed that doubling fuel efficiency, as required, would force everyone to drive compact cars. Ten years later, the standard had been achieved, while the average size of a car had hardly changed.
Why were these estimates so far off? In part, opponents of the new regulations wanted to stimulate political opposition. But independent economists often made similar projections, apparently forgetting that political pressure spurs technological innovation. For this reason, some economists believe that the costs of stemming global warming will continue to fall -- but only if the pressure to change exists.
So far, the United States, with all its wealth and technology, has not made a serious commitment to reduce emissions. Only if we unleash our ingenuity to find solutions can we expect poorer countries to follow suit.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

COMPANY: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (57%); UNITED NATIONS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); PACIFIC OCEAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; GREENHOUSE EFFECT; AIR POLLUTION; CARBON DIOXIDE CLIMATE CHANGE (92%); CLIMATOLOGY (90%); WEATHER (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); ISLANDS & REEFS (90%); EMISSIONS (89%); GLOBAL WARMING (89%); GREENHOUSE GASES (89%); EARTH & ATMOSPHERIC SCIENCE (78%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (78%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (77%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); TRENDS (77%); AUTOMOTIVE INDUSTRY & ENVIRONMENT (76%); ENERGY EFFICIENCY & CONSERVATION (76%); DEVELOPING COUNTRIES (76%); POPULATION GROWTH (75%); COAL FIRED PLANTS (75%); ENERGY DEMAND (75%); NATURAL GAS (75%); OZONE DEPLETION (72%); OCEANS (71%); COASTAL AREAS (71%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (70%); CHEMICALS (70%); CHEMICALS MFG (70%); AUTOMOTIVE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (63%); MOTOR VEHICLES (60%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (60%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (58%); 

PERSON: HARTE, JOHN; LASHOF, DANIEL

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



271 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 10, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section D; Page 18; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: Real Estate;
A new information technology center in lower Manhattan has so far leased a third of its space.

BYLINE: By Mervyn Rothstein 

 BODY:
WHEN the Rudin Management Company announced early last summer that it was spending $15 million to renovate a vacant office building at 55 Broad Street and turn it into the New York Information Technology Center, some real estate people were skeptical that enough tenants could be found to fill the building's 400,000 square feet.
Now, a little more than six months later, 11 leases have been signed for a total of 39,134 square feet, and 17 leases, totaling 68,052 square feet, are out awaiting signing. One 24,000-square-foot floor will contain a Nynex lab, video teleconferencing equipment and long-distance learning systems to be used by several universities -- among them Columbia and New York University. 
 Add it all up and the total space accounted for comes to 131,186 square feet, or just under one-third of the building.
"That's a deal per week," said William C. Rudin, the company's president. "It shows that there's a market downtown -- that the skepticism was unfounded."
The 30-year-old building, at Beaver Street south of the New York Stock Exchange, had been the headquarters of Drexel Burnham Lambert and had been vacant for more than five years, since the investment banking concern went bankrupt. The moribund downtown real estate market had diminished hope that the building would come to life again. But the Rudin Company decided to install telecommunications equipment, fiber optic wiring and satellite uplinks in the hope of attracting some of the many new companies being created to plug into the computer and information explosion of the 90's.
The 11 leases signed range from 908 square feet -- for Intercom Online Inc. -- to 13,319 square feet -- for N2K Inc., a company that specializes in music, technology, multimedia and on-line services. The tenants also include the New York New Media Association, an organization of multimedia professionals, which is moving from 515 Madison Avenue to 1,659 square feet at 55 Broad. Annual commercial rents are in the mid-to-upper teens a square foot plus taxes and cleaning costs. The rents are considerably below midtown prices but in keeping with those in the high-vacancy downtown area.
Mr. Rudin credited Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's Downtown Revitalization Plan -- which provides tax abatements to spur development -- for contributing to the leasing success so far. The building is eligible for the abatement so tenants will save thousands of dollars in taxes.
Mr. Rudin said that he expected the building to be fully leased by the end of summer.
In another downtown deal, Joseph Moinian, a developer who specializes in renovating properties, has purchased the office building at 90 John Street for $6.5 million.
Ron Cohen, a managing director at the Edward S. Gordon real estate company, said Mr. Moinian might convert the building's narrower sunny upper floors to residential use and keep the lower floors commercial.
Mr. Cohen, who brokered the deal, said that the 400,000-square-foot "class B-minus" office building between Gold and Pearl Streets had been troubled in recent years and had many physical problems, including difficulties with the facade. He said that renovations had already begun on the building, which is 32 percent occupied.
 
F.B.I.'s Queens Office
 The Federal Bureau of Investigation has leased 48,710 rentable square feet at Crossroads Tower in Kew Gardens, Queens, for its Queens offices. The lease, for 20 years at an aggregate rent of $28 million, was negotiated for the bureau by the Federal General Services Administration. The bureau is to move in late spring from 95-25 Queens Boulevard in Rego Park.
The 500,000-square-foot Crossroads Tower, at the intersection of the Interboro Parkway, Union Turnpike, Queens Boulevard and Kew Gardens Road, is the largest office building in Queens. Built in 1989, it languished in the real estate recession of the early 90's and fell into bankruptcy. When Newmark & Company Real Estate Inc. became its managing and leasing agent two and a half years ago, 60 percent of the building's office space was vacant. The office vacancy rate is now 7 percent. Tenants include the New York State Department of Taxation and Finance (41,000 square feet) and the Queens District Attorney's Office (45,000 square feet).
"Newmark has leased more than 200,000 square feet of space since we took over," said Brian S. Waterman, a Newmark senior managing director, who handled the deal with James D. Kuhn, the company's president. 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 29, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
The real estate column in Business Day on Jan. 10, about leasing activity at the New York Information Technology Center at 55 Broad Street, misstated the building's previous use. The brokerage firm of Drexel Burnham Lambert was the anchor tenant in the building; it did not have its headquarters there.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NTKI (NASDAQ) (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: RUDIN MANAGEMENT CO CDNOW INC (65%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); QUEENS DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE (79%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: RUDIN MANAGEMENT CO QUEENS DISTRICT ATTORNEY'S OFFICE (79%); FEDERAL BUREAU OF INVESTIGATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: OFFICE BUILDINGS; RENTING AND LEASING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); BUILDING RENOVATION (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (78%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); PROPERTY LEASES (77%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (76%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (75%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (75%); CITIES (72%); VIDEO CONFERENCING (70%); DISTANCE LEARNING (70%); TELECONFERENCING (70%); TELEPHONIC EQUIPMENT (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (67%); TAX RELIEF (65%); FIBER OPTICS (64%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); TAX INCENTIVES (60%); TAX LAW (60%); STOCK EXCHANGES (51%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (50%); 

PERSON: ROTHSTEIN, MERVYN RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 1996



272 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 868 words

HEADLINE: Early Ally of Suicide Doctor Now Faces the Ultimate Decision

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: FARMINGTON HILLS, Mich., Jan. 10

 BODY:
Dr. Jack Kevorkian was virtually unknown back in 1989, when Janet Good essentially started Michigan's "right to die" movement by founding a chapter of the Hemlock Society in her suburban living room.
Most would have thought Mrs. Good an unlikely crusader for suicide. A cherubic former state worker and wife of a retired police officer, she was a Republican, a nominal Roman Catholic and a grandmother. But when Dr. Kevorkian helped an Oregon woman with Alzheimer's disease kill herself in 1990, Mrs. Good leaped to support him, though he was condemned as a reckless publicity-seeker by other Hemlock leaders. 
 Since then, she has also become an important behind-the-scenes player in the Kevorkian drama, fielding calls from people seeking out the retired pathologist, referring the patients she deems to have serious needs and comforting those left behind by the suicides.
"Nobody else had the guts to help these people," Mrs. Good said of Dr. Kevorkian in an interview last week. "I was the one who was getting these terrible, hopeless, despairing calls at least three times a week. I knew how bad off many of them were."
The patients, she said, "deserved that choice."
Now she faces that choice herself.
Janet Good is dying. Her doctors have diagnosed terminal pancreatic cancer and say she has less than a year to live.
"My family took it harder than I did," said Mrs. Good, who is 72. "I am not thrilled, but I have learned to take things as they come."
Mrs. Good, a retired processor of unemployment claims, said that her belief in the right to die came naturally.
"I had seen my mother die in great agony and her doctors refuse to help her," she said, "and I have worked for civil rights and women's rights and human rights for many years, and this seemed to me just another right we should have."
She was elected to the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame in 1991 after successfully leading a drive in the 1970's to make sexual harassment illegal in the state. The state Hemlock Society chapter she founded now counts several hundred members.
"Janet Good has exactly the qualities society lacks today," Dr. Kevorkian said in an interview. "Integrity, honesty and capability."
The question now is whether Mrs. Good will ask the doctor for help: will she ask the man whose cause she champions to help her find what assisted suicide supporters call "a soft landing?"
Her first answer was no. She did not want to put Dr. Kevorkian in danger of imprisonment.
"The point is that I don't know what I want to do," Mrs. Good said last October. "Right now, I don't feel too bad, and right now I feel like I might just go on and die naturally. But I might change my mind, and it angers me that I don't have the right to do so and that by exercising what should be my right I risk putting a friend in danger."
Legally, any doctor who helps someone commit suicide in Michigan could be prosecuted. After a series of contradictory decisions, the Michigan Supreme Court ruled in 1994 that assisted suicide was a common-law felony. While Dr. Kevorkian has not stopped assisting -- 5 of his 26 suicides came after the ruling -- he already faces two trials, in February and in April, for suicides he attended in 1991 and 1993. The one time he was tried in 1994, a Detroit jury found him not guilty, even though he admitted to helping a man with Lou Gehrig's disease die.
To thwart such trials, Mrs. Good threw herself into a 1994 drive to collect 265,000 signatures to force a ballot referendum on doctor-assisted suicide. That effort failed, but it did not stop her involvement with Dr. Kevorkian's crusade.
"She is really a great lady," Cheryl Gale, the wife of one of Dr. Kevorkian's patients, said on Sunday. "She was always there for me after Hugh died."
Similar sentiments were voiced by the Log Cabin Society, a gay Republican group, which recently gave Mrs. Good an award for consoling AIDS patients and their families.
Being told that she had terminal cancer was not, incredibly, the worst thing that happened to Janet Good last year. Her eldest daughter, Donna Ungar, 51, had prepared a video documentary of the family to present to her mother on what everyone feared might be their last Christmas together.
But as the family gathered to view it on Christmas Eve, Mrs. Ungar had a heart attack and died in an ambulance.
Days before, Mrs. Good's husband, Ray, had heart bypass surgery, and Mrs. Good had to make the arrangements and appear at the funeral without him.
The week before her daughter died, Janet Good also indicated that she had changed her mind about taking the route of assisted suicide. Someone, she said, had got her "something I can use that gives me a choice if I need it," when the time comes.
And she said she also had changed her mind about having her hero assist her in death.
Dr. Kevorkian's continued conviction in the face of legal and public challenges, she said, has convinced her that it would be all right for them, together, to claim her right to die.
"I have been thinking about this," she said, "and now that I have a choice, I think it would be an honor to die with Dr. Kevorkian if he will agree to that, and if I need it. An honor indeed."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: COMPASSION & CHOICES (84%); COMPASSION & CHOICES (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMPASSION & CHOICES (84%); COMPASSION & CHOICES (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); MICHIGAN, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: DEATH; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; SUICIDES AND SUICIDE ATTEMPTS DEATH & DYING (94%); SUICIDE (92%); ASSISTED SUICIDE (92%); END OF LIFE DECISIONS (90%); INTERVIEWS (88%); HUMAN RIGHTS (85%); WOMEN (78%); DISEASES & DISORDERS (76%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (76%); PATHOLOGY (75%); CANCER (75%); SUBURBS (72%); ALZHEIMER'S DISEASE (71%); RELIGION (71%); ENDOCRINE SYSTEM DISORDERS (70%); SEXUAL HARASSMENT (62%); CIVIL RIGHTS (62%); 

PERSON: GOOD, JANET; KEVORKIAN, JACK (DR) JACK KEVORKIAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



273 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 20; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 986 words

HEADLINE: Gold-Rush Town Tries To Survive on History

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: VIRGINIA CITY, Mont.

 BODY:
A year after gold was discovered here in 1863, the population swelled to more than 7,000 and this mountain-ringed town became Montana's capital.
But the gold quickly played out. The population dwindled and buildings were abandoned. The only thing that keeps Virginia City from turning into a ghost town are about 150 year-round residents who cater to the tourists who come to see a slice of America's frontier life. 
 But now the locals fear that the man who owns many of the town's historic buildings will pull the rug from under the economy by selling the structures and the thousands of artifacts they contain to out-of-state buyers, who might cart some of the historical contents away.
"If you were to board up both sides of town we'd lose 50 percent of the economy instantly," Darryl Tichnor, editor of the county's weekly paper, The Madisonian, said recently. "Then it would become another little place along the road with no meaning."
Officials at the Montana Historical Society, a state agency, and the nonprofit Montana Historical Society Foundation are scrambling for the estimated $6 million to $7 million it would take to buy dozens of buildings and log cabins and tens of thousands of artifacts owned by Ford Bovey, the son of Charles and Sue Bovey, who amassed the collection beginning in the 1940's. Officials of the groups hope to raise the money from corporate and individual donations and foundation grants.
Mr. Bovey said he wanted to sell the structures because he needed the money. He said the money he received from their opening to tourists had not even been enough to keep them maintained.
Despite the significance to Montana history of Virginia City and Nevada City, a smaller town up the road, partisan bickering kept the State Legislature from buying them last year. Then Federal budget cuts forced the National Park Service to drop a plan to purchase the towns.
"Our hope is a hero buyer will come in and buy it and operate it," said Thomas Cook, development director for the historical society foundation. "So far that hasn't happened."
Mr. Bovey owns about 21 commercial buildings in Virginia City, as well as 8 houses, an old brewery and a church, and another 95 structures in Nevada City, about a mile west on Highway 287. Nevada City grew when Mr. Bovey moved frontier-era buildings from around the state there.
Many of the old businesses in Virginia City are in their original condition, without plumbing or insulation. Owners sold their businesses to the Boveys and simply walked away. The shops are still crammed with the goods that were for sale the day they closed.
"We call it Williamsburg West," Mr. Cook said. "It has the potential to be a living history museum."
Some residents call Alder Gulch, the valley where the town is situated, the "cradle of Montana history." Gold was scratched out of the gravel in Daylight Creek in 1863 and within a year more than 7,000 people were here.
The gold drew robbers, and one of the worst was the local sheriff, Henry Plummer, who secretly led a gang of thieves known as the Innocents.
They plundered and killed until local businessmen formed a vigilance committee. Sheriff Plummer was captured and hanged in Nevada City in December 1863.
A month later, as hundreds of armed men surrounded the town to prevent escape, five men from the sheriff's gang were tried and found guilty. The next morning they were hanged from the rafters of a building under construction.
The Hangman's Building still stands, though it is abandoned. Boot Hill Cemetery overlooks the town and has the graves of 6 of the estimated 44 people hanged by vigilantes. The sheriff is not among them.
By the 1930's the gold was gone. Census figures showed 242 people in Virginia City.
Charles Bovey was from a wealthy Minnesota family, and the love he and his wife had for Western history led them to begin buying buildings and artifacts here and from around the state. Businesses they bought on the north end of town housed a brothel, a billiard hall, an opera house and a dry goods store that still has shelves full of new shoes, hardware and tins of food, all still wrapped in the original packaging and labels. There is a music hall full of coin-operated music machines, a shop filled with old wagons and carriages and an 1870's barber shop.
Wooden sidewalks line the street, and on a recent quiet afternoon the clump of cowboy boots on the planks echoed in the air.
In the summer, the buildings are open to tourists, and they include a live theater, a coffee house and several museums. About 300,000 visitors come through town each year.
"It's one of a kind," said Barb Pahl, a regional representative in Denver for the National Trust for Historic Preservation, a private non-profit group that is helping raise money for the buyout. "It's a real look into the past, and the only example of a first-generation mining town that's out there."
Many structures need repair and the artifacts are subject to freezing weather, sunlight and dust. The settlement, 60 miles northwest of Yellowstone Park, has been on the National Trust for Historic Preservation's top-10 list of endangered historic sites for three years.
"If it ended up in a mish-mash of private ownership the historic aspect would be destroyed," said Robert Gabler, the town's Mayor and the owner of a general store, Alder Gulch Outfitters. "We'd end up with 20 T-shirt shops."
But some people do not want what they call government "meddling." They are still hoping for a return to the days of the gold boom.
"If the Park Service comes in here they're talking about shutting us down," Ron Moen, who owns a mining and milling operation near Virginia City, said over bourbon and water at the Pioneer Bar.
"Gold mining's coming back," he said, as he threw a three-ounce gold piece on the bar. "I mined that, milled it and poured it. Gold will build a good economy here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Virginia City, Mont., where 7,000 people lived in the gold rush 100 years ago, now struggles to survive on its history, with 150 year-round residents. (Jim Robbins for The New York Times)
 
Map of Montana highlighting Virginia City: In the days of gold mining, Virginia City was Montana's capital.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: TCG (LSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561510 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); SIC4724 TRAVEL AGENCIES (52%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: MONTANA, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (91%); 

CITY: HELENA, MT, USA (93%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: THOMAS COOK GROUP PLC (52%); MONTANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY FOUNDATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MONTANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY FOUNDATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: VIRGINIA CITY (MONT); UNITED STATES (96%); MONTANA, USA (96%); VIRGINIA, USA (94%); NEVADA, USA (91%); HELENA, MT, USA (93%); WILLIAMSBURG, VA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: HISTORIC BUILDINGS AND SITES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; NYTRAVEL HISTORIC DISTRICTS & STRUCTURES (90%); HISTORY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (89%); REAL ESTATE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); HISTORIC SITES (75%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (74%); NATIONAL PARKS (73%); GRANTS & GIFTS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); FOUNDATIONS (71%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (71%); BUDGET CUTS (71%); TRENDS (68%); 

PERSON: BOVEY, FORD CHARLES BOVEY (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



274 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 344 words

HEADLINE: FINANCE BRIEFS

 BODY:

Debt
 
* Case Corp., Racine, Wis., is selling $300 million of notes due in 2016 through CS First Boston. The notes are callable anytime at a yield equivalent to 20 basis points more than the then-current Treasury issue, carry an interest rate of 7.25 percent and are priced at par. The issue is rated Baa3 by Moody's Investors Service and BBB- by Standard & Poor's.
* Federal Farm Credit Bank is selling $45 million of medium-term notes due in 2001 through First Tennessee Bank. The notes are callable on coupon payment dates from Jan. 23, 1998, carry an interest rate of 5.94 percent and are priced at par.
* CPC International Inc., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., is selling $300 million of notes due in 2006 through Salomon Brothers Inc. The notes are priced at 99.713 to yield 6.15 percent. The issue is rated A2 by Moody's, A+ by S.& P. and A+ by Duff & Phelps.
* Federal Home Loan Bank is selling $45 million of debentures due in 1998 through Fuji Securities. The debentures are callable in six months, carry an interest rate of 5.507 percent semiannually and are priced at par.
* Federal National Mortgage Association, known as Fannie Mae, is selling $50 million of medium-term notes due in 2006 through First Tennessee Bank. The notes are callable in two years, carry an interest rate of 6.82 percent semiannually and are priced at par.
* Federal National Mortgage Association is selling $50 million of medium-term notes due in 2001 through Norwest Investment Services. The notes are callable in three years, carry an interest rate of 5.84 percent semiannually and are priced at par.
* Student Loan Marketing Association, known as Sallie Mae, is selling $100 million of notes due in 1999 through Merrill Lynch. The notes are callable in one year, carry an interest rate of 5.66 percent semiannually and are priced at par.
 
Preferred Stock
 
* Illinois Power Co., Decatur, Ill., is selling four million shares totaling $100 million of Trust Originated Preferred Securities, or Toprs. The securities are rated Baa3 by Moody's and BBB- by S.& P.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CNH (NYSE) (93%); SLM (NASDAQ) (53%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (93%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (93%); NAICS333120 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC3531 CONSTRUCTION MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); SIC3523 FARM MACHINERY & EQUIPMENT (93%); NAICS311421 FRUIT & VEGETABLE CANNING (70%); SIC2033 CANNED FRUITS, VEGETABLES, PRESERVES, JAMS, & JELLIES (70%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (69%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (64%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (64%); NAICS522310 MORTGAGE & NONMORTGAGE LOAN BROKERS (57%); NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (57%); SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523120 SECURITIES BROKERAGE (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS522291 CONSUMER LENDING (53%); SIC6141 PERSONAL CREDIT INSTITUTIONS (53%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (88%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (84%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (93%); CNH GLOBAL NV (93%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); CPC INTERNATIONAL INC (70%); UNILEVER UK FOODS LTD (70%); SALOMON BROTHERS INC (69%); ILLINOIS POWER CO (64%); FARM CREDIT BANK OF WICHITA (57%); FIRST TENNESSEE BANK NA (57%); MERRILL LYNCH & CO INC (55%); NORWEST INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (54%); SLM CORP (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (88%); WISCONSIN, USA (88%); ILLINOIS, USA (84%); NEW JERSEY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS DEBT NOTES (91%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (91%); CALLABLE SECURITIES (90%); INTEREST RATES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (90%); BONDS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); PREFERRED STOCK (89%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING (76%); STUDENT LOANS (74%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN BANKS (71%); STUDENT FINANCIAL AID (67%); STOCK OFFERINGS (61%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



275 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 659 words

HEADLINE: Mr. Vallone's Brave Proposal

 BODY:
The physical condition of New York City's schools is a municipal disaster. Exploding enrollment has left children going to class in hallways, gymnasiums and even bathrooms. Meanwhile, leaking roofs, crumbling window frames and 19th-century heating systems are destroying existing buildings faster than the city can put up new ones. The present generation of New York officials has been painfully aware of the problem for a long time. But until now, no one has had the courage to tackle it.
In his State of the City speech yesterday, Council Speaker Peter Vallone tried to atone for that pathetic record of indifference. Mr. Vallone called for extending for three years the about-to-expire personal income tax surcharge, and using the $1.3 billion it raises for school construction. His proposal is sure to be controversial but is worthy of the most careful consideration. 
 The surcharge was imposed in 1990 to pay for the popular Safe Streets/Safe City police hiring program, and costs a taxpayer with a $38,000 income about $78 a year. It is scheduled to expire at the end of 1996. The Giuliani administration says it will be able to continue its successful anti-crime programs without the Safe Streets money. This is welcome news, which we hope will mean a heavier reliance on cheaper civilian workers to do office functions now performed by uniformed officers.
Mr. Vallone proposes that instead of letting the tax lapse, it be directed toward a new short-term purpose. Besides building new schools and renovating old ones, Mr. Vallone wants to put $50 million toward textbook purchases. This would address a second city scandal, the fact that thousands of New York children are learning from torn, worn and outdated texts -- 1959 science books, 1975 world histories that refer to the "ongoing" war in Vietnam, and typing manuals that were written before the advent of word processors.
Extending the income tax surcharge is a painful thought. The combination of state and local income taxes now leaves city residents paying the highest taxes in the country on their wages. A better option would be a complete overhaul of New York's unfair property tax structure, which penalizes businesses, apartment dwellers and low-income neighborhoods. But no politician has volunteered to take on the middle-class single-family homeowners who benefit from the status quo.
Mr. Vallone's alternative at least has the advantage of political practicality. He deserves applause for offering a serious proposal to raise the kind of money city school construction needs. Mayor Rudolph Giuliani's only suggestion has been to sell the city's water system, in a paper trade that would raise only $200 million for the schools while casting a shadow over the city's fiscal integrity. Gov. George Pataki has been mum on the issue. Assembly Speaker Sheldon Silver of Manhattan supports the idea of fixing the city's schools, but has not been brave enough to come up with a concrete proposal to pay for it.
The bottom line is that the city will not be able to compete economically in the 21st century if its children have been taught to read in auditoriums where three different teachers compete to gain their students' attention. They will not be able to staff the next generation of offices with skills learned from 1971 typing manuals. They will not run the next generation of computers if their schools have antiquated wiring systems that do not permit the installation of computer rooms. They will not fill high-tech jobs with science skills learned in pre-World-War-II laboratories.
Most New Yorkers have no idea how bad the physical state of the city's schools is. But the politicians all know. They have taken the tours, read the reports, listened to the presentations. They have lacked only the courage to move. Now Mr. Vallone has taken the lead. The ball is now back to Mr. Giuliani, Mr. Silver and Governor Pataki. The city's children are waiting.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (68%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (97%); VIET NAM (68%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EDITORIALS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; TAXATION; INCOME TAX; TEXTBOOKS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); SCHOOL BUILDINGS (89%); INSTITUTIONAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); CONSTRUCTION (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); TEXTBOOKS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); BUILDING RENOVATION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); MAYORS (78%); POLICE FORCES (78%); PROPERTY TAX (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (74%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (74%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); BUDGETS (74%); SCANDALS (73%); RECRUITMENT & HIRING (67%); WORD PROCESSING SOFTWARE (62%); 

PERSON: VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



276 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 18; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 969 words

HEADLINE: A Letter to Religious Leaders Lands Ambassador in Trouble

BYLINE: By PETER STEINFELS 

 BODY:
The State Department's inspector general has recommended that the Ambassador to the Vatican be reprimanded because of a letter he sent to 1,000 American religious leaders last April contrasting Pope John Paul II's concern for the poor with Congress's efforts to rein in spending on Federal antipoverty programs.
An investigation by the inspector general found that the Ambassador, Raymond L. Flynn, had violated the State Department's procedures for clearing such public statements and that he had failed to avoid "the appearance of partisanship in the discharge of his official duties." 
 The investigation was undertaken in response to complaints by the chairman of the Senate Foreign Relations Committee, Jesse Helms, Republican of North Carolina, who says the Justice Department should now look into the matter. The New York Times obtained a copy of the inspector general's report, which was dated Dec. 19, from the Senator's office.
Mr. Flynn, a former Democratic Mayor of Boston, was unapologetic when reached by telephone in Rome.
"It's not the process that Senator Helms objects to, but what I said about the mean-spirited, anti-poor, anti-immigrant, anti-working-class mood of the debate taking place in the Congress today," the Ambassador said. "It's the message he's attacking."
Mr. Flynn linked the dispute to his often-stated concept of the role of Ambassador to the Vatican as that of a globe-trotting advocate for the poor tethered to the Roman Catholic Church's involvement in humanitarian and peacemaking activities around the world. His approach has raised diplomatic hackles in American foreign policy circles and fed speculation that he has political plans back in the United States.
A letter of reprimand such as the inspector general has recommended would be a severe blow to the advancement of a career diplomat, but its significance to a political appointee like Mr. Flynn would be less certain.
In her report, the inspector general, Jacquelyn L. Williams-Bridgers, also rebuked State Department officials for what she described as laxity in enforcing rules on the need to clear statements that might appear partisan.
Asked to comment on the report, Richard M. Moose, Under Secretary of State for management, said yesterday that in part because of the recent partial shutdown of the Federal Government, no one at the State Department had yet dealt with it. In fact, Mr. Moose said, he himself was not even aware of it.
But, told of the finding of enforcement laxity, he said: "We take this very seriously. Some ambassadors are better than others about clearing statements with us."
The inspector general's inquiry was undertaken at the behest of Mr. Helms, who last July demanded to know whether Mr. Flynn's April mailing was sent at taxpayer expense -- it was -- and whether it violated an Ambassador's obligation to be nonpartisan.
The letter was mailed to the Catholic hierarchy and other religious leaders in the United States and included remarks that Mr. Flynn had made to a group of American graduate students in Rome.
The remarks, titled "From a War on Poverty to a War on the Poor?: The United States at a Crossroads," contrasted the American political mood when Pope Paul VI visited the United Nations in 1965 with the mood that Mr. Flynn said Pope John Paul II would encounter on his trip to the United States in 1995.
In his remarks, the Ambassador referred to "devastating budget cuts" since 1980 and said the 1992 Presidential election marked a reversal of "that insensitive policy." But now "Congress is tragically dismantling many of those antipoverty programs that we have spent 30 years creating," he said.
Mr. Flynn described much of the current opposition to these programs as "demagogic," "mean-spirited," "immoral and wrong," and at odds with the stance of both the Pope and the American Catholic bishops.
The inspector general's report said the mailing should have been first cleared by the State Department's Bureau of Public Affairs.
The report said the Ambassador had initially told the inspector general's investigators that he believed that his embassy had sent the mailing in advance to the department's Bureau of European and Canadian Affairs and had received no objection. Upon further consideration, the report said, the Ambassador recalled having instructed his deputy not to seek any clearance at all, because the process had taken too long -- or never even been completed -- in similar instances in the past.
The deputy told the investigators that the Ambassador's letter and remarks had been sent in advance to the Bureau of European and Canadian Affairs for its information rather than for clearance. But State Department records, the report concluded, show that the mailing was not received until the department's Vatican Desk had requested it, following an inquiry from The Washington Times.
In a letter to the Inspector General Williams-Bridgers last Thursday, Senator Helms said Mr. Flynn had deliberately tried to mislead her investigators and skirt State Department procedures. He suggested that the report be forwarded to the Justice Department for "additional actions."
Marc Theissen, a spokesman for Mr. Helms, said: "What it seems to us Ambassador Flynn is doing is campaigning for President Clinton before he's left his ambassadorial post. That may be a violation of the law, and it should be investigated by the Justice Department."
In the telephone interview from Rome, Mr. Flynn said he had sent four similar mailings to Catholic and other religious leaders without having receiving a formal clearance or an objection from the State Department. As for partisanship, he said: "I never mentioned Republicans. There are both Democrats and Republicans voting for the dismantling of these programs."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (93%); ITALY (58%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

COMPANY: STATE DEPARTMENT; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE DEPARTMENT; ROMAN CATHOLIC CHURCH; JUSTICE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); US DEPARTMENT OF JUSTICE (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (95%); HOLY SEE (93%); ITALY (58%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); NORTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); BOSTON, MA, USA (79%); ROME, ITALY (58%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNITED STATES ECONOMY RELIGION (95%); CATHOLICS & CATHOLICISM (91%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (90%); INVESTIGATIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); BUDGETS (77%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (72%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (70%); IMMIGRATION (69%); TRENDS (68%); MAYORS (67%); 

PERSON: STEINFELS, PETER; WILLIAMS-BRIDGERS, JACQUELYN L; HELMS, JESSE (SEN); FLYNN, RAYMOND L (AMB); POPE (JOHN PAUL II) POPE JOHN PAUL II (93%); JESSE HELMS (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



277 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 10; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 303 words

HEADLINE: New Admissions Policy Offered

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 10

 BODY:
The San Francisco Superintendent of Schools has proposed a new admissions policy for the city's best high school that would require all students to meet the same academic standard.
The Superintendent, Waldemar Rojas, said on Tuesday that the change would improve the racial balance at the school, Lowell High School. Lowell compares academically with the nation's best public high schools, like Stuyvesant in Manhattan. 
 Lowell now accepts students on the basis of their junior high school grades and their scores on an entrance test. That policy resulted in an increase in Chinese-American students, now 41.3 percent. An additional 24.9 percent are from other Asian groups, 17.3 percent are white, 12.8 percent Hispanic, 4.5 percent black and 0.2 percent American Indian.
The district's settlement of a 1983 lawsuit requires that a single ethnic group not make up more than 40 percent of any school's population. In an effort to diversify the Lowell student body, the district instituted lower academic standards for members of ethnic groups other than Chinese-Americans.
Daniel Girard, a lawyer representing Chinese-American families in another lawsuit against the district, said Dr. Rojas's plan was positive but did not address the district's use of race to determine school assignments. The suit asserts that the district's school-assignment plan keeps Chinese-Americans from attending the schools of their choice.
Chinese-American students complained that they were rejected by Lowell even though they met higher academic standards than students from other ethnic groups.
Under Dr. Rojas's plan, 80 percent of Lowell's applicants who met the minimum requirement would be accepted. The remaining 20 percent would be admitted on the basis of academic achievement as well as socio-economic status.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LOWELL HIGH SCHOOL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SAN FRANCISCO (CALIF); UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; ADMISSIONS STANDARDS STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); ETHNIC GROUPS (90%); SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENTS (90%); ASIAN AMERICANS (90%); ACADEMIC ADMISSIONS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); EDUCATION ADMINISTRATION (90%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (90%); ETHNICITY (89%); ACADEMIC STANDARDS (89%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY EDUCATION (78%); SCHOOL CHOICE (78%); ACADEMIC TESTING (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (78%); POPULATION SIZE (78%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (74%); SECONDARY SCHOOLS (73%); LITIGATION (73%); MIDDLE & JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOLS (73%); SETTLEMENT & COMPROMISE (68%); LAWYERS (67%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (56%); NATIVE AMERICANS (55%); 

PERSON: ROJAS, WALDEMAR (SUPT) WALDEMAR ROJAS (87%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



278 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1266 words

HEADLINE: THE BLIZZARD OF 1996: THE COST;
Experts Call It a Billion-Dollar Blizzard

BYLINE: By JANNY SCOTT 

 BODY:
This week's blizzard could end up costing the New York region more than $1 billion, economists said yesterday after roughly calculating the costs of storm damage and cleanup and the economic activity that was lost because of the storm.
Several economists said the figure, which some described as an educated guess, would prove insignificant in the long run because of the heft of the region's economy, valued by some at $650 billion a year. 
 But that was hardly consolation to the thousands of businesses and hundreds of communities suddenly faced with millions of dollars worth of unanticipated expenses and irretrievably lost income.
Even the most sanguine analysts pointed out that the economic damage done by the weather could multiply if more big snowfalls follow. And, sure enough, forecasters said another, though less powerful, storm is coming Friday.
"In an economy as big as ours, this thing does come under the heading of ephemera," said Robert D. Yaro, executive director of the Regional Plan Association, a private group that studies long-range issues in the metropolitan area. "But if we started to see a lot of these things, clearly it would make a difference."
Life was inching toward normal yesterday but had not yet arrived. Mail was being delivered, but shelters in New York City were still busy, and there was an unusually high number of complaints about lack of heat and hot water. Many subway and rail riders in parts of Brooklyn and from north and east of the city still struggled with their daily commutes.
Airport runways were open but air traffic, burdened with thousands of delayed travelers, was not expected to return to normal for several more days. Calls for ambulances in New York City were 20 to 25 percent higher than normal as people fell in slush or on ice.
At Kings County Medical Center in Brooklyn, Dr. Philip Rice, the director for emergency medicine, said there were numerous cases of broken legs and wrists, heart attacks brought on by walking in snow, and a few cases of carbon monoxide poisoning in those who had started cars with the exhaust pipe blocked by snow.
He also said some children had been treated for frostbite after they tried to make money working in the snow while wearing only tennis shoes. "I call those injuries of socioeconomics," Dr. Rice said.
The full economic impact of the storm will remain unclear for months, but some economists yesterday ventured preliminary guesses. Their numbers ranged from $1.15 billion for New York City alone, to $1.5 billion for the entire East Coast.
Alan G. Hevesi, the New York City Comptroller, said the storm cost the city government $28 million -- $21 million in overtime and other cleanup costs, plus $7 million in lost sales tax and traffic enforcement revenues.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani put the cost of snow removal alone at $36 million so far. A spokeswoman for the Mayor said the majority of that was overtime pay for city workers and payments to private snow-removal contractors.
Mr. Hevesi said the the storm had cost the city's economy between $1 billion and $1.15 billion in economic activity. The "gross city product," the value of the city's output of goods and services, is normally $1.1 billion on weekdays and $250 million on Saturdays and Sundays, he said.
Others offered more conservative estimates. Mark M. Zandi, chief economist at Regional Financial Associates, an economic consulting firm in West Chester, Pa., put the storm's economic impact on the entire East Coast at $1.5 billion.
"When we look back at this, it's going to have a very small economic effect," Mr. Zandi said. "People will put off their purchases, they won't forego them. In the grand scheme of things, it's very, very small."
David G. Hensley, vice president and regional economist at Salomon Brothers in Manhattan, said: "I frankly don't think this is a big deal. It's a big deal in the sense that it's very attention-getting and a big inconvenience."
Those who might disagree with Mr. Hensley's assessment include many retailers, some of which had not dug out and reopened for business yesterday. Sears, Roebuck & Company and Wal-Mart Stores were among the large chains that closed dozens of stores during the storm.
While some stores, including Bloomingdales, managed to stay open and reported land-office sales of such items as socks and pajamas, analysts said that overall the storm was likely to hurt retail sales for the week. Sales had already been depressed from what retailers had said was one of the worst holiday seasons in decades.
Businesses that were especially hard hit included many restaurants, theaters and companies that offer personal services that people could get by without. People forced to cancel a planned manicure or meal out were unlikely to go back and make it up. Location and access played an important role in determining whether business was up or down.
George Makkos, vice president of M & T Pretzel Company, which operates about 150 hot dog and pretzel carts in New York City, estimated that his company's income was down 90 percent in recent days. Those pretzel and hot dog sales will never be made up.
Cities and counties, too, found themselves facing significant costs. The New Jersey Department of Transportation spent $10 million clearing state highways; the New Jersey Turnpike Authority spent $2.412 million and the Garden State Parkway Authority spent $2 million, nearly all of its $2.5 million snow removal budget.
Officials in Bergen County, N.J., put their snow-related expenses at $794,518, including the costs of overtime, road salt and emergency management operations. In Hudson County, N.J., the biggest cost to government was expected to be the expense of carting off and dumping mounds of plowed snow onto county park land or into the Hudson River.
There was disagreement over the impact of the storm on sales tax revenues. Frederick E. Parola, the comptroller for Nassau County, L.I., estimated the lost income as being "in the hundreds of thousands." But Thomas Conoscenti, a regional economist who projects tax revenues for Nassau and Suffolk counties, said sales taxes would barely be affected.
"If you didn't buy it Monday, you got it on Wednesday, so there really was no problem," he said.
One place where the storm's fallout was felt yesterday was the Hunts Point Market, the arrival point for much of the fruit and vegetables eaten in the city. At 7 A.M., some 1,500 trucks were waiting to deliver four days' worth of produce.
Randy Lee, a driver hauling 1,600 boxes of tomatoes, had left Florida on Saturday night for a trip that normally takes 28 hours. His oranges had turned from green to a deep orange and Mr. Lee was getting nervous.
"This is crazy," said Ed Dawe, who had hauled 25,000 pounds of carrots from Toronto, Ont. Mike Segee, from Pageland, S.C., had 1,500 boxes of cherry tomatoes. "They ain't bad," he said. "But they're going to have to be eaten."
By late yesterday, the backup had cleared.
Elsewhere in the region, a few businesses were enjoying a storm windfall, of sorts. Arthur A. Surin, senior vice president and managing director of the New York Hilton Hotel and Towers, said the occupancy rate was 11 percentage points higher than projected, thanks in part to the blizzard.
Mr. Surin said some guests had been unable to leave, while others had checked in simply to avoid having to commute home at night. While the hotel had benefited, he said it could lose if more storms followed.
"You're talking to me on the 10th," he told a reporter. "It could be different on the 14th."

GRAPHIC: Photos: After two snow days, New York region students, including these in Rahway, N.J., went back to class. (Associated Press) (pg. A1); A delivery man, at top, eases through the mounds of snow at 81st Street and Columbus Avenue on the Upper West Side of Manhattan. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times) Bottom left, Gregory Albert, 4, plays with his dog Jake at Alley Pond Park in Queens. Bottom right, icicles on a fire escape on Parsons Boulevard in Flushing, Queens. (Photographs by Steve Berman for The New York Times) (pg. B4)
 
Diagram/Chart: "But It Was Fluffy"
 Take note, shoverlers: scientists say this week's snowfall was unusally fluffy because of cold temperatures. At colder cloud temperatures, flakes fall in shapes that encourage fluffier, and therefore deeper, drifts. Or, it takes more trips to clear the driveway, but at least the load is lighter. Article, page B6.
 Diagram compares four different crystal formations of snow at various temperatures.
 
More on the Storm
 SCHOOLS -- Schools in New York were mostly open, but many in New Jersey remained closed. MASS TRANSIT -- Suburban commuters and subway riders in south Brooklyn struggled to get to work, a full two days after the storm. THE NEXT ONE -- Another Storm threatens to arrive in the region tomorrow.
 Articles, pages B4-6. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (99%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY METROPOLITAN AREA; UNITED STATES (99%); NEW YORK, USA (99%); NEW JERSEY, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (99%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS WEATHER (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); CITY LIFE (90%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (90%); CITIES (89%); COLD INJURIES (78%); TRENDS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); COASTAL AREAS (77%); CITY GOVERNMENT (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); BONE FRACTURES (68%); EXECUTIVES (67%); POISONINGS (66%); GOVERNMENT CONTROLLERS & AUDITORS (65%); CARBON MONOXIDE (61%); ENVIRONMENTAL ILLNESS (61%); SALES TAX (60%); AIRPORT RUNWAYS (50%); 

PERSON: SCOTT, JANNY RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



279 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1325 words

HEADLINE: BUDGET FOES SEE FIGHT CONTINUING TILL THE ELECTION

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
A day after President Clinton and Republican Congressional leaders suspended their budget talks, the Republicans sounded increasingly pessimistic today about the chances of reaching a deal, and both sides spoke more openly than ever about fighting out their philosophical differences in the November elections.
The tone of the remarks, far more confrontational and downbeat than that of Tuesday evening, when the talks broke off for at least a week, was to some degree blamed for the drop of nearly 100 points in the Dow Jones industrial average today. 
 And the comments provided an early glimpse of the political themes that are likely to be sounded in a highly ideological election season.
"I am for the first time in a year pessimistic about the likelihood of our getting an agreement," Speaker Newt Gingrich said in Casper, Wyo., where he was attending a Republican fund-raising event. "It may just be that we need one more election. It may literally be that the Clinton Administration cannot agree to the kind of decentralization and lower spending and lower taxes that we represent."
Shortly afterward, having invited reporters into a Cabinet meeting at the White House, Mr. Clinton challenged the Republicans to agree to a seven-year budget-balancing plan largely on his terms, with only a modest tax cut. Then, he said, the political parties can make the Presidential and Congressional elections this November a referendum on the ideological issues about the role of government that have divided the two sides.
"This has nothing to do with balancing the budget anymore, nothing," Mr. Clinton said of the stalemate, noting that both he and the Republicans had now submitted visions of how to erase the Federal deficit by 2002. "We could balance the budget literally in 15 minutes tomorrow afternoon."
"Then," the President added, "we could have an election in 1996 about whether the American people agree with their view of Medicare or mine, with their view of Medicaid or mine, with their view of our obligations in the education and training of our work force and our children or mine, with their view of environmental protection or mine."
Mr. Clinton and the Republican-controlled Congress could yet strike a compromise, pressured by the public's dissatisfaction with political gridlock or by the behavior of the financial markets. Both sides have kept a wary eye on the markets throughout the months of negotiations, fearful of a fall if they failed to meet Wall Street's expectations of a deal.
In fact, late this afternoon, after a sharp decline in stock and bond prices, the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole, said in a television appearance that the Republican leaders were prepared to return to negotiations next Wednesday and that he was "very positive" about getting a budget agreement.
Those remarks were a turnabout from comments Mr. Dole had made on the Senate floor just hours earlier, when he said an agreement was possible but doubtful.
This earlier expression of pessimism reflected the reality, acknowledged by Democrats and Republicans alike, that with more than a quarter of the Government's 1996 fiscal year now passed, and despite 50 hours of face-to-face negotiations between Mr. Clinton and the Republican Congressional leaders, the sides had not found a way around profound philosophical differences over the size of a tax cut and how to scale back the Great Society health care programs of Medicaid and Medicare.
Even in his remarks later in the day, Mr. Dole said, "You know, we've got some fundamental differences." Referring to the Republicans' desire to turn the Medicaid program into block grants to the states, he said, "We have a fundamental different view than the President has on the ways that we think we ought to give more power back to the states, back to the governors."
Even if the negotiators themselves could strike an agreement, they would have to find the votes for it in the sharply partisan House. Many Democrats there would most likely vote against Medicare savings beyond those already supported by Mr. Clinton, and freshman Republicans are fervently committed to a tax cut far larger than Mr. Clinton wants. And there are political strategists on both sides of the aisle who are arguing that their party would have a starker campaign issue without a budget deal.
In their most recent offer, made on Tuesday before the budget talks were suspended, the Republicans proposed a seven-year tax cut of $177 billion. But the White House and Democratic leaders in Congress have held fast to a basic tax cut of $87 billion, which would be permitted to rise to as much as $147 billion if the economy did as well as anticipated over the next seven years.
Mr. Clinton has also remained adamantly opposed to Republican proposals to turn Medicaid into block grants, and to let Medicare beneficiaries establish private savings accounts to finance their health care. Mr. Clinton and other Democrats say these savings accounts would primarily benefit people who are healthy and wealthy, making the standard Medicare program a second-class offering for the poor and the ill.
The Senate majority whip, Trent Lott of Mississippi, said today that no matter what happened, the Republicans did not plan to force a third Government shutdown when a temporary spending measure expires on Jan. 26.
But it is not clear how Government operations will be paid for if no agreement is reached. One possibility is yet another stopgap spending measure, or continuing resolution, which would be the fourth since the end of the 1995 fiscal year on Sept. 30.
But some Republicans have suggested that the more likely tactic is further House passage of small spending bills for particular programs and departments. That approach would allow Congress to eliminate operations the Republicans dislike, by leaving them unfinanced.
The Republicans would remain unable, however, to make the changes in law that would rein in spending in the major entitlement programs. Those changes require enactment of a broader "budget reconciliation bill." Mr. Clinton has already vetoed one such measure, and the Republicans lack the votes to override him.
The Republicans are trying to woo conservative Democrats to their side to see if they can build a budget that would win enough votes to override a veto, or at least allow them to say that there is now a bipartisan budget that Mr. Clinton should accept.
Today both sides turned to an all-out battle for the public's support, with the Democrats attacking the Republicans' tax cut proposal and the Republicans questioning Mr. Clinton's sincerity in wanting a balanced budget at all.
As members of both houses of Congress began a two-week recess, Republicans headed to their districts with a sheaf of papers laying out their party's position on the budget and with instructions to campaign vigorously for it.
Standing on the Senate floor today, Senator Pete V. Domenici of New Mexico, the chairman of the Budget Committee and one of the chief Republican negotiators in the budget talks, helped kick off that campaign.
Mr. Domenici said Republicans had yielded to Mr. Clinton on virtually every budget issue, including the addition of about $60 billion in overall spending.
"There is no longer any reason for the President of the United States to say we need a budget that meets the values of the American people, that takes care of education, that takes care of environmental needs," Mr. Domenici said. "It's obvious that that $60 billion covers all these points and everything else the President has been alluding to."
Democrats sought to focus the debate on the Republican tax cut proposals, which, the Democrats say, would benefit the well-to-do. "The debate is no longer one about balancing the budget," said the Senate minority leader, Tom Daschle of South Dakota. "Basically the issue is now the size of the tax cut, and who gets it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton issued a challenge to Republicans yesterday. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (57%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (57%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (57%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: WYOMING, USA (79%); 

CITY: CASPER, WY, USA (56%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); DOW JONES & CO INC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); WYOMING, USA (79%); CASPER, WY, USA (56%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; LAW AND LEGISLATION ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); TAX LAW (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US FEDERAL ELECTIONS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); BONDS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); NATIONAL DEBT (73%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (73%); REFERENDUMS (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); FUNDRAISING (68%); MEDICARE (64%); BOND MARKETS (60%); MEDICAID (50%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (93%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



280 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 3; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1199 words

HEADLINE: Man in the News: Ryutaro Hashimoto;
A Japanese Unafraid of the Summit

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Thursday, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Japanese Prime Ministers have tended to be weak and faceless, men who stand forlornly at the edge of the group photograph when world leaders gather and whose policies are soon forgotten even by their own countrymen after they leave office.
But as Parliament met today and formally elected him Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto made it clear that he aspires to be different. Sharp-tongued, short-tempered and arrogant, and instantly recognizable with his slicked-back hair and sideburns, Mr. Hashimoto promises to bring a more assertive style of leadership to Japan and to give his nation a more prominent role in the world. 
 As the Minister of International Trade and Industry, Mr. Hashimoto was at times hard-nosed and at times accommodating with the United States. And he has a streak of nationalism that could rattle some nerves in Asia.
Mr. Hashimoto, who has participated in two expeditions to Mount Everest without making it to the top, makes no secret of his desire to scale the heights of Japan's political world.
The fact that he has reached the summit today -- despite the fact that he is an unpopular loner among his colleagues and has some blemishes on his record -- reflects a belief by his party that an insecure Japanese public is hungering for stronger leadership, especially at a time when the economy has lost its magic, a huge earthquake and a subway gas attack have shattered the national peace of mind, and Japan has been locked in a prolonged political malaise.
Prime Minister Tomiichi Murayama announced his intention to resign on Friday, and Mr. Hashimoto was a shoo-in because he was the choice of the ruling coalition, which commands a comfortable majority in both houses.
The 58-year-old politician is the president of the Liberal Democratic Party, and he will be the first Prime Minister from that party in two and a half years. The Liberal Democrats, who despite their name are politically conservative, held power continuously for nearly four decades, until they were ousted in 1993 after a corruption scandal.
Despite Mr. Hashimoto's decisiveness, however, most analysts do not expect him to bring about much change immediately. For one thing, he will still be operating in the same unwieldy coalition of his own conservative party and Mr. Murayama's Socialist Party. Moreover, Mr. Hashimoto probably will have no more than a few months in office before he calls new elections.
Mr. Hashimoto favors a stronger role for Japan in world afairs by winning a permanent seat on the United Nations Security Council and sending Japanese soldiers abroad to take part in international peacekeeping operations. A more assertive Japan also could mean more independence from the policy lines laid down by the United States.
"Japan's relationship with the United States is extremely important," he wrote in his book, "Vision of Japan," which was published in an English translation in 1994. "However it is not something that we have to protect to the point of throwing away our national sovereignty."
As Trade Minister, Mr. Hashimoto resisted American demands in automobile trade talks last year.
But as Finance Minister in 1991, Mr. Hashimoto was instrumental in arranging a contribution of $9 billion by Japan to help pay for the Persian Gulf war. "He said 'yes' in 15 minutes," said Nicholas Brady, then the United States Treasury Secretary.
Some American officials have said they expect the new Prime Minister to be more active in deregulating Japan's economy and in defending the presence of American military bases in Okinawa.
But Mr. Hashimoto's nationalistic views could cause some concern for some of Japan's Asian neighbors, who suffered from Japanese occupation before and during World War II.
Mr. Hashimoto served for two and a half years as head of the Japan War-Bereaved Families Association, which represents families of soldiers who died in the war. He resigned from the group this fall, after being elected president of the Liberal Democratic Party.
The association's officials maintain that Japan fought World War II in self-defense. Mr. Hashimoto himself said in 1994 that it was a matter of "subtle definition" whether Japan was an aggressor or was defending Asia from the West. The association opposed having Japan apologize for the war, although Mr. Hashimoto, as a Cabinet member, agreed to the apology Prime Minister Murayama made in August to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Japanese surrender.
On the economy, business leaders have high hopes that Mr. Hashimoto will help Japan recover from its four-year slump. He has spoken strongly in favor of Government spending on public works projects to stimulate the economy and of tax cuts to help businesses.
Some analysts say Mr. Hashimoto is not really the reformer he appears to be. The Liberal Democrats, who draw support from farmers and small shopkeepers, have not been bold supporters of opening up Japan's markets. Mr. Hashimoto normally takes the side of Japan's bureaucrats rather than seeking to curb their power.
In 1991 Mr. Hashimoto resigned from his position as Finance Minister, in part to take responsibility for the ministry's failure to curb scandals in the banking and brokerage industries. In addition, his personal secretary admitted to having helped arrange illegal bank loans for close friends of Mr. Hashimoto, though Mr. Hashimoto himself denied any knowledge of the affair.
And Mr. Hashimoto has spent his career as a member of a corruption-stained faction of the Liberal Democratic Party. Ichiro Ozawa, another dynamic politician, who now heads the main opposition party and who ran against Mr. Hashimoto in today's election, was also a member of that faction and was a bitter rival of Mr. Hashimoto.
Mr. Ozawa developed into a master behind-the-scenes maneuverer. Mr. Hashimoto, by contrast, became known as a policy expert, which is rare for a politician in Japan, where most policy is developed by the bureaucrats.
Mr. Hashimoto was born in Tokyo in 1937. His mother died when he was a boy. He drew his inspiration for entering politics from his father, Ryogo, who although he walked only with canes or crutches as a result of a childhood disease, entered politics and became Minister of Health and Welfare.
After graduating from Keio University, the young Mr. Hashimoto joined a textile company. Three years later his father died and he won his father's seat in Parliament representing Okayama, between Kobe and Hiroshima, in western Japan.
Mr. Hashimoto has also served as Minister of Health and Welfare and Minister of Transportation.
He and his wife, Kumiko, have five children. In addition to mountain climbing, Mr. Hashimoto is an expert in kendo, the Japanese martial art of fencing with bamboo staves, which he practices on the roof of the Trade Ministry.
He is also an avid nature photographer and gives his own photographs as presents to his negotiating counterparts from other nations. Once, in an allusion to Washington's claim that Eastman Kodak is being locked out of Japan's film market, Mr. Hashimoto pointedly noted to Mr. Kantor that the picture he was being given had been taken with Fuji film.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryutaro Hashimoto is an expert in kendo, the martial art of fencing with bamboo swords. (Associated Press) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: MOUNT EVEREST (79%); HIMALAYAS (79%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

COMPANY: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (93%); ASIA (79%); MOUNT EVEREST (79%); HIMALAYAS (79%); TOKYO, JAPAN (79%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICS (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PEACEKEEPING (74%); MOUNTAINS (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); RESIGNATIONS (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (69%); SCANDALS (67%); CORRUPTION (50%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (50%); 

PERSON: POLLACK, ANDREW; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN) RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (96%); TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



281 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 352 words

HEADLINE: Shutdown Affecting Rate Policy

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

 BODY:
Alan Blinder, the vice chairman of the Federal Reserve, said last night that the temporary halt in the Government's release of economic reports had made it more difficult for the Fed to set interest-rate policy. The Government has stopped publishing the reports as a result of the partial shutdown.
Speaking in New York at a conference of the Mortgage Bankers Association of America, Mr. Blinder said the delay in economic reports would not prevent the Fed from considering interest-rate policy at the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee on Jan. 30 and 31. 
 The Fed last cut rates on Dec. 19, lowering the Federal funds rate to 5.5 percent from 5.75 percent. The funds rate is the rate banks charge each other for overnight loans.
Asked whether the bond market was taking into account possible rate cuts of one-half of 1 percent by the middle of this year, Mr. Blinder said, "Half a percentage point or less." He declined to say whether he thought the bond market's expectations were accurate.
Mr. Blinder also said he thought the "natural" rate of unemployment was below 6 percent -- and probably closer to 5.5 percent.
That "natural" unemployment rate is the rate at which the nation's gross domestic product neither falls short of its potential nor exceeds it. That scenario is also associated with a stable inflation rate.
There's a short-term, temporary tradeoff the Fed must make between unemployment and the pace of inflation, Mr. Blinder said. Over the long term, policy makers have little choice because permitting inflation to soar will eventually damage job formation.
The unemployment rate was 5.6 percent in November, the last month for which figures were available. Consumer prices rose 2.6 percent in the 12 months ending in November.
On a day when the Republicans in Washington appeared pessimistic about the chances of an agreement to balance the budget, Mr. Blinder also emphasized the importance of deficit reduction.
"We believe it's very much in the national interest to get an agreement that puts us on the path" to lower deficits, he said.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); MORTGAGE BANKERS ASSOCIATION OF AMERICA (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); FEDERAL OPEN MARKET COMMITTEE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; INTEREST RATES; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); INTEREST RATES (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); US FEDERAL FUNDS RATES (90%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (89%); INFLATION (89%); BUDGETS (89%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); MONETARY POLICY (78%); CONSUMER PRICE INDEX (78%); BONDS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (76%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (76%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (76%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (76%); BOND MARKETS (75%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); MORTGAGE BANKING (71%); INTERBANK LENDING (69%); BUDGET DEFICITS (66%); PRICE INCREASES (63%); 

PERSON: BLINDER, ALAN S ALAN BLINDER (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



282 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 818 words

HEADLINE: Dole Steps Up Criticism Of Telecommunications Bill

BYLINE: By EDMUND L. ANDREWS 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
Denouncing what he called "corporate welfare," Senator Bob Dole, Republican of Kansas, said today that a House-Senate conference committee should not approve the big telecommunications bill until the committee changes a provision that would give television broadcasters a chunk of the nation's airwaves worth tens of billions of dollars.
In a detailed speech from the Senate floor, Mr. Dole sent the clearest sign yet that he might block the telecommunications bill, which would overhaul laws for almost every segment of the industry. Mr. Dole has indicated that he is prepared to stand his ground against the politically powerful broadcasters. 
 The provision would essentially reserve a portion of the crowded radio spectrum for digital television services, like high-definition television, interactive services or the transmission of as many as six programs simultaneously over a single channel. Currently, one channel carries one program at a time.
Mr. Dole said that the Federal Communications Commission had estimated that the broadcasting spectrum that would be made available was worth about $40 billion on the open market, Mr. Dole said the taxpayers would be giving too much to big media companies.
"I question whether telecommunications reform is worth the television broadcasters' price," said Mr. Dole, the Senate majority leader who is the leading Republican candidate for the Presidential nomination. "Let's, for the sake of taxpayers and for the sake of the American consumers, fix this one corporate welfare provision before we have to vote on it," he said.
Mr. Dole first objected to the broadcasting issue nearly two weeks ago. But today's speech was more detailed and carefully prepared, and he delivered his remarks in the televised forum of the Senate floor, where he would be sure they would be heard.
His opposition was the most serious challenge of the provision, which has been the focus of intense lobbying by broadcasters for years. Walt Wurfel, a spokesman for the National Association of Broadcasters, said he could not comment on Mr. Dole's remarks until he saw them.
But officials of the broadcasters' association have repeatedly argued that access to the spectrum is crucial to broadcasters trying to enter the digital age, who have said that they would give back their current analog television channels once viewers have made the switch to digital television. That change would require either new television sets or converters.
The F.C.C. is expected to give its stamp of approval later this year to a new broadcasting technology that was originally developed for high-definition television. The technology offers pictures with movie-like sharpness but can also be used to send any other form of video or computer data.
But F.C.C. officials, including the chairman, Reed E. Hundt, have been increasingly skeptical about simply giving every existing television station a second channel for digital services. Industry lobbyists have pushed hard for language in the communications bill that would take the matter out of the agency's hands.
In his speech, Senator Dole said the telecommunications bill did not guarantee that broadcasters would surrender their current portion of the broadcasting spectrum to the public, and that the bill would allow broadcasters to use the spectrum at no charge as long as they used them for advertiser-supported free television services.
"Let me get this straight," he said. "America lends broadcasters spectrum so they can increase their profit margins, but they don't think it's fair to pay rent."
The provision has long sparked opposition from consumer advocates and many conservative economists who have long argued that the broadcasters would be getting access to licenses worth billions of dollars at the same time that the Federal Government is selling licenses for satellite and wireless telephone services.
"I say hallelujah -- the conservative politicians are finally realizing that this is cyberpork," said Gigi Sohn, deputy director of the Media Access Project, a nonprofit consumer advocacy group that has argued that broadcasters should either assume heavier public obligations or help finance some public broadcasting ventures.
But the television broadcasters, who own stations in every Congressional district and are heavy political contributors through the National Association of Broadcasters, have until recently persuaded both Democrats and Republicans to lend them these licenses for a transition period of at least 15 years.
House and Senate negotiators thought they had reached agreement several weeks ago on the telecommunications bill. But the final agreements were disclosed only to encounter complaints from many rank-and-file House Republicans. None of the House Republicans have complained about the spectrum issue, however, which could prove to be a more difficult battle.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (53%); FCC CO LTD (51%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); FEDERAL COMMUNICATIONS COMMISSION (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; LAW AND LEGISLATION; TELEVISION COMMUNICATIONS LAW (93%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (91%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); COMMUNICATIONS REGULATION & POLICY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (89%); DIGITAL TELEVISION (89%); HIGH DEFINITION TELEVISION (89%); LOBBYING (89%); LEGISLATION (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); COMPUTER & INTERNET LAW (77%); TELEVISION EQUIPMENT (77%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (70%); 

PERSON: ANDREWS, EDMUND L; DOLE, BOB (SEN) BOB DOLE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



283 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: G.O.P. Filing Challenges To Candidates' Petitions

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD J. LEVY 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 10

 BODY:
The state's Republican leadership moved today to block anyone but Senator Bob Dole of Kansas from entering New York's Republican Presidential primary, saying that it would challenge the nominating petitions of two other candidates.
Faced with criticism that it was trying to deprive voters of a choice in the March primary, the leadership maintained that it was merely trying to insure that the other two candidates, Steve Forbes and Patrick J. Buchanan, followed the rules. 
 "The bottom line is that you have to come in here and demonstrate a modicum of support to get on the ballot," said Jeffrey Buley, who is on leave from his job as general counsel to the Republican state committee to work on the Dole campaign.
The party's lawyers filed notice on Monday that they were considering challenges against all of the petitions submitted by both candidates for the March 7 primary. Today, the lawyers said for the first time that they would continue the process of trying to remove Mr. Forbes and Mr. Buchanan from the ballot by giving election authorities a list of specific challenges to the petitions.
The list, which must be submitted by Tuesday, is being compiled by scores of party workers and volunteers around the state who are scrutinizing the signatures gathered by the campaigns of Mr. Forbes and Mr. Buchanan. All three campaigns filed their petitions last Thursday.
The Republican rules are the most complex of any state primary in the nation and have already scared off several other Republican Presidential candidates, including Senator Phil Gramm of Texas and Lamar Alexander, the former Governor of Tennessee, who are competing in most other states.
With the exception of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani, nearly all of the powerful Republican officials in the state, including Senator Alfonse M. D'Amato and Gov. George E. Pataki, are backing Mr. Dole, the front-runner in the Republican race. And without the support of the state party, it is difficult to enter the primary because candidates need a large staff to meet ballot requirements.
Under party rules, candidates must submit signatures from 1,250 registered Republicans in each of the state's 31 Congressional districts, or from 5 percent of the district's registered Republicans, whichever number is smaller.
The requirements are so arduous that several critics have filed a lawsuit against them. The suit is on its way to the United States Supreme Court.
Mr. Forbes, the multimillionaire publisher, spent about $1 million to collect enough signatures to get on the ballot in all 31 Congressional districts. Mr. Buchanan, the conservative columnist, used volunteers, mostly, to gather enough signatures in 17 of the 31 districts, nearly all of them outside New York City.
Thomas J. Spargo, a lawyer who oversaw Mr. Forbes's petition effort, said he expected the state party to file challenges even in districts where the Forbes campaign had collected two or three times the number of signatures it needed.
"They are not willing to give any of their voters a chance anywhere in the state to select the Republican Presidential candidate," Mr. Spargo said. "It is a defiant act against the voters."
Mindful of the criticism of the primary system, many prominent Republican officials have declined to discuss the challenges.
Mr. D'Amato's office would not answer questions about the primary but did release a statement. "People have preserved their right to give specific objections in the event that voter fraud is found," it said. "Clearly, Senator D'Amato believes that the integrity of the process must be protected."
Zenia Mucha, Mr. Pataki's director of communications, declined to discuss whether the Governor supported forcing Mr. Forbes and Mr. Buchanan off the ballot. She said any decision on the challenges was up to the state party, not Mr. Pataki.
"If the petitions meet the requirements as set forth by law," she said, "then they will be on the ballot." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); KANSAS, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; PRIMARIES PETITIONS (92%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (91%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (89%); LAWYERS (89%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); BALLOTS (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (77%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (74%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (73%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (72%); CORPORATE COUNSEL (69%); SUPREME COURTS (69%); LITIGATION (69%); SUITS & CLAIMS (69%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (60%); WRITERS (60%); 

PERSON: LEVY, CLIFFORD J; DOLE, BOB (SEN); BUCHANAN, PATRICK; FORBES, STEVE RUDY GIULIANI (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); PHIL GRAMM (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



284 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 880 words

HEADLINE: Yale's Labor Woes, In and Out of Class;
With Spring Semester Opening, Unions Threaten Shutdown

BYLINE: By GEORGE JUDSON 

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN, Jan. 10

 BODY:
Four years ago, unionized employees at Yale University pledged solidarity with graduate teaching assistants, vowing to strike if Yale refused to recognize a union the students had formed. The result was a symbolic one-day walkout, after the workers settled their own contracts, and Yale's continued refusal to recognize a graduate student union.
Now many graduate students are conducting a grade strike, refusing to turn in grades from classes they taught last semester until Yale recognizes them, and their leaders and union officials are again finding common cause in Yale's firm response against them. 
 Outside the Hall of Graduate Students today, as disciplinary hearings began for three graduate students taking part in the grade strike, union members -- from maintenance workers to secretaries -- linked arms with doctoral candidates in a peaceful protest. To dramatize their point, 137 of them refused a police order to vacate an intersection and were arrested on charges of creating a public disturbance.
With contracts for Local 34 and Local 35 of the Federation of University Employees set to expire Jan. 22, and Yale seeking substantial concessions from them, the pledge of solidarity was made again, with new force.
"If they're willing to treat their teachers with total disrespect, think of what they're going to do to the workers in the bargaining units who are here day to day," Robert Proto, president of Local 35, which represents dining hall and maintenance workers, told demonstrators.
"If Yale won't negotiate," he said, "we'll shut this university down."
Yale says it hopes to reach new contracts with Local 34 and Local 35 without disrupting the spring semester, which begins with the return of students next week.
But administrators say they will never negotiate with the student group, the Graduate Employees and Students Organization. The group represents a small minority of graduate students, they say, and in any case teaching assistants are students, not employees.
And as the teaching assistants complain that Yale uses them for cheap labor, in place of tenured faculty, the university has also made proposals to the other unions that make them fear reductions in their numbers and pay. Chief among them is a lower salary scale for new dining hall and maintenance workers, at the same time that current employees are guaranteed their jobs and salaries throughout the next four-year contract.
"There's no reason in our view why this contract can't be settled without a work stoppage," said Gary G. Fryer, a spokesman for Yale. "Negotiations began Nov. 2 and the unions did not make an economic proposal until yesterday."
But students' dissatisfaction with the dining halls is a major concern to Yale, he said, and while the university was willing to offer job and salary guarantees for current employees, it needs flexibility.
"We commissioned a major study of our dining hall operation that concluded Yale dining hall employees are the highest paid anywhere," he said. "We need to address that if we want to make improvements to the dining halls."
While union officials drew parallels today between Yale's stand toward them and the graduate students, the focus of the protest was three graduate students who face disciplinary hearings for failing to turn in tests and other class materials from last semester that professors need to assign grades.
Yale is trying to intimidate all graduate students by bringing charges against only three, said Robin Brown, chairwoman of the Graduate Employees and Students Organization. "We are here in solidarity with three individuals who have been singled out," she said. "They are doing exactly what everyone else is doing who is participating in the grade strike."
Yale is warning teaching assistants who do not turn in grades by Monday that they will not get teaching assignments this semester and could face further discipline. The three students whose cases began today, he said, were simply the first to have complaints lodged against them by professors or administrators. More hearings are possible as more complaints are received.
The disciplinary committee could take no action, reprimand the students, suspend them, or in the extreme, order expulsion.
Many Yale graduate students depend heavily on their teaching stipends for living expenses; a main complaint of the student group is that the stipends, $4,970 a semester, are too small. As part of their compensation, most of the students do not pay tuition.
They are also concerned about their futures as teachers, as universities increasingly rely on teaching assistants and part-time instructors instead of tenured faculty.
Of 439 teaching assistants last semester in the humanities and social-science divisions, the registrar has received grades from all but 87, Mr. Fryer said.
The student group, however, said nearly 200 teaching assistants were taking part in the strike.
While grades were officially due Jan. 2, teaching assistants are being told they have until Monday to turn in grades before they are denied jobs this semester, Mr. Fryer said.
"Our goal is to protect the undergraduates who have fulfilled their obligations and should be receiving a fair and timely evaluation of their work," he said.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Union workers joined forces yesterday with Yale graduate students seeking university recognition of their union. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOK PUBLISHERS; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (58%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY; FEDERATION OF UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES YALE UNIVERSITY PRESS (98%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY; FEDERATION OF UNIVERSITY EMPLOYEES YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (58%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LABOR UNIONS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; PICKETING EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (94%); LABOR UNIONS (93%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (92%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); STRIKES (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); PARAEDUCATORS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); COLLEGE STUDENTS (89%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); EXTRA CURRICULAR ACTIVITIES (78%); YOUTH CLUBS & ACTIVITIES (78%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (78%); ACADEMIC TENURE (78%); COLLECTIVE BARGAINING (77%); ARRESTS (68%); 

PERSON: JUDSON, GEORGE

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



285 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 521 words

HEADLINE: Judge Allows Gay Bias Suit Vs. Big Board

BYLINE: By DIANA B. HENRIQUES 

 BODY:
A former employee of the New York Stock Exchange has been allowed to push ahead with a lawsuit accusing the exchange of dismissing him because he is a homosexual.
The former employee's victory came three weeks ago, when Justice Stuart C. Cohen of State Supreme Court in Manhattan denied the exchange's request that the complaint be dismissed on summary judgment -- that is, without a trial. The judge's refusal to do so permits the ex-employee, Peter Degan, to proceed with his discrimination case. 
 Mr. Degan had worked for the stock exchange for 24 years before he was dismissed in August 1994, reportedly for misconduct in connection with his development, on company time, of a computer game for children called "Wall Street Adventure." Mr. Degan "asserts that this claim of misconduct was an excuse for terminating him because of his sexual orientation," Justice Cohen observed.
Raymond Pellecchia, an exchange spokesman, said last night that the exchange "categorically denies Mr. Degan's allegations. His complaint is without substance or merit."
In his complaint, Mr. Degan reported that he had received high performance reviews and "was always treated with respect, dignity and esteem" by the exchange until he disclosed his sexual orientation to a senior executive there in the summer of 1989.
After that disclosure, Mr. Degan reportedly "was verbally abused, demeaned and his work environment became hostile, threatening and abusive," Justice Cohen noted in his review of the case. Specifically, the judge continued, Mr. Degan reportedly was told he "did not fit the image" of the exchange, was reprimanded for being gay, and was subjected to "vile and vulgar comments" about his sexual orientation. Mr. Degan, who last worked as a supervisor on the floor of the exchange, also said he had been denied a promised promotion.
In his ruling, which had gone unnoticed in employment law circles during the year-end holidays, Justice Cohen dismissed several of Mr. Degan's other claims, including a common-law claim of fraudulent misrepresentation. But he permitted Mr. Degan to proceed with his charge that the exchange had violated the New York City Human Rights Law, which specifically bars bias based on sexual orientation, and a separate accusation that the exchange had subjected him to "intentional infliction of emotional distress."
Murray Schwartz, Mr. Degan's lawyer, said he was delighted with the ruling because the city ordinance "provides a broad panoply of remedies, including unlimited punitive damages" not available under state and Federal statutes.
"If a jury finds that the exchange did the things Mr. Degan said it did, and finds that was so indecent and so ugly that it wants to punish the exchange so it won't do that again, the city law permits that," he said.
According to Mr. Schwartz, Mr. Degan, who is in his late 40's, has been out of work since his dismissal but has been able to collect unemployment benefits after an administrative law judge rejected the exchange's argument that he had been fired for insubordination and should be denied jobless benefits.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS; HOMOSEXUALITY; DISCRIMINATION; SUITS AND LITIGATION; LABOR STOCK EXCHANGES (92%); LITIGATION (91%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); MISCONDUCT (90%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); DISMISSALS (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); DAMAGES (89%); SUMMARY JUDGMENT (89%); VERDICTS (78%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (78%); SETTLEMENTS & DECISIONS (78%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (78%); BUSINESS TORTS (78%); JURY TRIALS (78%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (78%); EMPLOYMENT (78%); DISCRIMINATION (78%); EMOTIONAL DISTRESS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (77%); ORDINANCES (76%); LAWYERS (74%); PUNITIVE DAMAGES (73%); SUPREME COURTS (72%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (72%); HUMAN RIGHTS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: HENRIQUES, DIANA B; DEGAN, PETER PETER DEGAN (96%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



286 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 8; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 621 words

HEADLINE: Dow Plunges 97.19 Points And Drops Below 5,100

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Stock prices plummeted yesterday, spurred by the budget impasse in Washington and rising interest rates.
The Dow Jones industrial average, which at one time during the session was down more than 115 points, plunged 97.19 points by the closing bell, to 5,032.94. This decline of 1.89 percent marked the first time the Dow sank below 5,100 since Dec. 28 and pushed it to the lowest level since Nov. 21. Over the last two days, the average has fallen more than 3 percent -- its worst such drop in more than four years. 
 Yesterday's stock market was so volatile that the New York Stock Exchange's limits on computer-guided trading were triggered twice. The first of these "circuit breakers" was imposed at 10:08 A.M. and lifted about an hour later. The second, designed to curb program trading in an attempt to stabilize the market, went into effect at 12:45 P.M.
"People are getting increasingly concerned about the budget," said Melissa Brown, director of quantitative research of Prudential Securities. "The longer the talks get drawn out, the more uncertainty is created."
Bond prices sank on pessimistic comments about the possibility of a budget-balancing agreement from House Speaker Newt Gingrich and the Senate majority leader, Bob Dole.
The 30-year Treasury bond fell 14/32 -- or $11.25 for every $1,000 invested -- while its yield, which moves in the opposite direction, rose to 6.18 percent, from 6.11 percent on Tuesday.
"The stock market went up for 12 solid months," said Louis Ehrenkrantz, president of Ehrenkrantz King Nussbaum, a securities firm in New York. "What's so surprising that it should go down 100 points in a day? The market is beginning to take these movements in stride."
Investors also appeared concerned about the effect the stalled budget talks would have on corporate earnings.
The Standard & Poor's 500-stock index dropped 10.97 points, to 598.48, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 8.60, to 990.21, as technology stocks tried to recover from Tuesday's drop with mixed results. Declining issues on the Big Board exceeded advancers, 1,960 to 516, a ratio of almost 4 to 1. The New York Stock Exchange recorded its fifth-largest volume ever, with turnover reaching 497.8 million shares, compared with 417.4 million shares on Tuesday.
Oil stocks, one of the leading groups on the downside, declined along with crude oil and natural gas prices. Exxon fell 2 1/2, to 80 1/4; Mobil declined 3 1/2, to 111 1/4, and Unocal dropped 1/4, to 29 1/2.
Gambling stocks, which previously enjoyed a large run-up, were also lower. MGM Grand closed at 27 1/8, off 1 1/8; Circus Circus closed at 27 7/8, off 1 1/8, and Mirage closed at 36 1/4, off 1 3/4.
The Dow Jones transportation average continued its slide, as airlines struggled to get back to normal service in the East following the blizzard. The transportation average fell 48.08 points, to 1,898.48 yesterday. UAL, the parent of United Airlines, dropped 6 3/4, to 160 7/8; AMR, the parent of American Airlines, fell 2 1/2, to 68 5/8, and Delta Air Lines declined 2 3/8, to 69 5/8.
Among the other stocks that skidded yesterday were Bell Microproducts, down 1, to 6 7/8; the company raised its fourth-quarter write-off to $1.6 million. Xcellnet was down 1 3/4, to 10, after announcing disappointing fourth-quarter earnings late on Tuesday. And Guest Supply was down 4 1/8, to 19 1/8, on news that it did not expect to meet analysts' estimates in its first fiscal quarter.
Gold stocks were a sector that moved against the overall market trend, in keeping with the $3.30 jump in the price of gold to $400.20. Homestake Mining rose 3/8, to 18; Barrick Gold increased 1/8, to 29 1/8, and Newmont Mining advanced 1 5/8, to 54 1/4.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); BONDS (90%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); OIL & GAS PRICES (78%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (78%); NATURAL GAS (78%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (73%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (71%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (70%); TREASURY SECURITIES (66%); POLITICAL PARTIES (65%); COMPANY EARNINGS (61%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



287 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 7; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1004 words

HEADLINE: THE MEDIA BUSINESS;
Why Dun & Bradstreet Is Different From Disney

BYLINE: By STEVE LOHR 

 BODY:
Splitting big companies into smaller ones has been the norm in American business recently -- witness the breakup of corporate brand names like AT&T, ITT and Minnesota Mining and Manufacturing.
But until this week, the media industry was a striking exception. Companies were merging left and right, led by multibillion-dollar deals like Walt Disney's purchase of Capital Cities/ABC and Time Warner's plan to acquire Turner Broadcasting System. Behind the mergers was a singular strategy: grab heaps of entertainment and information content, add a global distribution network and build a media mega-corporation. 
 So why is the Dun & Bradstreet Corporation, a $5-billion-a-year publisher and marketer of business information, splitting up? The short answer is that the business of selling a sophisticated study of the computer disk-drive industry is a world away from marketing movies like "Toy Story" or "The Lion King."
The disk-drive study might cost several thousand dollars, compared with a $7.50 movie ticket. And while the market for the study is a small community of specialists, sensitive to day-to-day changes in products, the audience for "Toy Story" is worldwide, and the movie's characters have a timeless quality.
"There is no mass market for business information," Robert E. Weissman, chief executive of Dun & Bradstreet, said yesterday. "And because of rapid changes in technology and in markets today, our businesses are less similar than they used to be."
So Dun & Bradstreet is being sliced into three companies, each separately listed on the stock market. The first, to be called the Cognizant Corporation, will include the Gartner Group, a publisher and adviser to companies on information technology; IMS International, a market research firm catering mainly to drug companies, and Nielsen Media Research, which conducts the well-known Nielsen surveys of the nation's television-viewing habits.
A second company, which will assume the Dun & Bradstreet name, will include the Moody's bond-rating service, the Dun & Bradstreet company-credit information service and Reuben H. Donnelley, a publisher and marketer of telephone Yellow Pages.
The third company, A. C. Nielsen, will supply supermarket sales data and other information to marketers of consumer packaged goods like detergents, toothpaste and breakfast cereal.
Investors applauded Dun & Bradstreet's breakup announcement, which was made after the stock markets closed on Tuesday. On a day when stocks plunged over all, the company's shares rose $1.50 yesterday, to $65.
Since its origins in New York in the 1840's as a credit-rating agency whose analysts included four men who later became American Presidents (Lincoln, Grant, Cleveland and McKinley), Dun & Bradstreet grew by buying businesses and striving to gain economies of scale. That approach continued through the 1980's, with the purchase of A. C. Nielsen in 1983, and into the 1990's, when it bought 51 percent of Gartner in 1993 and spent an estimated $400 million on acquisitions in 1994.
With each major purchase over the years, there was a lot of discussion about the similarities between Dun & Bradstreet and the concern being bought. The corporate justification was that all the parts of Dun & Bradstreet gathered, disseminated, improved and sold business information. Approving analysts would talk of synergy and corporate marriages made in heaven.
"But there weren't really any synergies that proved long-lasting," said John McGilvray, a consultant at Input, a market research firm in Mountain View, Calif. "The only exception might be shared printing facilities for printing the publications."
Executives who used to run Dun & Bradstreet businesses say the headquarters took a hands-off approach toward the operations, except that it monitored each unit's financial performance closely.
"It was mainly just tracking the numbers, and there was very little participation in the business or trying to make it work closely with other Dun & Bradstreet businesses," recalled Frank H. Dodge, who was with Dun & Bradstreet for several years after his software company, McCormack & Dodge, was acquired in 1983. He left in 1990 to start another company, the Dodge Group, which makes specialized software for banks and insurance companies.
At Dun & Bradstreet, the most recent corporate explanation for keeping the company intact was that it was pursuing a strategy of "information engineering," or integrating technology, information and service to customize research and advice for corporate customers.
Mr. Weissman, who will become chief executive of Cognizant, said his company would continue to try to do that, by constructing customized reports and advice from research by in-house analysts. But that approach will now be taken within narrower markets for business information.
An apparent model for that approach is Gartner, whose shares are separately listed on the Nasdaq market. Gartner, whose analysts cover everything from disk drives to computer security software, charges corporate customers $19,000 a year for each service Gartner offers, though volume discounts are available for companies that buy several services. Many large corporations spend $100,000 or more a year on Gartner services.
"We're in the syndicated research business," explained Manuel Fernandez, the president of Gartner. "And as a business, we try to maximize our analysts' time, whether it is publishing on paper or over the Internet, speaking to conferences or one-to-one with clients."
And Gartner's rapid growth recently also suggests ways that the Dun & Bradstreet spinoffs may try to follow the more focused formula. In November, Gartner bought Dataquest, a market research firm, for $65 million. Almost immediately, Mr. Fernandez said, Gartner was able to reduce Dataquest's costs by 20 percent.
"We're not interested in entirely new businesses," Mr. Fernandez said. "We want to expand but still sell to the same client base with the same sales force."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: News Analysis

TICKER: DNB (NYSE) (94%); DIS (NYSE) (58%); MMM (SWX) (58%); MMM (NYSE) (58%); MMM (FRA) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (94%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (94%); NAICS541910 MARKETING RESEARCH & PUBLIC OPINION POLLING (66%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (58%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (58%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (58%); NAICS339114 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS334510 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS MANUFACTURING (58%); NAICS322230 STATIONERY PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (58%); SIC3845 ELECTROMEDICAL & ELECTROTHERAPEUTIC APPARATUS (58%); SIC3843 DENTAL EQUIPMENT & SUPPLIES (58%); SIC2678 STATIONERY, TABLETS, & RELATED PRODUCTS (58%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (57%); NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

COMPANY: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP DUN & BRADSTREET CORP (94%); NIELSEN MEDIA RESEARCH (66%); WALT DISNEY CO (58%); 3M CO (58%); TURNER BROADCASTING SYSTEM INC (57%); ABC INC (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: DUN & BRADSTREET CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (77%); 

SUBJECT: MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); MARKET RESEARCH FIRMS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (86%); DEMERGERS & SPINOFFS (79%); MARKET RESEARCH (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); MARKET RESEARCH & ANALYSIS (78%); MARKETING SURVEYS (78%); COMPUTER STORAGE DEVICE MFG (77%); MERGERS (77%); TELEVISION RATINGS & SHARES (76%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (76%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (75%); BONDS (74%); BREAKFAST CEREAL (73%); PHARMACEUTICALS INDUSTRY (72%); PACKAGED GOODS (69%); INFORMATION MANAGEMENT (67%); FAST MOVING CONSUMER GOODS (60%); GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (50%); 

PERSON: LOHR, STEVE ROBERT E WEISSMAN (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



288 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 17; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 703 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Budget Block Knocks Down Bond Prices

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Bond prices fell sharply yesterday, hurt by the gloomier outlook for budget talks in Washington. The drop sent yields on long-term Treasury issues back up to the levels of three weeks ago, before the Federal Reserve cut interest rates.
On shorter maturities, however, prices were shored up by the plunge in the stock market yesterday that sent investors in a flight to quality. 
 The price of the closely watched 30-year benchmark bond dropped 1 4/32 of a percentage point, to 109 11/32 ; its yield, which moves in the opposite direction from its price, climbed to 6.18 percent, from 6.11 percent on Tuesday.
The breaking off of budget talks also sent the price of gold over $400 an ounce, its highest level in almost two and a half years. Higher gold prices often reflect inflation jitters, and gold's rise yesterday served as an excuse for some credit market investors to sell.
Early in the session, when prices of Treasury securities were narrowly mixed in choppy trading, market participants stayed poised and ready to take advantage of any movement regarding the stalled budget talks. But as the prospects for good news dwindled, buyers moved to the sidelines and movements became more exaggerated; the long bond dropped as much as 21/32 in the cash market.
Early in the afternoon Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker, was reported on Knight Ridder Financial wires as saying he was "pessimistic" about reaching a budget deal and saw the chances as less than 50-50, adding that there might not be a deal until after the elections. Those comments unnerved the market.
Traders said that prices in the longer maturities reflected the disappointment in the talks, while the shorter maturities remained fairly firm and reflected the sluggish economy and the flight to quality.
With no important economic news as a backdrop, technical factors dominated trading. Traders said the March bond contract tested support at about 119, and they worried that if that level did not hold, a break was possible to 118 16/32 -- if not below. The March bond contract was as high as 119 25/32 in day trading, while the low was 118 19/32 , before closing at 118 25/32 .
"I don't think any real significant support levels were broken today," said Robin Mesch, chief fixed-income analyst with Thomson Research of Boston. "But there is more to the down side. Bonds are in a large trading range, with the bottom of that trading range yet to be tested. The bottom of that range spans from 111 20/32 to 118 4/32 . And it will get tested."
Bill Gamba, senior vice president and head of Government bond trading at Cowen & Company, said the "bond market has fallen out of bed again, guided by rumors of the budget situation, and literally no progress."
He added, "Each day this goes on, the market becomes more nervous and less optimistic that there is going to be a settlement of all these talks."
Another item that is going to begin to bother the market is the debt ceiling situation. The temporary funding bill expires Jan. 26.
"What this market doesn't need is another obstacle to come from Washington at the same time, as they will continue to weigh on the market and to bring about nervousness from market participants," Mr. Gamba said. Nervousness in the market is generally expressed by selling.
Mr. Gamba continued: "Technically the market broke below its 50-day moving average at 118 29/32 on the March bond contract, and that has also added to the selling pressure. Today trading volume has been heavier than it was on Monday and Tuesday, with some large blocks trades."
Anthony Chan, vice president and chief economist at Banc One Investment Advisors in Columbus, Ohio, said that the market preferred a mediocre budget agreement to none at all, but clearly hoped for a good agreement. "Nontheless, it is becoming quite clear that reaching an agreement that was as fiscally conservative as initially proposed by the G.O.P. is now considered a long shot," he said. "This prognosis has prevented the market from rallying further and put it on hold."
Fundamentally, he contends, the economy is still weak, but the dearth of data has kept the market focused on private sector reports like ones on retail sales.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Freddie Mac Yields" tracks average weekly yields on Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation 30-year and 15-year participation certificates since Sept. 1995. Yields track changes in fixed-rate mortgages. (Source: Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: COWN (NASDAQ) (60%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (60%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (60%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: COWEN GROUP INC (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); SECURITIES TRADING (89%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (89%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (89%); STOCK EXCHANGES (79%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); GOLD MARKETS (77%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (74%); TALKS & MEETINGS (72%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (69%); EXECUTIVES (60%); INTEREST RATES (57%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



289 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 164 words

HEADLINE: Chrysler Offers More Rebates

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: DETROIT, Jan. 10

 BODY:
The Chrysler Corporation announced $300 rebates today on three car models with sluggish sales, and it extended a rebate program for pickup trucks.
The moves came a day after the Ford Motor Company announced $600 rebates on most of its car and truck models, raising the prospect of price wars among the auto makers. 
 But a Chrysler spokesman said the company's announcement had been planned for two weeks and was not a reaction to the move by Ford.
Chrysler has offered rebates on most of its 1995 and 1996 cars and trucks since early November.
Today's announcement added $300 rebates or discounted interest rates on financing for buyers of 1995 and 1996 Dodge Avenger, Chrysler Sebring Coupe and Eagle Talon models. It extended to the end of January the $400 to $500 rebates offered for 1995 and 1996 Dodge Ram pickups, and added extended-cab models to the program.
The company also extended until the end of February the rebates already in effect on most other models.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FORDP (PAR) (94%); F (NYSE) (94%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336111 AUTOMOBILE MANUFACTURING (95%); NAICS336112 LIGHT TRUCK & UTILITY VEHICLE MANUFACTURING (94%); SIC3711 MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES (94%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (79%); 

CITY: DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: CHRYSLER CORP CHRYSLER GROUP LLC (95%); FORD MOTOR CO (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: CHRYSLER CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); MICHIGAN, USA (79%); DETROIT, MI, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; REBATES MOTOR VEHICLES (92%); SALES REBATES (91%); AUTOMAKERS (73%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (73%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (73%); PRICE CUTTING (71%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



290 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 834 words

HEADLINE: Vallone Pledges to Fight G.O.P. Policies

BYLINE: By VIVIAN S. TOY 

 BODY:
Peter F. Vallone, the City Council Speaker, vowed in his annual address to the Council yesterday that he and the Council will begin serving as a strong Democratic counterweight to Republicans in New York and in Washington.
In a feisty and sharply partisan speech in the Council chambers in City Hall, Mr. Vallone challenged Republican policies, calling them "unacceptable" and harmful to the city's middle class. 
The Speaker used his annual address to introduce formally his plan for generating nearly $1.4 billion to help rebuild the city's crumbling schools -- and to offer a new idea for breaking up the city's Human Resources Administration, a superagency he described as troubled and obsolete.
But aside from those two proposals, Mr. Vallone did not back up his call for new Democratic activism with descriptions of many other specific initiatives.
Mr. Vallone criticized Federal and state budget policies as "guns" pointed at New Yorkers' heads. But he reserved his most stinging criticism for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani.
He applauded the Mayor's focus on fighting crime, but faulted the Mayor for neglecting other services.
"Regrettably, too often, the Mayor who campaigned for office under the banner 'One City, One Standard,' has governed under the banner 'My City, My Standard,' " Mr. Vallone said.
The Mayor said he had not had a chance to read Mr. Vallone's comments, but added: "The parts of the speech that I heard sound somewhat like a partisan speech. He seems to be drawing partisan political lines."
Asked about the Speaker's direct criticism of the Mayor's style, the Mayor said only: "I'll get a chance to give my speech tomorrow." The Mayor will offer his State of the City address today at noon.
Earlier in the day Cristyne F. Lategano, the Mayor's communications director, said it was "unfortunate" that Mr. Vallone gave what she called a "political speech" on the same day as the funeral for James B. Williams, a New York City firefighter who died Jan. 5. Before his speech, Mr. Vallone honored the firefighter with a moment of silence.
While Mr. Vallone used what has been dubbed the Speaker's State of the City speech to declare a new, more active agenda for the Council, and even as he opposed continued budget cuts at city, state and federal levels, he did not offer many specific alternatives to deal with the financial problems that the city faces.
The Speaker and the 51-member Council he strongly controls have generally been conciliatory, willing to compromise with the Mayor on budget issues. Some Council members yesterday were not convinced that Mr. Vallone's speech represented a real break from his consensus-building style.
The centerpiece proposal the Speaker laid out yesterday was his plan to extend a surcharge on the city's personal income tax for three years to pay for new school buildings and to renovate existing ones.
The tax now is used to pay for additional police officers, and Giuliani adinistration officials say they intend to maintain the department at its current level of 38,000 officers -- without renewing the tax. Council officials also want to keep police hiring at its present level, and say that the Mayor's financial plan indicates the administration will find the money to pay for the extra police officers. But city budget officials have not explained where the money will come from.
The Speaker also noted that the school plan would create thousands of jobs in the construction industry. And in a gesture to the city's unions, Mr. Vallone said he would ask the state to approve legislation requiring the city to give preference to companies based in the city.
Mr. Vallone also proposed dividing the Human Resources Administration into three agencies: a Department for Children, a Department for the Aging and Disabled, and a Department for Transitional Assistance. The Speaker called the Human Resources Administration "an out-of-date city agency badly in need of being restructured."
The Speaker believes that creating separate agencies would increase accountability and would refocus the city's efforts to provide services for children the elderly and the poor.
Republican members of the Council praised Mr. Vallone's school initiative but took exception to his partisan attacks.
"He makes the Mayor and the Governor the fall guys for 25 years of failed social policy that Democrats have forced on this city," said Thomas V. Ognibene of Queens, the minority leader of the Council's seven-member Republican contingent. "But it's a salvo in the political war."
Although Mr. Giuliani did not attend the event, former Mayor David N. Dinkins arrived to a warm reception. He heartily endorsed the Speaker's comments, calling the speech "on the money."
"And Peter Vallone, you've got to understand, is the second most powerful figure in our city government," Mr. Dinkins said. "And as he used to remind me, the City Council is a co-equal partner in this government, and Mayor Giuliani had better understand that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Peter F. Vallone, the New York City Council Speaker, shook hands after making his State of the City address at City Hall yesterday. (Philip Greenberg for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) CITY COUNCIL (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: HUMAN RESOURCES ADMINISTRATION (NYC) CITY COUNCIL (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); MAYORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (89%); BUDGETS (89%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (89%); POLITICS (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); HUMAN RESOURCES (69%); BUDGET CUTS (68%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: TOY, VIVIAN S; VALLONE, PETER F (SPEAKER) RUDY GIULIANI (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



291 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 4; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 319 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS<HEADLINE>;
U.S. to Withhold Sanctions In Tricontinental Banana Rift

BYLINE: AP 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
The Clinton Administration will not immediately impose sanctions against Costa Rica and Colombia in a trade dispute involving bananas, officials said today.
The United States trade representative, Mickey Kantor, announced that after a year of talks, Costa Rica and Colombia had signed agreements pledging to cooperate in trying to get the European Union to scrap trade barriers involving bananas. 
 Those barriers have been deplored by United States banana exporters, notably Chiquita Brands International, who say that the Europeans' restrictions are costing them hundreds of millions of dollars.
Steve Warshaw, executive vice president of Chiquita, said his company was not disappointed that the Administration had decided against sanctions now. He said Mr. Kantor had left the door for sanctions if negotiations in coming months did not produce favorable results.
The dispute concerns a decision by the Europeans in July 1993 to impose import restrictions on bananas with the exception of those from 70 former European colonies and protectorates. The action favored Caribbean nations like Jamaica, Martinique, Guadeloupe and St. Lucia.
These supplied about 15 percent of the European banana market, and their largely family-owned operations were having trouble competing with multinational operations like Chiquita and the Dole Food Company.
The Europeans have so far shown little willingness to back down. Prime Minister Alain Juppe of France urged the European Union this week to tighten its banana import restrictions in hopes of propping up prices for fruit from the former colonies.
The trade dispute has gotten attention in Washington. More than 70 members of Congress, including the Senate Republican leader and Presidential aspirant, Bob Dole, advocating trade sanctions against Costa Rica and Colombia unless they pulled out of the European Union's banana quota program.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DOLE (NYSE) (83%); CQB (NYSE) (57%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC0179 FRUITS & TREE NUTS, NEC (83%); NAICS111339 OTHER NONCITRUS FRUIT FARMING (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GUADELOUPE (79%); MARTINIQUE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

COMPANY: EUROPEAN UNION DOLE FOOD CO INC (83%); CHIQUITA BRANDS INTERNATIONAL INC (57%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: EUROPEAN UNION EUROPEAN UNION (84%); EUROPEAN UNION (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: COSTA RICA; COLOMBIA; UNITED STATES (95%); EUROPEAN UNION MEMBER STATES (94%); COSTA RICA (94%); EUROPE (94%); SAINT LUCIA (79%); JAMAICA (79%); FRANCE (79%); GUADELOUPE (79%); MARTINIQUE (79%); CARIBBEAN ISLANDS (79%); 

SUBJECT: BANANAS; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; IMPORT QUOTAS; EMBARGOES AND ECONOMIC SANCTIONS TRADE DISPUTES (91%); FRUITS & VEGETABLES (90%); IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (90%); FRUIT & VEGETABLE EXPORTS & IMPORTS (90%); EMBARGOES & SANCTIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); IMPORT TRADE (90%); EUROPEAN UNION (90%); AGRICULTURAL EXPORT & IMPORT CONTROLS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE TRADE (78%); EXPORT TRADE (78%); NONTARIFF BARRIERS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); FOOD INDUSTRY (76%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (75%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (71%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (71%); EXECUTIVES (70%); FOOD PRICES (66%); PRIME MINISTERS (65%); POLITICAL PARTIES (64%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



292 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 732 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Price of Gold Surpasses $400 First Time in Nearly 2 1/2 Years

BYLINE: By KENNETH N. GILPIN 

 BODY:
The price of gold rose above $400 an ounce for the first time in nearly two and a half years yesterday, pushed higher in part by speculative demand from investors fleeing, at least temporarily, the stock and bond markets.
Analyst said technical and fundamental factors, including supply problems and lower interest rates, also contributed to gold's rise. 
 In heavy trading on the Commodity Exchange in New York, the February gold futures contract settled at $400.20 an ounce, up $3.30 from Tuesday's close. Earlier in the session, the contract had risen as high as $403.
In London yesterday, gold was fixed at $400 an ounce, the first time it has reached that level since Aug. 3, 1993, when it was fixed at $402.65.
Yesterday's price action was a continuation of a surge that began at the start of the year.
Since the beginning of the new year, spot gold prices, which averaged just above $384 for all of last year, have risen nearly $15 an ounce.
Analysts said some of the metal's recent rise, particularly the final push through $400, was attributable to the recent weakness in stocks and bonds.
"I think you have a degree of sectoral rotation by professional investment pools coming out of things like technology stocks and into gold and gold instruments," said John Brimelow, director of international equities at BV Capital Markets in New York.
But Mr. Brimelow and others said much of the run-up had to do with an increasing realization that producers, which have been big suppliers into the market in the last few years, are currently in no position to meet the demand for gold.
Moreover, even though gold is viewed as an inflation hedge by many, it tends to do best in a world of low and declining real rates of interest.
"Gold has a causal relationship with real interest rates," said Fred Kalkstein, a vice president at Janney Montgomery Scott, the brokerage house. "When you have some combination of inflation and nominal interest rates that cause real interest rates to come down, that causes gold prices to go up."
Lower real interest rates not only reduce the cost of holding gold, but also pare returns on interest-bearing assets, forcing investors in search of better returns to look to other investments, like gold.
In Mr. Kalkstein's view, the reduction in a key German interest rate yesterday, as well as comments by officials at the Bundesbank, played as much a role in gold's rise yesterday as the steep slide in the stock market.
After the meeting at which they approved the German rate cut, the officials noted that real interest rates in Germany were still quite high, suggesting further easing in monetary policy.
"Right now the Bundesbank is a very key central bank, and this kind of talk is the stuff that gold feeds on," Mr. Kalkstein said. "It nurtures demand for gold as a monetary asset."
Still, while predicting that gold would trade in a somewhat higher price range than the last few years, few were willing to forecast that gold would continue its recent strong advance.
"At $400, I don't think we will see continued demand," said a precious-metals analyst at a European bank, who spoke on the condition of anonymity. "The speculators are long gold already, and I question how much longer they can get. I don't think we can sustain these prices until we find out where the new underlying demand is coming from."
William O'Neill, senior futures strategist at Merrill Lynch & Company, said, "You should be careful about becoming too bullish, because the global economic outlook is not a positive for precious metals."
"What we are seeing now is a market moving to a somewhat higher trading range of around $380 to $420 an ounce," he said, "as opposed to the $365 to $395 range that has existed since 1993.
On other commodity markets, gasoline prices continued their retreat, as this week's storm in the Northeast continued to make driving difficult, thus reducing demand for fuel. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 17 commodities fell 1.05 point, to 245.23.
February unleaded gasoline fell 0.46 cent, to 58.19 cents a gallon, on the New York Mercantile Exchange.
Gasoline's decline weighed on other energy contracts. February crude oil fell 28 cents, to $19.67 a barrel. February heating oil fell 0.84 cent, to 59.59 cents a gallon, and February natural gas fell 1.19 cents, to $2.809 for 1,000 cubic feet.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Crossing a Threshold Anew" shows daily prices of gold futures from 1993 to 1995. (Source: Datastream)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (88%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

COMPANY: JANNEY MONTGOMERY SCOTT INC (53%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); COMMODITY EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY (90%); UNITED STATES (88%); CENTRAL EUROPE (51%); NEW YORK, USA (88%); LONDON, ENGLAND (57%); 

SUBJECT: GOLD; FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) GOLD MARKETS (92%); FUTURES (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); BONDS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTEREST RATES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); CENTRAL BANKS (89%); COMMODITIES TRADING (78%); SPOT MARKET (78%); ECONOMIC POLICY (77%); STOCK EXCHANGES (77%); SECURITIES TRADING (77%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (77%); BOND MARKETS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (75%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (71%); PUBLIC POLICY (60%); APPROVALS (60%); 

PERSON: GILPIN, KENNETH N FRED KALKSTEIN (71%); JOHN BRIMELOW (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



293 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 6; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 398 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Declines Against Mark As the Budget Impasse Deepens

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar eased against the German mark yesterday as many investors fled battered American markets for the momentary safety of German securities.
Washington's seemingly endless talks on balancing the Federal budget bruised stocks, bonds and the dollar, particularly after the House speaker, Newt Gingrich, said that for the first time in a year he had become pessimistic about reaching an agreement and suggested it might have to wait for the next election. 
 "It doesn't seem they're going to come out with a deal any time soon," said Mark Gargano, managing director of foreign exchange at First Union National Bank.
The dollar slipped to 1.4368 marks late yesterday from 1.4395 marks late Tuesday.
But the currency climbed against the yen, since Japanese markets are still viewed with caution given the nation's political uncertainty and low interest rates. The dollar climbed to 104.86 yen from 104.65 yen.
The United States currency failed to top its overnight highs in New York, where it peaked shortly after noon. A drop of nearly 100 points in the Dow Jones industrial average and a decline of nearly a full point by the 30-year Treasury bond fueled selling of dollars for marks, currency traders said.
"The stock market is due for a bit more of a correction and that's going to keep bringing the dollar down," said James Blackwelder, vice president for corporate foreign exchange at NatWest New Jersey.
Yet the fact that the dollar held up well against the yen and lost only modest ground to the mark shows that some investors still find higher American yields tempting while the economies of Germany and Japan remain weak, traders said.
"If we had gotten the news that hit the markets in the last few weeks last year, the dollar would have dropped 4 or 5 pfennigs," one New York analyst said. "But it's occurring against a backdrop of weakness in Germany and Japan."
Each day without a credible balanced-budget deal puts greater pressure on the dollar, but traders are expecting only a modest decline in its value.
Still, the enthusiasm that caused the dollar to spike higher last week has clearly waned. "The politicians are not providing the overwhelming support they did last week," Mr. Blackwelder said.
In other trading, the dollar slid to 1.1610 Swiss francs, from 1.1623 francs late Tuesday. The British pound fell to $1.5465 from $1.5487.
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (55%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: FIRST UNION NATIONAL BANK OF CONNECTICUT (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (95%); JAPAN (93%); GERMANY (91%); CENTRAL EUROPE (58%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (92%); BUDGETS (91%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); TALKS & MEETINGS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BONDS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (78%); POLITICS (77%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (72%); BRITISH POUND (70%); INTEREST RATES (53%); ECONOMIC NEWS (53%); 

PERSON: NEWT GINGRICH (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



294 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 864 words

HEADLINE: Economic Scene;
A study shows bias against the ugly. Should they have recourse?

BYLINE: By Peter Passell 

 BODY:
IS prejudice in hiring ever justified? Most Americans agree that discrimination on racial, sexual or religious grounds is wrong. But what about against people who just happen to be ugly?
That is the issue that Jeff Biddle and Daniel Hamermesh, economists at Michigan State and the University of Texas, respectively, have investigated. They assay the roots of discrimination against unattractive people, an ill-defined group whose legal claim to protection against discrimination is now being tested in the courts. And while their study -- just published by the National Bureau of Economic Research -- probably won't change many minds, it does air the awkward issue of whether employers should shoulder the economic and legal burden of fighting the prejudices of their customers and the community as a whole. 
 The two labor economists made a splash a few years ago, analyzing a sample of some 7,000 people and finding solid evidence that good looks translated into heftier paychecks. It remains to be seen whether the implied discrimination is illegal. For while many people dismiss the idea out of hand, unattractiveness may well fit the definition of disability in the Americans With Disabilities Act as "a physical or mental impairment that substantially limits one or more major life activities." In 1993 a Federal court upheld a jury award to a woman who had been discharged solely because she was fat.
Now Mr. Biddle and Mr. Hamermesh are back with a study of some 2,000 graduates from a "highly selective" (but unnamed) law school that closely followed the careers of its alumni. The results confirmed the earlier study. But even more importantly, detailed information about workers in a single profession offers a chance to examine the motives for discrimination apart from the charged atmosphere surrounding race and gender.
The researchers measured attractiveness on a scale of one to five, based on a panel's rating of head-and-shoulder photos printed in booklets at the time of enrollment. Class rank among graduates during the 1970's was not correlated with looks. But after five years in the workplace, those ranked in the top third on attractiveness were earning 9 percent more on average than those in the bottom third. After 15 years this gap had widened to 13 percent.
Common sense suggests that when employers discriminate, it is to satisfy their own prejudices or those of their other employees. But that does not seem to be the case with these lawyers. For one thing, starting salaries were not correlated with looks. For another, the income gap between the most and least attractive was virtually identical for lawyers who were self-employed.
That suggests attractive lawyers are more productive, if only in the sense that clients prefer good-looking attorneys. Mr. Biddle and Mr. Hamermesh found that a disproportionate number of unattractive lawyers work for public agencies, where the "client" typically has little say in who does the work. This sorting process continues from the first to the fifth year after graduation: unattractive lawyers in the private sector tend to switch to government jobs while attractive government lawyers join private firms.
Does it really matter why job discrimination takes place? Many years ago Gary S. Becker, the conservative Nobel economist at the University of Chicago, pointed out that unfettered markets should be a potent weapon against prejudice. In a free labor market, nonprejudiced employers would be able to hire the disfavored group at bargain wages, permitting them to drive prejudiced competitors out of business. Competition for talent, for example, probably has something to do with the decisions of Apple Computer and the Walt Disney Company to champion the rights of gay employees.
But discrimination driven by the customers' tastes does not appear to be self-correcting. Law firms that bow to the pressure of the market, hiring Cary Grant types over Alfred E. Neuman lookalikes, will have a competitive edge. The paradox, Mr. Biddle suggests, is that government sanctions on employers are actually most needed when the discrimination is least related to employers' own prejudices.
Robert Topel, an economist at the University of Chicago Business School, is not impressed by this distinction. The logic of job discrimination laws, he argues, is to attain a social goal at the "lowest possible cost." And regardless of the motive for the antisocial behavior, it is easier and less intrusive to penalize employer discrimination than to police prejudiced consumers.
Still, this may not be how most people view the issue. Where economists see legal sanctions purely as deterrence, one suspects that the majority of Americans see discrimination as immoral, and justify the penalities against discrimination as punishment.
As a practical matter, the issue becomes stickier as the reach of the antidiscrimination laws is lengthened beyond what the public considers reasonable. It is one thing to throw the book at a department store that refuses to hire black people to stand behind the perfume counter. It is quite another when the department store chooses perfume sellers by their looks.

GRAPHIC: Drawing
 
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ECONOMIC SCENE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%); UNIVERSITY OF TEXAS (58%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); NATIONAL BUREAU OF ECONOMIC RESEARCH (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); MICHIGAN, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; HIRING AND PROMOTION; WAGES AND SALARIES DISCRIMINATION (92%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); LAWYERS (89%); WAGES & SALARIES (89%); INVESTIGATIONS (89%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (78%); INCOME DISTRIBUTION (78%); SUITS & CLAIMS (78%); ECONOMIC NEWS (77%); LAW SCHOOLS (77%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (77%); CLASS RANKING (77%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (76%); DECISIONS & RULINGS (76%); US AMERICANS WITH DISABILITIES ACT (76%); LABOR & EMPLOYMENT LAW (74%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (74%); VERDICTS (71%); JURY TRIALS (71%); RANKINGS (71%); 

PERSON: PASSELL, PETER JEFF BIDDLE (79%); DANIEL HAMERMESH (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



295 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 1; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1096 words

HEADLINE: Market Drop Grabs Notice Of Both Sides

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 10

 BODY:
Through the months of budget arguments between President Clinton and the Republican leadership, both sides have kept a wary eye on the markets, at once amazed that Wall Street considered a political deal inevitable and fearful of the moment that investors might discover that was not the case.
The question of whether that moment has arrived has come to the fore as the Dow Jones industrial average declined 164 points in two days. A further fall could end an unprecedented bull market that has had no sustained declines for more than five years. [Page D1.] 
 The decline is hardly a disaster, but the drop has been big enough to grab everyone's attention in a financial capital and a political capital that often miss each other's signals.
Here, that left both Democrats and Republicans asking the same two questions: How big a drop is needed before the political pressure to force a deal becomes unbearable? And if the markets continue to unwind, sending interest rates up and eating away at the gains that have enriched so many, which side would take the blame?
"This has been the ticking bomb that neither side wanted to acknowledge was sitting under the negotiating table," one of Mr. Clinton's advisers said today, speaking on the condition of anonymity. "But like most small bombs, it's hard to say when it will go off or whether anyone will get hurt."
Politicians rarely like to talk about markets and the pressures they impose on the political process, though they acknowledge that in the past, most notably during the market crash of 1987, Wall Street has often provided the impetus for breaking a deadlock in Washington. In this case, with an election looming, it is particularly difficult to figure out which side can play the markets to their advantage, or which is likely to be spooked the most by the markets' sudden case of the budget jitters.
"The fact is that 150 points or so may not be enough to prompt some real action," Allen Sinai, Lehman Brothers' chief global economist, said today in a telephone interview from London. "In a market that has risen as much as this one has, a correction of 8 percent or so would not be unusual, and that would mean 400 points."
But the early guessing is that the Republicans, still stung by the polls that showed more voters blamed them than Mr. Clinton for the furlough of Government workers, might be the first to blanch at the thought of going into the primaries with voters angry over the combination of gridlock in Washington and a costly sell-off. Certainly the White House is encouraging that view.
"Perhaps a negative reaction in the market would strengthen the sentiment for agreeing on passing a budget with the $600 billion in savings we've all agreed on," said Gene Sperling, the deputy assistant to the President for economic policy. "That would leave the ideological battles over how much larger the heath care cuts and tax cuts should should be to the election," he added, exactly the strategy that many of Mr. Clinton's political advisers say would work to his advantage.
The President alluded to such a strategy this afternoon, when he told reporters that the issue at hand was no longer one of numbers -- the two sides are so close that if this was a business deal it would have closed long ago -- but of ideology.
"The issues here are policy," Mr. Clinton said. "We're only very far away if you insist on a tax cut."
Later, he added, "We ought to have an election about that."
For their part, the Republicans seem uncertain how to play the markets. In December Mr. Gingrich tried, unsuccessfully, to use the fear of a sell-off to win concessions from the White House. He warned that "you will see interest rates skyrocket and the stock market crash" if there was no deal that delivered on the promises of the Republican agenda. But the markets shrugged that warning off as so much steam and proceeded with the upward march that only ended with a two-day sell-off on Wednesday and today that amounted to a 3.2 percent decline in the industrial average.
The man whom the White House is relying on to scope out the market psychology on all of this is Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, who spent most of his career on the other side of the trading screen, trying to turn political pronouncements in Washington into opportunities for profit at Goldman Sachs & Company.
Inside the White House, Mr. Rubin has talked at length about what would happen if the budget deadlock coincided with a growing nervousness in the markets that the Dow had gone too high -- exactly what appears to have happened in the past two days.
At such times, he has warned, bad news that has been ignored for a year suddenly becomes the object of investor fixation. And he often speculated that Wall Street was misled about budget prospects by its overemphasis on the numbers, which would lead anyone to think a deal was imminent, and an underemphasis on the ideological struggle.
"It's a difference of perception about what puts a deal together," he said recently. "These are things I would have missed before I got to Washington, too."
But as Mr. Rubin and Mr. Clinton's other economic advisers have also warned, a budget deadlock, even one fought on the ideological high ground of saving Medicaid and Medicare or cutting taxes, carries considerable risks.
The biggest risk is rising interest rates. No budget deal would almost certainly mean no deal on raising the Government's borrowing limit. That would force Mr. Rubin to take a number of steps of still-questionable legality to keep the nation from going into default, an outcome he has made clear he will avoid at all costs.
But even the suggestion that the Government may not be able to pay its debts could raise some uncertainty in the bond markets, where investors are accustomed to being paid for taking higher risks by receiving higher yields. And an increase in the rates on Treasury securities would ripple through the economy.
Even the cryptic chairman of the Federal Reserve, Alan Greenspan, has warned of that side effect of budget deadlock, saying last year that "a shattering of expectation" among investors could push long-term interest rates significantly higher. That, he said, could send "interest-sensitive areas of the economy into trouble."
Mr. Greenspan's scenario is a nightmare for the White House: An economy that, at midsummer, might look more and more like the economy in 1992.
"It undid George Bush," one of Mr. Clinton's political advisers said recently. "And no one understands that better than us." 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: LEH (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: LEHMAN BROTHERS HOLDINGS INC (56%); WHITE HOUSE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; LAW AND LEGISLATION POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PRIMARY ELECTIONS (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); BONDS (77%); STOCK MARKET CRASHES (72%); LEGISLATION (71%); STOCK INDEXES (71%); INTEREST RATES (52%); ECONOMIC NEWS (52%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



296 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 723 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Giant Omnicom Ad Agency Agrees to Buy Ketchum
The Omnicom Group agreed to buy Ketchum Communications, the 25th-largest American advertising agency, with more than $1 billion in billings. Ketchum is perhaps best known for introducing the Acura line of luxury cars and the Orville Redenbacher popcorn products. The agency has 1,100 employees and offers a range of marketing services.
The purchase is Omnicom's fifth big acquisition of an independent shop in three years. Industry executives estimated that Omnicom was paying $35 million to $40 million in stock, outbidding Interpublic. [Page D7.]
 
Clinton and Congressional Leaders
See Budget Fight Until Election
Both President Clinton and Republican Congressional leaders sounded pessimistic after breaking off their budget talks and suggested they might have to fight out their differences in the November election. [A1.]
 
In Washington, Democrats and Republicans were asking the same two questions: How big a market drop is needed before the political pressure to force a deal becomes unbearable? And if interest rates climb significantly, who will be blamed? [A1.]
 
Market Plunges on Budget Impasse
Stocks plunged again yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average losing more than 97 points after tumbling 67 points on Tuesday. That was the largest two-day decline in more than four years. The slide to 5,032.94 reflected Wall Street's anger and disappointment that the balanced-budget negotiations in Washington had once again stalled. [D8.]
 
Bond prices also tumbled, with the 30-year Treasury issue falling 1 4/32 to 109 11/32 , sending its yield up to 6.18 percent. [D17.]
 
The price of gold topped $400 an ounce for the first time in nearly two and a half years, as investors sought a safe harbor from the stock and bond markets. Supply problems and lower interest rates contributed to gold's rise. [D6.]
 
Dole Opposes Broadcasters
Senator Bob Dole denounced a provision in the telecommunications bill that would give television broadcasters a chunk of the nation's airwaves worth tens of billions of dollars. He sent the clearest signal yet that he may block the bill, and singled out the broadcasting issue as the one section of the huge bill where he had serious objections. [D2.]
 
A Tax Break for Mobile Retirees
President Clinton signed legislation that gives a tax break to tens of thousands of people who have retired to states with no income taxes or lower rates than the states where they lived when they worked. The law prohibits the states where the pensions were earned from reaching beyond their borders to tax retirees. California expects to lose $25 million a year, and New York, $9 million. [D4.]
 
Murdoch Bidding on Olympics
Rupert Murdoch's News Corporation is negotiating to buy the European rights to broadcast the Olympic Games from 2000 to 2008 for a reported $2 billion, for showing on pay and free channels. The company is competing against the European Broadcast Union, which bargains on behalf of European public broadcasters like the BBC, and which has shown the games in the past. [D7.]
 
Blizzard Cost Put at $1 Billion
This week's blizzard could cost the New York region more than $1 billion, economists said, tallying the costs of storm damage, cleanup and lost business activity. [A1.]
 
Blinder Cites Policy Difficulty
Alan Blinder, the Federal Reserve's vice chairman, said that the temporary halt in the release of Government economic reports had made it more difficult for the Fed to set interest-rate policy. But the Fed still will consider its policy on rates at the next meeting of the Federal Open Market Committee this month, he said. [D5.]
 
NCR Gets Its Name Back
Four years after AT&T gobbled up the NCR Corporation in what proved to be a disastrous $7.5 billion takeover, NCR got its name back, as the first step toward being cut loose as a separate company. The company, whose initials for decades stood for National Cash Register, is an important maker of automated teller machines, modern cash registers and networks that link retail registers. [D5.]
 
Bias Suit Against Big Board
A state judge let a former employee proceed with a suit accusing the New York Stock Exchange of dismissing him because he is homosexual. [D4.]

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5.032.94 down 97.19
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.18% up 0.07
The Dollar -- 104.86 yen up 0.21

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OMC (NYSE) (98%); IPG (NYSE) (90%); NWS (NASDAQ) (80%); NWS (ASX) (80%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS541820 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541810 ADVERTISING AGENCIES (98%); NAICS541613 MARKETING CONSULTING SERVICES (98%); SIC8743 PUBLIC RELATIONS AGENCIES (91%); SIC8742 MANAGEMENT CONSULTING SERVICES (91%); NAICS515120 TELEVISION BROADCASTING (80%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (80%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (80%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: OMNICOM GROUP INC (98%); KETCHUM (91%); INTERPUBLIC GROUP OF COS INC (90%); NEWS CORP (80%); NEW YORK (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS MARKETING & ADVERTISING AGENCIES (92%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX LAW (89%); RETIREMENT & RETIREES (89%); BOND MARKETS (88%); BONDS (88%); TAXES & TAXATION (86%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING SERVICES (78%); BROADCASTING INDUSTRY (78%); EXECUTIVES (76%); ELECTIONS (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (75%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (75%); LUXURY GOODS (73%); INTEREST RATES (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (72%); MOTOR VEHICLES (72%); TREASURY SECURITIES (64%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (62%); OLYMPICS (60%); AUTOMOBILE MFG (57%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (90%); KEITH RUPERT MURDOCH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



297 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 982 words

HEADLINE: Market Place;
Stocks Dive, Reflecting Wall St. Ire Toward Washington

BYLINE: By FLOYD NORRIS 

 BODY:
The stock market plunged yesterday, with the Dow Jones industrial average dropping 97.19 points, capping the largest two-day decline in more than four years.
The selling, which affected nearly all sectors of the market, came as long-term interest rates were rising and reflected Wall Street's anger and disappointment that the budget negotiations in Washington had once again stalled with no sign of a deal on the horizon. 
 A further fall could end an unprecedented bull market that has had no sustained declines for more than five years. Since 1990, investors have treated every stock market dip as a buying opportunity and have poured cash into stock mutual funds.
It is now probably up to millions of mutual fund investors to determine whether the drop will continue.
As prices fell yesterday, the talk among traders was that there was selling from mutual funds. "It is fund selling, but it's orderly," said a veteran money manager, speaking on condition he not be identified. Whether that selling represents the first wave of investors taking money out of funds or is just a case of money managers getting worried will not be clear for at least a few days, although fund companies generally denied seeing significant increases in withdrawals by their investors.
The two-day fall that brought the Dow to 5,032.94 equaled 3.2 percent, the worst move for the market since it plunged 3.7 percent on Nov. 14 and 15, 1991. As it happens, anger at Washington was blamed for that move as well. Then, it was a reaction to the Senate's surprising passage of a proposal to put a cap on credit card interest rates. The markets' swift reaction scared the politicians and the idea was dead within days. Stock prices completely recovered within six weeks.
The latest budget problems, which have sent the yield on long-term Treasury bonds up to 6.18 percent, have revived talk of a possible recession.
"A dose of rising interest rates when economic activity is already faltering is a risky proposition for the economy," warned Robert Barbera, the chief economist for Capital Investments International, a New York money manager.
If the market plunge is just Wall Street sending a message, and if the politicians react, then this fall could be as short-lived as the 1991 dip. But with share prices having been at record highs, and with the expectation that profits taken now are likely to be taxed at a lower capital gains tax rate assuming a budget deal is reached, it is possible the selling could spread. There is also concern over corporate profits, and the suspicion that the economy is weak is only being heightened by the lack of important economic data because of the Government shutdown.
Stock mutual funds have been running low levels of cash, fearful of missing out on a bull market, although there was an increase in cash in November, the latest data available. That means that any significant withdrawal activity by investors would be immediately transmitted into selling of stock by fund managers.
Many of the mutual funds that took in the most money from investors last year soared in the first three quarters on the basis of their heavy ownership of technology stocks, particularly in semiconductors. Those stocks have been among the weakest recently, and they were the ones that did worst on Tuesday. Thus the funds with the most money are also the ones that are most vulnerable to investor concerns. The Seligman Communications and Information Fund, for example, has lost 9.1 percent of its value in the last two days.
And after the close yesterday, Fidelity Investments, which had been among the biggest owners of technology shares, reported that it had sold most of its positions in a variety of such stocks, among them Advanced Micro Devices, Cirrus Logic, LSI Logic, 3Com, Silicon Graphics and Texas Instruments.
Some technology stocks, including I.B.M. and Microsoft, recovered a bit yesterday amid the falling prices of most stocks. But the widely watched Philadelphia Stock Exchange semiconductor index lost an additional 1.6 percent, on top of Tuesday's 7.7 percent plunge. It is now down 41.4 percent from its peak, reached in September. And after the close, Apple Computer, which a few days ago had fallen to its lowest level since the summer of 1994, warned of more disappointing financial results, an announcement that could put more pressure on the technology stocks today.
Moreover, financial stocks, which had been among the market leaders more recently, are also showing signs of weakness, reflecting the interest rate rises. The yield on long-term Treasury bonds, now 6.18 percent, was at 5.95 percent only last week.
The latest weakness comes at a time when some foreign stock markets are showing surprising strength. "The marginal money that was going into the States is going into Japan, Singapore, Hong Kong," said one money manager.
It used to be that market setbacks -- corrections in the Wall Street jargon that makes almost everything sound nice -- were a common occurrence. It was almost unheard of for the market to go even two years without at least one 10 percent decline in the major indexes. But this market has not had one since 1990, when prices fell in the aftermath of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait and the economy entered a brief recession.
The lack of corrections has been caused in large part by the willingness of mutual fund investors to buy when others were afraid, a willingness that partly reflected the decision of aging baby boomers to put more and more retirement investments into stocks and stock mutual funds.
Along the way, warnings that prices were getting high when measured by traditional valuation standards were largely ignored, amid talk that stocks were always the best investment on a long-term basis.
Now that willingness to buy is being tested again. It may be the most severe test in some time.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Another Sharp Drop" shows the Dow Jones industrial average at 30 second intervals for Tuesday and yesterday. (Source: Knight-Ridder Tradecenter) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: MARKET PLACE (TIMES COLUMN)

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE; MUTUAL FUNDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING MUTUAL FUNDS (92%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); BUDGETS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); BONDS (89%); INVESTMENT MANAGEMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (76%); PRICE CHANGES (76%); CREDIT CARDS (72%); TAX LAW (68%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (67%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (63%); TREASURY SECURITIES (62%); TAXES & TAXATION (62%); 

PERSON: NORRIS, FLOYD

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



298 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 24; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 237 words

HEADLINE: Now Bring Democracy to Bear on Corporate Downsizing

 BODY:
To the Editor:
United States Secretary of Labor Robert B. Reich ("How to Avoid These Layoffs," Op-Ed, Jan. 4) shows courage when he acknowledges that the only way to stop dramatic increases in unemployment is to require corporations to be socially responsible and to remove the corporate charters of those that are not. 
 Implicitly, Mr. Reich is telling us that the makeshift measures that the Clinton Administration introduced to retrain workers, and the search for personal solutions to the globalization of capital, are unlikely to save us.
Only a conscious democratic decision to impose restrictions on downsizing and globalization will work.
We in the politics-of-meaning movement have advocated an ethical impact report that would require corporations to assess damage to the community before beginning downsizing or reinvestment of capital assets abroad.
We have also urged President Clinton to call an international conference to explore ways for countries to coordinate policies that would restrict corporations' playing one country off against another in their desire to find cheaper labor and fewer restrictions on environmental polluting.
Yet no movement to restrict capital is feasible as long as Americans believe they are best off worrying only about their own economic survival and letting others fend for themselves.
 
MICHAEL LERNER
Editor, Tikkun magazine
New York, Jan. 8, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: LABOR; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS LAYOFFS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (78%); GLOBALIZATION (75%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYEE TRAINING (71%); 

PERSON: REICH, ROBERT B (SEC) BILL CLINTON (75%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



299 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 3; Column 3; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 696 words

HEADLINE: Metro Digest

 BODY:

NEW YORK CITY
 
Rituals of Firefighter's Funeral
For the mourners at the funeral of James B. Williams in Sayville, L.I., the rituals of death had become painfully familiar: a bagpipe's shuddering notes, a red fire truck reserved for funerals. Firefighter Williams, the first city firefighter to die this year, was the 10th in the last two years and the 763d to die in the line of duty in New York City. [Page B1.]
 
Hospitals Consider Partnership
St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center and Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center announced that they were actively negotiating a partnership which, if the talks succeed, would create the largest hospital in New York City and one of the largest in the country. [B1.]
 
Real Lessons From a Movie
A new film called "City Hall" has been in publicity previews, and when it opens in a few weeks, it is sure to create a buzz. Through an accident of timing, it manages to put the recent controversy about the city judiciary in perspective. Metro Matters by Joyce Purnick. [B1.]
 
Vallone Pledges Partisan Fight
City Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone vowed in a feisty and sharply partisan annual address to the City Council that he and the Council will begin serving as a strong Democratic counterweight to Republicans in New York and in Washington. [B3.]
 
Three Resign From G.M.H.C.
Charging that the Gay Men's Health Crisis was not attuned to the needs of minorities, three black members have resigned from the board of New York City's leading private AIDS organization. [B2.]
 
New Design Mecca in TriBeCa
Has the sun set on SoHo as a shopping destination for discriminating palates? For many retailers, the best frontier in Manhattan is TriBeCa. The Home Section. [C1.]
 
Modern Plans Brancusi Show
The Museum of Modern Art announced that it would open a special exhibition of Brancusi masterworks, including 14 sculptures from Paris that will probably never be lent as a group again. The Arts. [C11.]
 
REGION
 
 
Fire Destroys Warehouse
A trucking company's warehouse in Elizabeth, N.J., collapsed and burned in a huge fire, possibly releasing dangerous chemicals into the air, Fire Department officials said. [B3.]
 
Tallying Cost of a Blizzard
This week's blizzard could end up costing the New York region more than $1 billion, economists said after roughly calculating the costs of storm damage and cleanup and the economic activity that was lost because of the snow. [A1.]
 
Heads up: the next winter storm is expected tomorrow. But forecasters say its bite will be nothing like that of the blizzard. [B4.]
 
Plowers Declare a Victory
Sanitation Department officials, conceding that the huge amounts of snow in the city still posed enduring problems, said nonetheless that every street had been plowed -- except for the several dozen blocked by abandoned cars. [B5.]
 
Building managers, store owners and homeowners were rushing to meet Mayor Giuliani's deadline to have a path cleared on their sidewalks or face a fine. [B5.]
 
The snow will be around for months, if predictions are to be believed, but the silence has already disappeared. An appraisal. [B5.]
 
For Students, Holiday's Over
Attendance varied widely as many schools reopened, with only about half of New York City's one million students going to class with a two-hour delay. [B6.]
 
A shortage of working Metro-North Commuter Railroad trains during last evening's rush hour left thousands of commuters stranded in Grand Central Terminal. [B6.]
 
Scientists say this week's snowfall was unusually fluffy. [B6.]
 
Union Solidarity at Yale
As disciplinary hearings began for three graduate students taking part in a grade strike at Yale University, union members -- from maintenance workers to secretaries -- linked arms with doctoral candidates in a peaceful protest. [B1.]
 
G.O.P. Challenging Petitions
New York State's Republican leadership moved to block anyone but Senator Bob Dole of Kansas from entering the state's Republican Presidential primary, saying that it would challenge the nominating petitions of two other candidates. [B2.]

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MEN'S HEALTH MAGAZINE (54%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS CITIES (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); WEATHER (78%); FIRE DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOSPITALS (75%); EXHIBITIONS (73%); FILM (73%); TRUCKING (72%); GAYS & LESBIANS (70%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (67%); WAREHOUSING & STORAGE (66%); RESIGNATIONS (65%); BOARD CHANGES (65%); MEN'S HEALTH (64%); MEN (64%); RETAILERS (63%); CHEMICALS & ENVIRONMENT (60%); 

PERSON: JAMES B WILLIAMS (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



300 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 11, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section B; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 661 words

HEADLINE: Three Black Members Quit AIDS Organization Board

BYLINE: By DAVID W. DUNLAP 

 BODY:
Charging that the Gay Men's Health Crisis was not sufficiently attuned to the needs of minority groups, three black members have resigned from the board of New York City's leading private AIDS organization.
Their resignations, which were submitted on Monday and made public yesterday, underscore a breach that has been growing nationwide as poorer black and Hispanic people with AIDS question whether the middle-class, gay white men who dominate many AIDS groups are capable of providing adequate attention and services to their communities. 
 The Gay Men's Health Crisis, founded in 1982 by six white men, offers everything from legal and financial counseling to practical assistance at home. It serves 7,300 people with AIDS annually, 54 percent of whom are black, Hispanic or Asian. After the three resignations on Monday, only 4 of the 29 board members are black. Two members are Hispanic and one is Asian.
The black members who resigned said problems had been building for months. They criticized the agency's search for new office space in Chelsea -- a neighborhood in Manhattan with many gay, white residents -- rather than in other boroughs, where services would be closer for black and Hispanic clients.
Those who resigned also complained that they had heard that another board member referred to them as "tokens," that a black executive at the agency had been dismissed without adequate explanation and, generally, that their counsel had been ignored.
The black board member with the highest profile was Dr. Billy E. Jones, who headed the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation from 1992 to 1994 and is now executive director of the Kingsboro Psychiatric Center in Brooklyn. He joined the board last year.
"Much work needs to be done at G.M.H.C. to make it truly inclusive and welcoming of diversity," Dr. Jones wrote in his letter of resignation. "It is also clear that such work will be a great struggle. I am resigning because I do not choose to engage in such a struggle at G.M.H.C., but rather prefer to fight for the needs of those ravaged by H.I.V."
Louis Bradbury, the president of the board, said yesterday that the search for new office space was an exercise of fiduciary responsibility, since renewing some existing leases in Chelsea would cost twice the current rent. He said the "tokens" remark would be outrageous, if true, but that it was an unsubstantiated allegation.
As to the broader ethnic and economic questions, he said: "We're struggling to see that all people feel that they are welcome and that we are there for them. There are a lot of tensions in our society and we're dealing with them."
Mr. Bradbury said all three members who resigned were "excellent people" whom he was sorry to see depart. He said the agency would continue to seek as diverse a board as possible.
Joining Dr. Jones in resigning were Dr. Richard G. Dudley Jr., a psychiatrist in Harlem, and Doug Robinson, former co-chairman of Center Kids, a family program at the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center in Greenwich Village.
"G.M.H.C. is the big brother on the block," said Mr. Robinson, who joined the board in 1994. "What they say and what they do is listened to by many people. We found, as people of color on the board, that our voices were not heard."
Among the minority board members who remain are Dennis deLeon, president of the Latino Commission on AIDS; Dr. Marjorie J. Hill, former director of the Mayor's Office for the Lesbian and Gay Community, and Thomas Morgan 3d, a former reporter for The New York Times.
"G.M.H.C. is going through a big transformation as the client base changes," Mr. deLeon said. "It's struggling with the issue at the organizational level, the staff level and on the board level. But it is struggling. That counts for a lot.
"The question is: will minority members of the board be able to be heard? I've got to play out my own efforts on the board and I intend to do that." 

CORRECTION-DATE: January 12, 1996, Friday

 CORRECTION:
Because of an editing error, an article yesterday about the resignation of some black directors of the Gay Men's Health Crisis misstated the size of the board. After 3 members resigned on Monday, 26 remained, not 29.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (ORGN) GAY COMMUNITY (56%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (93%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (ORGN) GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (93%); GAY MEN'S HEALTH CRISIS (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ACQUIRED IMMUNE DEFICIENCY SYNDROME (AIDS); BLACKS; HOMOSEXUALITY; MINORITIES (ETHNIC, RACIAL, RELIGIOUS); SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US); SUSPENSIONS, DISMISSALS AND RESIGNATIONS AIDS & HIV (92%); GAYS & LESBIANS (91%); RESIGNATIONS (91%); MEN (91%); MEN'S HEALTH (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (90%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); RACE & RACISM (89%); OFFICE PROPERTY (88%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); LEASE AGREEMENTS (72%); DISMISSALS (70%); EXECUTIVES (65%); 

PERSON: DUNLAP, DAVID W; ROBINSON, DOUGLAS; JONES, BILLY E (DR); DUDLEY, RICHARD G JR (DR) BILLY E JONES (69%); DENNIS DELEON (56%); LOUIS BRADBURY (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 1996



301 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section C; Page 3; Column 4; Weekend Desk 

LENGTH: 894 words

HEADLINE: City Opera Appoints a Director

BYLINE: By ALLAN KOZINN 

 BODY:
Paul Kellogg, an opera administrator who built the Glimmerglass Opera in Cooperstown, N.Y., into a major attraction on the summer opera circuit, has been appointed general and artistic director of the New York City Opera, the company announced yesterday.
Mr. Kellogg, who is 58, succeeds Christopher Keene, who died in October. His contract runs for five years. Because Mr. Kellogg is not a conductor, as Mr. Keene was, the company is to appoint a music director as well. Mr. Kellogg and Irwin Schneiderman, a company co-chairman, said that they expected to appoint a director in a few weeks. They are also seeking a new executive director to replace Mark J. Weinstein, who is leaving to become a vice president of the National Artists Management Company. 
 An unusual aspect of Mr. Kellogg's appointment is that he is to continue as artistic director of Glimmerglass while running City Opera but will relinquish the administrative side of the Glimmerglass job. Because City Opera no longer performs in the summer, and Glimmerglass does not perform during the regular concert season, scheduling conflicts are unlikely. Moreover, City Opera stands to gain from the arrangement, which Mr. Schneiderman described as a particularly economical synergy.
Each season starting in 1997-98, the first season for which Mr. Kellogg is responsible, City Opera will share three or four Glimmerglass productions. Because the two companies are likely to use similar casts, the productions will already have had considerable rehearsal and performance time by the time they reach New York City.
"It's too early for me to discuss philosophy," Mr. Kellogg said, "because philosophical discussions inevitably lead to promises. I hope to build on the base that has been established by the last several regimes in terms of a balanced repertory and strong theatrical values, and on this company's tradition for being adventurous. But I have not yet sat at my desk or opened a folder, so I don't want to make any promises about how I hope to implement my vision for the company."
Nevertheless, in an interview at the New York State Theater yesterday, Mr. Kellogg made it clear that this vision is expansive. Saying that he wanted to maintain Mr. Keene's commitment to unusual repertory, he spoke of reviving works commissioned or first performed at the City Opera in its 52-year history, and of commissioning new works.
He also spoke of introducing more Massenet and early Mozart into the company's repertory; of reducing but not eliminating the company's commitment to operetta, and of hiring innovative directors and designers to stage standard repertory works. No names were mentioned, but Jonathan Miller, Mark Lamos and Martha Clarke have staged productions at Glimmerglass in recent seasons.
Mr. Kellogg also said he was inclined to reduce the number of productions the company stages every season without reducing the total number of performances. This season the company presented 114 performances of 15 productions and had a budget of $24 million. Mr. Schneiderman said that the company broke even last year and does not have an accumulated deficit.
But the company's finances have always been delicate, and another of Mr. Kellogg's dreams for the company may be expensive. He hinted that he would like to renovate the acoustically troublesome New York State Theater.
Mr. Kellogg may be able to raise the money for such a project. When he took over Glimmerglass in 1979, it performed in a high school auditorium and had a budget of $70,400. The company's budget last season was $3.5 million, and it also recently completed a $6 million capital campaign. In 1987, the company opened the 920-seat Alice Busch Opera Theater, an intimate, attractive house on the shore of Lake Otsego, which was built for $5 million.
Artistically, Glimmerglass has much in common with City Opera. Both companies are havens for young American singers. And both offer a balance of standard works and rarities, although Glimmerglass takes a more conservative view of the unusual, offering works like Handel's "Tamerlano," Berlioz's "Beatrice and Benedict" and Britten's "Paul Bunyan." Its production of Monteverdi's "Incoronazione di Poppea," a hit last summer, is moving to the Brooklyn Academy of Music for a run that opens tomorrow evening and continues through Jan. 21.
Mr. Kellogg was born in Hollywood and studied literature at the University of Texas, the Sorbonne and the University of Nancy in France and Columbia University. He has taught in both France and New York, and he moved to Cooperstown to write a novel in 1975. The book was never published: Mr. Kellogg said the invitation to become director of the Glimmerglass Opera interrupted his work on it.
Mr. Kellogg is the first City Opera director without a performing career. Most of the company's directors, including Laszlo Halasz, Julius Rudel and Mr. Keene, have been conductors. Mr. Keene's predecessor, Beverly Sills, became director after many years as its star soprano.
"One thing I learned at Glimmerglass," Mr. Kellogg said, "is that you cannot underestimate the intelligence of the public. The audience is demanding intellectually, and curious. I want to build an audience that grows dramatically every year based on the repertory we offer. And New York City is the best possible place to do that."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Paul Kellogg, on the promenade of the New York State Theater. (Sara Krulwich/The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: K (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS311412 FROZEN SPECIALTY FOOD MANUFACTURING (90%); NAICS311230 BREAKFAST CEREAL MANUFACTURING (90%); SIC2052 COOKIES & CRACKERS (90%); SIC2043 CEREAL BREAKFAST FOODS (90%); SIC2038 FROZEN SPECIALTIES, NEC (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK CITY OPERA KELLOGG CO (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK CITY OPERA

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES APPOINTMENTS (95%); BOARD CHANGES (90%); FESTIVALS (89%); OPERA (89%); EXECUTIVE MOVES (78%); EXECUTIVES (78%); MUSIC (78%); INTERVIEWS (77%); THEATER (77%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (76%); ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (76%); 

PERSON: KOZINN, ALLAN; KELLOGG, PAUL CHRISTOPHER KEENE (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



302 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 86 words

HEADLINE: Fed's Policy Is Sound

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Re "Greenspan's Grip" (Op-Ed, Jan. 9), which criticizes Federal Reserve policy under its chairman, Alan Greenspan: 
 Timothy A. Canova has a short memory. The Federal Reserve has raised interest rates several times in the last year to prop up the dollar.
This is sound fiscal policy, considering Washington's inability to come up with a real policy for dealing with the deficit. Interest rates should remain high until this goal is achieved.
 
JOHN RUSSELL
Marietta, Ga., Jan. 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

INDUSTRY: SIC6011 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK; 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: GEORGIA, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (91%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE BOARD

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); GEORGIA, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); CENTRAL BANKS (88%); ECONOMIC POLICY (87%); ECONOMIC NEWS (87%); INTEREST RATES (84%); PUBLIC FINANCE (84%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); 

PERSON: RUSSELL, JOHN ALAN GREENSPAN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



303 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 662 words

HEADLINE: Abroad at Home;
Budget Myths

BYLINE: By ANTHONY LEWIS 

DATELINE: BOSTON

 BODY:
From the public's perspective, the budget conflict seems to rest on a number of unchallengeable economic truths. In fact, they are myths.
1. There is a deficit crisis. 
 The Federal budget deficit, as a percentage of the budget, is the smallest of any of the world's seven leading industrial economies. And it is decreasing.
The deficit has fallen from 5 percent of the total national income in 1992 to 2.2 percent now. At the annual meeting of the American Economic Association this week virtually no economist argued that the deficit was a critical problem in need of immediate correction.
When the figure was much larger, there were warnings that the deficit would push this country into a financial crisis, that foreign investors would pull their money out and so on. Now that it is plainly no cause for alarm, the gloom artists tell us that the sky will fall in the future.
Deficit talk, in short, has become a permanent scare tactic, regardless of the facts. That is politics, not economics. House Republicans talk about a balanced budget when President Clinton has agreed to that and their actual objective is to gut government medical and environmental programs.
2. Republicans have to act to undo the profligacy of President Clinton and other Democrats.
On Jan. 20, 1981, the national debt was less than $1 trillion. On Jan. 20, 1993, after 12 years of the Reagan and Bush Presidencies, it was $4 trillion.
We now have to pay interest on the $3 trillion in Reagan-Bush debt. At a rate of 7 percent, that comes to $210 billion a year: more than the current deficit of $172 billion. Without that burden, the budget would be in balance.
3. Americans pay high taxes.
The Economist of London, that conservative journal, wrote last year: "By international standards, America remains a lightly-taxed country." That reality is underlined by authoritative figures from the Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development. Here are the O.E.C.D. figures, for 1993, on total national tax revenue as a percentage of gross domestic product.
United States -- 29.7
Britain -- 33.6
France -- 43.9
Germany -- 39.0
Switzerland -- 33.2
Japan -- 29.1
The year 1993 is the latest analyzed in full by the O.E.C.D. It has issued partial figures for 1995 showing the European countries all slightly higher in their percentages. The only developed country marginally lower than the United States is Japan.
So U.S. taxes are not "high." And there is no professional consensus that it would be economically beneficial to lower them now. Herbert Stein of the American Enterprise Institute, who was chairman of the Council of Economic Advisers in the Nixon Administration, said last July: "I don't think there is any economic rationale for a tax cut at this time."
The myths are a political smoke screen. And they are worse than deceptive. They keep us from focusing attention on our real economic problems.
Of those problems, the most fundamental is the slowdown of the historic growth in American productivity. Over many years growth averaged 3.4 percent. But over the last 20 years it has been only 2.4 percent or so, discounting inflation.
That missing 1 percent (really a one-third fall in the rate of growth) has had devastating effects. It has cost the economy around $12 trillion over these 20 years. If the traditional growth rate had continued, the Federal budget would have been in surplus -- and American families substantially better off.
A second acute economic problem is income inequality. Since 1973, real earnings of the lowest-paid 20 percent of U.S. workers have fallen by nearly a quarter. The top 20 percent's have risen 10 percent, the very highest a lot more.
Disparities in American family income are now the greatest since they were first measured, nearly 50 years ago. The Republican budget, raising taxes on the working poor and slashing them for the rich, would increase the gulf.
Those are realities, not myths.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

INDUSTRY: SIC8733 NONCOMMERCIAL RESEARCH ORGANIZATIONS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (75%); FRANCE (73%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN ENTERPRISE INSTITUTE FOR PUBLIC POLICY RESEARCH (50%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); AMERICAN ECONOMIC ASSOCIATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); JAPAN (92%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); SWITZERLAND (75%); FRANCE (73%); LONDON, ENGLAND (70%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; PUBLIC OPINION; TAXATION BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (87%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); TAX INCENTIVES (74%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); CONSERVATISM (72%); TALKS & MEETINGS (71%); TAXES & TAXATION (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (69%); TAX LAW (63%); 

PERSON: LEWIS, ANTHONY RONALD REAGAN (89%); BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



304 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 31; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 718 words

HEADLINE: In America;
Coast-To-Coast Blues

BYLINE: By BOB HERBERT 

 BODY:
It was too brief, the majesty and ferocity of the storm, and the subsequent beauty and quiet of the city. Now it's back to the gritty madness of everyday life, and a look at the new year.
The appropriate musical genre for 1996 is probably the blues. Bad news followed by more bad news. It's a Presidential election year but look at the line-up of candidates -- a depressing collection of zeros on a scale of one to ten. 
 Hypocrisy is always at high tide in politics, but some kind of pinnacle of irony has been reached when Bob Dole starts complaining about corporate welfare and Al D'Amato's chief strategic weapon is an ethics probe.
Referring to a provision of the giant telecommunications bill that would provide a multibillion-dollar windfall for television broadcasters, Mr. Dole said on Wednesday, "Let's, for the sake of the taxpayers and for the sake of the American consumers, fix this one corporate welfare provision before we have to vote on it."
Just this one, mind you. No need to get crazy.
Senator D'Amato is so enjoying his role as a guardian of ethics that he now says he may not be able to finish his Whitewater probe by its end-of-February deadline. He may ask for more time, he said.
Mr. D'Amato, whose career was nurtured in a hothouse of corruption on Long Island, believes he can create enough of a stench from Whitewater to drive President Clinton from the White House. I wouldn't bet on it. The President may not want to match wits with Bill Safire, but he is certainly the Senator's equal in surviving the rough and tumble of scandal, ethical and otherwise.
Still, the President feels the need for a respite from Washington. He looked tired and stressed at yesterday's press conference. His answers to several questions, particularly those concerning the First Lady and his personal finances, were not to the point. This weekend, on the theory that foreign excursions can boost sagging public relations at home, Mr. Clinton will travel to Bosnia.
Meanwhile, the stock markets are wobbling, the economy looks increasingly shaky, there is no improvement in the employment picture, and nobody -- least of all the Presidential candidates (with the exception of Patrick Buchanan, a cure that would be worse than the disease) -- is paying much attention.
Casey Stengel once asked, "Can't anybody here play this game?" When you look at government -- state and local, as well as Federal -- the answer appears to be no. In Washington, the White House and the Republicans in Congress are in a stalemate over budget proposals that are equally bogus. In the first place, there is no crying need to balance the Federal budget. What is more important is to have government spending under control, with money available for capital needs and other investments that foster economic growth.
In the second place, if the goal is to balance the budget, why cut taxes?
In the third place, none of the proposals will really balance the budget by 2002. (Name the last big government effort that came in on time and on budget.)
At the state and local levels, governors and mayors are winging it. They haven't a clue as to how to cope with the local revenue shortfalls that will result from the budget-cutting that is already under way in Washington. In New York and New Jersey, Govs. George Pataki and Christine Todd Whitman rode into office on a tax-cut express. Now the treasuries in both states are in desperate shape. What a surprise.
In New York City, Mayor Rudolph Giuliani is doing poorly in public opinion polls despite a remarkable drop in crime during his first two years in office. His obnoxious personality is part of the reason. But another part is that the problems in New York are the same as everywhere else -- a stagnant economy, not enough jobs, and no real leadership.
No one seems to know what to do. If we apply the theme of the blues to government, the appropriate song would seem to be Blind Willie McTell's "Broke Down Engine Blues."
A catalogue from the Smithsonian Collection of Recordings mentions the "plaintive, somehow urgent quality" of Mr. McTell's singing. A similar quality, or mood, is growing in the economically insecure portions of the population, a large segment of the electorate. The politicians who don't yet hear it will be hearing it soon.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN COAST-TO-COAST COMMUNICATIONS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST FINANCIAL CORP (91%); COAST-TO-COAST ANALYTICAL SERVICES INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST BUILDING PRODUCTS INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST CONSULTING INC (91%); COAST-TO-COAST SEAFOOD INC (91%); NEW YORK&NEW JERSEY (57%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN NEW YORK&NEW JERSEY (57%); WHITE HOUSE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (95%); DISTRICT OF COLUMBIA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WHITEWATER CASE; ETHICS EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); ETHICS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (76%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (76%); CORRUPTION (74%); LEGISLATION (74%); MUSIC GENRES (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (72%); PERSONAL FINANCE (72%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (69%); COMMUNICATIONS LAW (68%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (60%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (60%); MUSIC (57%); MILITARY WEAPONS (54%); 

PERSON: HERBERT, BOB; D'AMATO, ALFONSE M (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); BILL CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



305 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 311 words

HEADLINE: A Democrat Wins in Guatemala

 BODY:
Even after discounting for a slim margin and a low turnout, it is encouraging that Alvaro Arzu Irigoyen, a democrat, defeated a stand-in for Efrain Rios Montt, a former military dictator, in Guatemala's runoff presidential elections this week. Guatemalan democracy, however, remains perilously insecure. It is threatened by Mr. Rios Montt's ambitions, by the army and by the grievances churned in 35 years of civil war. Mr. Arzu's promised efforts to rein in the military and strengthen constitutional rule deserve strong American support.
Guatemala's political instability, including the long conflict between its army and leftist guerrillas, which has killed more than 100,000 people out of a population of less than 10 million, owes much to a crude American-sponsored coup during the Eisenhower Administration.The intervening years have brought repeated revelations of covert Central Intelligence Agency collaboration with murderous elements of the Guatemalan military. The pattern of C.I.A. involvement even outlasted the cold war. 
 This history alone gives America special reasons for helping to rebuild Guatemalan democracy. But apart from making amends, Washington has a considerable stake in Mr. Arzu's reform agenda. Sharing a border with Mexico, Guatemala has become a major transit route for cocaine and illegal immigrants bound for the United States. It also has Central America's largest economy.
Beginning with the Bush Administration, official American policy has supported the rule of law, human rights and a negotiated peace with the guerrillas. But despite the efforts of a succession of ambassadors, these goals have been undermined by continued covert C.I.A. cooperation with military murderers. That collaboration serves no American or Guatemalan interest. The most constructive support Washington can give Mr. Arzu is to end it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%); 

COMPANY: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); CENTRAL INTELLIGENCE AGENCY (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GUATEMALA; GUATEMALA (99%); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (77%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); ARMIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); LIBERALISM (78%); RUNOFF ELECTIONS (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); ELECTIONS (77%); COLD WAR (77%); US PRESIDENTS (77%); CIVIL WAR (77%); POLITICS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); COUPS (77%); WAR & CONFLICT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (73%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (66%); IMMIGRATION (66%); COCAINE (51%); 

PERSON: ARZU IRIGOYEN, ALVARO ALVARO ARZU IRIGOYEN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



306 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 9; Column 6; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 840 words

HEADLINE: PRO BASKETBALL;
Nets Are Being Sued by Childs, Who Charges Contract Fraud

BYLINE: By GEORGE WILLIS 

DATELINE: HACKENSACK, N.J., Jan. 11

 BODY:
The Nets played hardball with the reserve guard Chris Childs last fall by offering him a one-year contract for the minimum $350,000. Now Childs is playing his own brand of hardball by filing a civil lawsuit against the National Basketball Association team seeking compensatory damages.
Childs, who scored a career-high 21 points in the Nets' 92-79 victory over the Knicks on Wednesday night, filed the suit last month in United States District Court in New Jersey. It charges the Nets with fraud, negligent misrepresentation, wrongful interference with prospective economic advantage and breach of contract. 
 The suit stems from a series of conversations that Childs's agent, Steve Kauffman of Malibu, Calif., had with Nets General Manager Willis Reed beginning on Aug. 7, 1995. Childs contends in his complaint those conversations led him to turn down a lucrative offer from a team in Greece only to receive the lesser offer from the Nets.
Reed refused comment today when asked about the lawsuit. "Why don't you talk to his agent, Kauffman?" Reed said. "The agents always like to talk."
The events that led to the lawsuit began last summer when the Panionios Sporting Club, a professional basketball team in the Greek Basketball Federation, made a written offer to sign Childs, a restricted free agent at the time. The suit estimates the tax-adjusted value of the one-year offer worth $650,000 to $700,000.
Although the N.B.A. lockout was in effect and contractual matters were not allowed to be discussed between agents and N.B.A. clubs, the suit says, Kauffman telephoned Reed and informed him of the offer from the Greek team and added that he would recommend that Childs accept it.
The suit states that Reed "strongly implored" Kauffman to persuade Childs to reject the Panionios offer and assured Kauffman that after the lockout was lifted, the Nets would "promptly re-sign Childs to a contract that was as financially attractive as the Panionios offer."
The suit also contends that, based on Reed's representations, Childs decided not to accept the offer from the Greek team. Yet, once the lockout was lifted, the Nets' offer was a one-year deal for $350,000, the minimum for a restricted free agent.
Kauffman directed inquiries about the lawsuit to the litigating lawyer, George G. O'Brien of Cherry Hill, N.J., but confirmed that Childs proceeded with the lawsuit because "he felt he'd been the victim of fraudulent misrepresentation. It was a complete injustice."
Childs, reached at the hotel where he is residing, also refused comment.
O'Brien said the Nets had filed an answer to the complaint. The two sides will have an initial conference before a magistrate judge at a future date to establish guidelines for a possible trial.
"We think we have a very strong case," said O'Brien, who is seeking to recover about $300,000 to $350,000, the difference between the offer from the Greek team and Childs's current contract with the Nets. "There were a series of conversations between Steve Kauffman and Willis Reed and those are important. We also have a written offer from a Greek team for a specified amount of money."
Childs, 28, earned $150,000 last season when Reed plucked him from the Continental Basketball Association, where he toiled for five seasons. Childs played in 53 games with the Nets, starting in 11, and averaged a 5.8 points a game. Because he was a restricted free agent at the end of the season, the Nets had the right to match any offer. There was no other interest in Childs and he eventually had to accept the Nets' $350,000 deal.
"It was a very distasteful situation," Kauffman said. "It's difficult to get an offer for a restricted free agent, no matter who it is."
Even if Childs does not win the lawsuit, he could still get the last laugh. By signing a one-year deal, he'll become an unrestricted free agent at the end of this season. The Nets will own no rights to him.
Performances like the one Childs had against the Knicks, where he hit 4 of 9 3-pointers and played 42 minutes without a turnover, have raised his stock around the N.B.A. The good defender is a capable scorer who is averaging 8.8 points a game while shooting 40 percent from the field this season.
Kauffman said the Nets president, Michael Rowe, called about three weeks ago to discuss parameters for a new contract for Childs but has since dodged repeated efforts by Kauffman to continue the talks. Rowe did not respond to answering-machine messages left today at his office. With the Nets' starting point guard Kenny Anderson also scheduled to be a free agent, the future of the team's backcourt is precarious.
"If they don't want to sign Chris they should just trade him to a contending team where he could be the missing piece," Kauffman said.

 
 
REBOUNDS
 The Nets play the 76ers Friday night at Continental Airlines Arena. The former Net and current Philadelphia forward DERRICK COLEMAN will not play because of a sprained right ankle. Coleman has played in only six games this season.

GRAPHIC: Photo: (G. Paul Burnett/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); 

CITY: CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY NETS CHERRY HILL TOYOTA (51%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY NETS NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NEW JERSEY NETS (94%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NATIONAL BASKETBALL ASSOCIATION (84%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); NEW YORK NICKERBOCKERS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (77%); CHERRY HILL, NJ, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: BASKETBALL; FRAUDS AND SWINDLING; SUITS AND LITIGATION BASKETBALL (94%); SUITS & CLAIMS (94%); LITIGATION (92%); BUSINESS TORTS (89%); FRAUD & FINANCIAL CRIME (89%); DAMAGES (78%); CONTRACTS LAW (78%); SPORTS AGENTS & PROMOTERS (78%); NEGLIGENCE (77%); SPORTS GOVERNING BODIES (77%); MAGISTRATES (76%); BREACH OF CONTRACT (73%); JUDGES (72%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (71%); 

PERSON: WILLIS, GEORGE; CHILDS, CHRIS CHRIS CHILDS (99%); STEVE KAUFFMAN (93%); WILLIS REED (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



307 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 675 words

HEADLINE: Bradley Backs Clinton on Affirmative Action

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Senator Bill Bradley of New Jersey issued a strong defense today of affirmative action in a state where the government has all but rolled it back, and he offered a timely endorsement of President Clinton's stands on race relations while excoriating most Republicans on the issue.
Even though he has recently been discouraging such speculation, Senator Bradley has been mentioned as a possible independent candidate for President. But his comments, in a speech to a civic group, appeared to move him closer to Mr. Clinton and the Democrats on one of the most sensitive issues in the campaign. 
 Mr. Bradley, a Democrat whose third term ends this year, is not running for re-election, and he has used his independence from campaigning to speak candidly about some critical economic and foreign policy issues. Nevertheless, in some respects, his speech today to the Town Hall of Los Angeles was heavy with platitudes about the need for different races to work together.
"Ultimately," he said, "the question is not only how do we counter the poverty, violence and disintegration but how do we all live together? But let us not abandon the quest to end racism."
He had one suggestion for the Government: that the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, which investigates accusations of discrimination in the workplace, be given broader powers to order remedies for those who are found to have suffered discrimination.
He spoke appreciatively of Mr. Clinton's acknowledgment that there is racism in America and that affirmative action is an essential remedy. "I believe he is strongest when he talks about conviction related to race because I do think he has that conviction," the Senator said of Mr. Clinton. "But the question we need to hear him answer is, what are we doing to do about it?"
Mr. Bradley criticized the news media for what he said was oversimplifying the race issue and for failing to recognize the human faces behind racial problems. He said the three most visible black men in the news last year -- O. J. Simpson, Louis Farrakhan and Gen. Colin L. Powell -- had been little more than instruments for people to improperly demonize, ridicule or unnecessarily idealize blacks.
He attributed many of the current racial problems to economics. Mr. Bradley argued that job losses in American industries in recent years had angered blacks and whites, forcing both sides to look beyond faceless economic forces to stereotypes to explain their unfair treatment.
The Senator criticized whites for not acknowledging the racial privileges they enjoy: of being able to apply for a home loan, for instance, and not worry whether they would be rejected because of the color of their skin. "The freedom from fear is a white skin privilege," he said.
Those privileges are the reason, he argued, that affirmative action programs giving preferential treatment to blacks and other minorities in hiring and promotion are still essential to narrowing the economic gaps between the races.
"In some places affirmative action is the only way we can balance white skin privilege," he said.
As Mr. Clinton did, Mr. Bradley said some affirmative action programs needed to be modified to be fairer. He specifically mentioned a rule, repealed by Congress last year, that had given financial preferences to investment groups that included minorities in the acquisition of radio and television stations.
Mr. Bradley reserved some of his harshest words for opponents of affirmative action. He declined to mention names, but it seemed clear he had in mind the Republican Presidential candidates, most of whom have expressed reservations about affirmative action, as well as Gov. Pete Wilson of California, who is seeking to eliminate them entirely from the state.
He compared opponents of affirmative action to the people who created discriminatory laws against blacks, and said they "are often the same people who seldom have black friends and who will choose the white teacher over the black teacher for their children every time."
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (87%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN INDUSTRIES LIFE INSURANCE CO (51%); AMERICAN INDUSTRIES INC (51%); US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: US EQUAL EMPLOYMENT OPPORTUNITY COMMISSION (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (87%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (87%); 

SUBJECT: AFFIRMATIVE ACTION AFFIRMATIVE ACTION (93%); AFFIRMATIVE ACTION IN EMPLOYMENT (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); RACE & RACISM (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EMPLOYMENT (89%); DISCRIMINATION (89%); ELECTIONS (79%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); CIVIL RIGHTS (78%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (77%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (77%); EMPLOYMENT DISCRIMINATION (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); EMPLOYMENT SEARCH (76%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); GENDER & SEX DISCRIMINATION IN EMPLOYMENT (70%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (55%); 

PERSON: BRADLEY, BILL (SEN); CLINTON, BILL (PRES); STERNGOLD, JAMES; WILSON, PETE (GOV) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



308 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 21; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1157 words

HEADLINE: Who's Who of Money Moguls in '96 Race

BYLINE: By JANE FRITSCH 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
When Ernest and Julio Gallo set out in 1992 to remake the blue-collar image of their California wines, they turned for help to a reliable friend, Senator Bob Dole of Kansas.
The Gallos were unhappy with the Federal requirement that they label their sparkling wines, produced in huge tanks, with the words "bulk process." They considered the term demeaning and wanted to replace it with the French-sounding "Charmat method." 
 Mr. Dole, then the Senate minority leader, intervened for the Gallos with the Federal Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms, and the Gallos won a favorable compromise.
E. & J. Gallo Winery may be far from Mr. Dole's home state, but he has long been interested in the company's welfare. The company has returned the interest, becoming his leading lifetime contributor, according to a report released today by the Center for Public Integrity, a nonpartisan research group in Washington.
Mr. Dole's assistance to a political donor is hardly unique, the report says. Virtually all the 1996 Presidential candidates have intertwined their political fund raising with their public actions in ways that are significant, but little known to the public.
An unprecedented $100 million has already been collected for the 1996 race. The research group's new report, based on an analysis of a wide range of public records, concluded that wealthy donors were increasingly able to influence public policy for personal gain.
"It's a package deal," said Charles Lewis, the center's executive director. "You're getting the politicians and their patrons when you elect them." The report, the result of more than a year of research and interviews, has been published in a book called, "The Buying of the President" (Avon Books, 1996).
"The truth is that big-money interests have already preselected our choices of who will become the next President of the United States," Mr. Lewis said.
The report did not offer any proposals for changes, but it urged voters to put pressure on the candidates by confronting them with questions about conflicts of interest.
Each candidate has been helped along by a small group of donors described in the report as the "top 10 career patrons." They provide substantial financial support and can be tapped for help in emergencies.
President Clinton's top 10 list contained few surprises. His top patron has been Goldman Sachs, the New York investment bank that has been closely tied to his Administration. Officers of the bank have given Mr. Clinton's campaigns $107,850, and Robert E. Rubin, a former co-chairman of the firm, and his wife made a $275,000 contribution from their personal foundation to the New York Host Committee for the 1992 Democratic convention. Mr. Clinton later named Mr. Rubin Treasury Secretary.
Mr. Rubin, the report said, spearheaded Goldman Sachs' move into the Mexican market, and later, as Treasury Secretary, he engineered policies that helped shore up the faltering Mexican economy, moves that ultimately helped bondholders and Goldman Sachs.
Also on Mr. Clinton's top 10 list were Arkansas companies and Washington and New York law firms.
But his fifth-ranking lifetime patron was unexpected: the Gallo family. Despite the Gallos longstanding support for Senator Dole, they began donating to Mr. Clinton in early 1992, as his campaign for the Democratic Presidential nomination began to gather strength. Steve Swasey, a spokesman for Gallo, said the Gallos would not comment on the reasons for their political contributions.
They have been even more generous to Mr. Dole, and their donations continue. Over his lifetime in politics, Mr. Dole has received more from Gallo, its officials and employees than from any other donors. They have given more than $381,000 to his campaigns and another $790,000 to the Dole Foundation, a charitable entity Mr. Dole formed in 1983 to help the handicapped.
In the wine labeling matter, Mr. Dole and then-Senator John Seymour of California wrote to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms on Gallo's behalf. In the end, the company was permitted to change the words "bulk process" to "secondary fermentation before bottling." But perhaps the most significant help Mr. Dole offered the company came in 1986, when he was majority leader and a senior member of the Finance Committee. He helped to push through the Senate an amendment to a tax reform bill that would save the Gallo brothers' heirs more than $100 million in inheritance taxes. Dole campaign committees received $20,000 from Gallo family members while the bill was being drafted, the report says.
Over his career, from 1973 to 1995, Mr. Dole has raised more than $70 million, "more special interest money than anyone running for President in 1996," Mr. Lewis said. The report says Mr. Dole "rarely championed" reform of the political process. Spokesmen for Mr. Dole, who has been in politics longer than anyone else in the race, did not respond to questions about the report.
Senator Phil Gramm's top lifetime patron was the National Rifle Association, the report said. The group has given him more than $440,000 since 1979, more than it has given any other politician. "Gramm has not disappointed the N.R.A.," the report said. In the last decade, he has introduced, sponsored or voted with the organization's interests on 18 major gun bills, the researchers found.
Mr. Gramm also has a close relationship with the American Medical Association, his second-ranking lifetime patron. Its members have given his campaigns more than $140,000 over the years. Mr. Gramm has stood staunchly with the group's interests, helping to defeat aspects of the Clinton Administration's managed care proposals. Mr. Gramm's campaign spokesman did not respond to questions about the report.
Both houses of Congress have passed measures limiting gifts from lobbyists and requiring greater disclosure of their activities. But efforts at campaign finance reform have met with fierce resistance in Congress in the 20 years since the first campaign finance laws were enacted as a response to Watergate and related scandals.
"We are basically asking the foxes to lock themselves out of the chicken coops," Mr. Lewis said. "Most foxes won't do that."
But some have said recently that there is a growing movement in Congress to deal with the issue this year.
Ann McBride, who heads Common Cause, the public affairs lobby, said today that disgust with the system had led to unusually strong bipartisan support for a bill that was recently introduced by conservatives, liberals and moderates. The measure would establish spending limits for campaigns, provide free and reduced-cost television time, and ban so-called soft money, the loosely regulated party political funds that attract large donations that are banned for individual candidates.
"There is overwhelming anger about this issue around this country," she said, "and a real desire for change."

GRAPHIC: Chart: "KEEPING TRACK: Where Their Money Came From" lists the five largest contributors to the top Presidential candidtaes during their political careers. (Source: Center for Public Integrity)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS312130 WINERIES (71%); SIC5182 WINE & DISTILLED ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES (71%); SIC2084 WINES, BRANDY, & BRANDY SPIRITS (71%); NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (55%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (55%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (55%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (55%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: KANSAS, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: GALLO, E J, WINERY; CENTER FOR PUBLIC INTEGRITY; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO E & J GALLO WINERY (71%); GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (55%); BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: GALLO, E J, WINERY; CENTER FOR PUBLIC INTEGRITY; GOLDMAN SACHS & CO BUREAU OF ALCOHOL TOBACCO FIREARMS & EXPLOSIVES (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); KANSAS, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; FINANCES WINERIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); POLITICAL DONATIONS & FUNDRAISING (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); PUBLIC POLICY (77%); CONFLICTS OF INTEREST (77%); INTERVIEWS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (76%); FIREARMS (75%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (75%); POLITICAL PARTIES (75%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (75%); EXECUTIVES (75%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (75%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (75%); POLITICS (75%); RESEARCH REPORTS (74%); FUNDRAISING (73%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (72%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (71%); INVESTMENT BANKING (71%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (71%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (67%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); DOLE, BOB (SEN); FRITSCH, JANE; ALEXANDER, LAMAR; BUCHANAN, PATRICK J; GRAMM, PHIL (SEN); KEYES, ALAN; LUGAR, RICHARD G (SEN) BILL CLINTON (75%); DICK LUGAR (58%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (57%); PHIL GRAMM (55%); JERRY LEWIS (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



309 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 22; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 3740 words

HEADLINE: BATTLE OVER THE BUDGET;
Excerpts From President's News Conference on Impasse in the Budget Talks

BYLINE: By The New York Times 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Following are excerpts from the opening statement and the question-and-answer portion of President Clinton's news conference, held today in the East Room of the White House. It was provided by the Federal Document Clearing House, a private transcription service:
 
OPENING STATEMENT
Good afternoon. I want to report to you this afternoon and to the American people about the progress we've made toward achieving a balanced budget that reflects our values. 
 . . .
 After many weeks of public debate and private discussion, historic agreement on a balanced budget is within reach if we set aside partisanship and work to seize this moment. I'm optimistic that we will balance the budget, and I know we have come too far to let this opportunity slip away.
In the 12 years before I took office, for the first time in America's peacetime history, our Government deficit skyrocketed. Our Administration has already cut the deficit nearly in half, but our need to pay off the interest on the debt run up in the last 12 years is giving us a deficit.
Indeed, but for the interest payments on the debt run up in the 12 years before I became President, our budget would be in balance today.
We have already reduced the size of the Federal Government by more than 200,000, so that it is smaller than it has been at any time since 1965. As a percentage of the civilian work force, the Federal Government is the smallest it's been since 1933.
We've cut hundreds of programs. We're eliminating 16,000 pages of rules and regulations, but it's time to finish the job.
Let me be clear. We can balance the budget. We can do it in a way that invests in our people and reflects our values -- opportunity for all, doing our duty for our parents and our children, strengthening our communities, our families and America.
As all of you know, I have submitted a plan to balance the budget in seven years, using the conservative estimates of the Congressional Budget Office.
Let me repeat, with this letter, which I am carrying around with me to remind everyone that we have done it, Congress's own economist confirmed what we have said all along. We can balance the budget without excessive cuts in Medicare and Medicaid, without cutting education or the environment or raising taxes on our hardest-pressed working families.
Now, as all of you know also, the Republicans in Congress are insisting on cuts in Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment that I believe are well beyond what is necessary to balance the budget, well beyond what is necessary to secure the solvencies of programs, well beyond what is necessary for the Congressional Budget Office to say we have to do to balance the budget.
We all know, too, that there are two strings at work in the Republican effort. There is the genuine desire to balance the budget, which I share. But there are those who want to use the balanced budget, and a huge tax cut crammed within the balanced budget, to strip our national Government and our country of our ability to do our part here in Washington to help people out in our communities with the challenges they face.
We shouldn't let our fundamental agreement on a balanced budget be held hostage to a narrower agenda that seeks to prevent America from giving Medicare to senior citizens or quality nursing home care or educational opportunity for young people, or environmental protection to all of us. We could quickly find common ground on balancing the budget, and providing appropriate modest tax relief. We could do this in 15 minutes, after the tens of hours we have already spent together.
What has held up this agreement is the insistence of the Republicans on cuts that I believe are excessive in Medicare, Medicaid, education and the environment, and the insistence on a tax hike on the lowest-income of our working families.
These things are not necessary to balance the budget. Having said that, let me say we have come a long way. We have agreed on well over $600 billion of savings, far more than necessary to balance the budget. This should be a moment for national unity, a time to put aside partisanship, to reject ideology, to find common ground for the common good.
A balanced budget that reflects the best of both parties, the best of our values, and will pass on to the next generation a stronger America -- that is within our grasp. We should get it done now, and I believe we will get it done in the near future.
 
QUESTIONS AND ANSWERS
 
Hillary Clinton
Q. Mr. President, some newly released documents raise questions about some statements by Mrs. Clinton on the White House Travel Office, firings and her role in representing the Madison Guaranty Savings and Loan Association. Do you think it would be good idea for her to testify before Congress to clear up these issues?
A. Well, she has said that she will do whatever is necessary to answer all the appropriate questions, and I think that she should do that. And I think that we will determine in the days ahead together what is necessary. She has begun to answer those questions. We'll be doing some more of that before the week is out, and I presume we'll be doing quite a lot of it in the days ahead.
And as you know, there was a hearing, I think, today on part of this matter in the Senate and will be another one next week. These questions should be answered. Let me say for four years, as these questions have come up, we have tried to answer them all. We have tried to be fully cooperative, and we will be in this case. And I think she should do what is necessary to answer the questions. That's what she said she'll do, and I think that's what will happen.
. . .
 
The Negotiations
Q. Mr. President, Speaker Gingrich seems to have thrown in the towel on the budget. Thinks, says something about there won't be a budget, not until the next election. And you talked to Senator Dole today. Did he agree with that? What's going to happen? Is there a meeting on Wednesday? And is there -- also, the last proposal you put on the table, did that make a lot of new major concessions?
A. Well, let me try to answer all those questions. First of all, we all pledged, all the parties, that we would not discuss our proposals that would require all of us to agree. So I don't believe that I should violate the understandings that we had in our meeting to discuss the specifics. Let me say that we have come very close together. I believe we have come most of the way. The differences in dollars are not as different now as some of the differences in policies.
. . .
 I called Senator Dole today because I just kind of wanted to check in with him and get a reality check. I said you know when we left that meeting, I asked you and I asked the Democratic leaders to consider a proposal that I made because I had not made it to the Democrats either. I wanted them, all four, to look at it. We had an agenda of things that our staffs were going to work on during this week.
And we characterized it, quite consciously, as a recess. And I still feel that we can and should reach an agreement, and I just want to make sure you feel that way and, if so, we'll keep working together. And I got a pretty good response.
Now I've not had a chance to talk to the Speaker. But I can tell you this: When we left, we agreed that they would consider the last suggestion I made, all of them. We agreed that there would be certain things that we would work on together and with the governors. We agreed that this would be a recess, and we agreed that we would meet on Wednesday. So I assume that all that is still the way it was agreed.
Q. Are the American people going to have to tolerate one shutdown after another and in neglect of all its services?
A. Well, as you know, I don't approve of any of these shutdowns. I think Congress was wrong to do it the first time. I think it was wrong to continue. I was pleased when Senator Dole said that that policy should be abandoned, and I was pleased when the Speaker said that it was morally indefensible to hold the Federal employees hostage. So I do not believe it will shut down again. There is no need to have a shutdown again.
. . .
 Q. The offer that you made over the weekend -- certified now, as you point out, by the Congressional Budget Office -- has extracted from the Republicans a rather substantial set of concessions, the most substantial they've made yet. In light of that, they seem to be expecting you to counter that with a similar offer of your own. If you did, and you're as close as you say they are, it seems that would almost clinch it.Why not go ahead and do that, sir?
A. Well, that's my speech. You just made my speech for me. [laughter] I have, first of all, I believe if you look at the spending concessions and you start from equal points, whether you start from our beginning budget offers or the ones that were made back in December, we have both made substantial concessions away from our original point.
My belief is that we should go for a balanced budget that is scored in a way that Congress recognizes, because that's what the law requires. But that having done that, we should not violate the other conditions of our previous agreement, which is to take any risks with Medicare or Medicaid or do things that we know will cause us to undermine our investment in education and the environment.
Now, we can do that and get a tax cut. We still have some differences on policies relating to Medicare. We're trying to work out our differences over Medicaid. We still have some significant differences on environmental polices, but I believe all that can be worked out. And so that's why I say I have been somewhat surprised at some of the negative tone of the stories coming out since we adjourned because I frankly felt quite good, and I did make them, as I said, an offer that I hoped that they would sleep on and work on.
Q. Well, is now the time for the President to come forward and say: Let's split the difference?
A. It's not as simple as splitting the difference. It's not just -- there's more than money at stake here.
There are policies at stake, and if you split the difference again, according to the rules of the Congressional Budget Office, there must be policies which back up whatever number that you pick. So that's why I say that if we know we can balance the budget, and we know it'll work over seven years, we shouldn't go beyond that in any kind of gratuitous cuts in Medicare and Medicaid.
. . .

Mrs. Clinton
Q. Mr. President, when you campaigned in 1992, you and the First Lady both said that the American people would get two for the price of one. I wondered if that's still going to be a slogan in 1996, and if the First Lady has really taken the role that you envisioned for her, as First Lady, or if she's just simply become too controversial?
A. Well, first of all, I think she's done a fine job. I probably, I may have asked her to do more than anybody should ever have been asked to do when I asked her to undertake the health care effort. But there are worse things than wanting every American child to have health care coverage; that's the way every child in every other advanced country in the world has.
I believe that, you know, in the last six months or eight months she wanted to take a lot of time off to write her book, which she did do, and I think the book is a very important contribution to America, which reflects 25 years of work, learning and exposure on her part, and I expect that she will continue to be an enormous, positive force in this country. And, in terms of controversy, very often in this town, you know, you don't make yourself controversial -- someone else makes you controversial. So I don't think you can do anything about that, especially in the wake of the health care issue.
Q. If I could just follow up, sir. Are you saying that her conduct, especially involving the travel office and the discrepancies in what she said about her involvement in Madison Guaranty, whether, that these things have nothing to do with the controversy?
A. Well, let me tell you, you are assuming something that has not been proved. No discrepancies have been established. Now, we were all concerned, as we have all said, that we kept hearing all these reports after we got here that there were problems with the Travel Office. It turns out there were problems with the Travel Office, and they were serious. An accounting firm said they were serious. Those have been corrected. The American people should feel good about that.
We also said -- Mr. McLarty did, who was then the Chief of Staff, undertook his own review and said the matter wasn't handled well and detailed why. There have been something like seven reviews of the travel office, so I would just, I would dispute your characterizations. An allegation is not the same thing as a fact.
And particularly I would remind the American people, when it comes to the whole Whitewater issue, the allegations have often -- and, matter of fact, virtually always -- borne no relationship to the facts. That's really the story of this for the last four years: an allegation comes up and we answer it, and then people say, "Well, here's another allegation. Answer this." And then, "Here's another allegation. Answer this." That is the way we are living here in Washington today. We're going to do it, and I would ask that -- the American people are fundamentally fair-minded, and, as I would say, I just ask all of you to listen to the answers and do what the American people would do: Make up your own mind.
Q. Mr. President, do you worry about the cumulative effect of this drumbeat which is getting louder? As of close of business today, there will be more people under subpoena in the travel office matter than were fired in the travel office matter and, second, you must have discussed why it is -- even if cleared in the end of all charges -- why it is your wife, the First Lady, appears to be the, arguably, the most controversial First Lady, at least in modern politics.
A. Since Eleanor Roosevelt, for many of the same reasons, from many of the same sources, and that's just part of what we're living through. The American people can make up their own mind about the facts of it.

Personal Finances
Q. To kind of stay on this theme of controversy, the end result seems to be that it's taken a toll financially on your obligations, and there's a magazine report out that's assessed your situation and basically decides that you're pretty close to bankruptcy. Could you give us a little bit of the financial toll?
A. You know, I feel worse, I suppose that that probably is right. I've never added it all up, but that's probably right. And I would like to remind you that today, finally at long last, records that everybody knew existed that weren't released apparently have been released.
Apparently the Republicans finally agreed to release the Resolution Trust Corporation report, which spent another $4 million of the taxpayers' money, to say what we said all along -- that there is no basis even for a civil action against us, that we told the truth about the land agreement we had. That we'd lost the money we said we'd lost. That we had nothing to do with operating the savings and loan. That we took no money from it. Just like we said all along.
So I think that that's apparently part of the price of this. I tell you, I feel a lot worse about all the innocent people who work here, who don't have particularly high salaries and don't have the net worth that we brought here, who had to hire lawyers and pay legal fees, too, who were completely innocent of any wrongdoing and who have to deal with that.
. . .
 But I do think it is interesting -- when you were talking about getting the budget balanced, and the controversy over Medicare, that this Congress has had over 40 hearings on Whitewater and one hearing on its Medicare bill. . . .
 
Program Cuts
Q. Back to the budget for a second, if the Republicans agree to reduce their tax cut, would you in turn agree to make more cuts in Medicare and Medicaid?
A. Let me say again: I think it is wrong. First of all, I agreed not to discuss the negotiations retrospectively. And I've had a hard enough time negotiating in private. I can't do it with you as well as them. But I want to make two comments. First of all, it is important that the budget numbers have integrity. Therefore, it is important that the budget number be supported by policies to achieve that number.
And I have not offered anything that I did not think there was a policy to back up that would actually save money without hurting our efforts to provide Medicare to the seniors or to help poor and disabled children or the seniors in nursing homes that get the benefit of the Medicaid program.
. . .
 Now, as a general proposition, I don't think that I or any Democrat -- and, I believe, any Republicans -- want to be in the position of appearing to have cut Medicare and Medicaid to fund an excessive tax cut. On the other hand, we can have some modest but significant tax relief in this budget bill if we do it right.
 
The Markets
Q. Mr. President, back to the economy again. In assuming that perhaps some of the pessimism might be justified as the markets have done in the past couple of days, are you willing first of all to consider a long-term C.R. [continuing resolution] that would keep the Government operating but not settle the budget question until, as you say, there is an election about it. And, two, are you willing to pay the economic price of that happening, considering the way the markets reacted over the past couple of days on news that there may not be a deal?
A. Well, let me answer you -- let me give you two answers to that. First of all, if that happens, I'll cross that bridge when I come to it, and we'll all have to talk about it. But every time we have started to talk about what would happen if we didn't reach an agreement in our private meetings and how we would move forward, we stopped after about two minutes because at least in the context of our private conversations, no one has wanted to acknowledge that we could not reach an agreement for a plan over seven years because we are close enough to do it and because we know we owe it to the United States to do it. . . .
 So I would say to the American people and to the financial markets, we're going to get this budget deficit down until the budget is balanced, but the best way to do it is to sign an agreement now so people can see. It's like the man on the moon -- the budget will be balanced by X date. And that's what I think we should do, and I still believe that we will. Yes, sir.
 
Tax Cut
Q. Mr. President, back on the budget, the Republicans propose a tax cut. You propose a tax cut. How will a tax cut, a modest tax cut, reduce the deficit?
A. Well, first of all, the tax cut won't reduce the deficit unless it leads to increased growth in the context of the deficit-reduction plan. If it does lead to increased growth, if it's part of -- if it's a balanced plan, so that the deficit reduction still has credibility, then the tax cut can play an important part of that by helping to provide some extra income, particularly to hard-pressed families with children, who've had a more difficult time the last 10 or 15 years.
. . .
 
The Economy
Q. Mr. President, no budget deal could well mean no increase in the Government's borrowing authority, and I'm wondering whether you are willing to risk default as one of the costs of having no deal, or whether you're willing to invoke some emergency powers to increase that authority, even though the Treasury has been concerned that they may not have the legal basis to do that?
A. The Secretary of the Treasury has done a very good job in managing that so far, and has not done anything that he has not been told he's on solid ground in doing.
I think it would be wrong and almost inconceivable for the United States to default on its debt. It was bad enough to shut the Government down. It was harmful to the American people and to the good people who work for the Federal Government. That was wrong as part of some sort of strategy, and this would be wrong. We have never refused to pay our debts. We are a great nation, and I don't believe we'll do that.
 . . .
 Q. Mr. President, do you see any danger to the economy if there's no budget deal this year at all, such as a recession?
A. There should not be. We have the lowest combined rates of inflation and unemployment in 27 years now. We have worked very hard to keep unemployment going down -- keep it well down under 6 percent -- and to keep the inflation low. The underlying fundamentals are good, and our economic analysts say that they expect continued growth with no inflation in 1996.
I think it would -- let me just say this, I think that if we could get a budget agreement, it would be better for the economy because I think it would be a spur for even lower interest rates and to have a longer recovery with longer, more stable growth. So I don't know that anything bad will happen if we don't get it, but it would be considerably better if we did.
. . .
 
Budget Issues
Q. Mr. President, what are the issues you think should be deferred to the election? You've mentioned Medicare and Medicaid several times as things you just can't tolerate that degree of cuts.
A. I think -- and the structure of Medicare. You know, we can try some experiments, but to fundamentally change the structure of Medicare so that it would no longer be a recognizable guarantee for our seniors, I think that is going too far in the direction of just turning it over to insurance companies and other private providers.
Whether Medicaid should be a block grant instead of a guarantee from the nation to our poor and disabled children and to seniors in nursing homes, that's something I think could be deferred to the election.
But we can make an 80 percent agreement because I am in favor of letting the states have much more flexibility.
. . .
I don't see why we should cloud this budget agreement with controversial items like whether we should drill in the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge. Those things are not necessary to balance the budget.

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton answering questions from reporters yesterday during a news conference in the White House. He spent most of his time talking about the budget. (Stephen Crowley/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Text

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; WHITEWATER CASE BUDGETS (92%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (90%); PRESS CONFERENCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); FAMILY (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (88%); MEDICARE (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (73%); LABOR FORCE (67%); CHILDREN (67%); MEDICAID (56%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



310 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 952 words

HEADLINE: A Change in Japan? Style, Not Direction

BYLINE: By ANDREW POLLACK 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Friday, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Ryutaro Hashimoto pledged "reform and creativity" upon becoming Japan's new Prime Minister on Thursday, but he appointed a Cabinet that is likely to continue existing policies in many areas.
Mr. Hashimoto, who at 58 is relatively young for a Prime Minister, is known as aggressive and assertive and is expected to bring a new freshness to Japanese politics. But the Cabinet he chose is a fairly conventional one. 
 In the biggest surprise, Mr. Hashimoto appointed a Socialist, Wataru Kubo, to the powerful position of Finance Minister, a job no one wanted because it will involve defending the Government's unpopular plan to resolve a banking crisis by spending nearly $7 billion in taxpayers' money.
The other top posts went to members of Mr. Hashimoto's Liberal Democratic Party, with the members chosen from the various factions, as is the norm.
Mr. Hashimoto's election returned the Prime Minister's job to the Liberal Democrats, who governed Japan continuously for nearly four decades before being ousted in 1993 because of corruption and failure to enact electoral reforms. But the party must still share power in the coalition with the Socialist Party and the smaller Harbinger Party.
Mr. Hashimoto made only a few remarks on Thursday to the press. In addition to his promise of reform and creativity, he pledged support for the United States-Japan security alliance, while noting the opposition of many people in Okinawa to having American bases concentrated on their island.
"I will try to make Japan-U.S. ties deeper and ask for understanding by the people toward the firm maintenance of the bilateral security system," the Kyodo News Service quoted Mr. Hashimoto as saying.
Mr. Hashimoto's election was never in doubt. Members of the lower house of Parliament met on Thursday and each wrote his or her own name and the name of their choice for Prime Minister on a piece of paper. They brought their ballots to the front in a long procession.
Mr. Hashimoto garnered 288 votes out of 489 cast, well ahead of the 167 recorded by Ichiro Ozawa, the head of the opposition New Frontier Party. When the results were announced, Mr. Hashimoto stood up to applause and bowed deeply in three directions.
A similar vote was held in the less powerful upper house, where Mr. Hashimoto got 158 votes and Mr. Ozawa 69.
After being officially inducted into office by Emperor Akihito, Mr. Hashimoto and his Cabinet had their first meeting around midnight on Thursday.
Experts do not expect bold changes in direction, in part because the same coalition of three parties is still running the Government and because the Prime Minister does not have that much power in Japan.
But there could be changes in style from the administration of Tomiichi Murayama, the docile Prime Minister who resigned and will now concentrate on protecting the Socialist Party from extinction.
"This administration will make necessary decisions more quickly," said Seizaburo Sato, research director of the Institute for International Policy Studies, a nonprofit research institute set up by Yasuhiro Nakasone, a former Prime Minister.
Mr. Ozawa, the opposition leader, blasted the coalition Government once again on Thursday for transferring power from Mr. Murayama to Mr. Hashimoto without holding an election. Mr. Hashimoto is the fifth Prime Minister in three years and the fourth since the last election for the lower house was held, in July 1993.
Mr. Ozawa, who is every bit as strong-willed as Mr. Hashimoto, is facing possible defections from his own party and wants new elections as soon as possible. In the coming session of Parliament, he will attack the new administration with gusto, focusing on the plan to bail out mortgage corporations, known as jusen, that ran up billions of dollars in bad debts through reckless lending.
"Ozawa is desperate," said Shigenori Okazaki, a political analyst with SBC Warburg Securities in Tokyo. He predicted that Mr. Hashimoto "will be completely bogged down with the jusen problem and he'll be on the defensive."
The job of defending the bailout plan, at the risk of ruining his own political reputation, will fall to Mr. Kubo, who is the second-ranking official in the Socialist Party. A former high school history teacher who will turn 67 on Monday, Mr. Kubo has never held a Cabinet position, although he has served on the finance committee in the upper house of Parliament.
The important position of chief Cabinet secretary -- who serves as the Government's chief spokesman and as the Prime Minister's right hand -- was given to Seiroku Kajiyama, 69, a strongly conservative veteran strategist for the Liberal Democratic Party.
As Justice Minister in 1990, Mr. Kajiyama caused a furor in the United States by comparing foreign prostitutes in Japan to American blacks who move into white neighborhoods and "ruin the atmosphere." He was the secretary general of the Liberal Democratic Party in 1993 when it fell from power, after some of its members abandoned the party because of its failure to enact electoral reforms.
The new Foreign Minister will be Yukihiko Ikeda, 58, a former chief of the Defense Agency and a son-in-law of the late Prime Minister Hayato Ikeda.
The 21-member Cabinet has one woman, Justice Minister Ritsuko Nagao, 62. A former bureaucrat in the Health and Welfare Ministry, she is also the only Cabinet member who is not a member of Parliament.
If arguments in the Cabinet become heated, swords might be drawn -- literally. Like Prime Minister Hashimoto, the Finance Minister, Mr. Kubo, and the new chief of the Defense Agency, Hideo Usui, are all masters in the martial art of kendo, a Japanese style of fencing.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Ryutaro Hashimoto, Japan's newly elected Prime Minister. (Reuters)
 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: SOCIALIST PARTY (58%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: SOCIALIST PARTY (58%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; BANKS AND BANKING PRIME MINISTERS (91%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); APPOINTMENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (87%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); BANKING & FINANCE SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); BANK FAILURES (74%); ELECTION LAW (73%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE (71%); NATIONAL SECURITY (70%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (70%); 

PERSON: KUBO, WATARU; HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (MIN); POLLACK, ANDREW RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (96%); ICHIRO OZAWA (70%); WATARU KUBO (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



311 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 5; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1109 words

HEADLINE: Whitman Puts Standards Above Money For Schools

BYLINE: By IVER PETERSON 

DATELINE: TRENTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Gov. Christine Todd Whitman today told a Legislature with no cash to spare that New Jersey would achieve educational fairness between rich and poor school districts by rewriting the rules of education, not by writing new state school-aid checks.
The Governor turned her second annual message to the Legislature into an extended expression of her view that the problem with New Jersey's schools is not the lack of money -- more is already spent for each pupil than in any other state -- but the lack of uniform standards for all students. In her address, she sought to lay out the philosophical underpinnings of her education proposal and did not attempt to provide details. 
 New Jersey is under an order from the State Supreme Court to produce a plan to eliminate the spending differences between the mostly prosperous suburbs and 30 poor urban and rural districts by September. During the two decades that this legal battle has been fought, various administrations have focused on achieving parity in per-pupil spending among the districts, a task that would cost the state $450 million a year in additional school aid.
But with the justices of the State Supreme Court arrayed below her as she addressed a joint session of the new State Legislature, Mrs. Whitman said today that the state financing plan, due out later this month, would be based on how much it costs to provide a constitutionally mandated "thorough and efficient education," not on chasing the ever-higher spending levels of the richest suburbs.
"It has become increasingly clear that making a direct link between high spending and high achievement leads to a false conclusion," the Governor said. "A great deal more goes into a successful education than an expensive education program."
The Governor singled out a handful of districts, mostly small and well off, that have managed to produce strong testing results while spending less per pupil than the state average. Only late in her speech did Mrs. Whitman address the role of poverty and social chaos in the plight of children in the poorest cities, saying those districts should be given "added resources to help counter the negative effects of poverty on learning."
All but missing in Mrs. Whitman's second annual address was the usual catalogue of good news and self-congratulatory backward glances that typically grace such moments. The Governor took only a few lines to note that the centerpiece of her career as Governor and as a national Republican figure, the 30 percent income tax cut completed last year, took full effect on the first of this month.
The Governor credited the tax cuts with creating 117,000 new jobs since she took office two years ago. But she devoted more time to thanking the cleanup crews from this week's big storm.
Also missing were the big-canvas national themes on social justice and individual rights that Mrs. Whitman has used in the past to burnish her reputation as a leader of her party's moderate wing, as the Republican Presidential nomination process enters its final months.
Instead, Mrs. Whitman's narrowly drawn speech fit the mood of the state and its Legislature these days. The tax cut and a state economy that shows signs of weakening have left state lawmakers with no money to spend on new programs and considerable forebodings about the task of writing a new state budget this spring without the $1.2 billion in taxes forfeited by the tax cut.
Moreover, the recently announced layoffs of 7,000 employees at New Jersey's largest private employer, AT&T, has rattled a state in which unemployment rates, once the lowest in the region, have crept past the national average and now stand at 6.1 percent.
"As many laid-off white-collar workers have now discovered, a good education has its limitations when there are no jobs available," Joseph V. Doria Jr., the Assembly Democratic leader, said after the speech.
Mrs. Whitman acknowledged the concern over the AT&T cuts, which amount to the loss of 13 percent of the company's New Jersey work force. Resorting to a euphemism that she would probably have spurned in more cheerful times, the Governor said, "while we can't stop corporate downsizing, we can create a climate that insures that lost jobs are replaced with others."
The school financing plan, developed over the last year by Education Commissioner Leo T. Klagholz, would work like this: the state would determine a core curriculum and how much it should cost, including salaries, books, laboratories, sports and so on. It would then use that figure as the basis for state aid, which consumes a third of New Jersey's $16 billion budget, shifting money from rich to poor to insure that the poor districts reach the minimal per-pupil level.
If a district wishes to spend more than the base figure, it would be free to do so, but at its own expense.
Democrats and Republicans alike said they agreed with Mrs. Whitman's philosophy. Democrats criticized the lack of detail in the speech, while Republicans were more supportive.
"It was a good speech," said State Senator Peter A. Inverso, a Republican from the Trenton suburb of Hamilton. "The question is, how much is she going to take from a place like Hamilton to make it work? That's what we're waiting to find out."
Mrs. Whitman's speeches on education have not only been marked by an absence of detail, but also by a lack of follow-through. The Governor came into office in 1994 speaking aggressively about promoting school vouchers and about the need for recertification -- meaning an end to tenure -- to root out teachers who are burned out.
The school voucher plan has been relegated to a study commission, and the Governor has not raised the subject of teacher testing since the teachers' union imposed a special membership tax to defeat the plan.
To illustrate her argument that money does not buy scholastic achievement, Mrs. Whitman offered the example of Holmdel High School, in Monmouth County, as a district with the highest Scholastic Assessment Test scores in the state -- 595 in math, 509 verbal -- while spending $8,364 per pupil per year, below the state average of $8,700.
She did not mention that Holmdel is one of New Jersey's wealthiest communities.
Several Democrats said the Governor had no choice but to play down the role that money plays in education, given the constraints imposed on the state budget by her tax cuts.
"If we are in a box that limits our ability to fund a quality education," said Assemblyman Joseph J. Roberts Jr., a Camden Democrat and party leader on fiscal issues, "then it is a box that the Governor designed and built with her tax cuts."

GRAPHIC: Photo: In her second annual message to the Legislature, Gov. Christine Todd Whitman said yesterday that an equitable financing plan for the schools would be based on how much it costs to provide a "thorough and efficient education." She was with children from various schools around New Jersey. (Laura Pedrick for The New York Times) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: STATE LEGISLATURE (71%); 

ORGANIZATION: STATE LEGISLATURE (71%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (96%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; LEGISLATURES AND PARLIAMENTS; STANDARDS AND STANDARDIZATION LEGISLATIVE BODIES (91%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); EDUCATION FUNDING (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); GOVERNORS (89%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (79%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (78%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); LAW COURTS & TRIBUNALS (74%); SUPREME COURTS (74%); TAX LAW (74%); POLITICS (73%); TAX RELIEF (60%); INCOME TAX (60%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (53%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) CHRISTINE TODD WHITMAN (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



312 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1867 words

HEADLINE: The Divine Write-Off;
Republicans Tiptoe Around the Mortgage Deduction

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
The Republican flat-taxers' vision of an income tax so simple that it could be filed on a postcard, with everyone paying the same rate, is about to run into the middle class's devotion to its single-biggest tax break: the deduction for home-mortgage interest.
Next week, a private commission appointed by the Republican leaders of Congress to promote the flat tax -- a concept the Republicans hope will help secure their control of Washington for decades -- is to issue its report recommending what supporters see as the best way to revive the economy through a new tax system. 
 But the panel, headed by Jack Kemp, the former Congressman and Housing Secretary, is expected to veer around the mortgage-interest deduction on the ground that it is so deeply embedded in middle-class hopes and financial planning that to challenge it would be political suicide.
The 25-page report from the National Commission on Economic Growth and Tax Reform, which was still being refined last Friday, according to Grace-Marie Arnett, its executive director, was unanimously approved by the 14 commissioners.
Privately, the commission has promised not to denounce the deduction, said Stephen D. Driesler, chief lobbyist for the National Association of Realtors. "The worst thing now would be for them to remain silent," said Mr. Driesler, who hopes at best for a modest statement supporting the deduction.
With Mr. Kemp as chairman, there was never any doubt that the commission would support the general idea of a personal flat tax -- with only wages and salaries above a certain minimum being taxed at a single, relatively low rate.
The problem the panel faces is that eliminating preferences, loopholes and deductions is the mantra of the flat taxers. Deductions not only favor one type of investment over another -- housing over stocks, say -- but every one that is preserved costs the Government revenue and means the flat tax rate must be that much higher to collect the same amount. In the case of the mortgage-interest deduction, even the National Association of Home Builders, an ardent defender, says the break costs the Treasury $60 billion a year.
And if one special interest -- in this case homeowners -- gets to keep its tax break, then Washington policy makers will find it harder, analysts predict, to say no to others.
"It will be perceived as a loophole," said Daniel J. Mitchell, an economist at the conservative Heritage Foundation who advised the Kemp commission. "If you leave it in, then it is easier to justify the next one. I want to start out pure."
Today, though, more than 80 years after it was introduced as part of the original income tax code, the mortgage interest deduction is seen as an entitlement. It is built into the economic calculations of every significant player in the $8 trillion housing market -- of buyers, sellers, brokers and builders. It props up property values, restricting who can afford home ownership and how much buyers make on their investments. Likewise, it colors the assumptions of local governments that rely on property taxes to finance their operations.
"The mortgage-interest deduction is the middle-class experience," said Robert McIntyre, director of Citizens for Tax Justice, a Washington nonprofit group, which is supported by unions and other liberal groups, that contends the tax code favors the rich. "True, only 28 percent of taxpayers take it in any given year, but 10 percent plan to take it and 15 percent used to and everyone selling their house expects the buyer to take it."
Elke Heitmeyer, who owns an import-export business in Los Angeles, is typical of those would-be homeowners who factor the deduction into their financial planning. "Mortgage interest is one of the few ways left to keep some of the money you make," said Ms. Heitmeyer, 41, who hopes this year to move from her rented home to one she will buy with the help of a mortgage.
As Mr. Kemp and his colleagues have discovered, there is no comparable mass constituency that favors getting rid of the deduction. Instead, that case is made by economists who, from across the ideological spectrum, argue that eliminating the deduction might -- in the long haul -- have salutary effects.
Initially, housing prices would fall because the value of the mortgage interest deduction inflates prices, though just how much is debatable, and the shock could well have a strong negative effect on the economy. But if interest rates fall, too -- as advocates predict -- more people would be able to own their own homes. Interest rates should fall, the economists Robert Hall and Alvin Rabushka say in their book "The Flat Tax," because interest from any source would no longer be taxable as income and, therefore as with municipal bonds, lenders would accept lower rates.
Senator Richard Shelby, an Alabama Republican who is co-sponsor, with the House majority leader, Dick Armey of Texas, of a flat tax plan introduced in Congress that would eliminate the mortgage-interest deduction, acknowledges that house prices might fall in the short run. But in his view, the long-term benefits -- like making it possible for more people to buy their own homes -- outweigh that cost.
"People are less concerned with a home-mortgage deduction than they are with having money in their pockets," Senator Shelby said. And Ms. Heitmeyer, for one, supports his opinion. "I'd need to calculate whether it's better," she said, "but I'm in favor of whatever makes housing more affordable."
Among industrialized countries, the mortgage-interest deduction is far from universal. The Norwegians discarded theirs several years ago, and Canada and Australia maintain high levels of home ownership without providing such a tax break.
But in Washington and across the nation, saying it might make good fiscal sense in the long term to get rid of the mortgage-interest deduction is a little like advocating the metric system: economic logic may not be enough to persuade Americans to learn a new economic math.
Polls show that about two-thirds of the public -- slightly more than the portion that owns homes -- favors the mortgage-interest deduction, looking on it as the one big break remaining after the income tax overhauls of 1981 and 1986.
That high level of support for a policy that bolsters the cost of housing is not really surprising: Americans, 64 percent of whom live in owner-occupied homes, have half their net worth tied up in their houses. Indeed, the lower a homeowner's income, the larger a home looms as a share of his or her personal wealth.
About 40 percent of homes are owned free and clear. Of the 60 percent of homes with mortgages, about half were bought with less than the traditional 20 percent down.
That means that a drop in prices caused by eliminating the mortgage- interest deduction could leave millions of people with little equity -- or even owing more than their houses are worth. Homeowners, lenders and local real estate markets would almost certainly reel if the deduction was eliminated.
Various studies have put the short-term decline at from 4.8 percent to 30 percent, with the highest-price homes taking the biggest hits. "The immediate impact would be devastating," said David Lereah, chief economist for the Mortgage Bankers Association. "We estimate that default rates, now about 1 percent, would rise to about 4 percent" -- a rate high enough to make some lenders fold.
Mr. Mitchell of the Heritage Foundation said that any short-term decline would be offset by a rise in stocks and other investments.
Still, the extent of middle-class support for the deduction -- and the importance politicians attach to it -- obscures the fact that more affluent homeowners garner the greatest benefits from the break.
The deduction saves taxpayers making $40,000 to $50,000 an average of $944 a year on their Federal income tax bills, with the greatest benefits accruing in the early years of home ownership, when most of each monthly payment reflects interest, not principal. But those making $100,000 to $200,000 a year save four times that much, according to an analysis by Peter Dreier, a professor of public policy at Occidental College in Los Angeles. The top 1 percent of taxpayers, those with taxable incomes above $200,000, shave an average of $8,348 off their tax bill by taking the deduction, Professor Dreier found.
Over all, Professor Dreier said, more than 44 percent of the tax benefits go to the top 5 percent of taxpayers, who together save $22 billion annually.
"You can't defend this on policy grounds," said Mr. McIntyre of Citizens for Tax Justice. "It is a stupid subsidy, because the more money you make the more subsidy you get."
In fact, the main defense of the deduction offered by its backers could fairly be described as inertia.
"When you see a large tax expenditure that is going to a relatively small group you have to question it," allowed Dave Crowe, an economist with the National Association of Home Builders. "But it is in place, and it works, and discontinuing it would cause such dislocations."
The Kemp commission was lobbied heavily by the two main supporters of retaining the mortgage interest deduction, the National Association of Realtors, with 750,000 members, and the National Association of Home Builders, with 185,000 members.
Others who support maintaining the deduction would tinker with it to focus the benefit on the less well-off.
"The provision of some concession to home ownership is appropriate in the tax system," said Max Sawicky of the Economic Policy Institute, a liberal research center in Washington. "But it doesn't have to be nearly as expensive as it is now, and it doesn't have to be skewed" to the rich."
Earlier this year Robert Packwood, a former Republican Senator from Oregon who was chairman of the Finance Committee, proposed limiting the mortgage interest deduction to interest on the first $300,000 of mortgage debt. That restriction, according to the home builders' association, would fall hardest on California, New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Maryland, Virginia and Florida because they have three-fourths of all homes valued at $250,000 or more.
During his now-abandonned campaign for the Republican Presidential nomination, Senator Arlen Specter of Pennsylvania suggested not allowing a deduction on mortgage balances above $100,000.
Republicans running for their party's nomination are divided on the mortgage-interest deduction. Malcolm S. Forbes Jr. wants to eliminate it; Patrick Buchanan wants to keep it, and Senators Bob Dole and Phil Gramm have, so far, avoided a hard position.
But any radical change would probably require some transition.
One plan would be to grandfather those who already have mortgages, letting them deduct mortgage interest until they sell their homes or refinance; another possibility would be to phase out the deduction, say at 10 percent a year for a decade. One problem with a phase-out is that people with adjustable rate mortgages might see their rates fall and reap the benefit of lower rates and a tax deduction.
"The problem," said Rick Meyers, a spokesman for the Kemp commission, "is in the transition."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The mortgate-interest decuction is a symbol of middle-class hopes. Houses in Dana Point, Calif., overlook the Pacific.
 
Graph: "The Real Winners"
 The mortgage-interest deduction is the most treasured tax benefit of the middle class. But the biggest benefits are reaped by the affluent; 44 percent of the tax benefit goes to the 5 percent of households earning $100,000 or more. Graph compares average tax savings with regard to the mortgage-interest deduction for various levels of income. (Source: Peter Dreier, Occidental College, Los Angeles) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL COMMISSION ON ECONOMIC GROWTH AND TAX REFORM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION FOR FEMALE EXECUTIVES (56%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL COMMISSION ON ECONOMIC GROWTH AND TAX REFORM NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF REALTORS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (71%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; FEDERAL TAXES (US); INCOME TAX; TAX DEDUCTIONS; FLAT TAX; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; HOUSING; MORTGAGES TAXES & TAXATION (97%); TAX REFORM (92%); TAX LAW (91%); TAX DEDUCTIONS (91%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PERSONAL FINANCE (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); TAX INCENTIVES (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (89%); INCOME TAX (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (78%); LOBBYING (78%); REAL ESTATE (78%); HOMEOWNERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); MORTGAGE LOANS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (76%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (75%); WAGES & SALARIES (73%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (72%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (72%); APPROVALS (71%); EXECUTIVES (71%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (71%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (70%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY; DREIER, PETER JACK KEMP (76%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



313 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 563 words

HEADLINE: INTERNATIONAL BUSINESS;
Japan Names A Socialist as Finance Chief

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Japan's new Prime Minister, Ryutaro Hashimoto, surprised the financial community today by naming a former high school history teacher to the nation's most prestigious Cabinet post of Finance Minister.
The former teacher, Wataru Kubo, 66, who is the secretary general of the Japan Socialist Party, has limited experience in finance. But Mr. Hashimoto needed to appoint a leader of the Socialist Party, which is a member of the ruling coalition, to a senior Cabinet post. Several more prominent members of Mr. Hashimoto's Liberal Democratic Party turned down the job. 
 The Finance Ministry is at the apex of the bureaucracy. It is the institution that governs Japan's markets, tax collection, the banks and the budget process. Mr. Kubo also won the honorary title of Deputy Prime Minister.
For his first major mission as Finance Minister, he will need to summon all his negotiating skills, and perhaps his ability to wield a sword -- like Mr. Hashimoto, Mr. Kubo has a high rank in kendo, the sport of fencing with a bamboo sword. Mr. Kubo will face a hostile opposition in the Diet, Japan's Parliament, on Jan. 22, when he presents the Finance Ministry's proposal to tap into taxpayer funds to help clean up a pile of bad housing loans.
"He runs the risk of being a scapegoat," said Toru Nakakita, a professor of economics at Toyo University. "If the forthcoming debates in the Diet do not go well, he may well become a target of criticism."
Mr. Kubo is expected to have little impact on the investment climate, and it is unclear what his views are on financial relations with the United States. At least in the initial stages, he is likely to endorse the current measures of the Finance Ministry.
But he could face an embarrassing set of questions when he meets with finance ministers of the Group of Seven industrialized economies later this month.
"He has to answer a lot of questions from his counterparts," said a senior Government official, who declined to be identified. The official added, however, that the spotlight was more likely to be focused on the American budget deficit problems than on Japan's banking troubles.
During his nearly 20 years of experience in politics, Mr. Kubo has had some exposure to the nation's financial problems, particularly as a member of the budget and finance committee in the Upper House. And he has been considered his party's shadow "finance minister."
His most notable public financial crusade was in 1989 when he led his party's unsuccessful campaign against the Finance Ministry's proposal to introduce a consumption tax. As a Socialist, he will test his allegiance on that and other prickly issues.
The Finance Ministry plans to put into effect an increase in the consumption tax in the next few years. Moreover, Mr. Kubo's party has long been an advocate for the poor, and the ministry has been criticized for representing the interests of wealthy bankers.
Nonetheless, Mr. Kubo is likely to receive a crash course in financial issues from Finance Ministry bureaucrats and is likely to rely heavily on them at first.
A number of Liberal Democrats turned down the job, partly because of the messy banking problems the ministry faces and partly because of potential scandals involving fellow politicians who may be investigated.
Today, Mr. Kubo vowed to investigate the nation's financial problems.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Wataru Kubo. (Reuters) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

COUNTRY: JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

COMPANY: FINANCE MINISTRY (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: FINANCE MINISTRY (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (98%); UNITED STATES (92%); TOKYO, JAPAN (74%); 

SUBJECT: CABINETS AND SUB-CABINETS; APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BANKING & FINANCE (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); BANKING & FINANCE AGENCIES (90%); POLITICS (90%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (89%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); SALES TAX (88%); TAX LAW (88%); HIGH SCHOOLS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (78%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (78%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (78%); SCHOOL BUDGETS (78%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (78%); HISTORY (78%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); TRENDS (70%); BUDGET DEFICITS (69%); TAX INCREASES (69%); MARTIAL ARTS (67%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL; KUBO, WATARU (MIN); HASHIMOTO, RYUTARO (PRIME MIN) WATARU KUBO (94%); RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (79%); JOHN MAJOR (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



314 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 1; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 778 words

HEADLINE: Ending Statistical Drought, Fed Reports on Debt

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. HERSHEY Jr. 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 11

 BODY:
Ending a four-week void in official economic figures, the Federal Reserve reported today that consumers added to installment debt at a substantial 10.4 percent annual rate in November.
Although the consumer credit numbers are not considered a major indicator by economists, the report's appearance today was welcomed as a sign that the long void in Government statistics had ended. Throughout the Government, statisticians struggled to reschedule publication of figures delayed by the three-week shutdown. 
 "The January collection is sort of an emergency," said William G. Barron Jr., deputy commissioner of the Bureau of Labor Statistics, which has not published any economic figures since mid-December. "We've got to get that started."
Because of the backlog of work, the agency could not clearly determine where it stood; it finally announced that it would disclose its plans for publishing postponed data, including crucial information on December employment and inflation, "no earlier" than 2 P.M. on Tuesday.
But indications from the two Cabinet departments involved with the jobs report, Labor and Commerce, were that the labor-market data would be published next Friday, two weeks later than originally scheduled.
This is the same day that the Commerce Department plans to publish a voluminous set of figures on the gross domestic product that had been planned for Dec. 19. The department issued a list of new release dates for indicators this afternoon.
The new set of figures will consist of revisions of the G.D.P. over the years, from 1959 through the third quarter of 1995; the intention is to switch to an emphasis on so-called chain weighting in an effort to prevent outmoded prices from distorting national output, usually by overstating it.
The fresh figure for the third quarter of last year will represent the first updating of the department's initial estimate, made on Oct. 27, that the economy expanded at a 4.2 percent annual pace during the summer, using the traditional fixed-weight basis, or 3 percent on the chain-weight basis.
The department said the G.D.P. for the fourth quarter, originally scheduled for release on Jan. 26, was now planned for mid-February.
Officials at both agencies said that while the delays were substantial -- the Commerce Department said it would be May before it fully resumed its schedule before the Government shutdown -- it was likely that barring further interruptions, they could avoid any serious compromise in the quality of the data.
Steven Landefeld, acting director of the Bureau of Economic Analysis, said the strategy was to "trade off timeliness for quality," waiting as long as necessary to maintain the integrity of data.
Officials generally assigned higher priority to making sure that possibly irreplaceable January figures were collected than on processing December figures gathered before the shutdown.
Still, the first tally of payroll employment for December will be based on a smaller number of responses than usual, and analysts noted that there would be an unusually long six-week gap between the December and January surveys.
The first Commerce Department release, on Tuesday, is to be housing starts for November, followed by data on international trade on Wednesday. Both reports had been planned for original release the week before Christmas.
The new schedule, Commerce Secretary Ronald H. Brown said, "meets our objectives of maintaining standards for consistent statistical quality and avoiding any gaps."
Some officials of both Cabinet departments -- probably more than 100 at the Bureau of Labor Statistics -- are expected to work over the weekend and on the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday on Monday to get the existing data published and to collect information for January.
The Federal Reserve, which does not depend on Congressional financing and closed only after this week's blizzard, reported today that the November increase in consumer-installment debt -- 10.4 percent annual rate -- compared with a 13.7 percent annual rate in October. Growth in revolving credit, mainly credit cards, eased to a 9.2 percent pace from 16 percent the month before.
Credit for automobiles and for another category that includes loans for varied expenses like education and boats, grew slightly less rapidly than in October.
"I don't think consumers are treating debt as an inhibiting factor," as some economists contend, said Elliott Platt, a senior analyst at Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette.
This series does not provide extensions or repayments but only a net figure and has other flaws, which is why economists do not consider it a major indicator.

GRAPHIC: Chart: "Revised Release Dates" shows the Commerce Department's revised schedule for some of its economic indicators. (Sources: Bloomberg Business News; Commerce Department) (pg. D6)
 
Graph: "Consumer Borrowing" tracks net change in total consumer installment credit outstanding, seasonally adjusted, from June 1994 through November 1995. (Source: Federal Reserve Board) (pg. D6) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS); LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF NEW YORK (69%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM; BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (BLS); LABOR DEPARTMENT (US) ; COMMERCE DEPARTMENT US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (93%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (90%); BUREAU OF LABOR STATISTICS (83%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); FEDERAL RESERVE SYSTEM (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ;UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (93%); 

SUBJECT: CREDIT; CONSUMER CREDIT; UNITED STATES ECONOMY; LEADING ECONOMIC INDICATORS; UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE; LABOR; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET ; GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (GDP); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING ECONOMIC NEWS (92%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (92%); STATISTICS (92%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (90%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (90%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (90%); CONSUMER LENDING (90%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (90%); CONSUMER CREDIT (90%); EMPLOYMENT (88%); STATISTICAL METHOD (78%); CENTRAL BANKS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); CONSUMER SPENDING & CREDIT (77%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (77%); PUBLISHING (76%); ECONOMIC POLICY (73%); UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE (67%); 

PERSON: HERSHEY, ROBERT D JR

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



315 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 774 words

HEADLINE: NYC;
A Bull Market For Cynicism On Wall Street

BYLINE: By Clyde Haberman 

 BODY:
WALL STREET laid an egg or two this week, as Variety once might have put it, but the Dow Jones bounced back nicely yesterday, staying within range of the record levels it has enjoyed for months. Too bad this enthusiasm is not shared on the street itself.
That's Wall Street, the thoroughfare, not the metaphor. These are far from banner days for many in the financial district, where more companies than anybody cares to count have downsized, outsourced, attrited, restructured -- you pick the euphemism to describe a steady flow of jobs out of lower Manhattan. 
 "The street itself is substantially weakened," said Andy Czegledi, part owner of Wall Street Camera, a photo shop at Wall and Water Streets. "I've been here since 1969. I remember when it was that if you tried to walk in rush hour against the crowd, they'd pick you up. Now, if you lay down in the middle of the sidewalk, nobody would even know you're there. That's how empty it is."
Empty, it isn't. Not really. Just the same, Wall Street's ranks have been thinned to a point that businesses there feel the pain every day. Bankers, brokers, clerks and secretaries who used to be their customers are simply not around anymore.
In 1988, with high hopes, Rick Preston opened Neuchatel Chocolates, one of several stores in a mall that is part of the J. P. Morgan building at 60 Wall. The stock market had survived its 1987 free fall, and Mr. Preston, whose capital came partly from his savings through years as a Plaza Hotel doorman, figured that he had nowhere to go but up. Like the market itself.
"WE do O.K., but it's not what we expected," he said. "We never thought that people who buy the gourmet items would be affected by layoffs -- you know, people who pay $30 for a pound of chocolate. But those are the people who are hurting. We used to have five or six regular corporate accounts in the area. Now, everyone's looking for a deal."
For those who make their living on the street, there was zero shock value in the headlines on post-Christmas retail figures, which confirmed that stores nationwide had their worst December in five years. No kidding, they said acerbically. You don't have to be a rocket scientist to understand that people without work are not going on buying sprees.
"I'd venture a guess that, between Battery Park and City Hall, we've easily lost 150,000 jobs since 1988," said Marvin Rafeld, who owns 14 Wall Street Jewelers. "Now, if 1 percent of those 150,000 are my customers, that's 1,500 customers. You do the math. I need the bigger-ticket sale now to make my expenses. But I'd rather make a lot of $50 sales then have to depend on one $5,000 sale."
"It ain't the 80's, I can tell you that," he said. Still, Mr. Rafeld gets by -- with smarter bargaining, he says, with a little downsizing of his own ("I don't even like the word") and with financial understanding from his building's managing agent, John Wheeler.
To say the least, kind thoughts about the agent are not shared by maintenance workers from Local 32B-32J, who have been on strike at 14 Wall and 1,000 other office buildings for the last week. Those on the picket lines along Wall Street especially resent how the financial markets that they help keep functioning cheer every time a big company announces huge layoffs.
IT happened again last week when AT&T announced it would eliminate 40,000 jobs; the Dow Jones industrial average shot up 60 points that day. This reaction hardly fills the maintenance workers with confidence in management assurances that their own jobs are secure for the long run.
"They must think we're stupid because we clean their buildings," said a striker on Wall Street who says that she belonged to the Solidarity labor movement in Poland before emigrating in the mid-80's.
Bargainers for the building managers call it crucial for the industry's survival to have the starting pay for new maintenance workers cut by 40 percent. No one now employed will be thrown out of work, they promise.
To which the unionists reply is a succinct, Yeah, right. "Eventually, they'll get rid of me," said John Spriggs, a picket outside the Bank of New York building at Wall and Broadway. "They'll find someone else who'll do it cheaper."
You could see the depth of the cynicism along Wall Street by following a few pickets who had taken time out last Sunday to attend services at nearby Trinity Church. It was a day after the feast of the Epiphany, and in church they heard the story of the three kings retold. A striker named Dave left saying that a modern version would have been downsized, with the infant Jesus being visited by two kings. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (58%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (58%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING (58%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (58%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); DOW JONES & CO INC (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; WALL STREET (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; FINANCIAL SERVICES INDUSTRY; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; UNEMPLOYMENT AND JOB MARKET LAYOFFS (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); BONDS (79%); OUTSOURCING (76%); EMPLOYMENT (76%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (75%); LABOR SECTOR PERFORMANCE (75%); STOCK EXCHANGES (70%); TRENDS (70%); HOTEL STAFF (70%); CHRISTMAS (60%); 

PERSON: HABERMAN, CLYDE

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



316 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 16; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 672 words

HEADLINE: CREDIT MARKETS;
Bond Prices Rise, Retaking Some Ground

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
Prices of Treasury securities regained some ground yesterday in choppy trading after a big decline on Wednesday. Traders cited a number of positive factors, including the belief by many investors that a balanced budget agreement can be reached.
The price of the 30-year bond rose 20/32, to 109 29/31 to yield 6.14 percent, down from 6.18 percent on Wednesday. 
 Some other positive factors for bonds were a steady dollar and lower commodity prices.
Early in the day, comments from Federal Reserve officials seemed to indicate that chances were unlikely for another cut in interest rates coming as soon as this month, and that took some steam out the market.
William J. McDonough, president of the New York Federal Reserve, speaking at a conference of the Mortgage Bankers Association in New York, said the Fed had to be careful not to overstimulate the economy. Some market participants decided that Mr. McDonough, who is a voting member of the Federal Open Market Commitee, would lean toward not easing short-term interest rates at the committee meeting on Jan. 30 and 31.
While disappointment on the stalled budget negotiations continues to point to higher yields, traders said, market participants continue to buy on price dips, since many refuse to believe that the budget talks will come up short.
In an afternoon news conference, President Clinton said that an agreement on a balanced budget was within reach. "We have come too far to let this opportunity slip away," he said.
Matthew F. Alexy, chief market strategist at CS First Boston, said prices of Treasury securities had been moving in a "budget zone" over several sessions.
"The two dynamics at work," he said, "have been a disappointment over the budget talks and the more fundamental state of the economy, where we continue to see anecdotal evidence of a weak economy that has been expressed in rising price for bonds."
At the start of the month, two-year notes were trading at a price to yield at 5.16 percent and the long bond at 5.95 percent.
Mr. Alexy said the market was trying to reprice itself to reflect the new environment and find a bond yield attractive enough to draw buyers into the market. He said he thought it might be 5.90 to 6.25 percent. But without supporting economic data, he said, the market is having a difficult time telling what level will be attractive to investors.
A retreat yesterday in commodity prices was not as big a factor as Wednesday's increase, he said. "But we have seen overseas buying supporting bond prices," he added, and "that suggests we are seeing less disenchantment from foreign buyers about the budget talks than we are seeing here."
Mr. Alexy said he believed a yield of 6.15 to 6.25 percent on the long bond would attract buyers.
Larry Berman, senior fixed income analyst for Technical Data in Boston, said he was encouraged by overnight buying, with good flows coming from Japanese investors. The tone was set early for bulls to jump in on weakness, as the yield on the long bond approached 6.20 percent.
"The lack of information and focus on the failed budget agreement has brought to question the future of the economy," Mr. Berman said. "With the dollar on the rise, uncertainties regarding the economy, the rush of economic reports in the pipeline and concerns about Fed action, the market will likely be very volatile in the next few weeks. And on the technical front the market should be well supported at 6.20 to 6.25 percent. If these levels fail, the market could see a more substantial price decline toward 6.50 percent."
Mr. Berman said he was still holding his estimates of a continued rally that might lower the yield on the long bonds to 5.75 percent in the second quarter.
In observance of the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr.'s birthday, markets plan an early close today at 2 P.M. and a full closing on Monday. This will affect trading of Government securities, mortgage securities, over-the-counter investment grade corporate bonds, and secondary money market trading.

GRAPHIC: Graph: "Tax-Exempt Yields" tracks average weekly yields for 20 general obligation bonds and 25 revenue bonds, in percent, since September. (The Bond Buyer) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6081 BRANCHES & AGENCIES OF FOREIGN BANKS (66%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: CREDIT SUISSE FIRST BOSTON (66%); PRICES OF TREASURY (64%); 

ORGANIZATION: PRICES OF TREASURY (64%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (92%); BONDS (92%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); TREASURY SECURITIES (90%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (76%); INTEREST RATES (75%); ECONOMIC NEWS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (74%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (72%); PRESS CONFERENCES (69%); MORTGAGE BANKING (54%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



317 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: FUTURES MARKETS;
Energy Prices Drop on Forecast Of Above-Normal Temperatures

BYLINE: By The Associated Press 

 BODY:
Prices of energy futures plunged yesterday as a forecast by the National Weather Service for above-normal temperatures across the United States over the next 6 to 10 days indicated that demand for heating oil would lessen.
Adding pressure to energy prices, snow in the Northeast threatened to keep many cars off the road. 
 The broad retreat on the New York Mercantile Exchange was led by heating oil futures. The retreat extended into a technical rout as investment houses bailed out of the market, said Tim Evans, an analyst at Pegasus Econometric Group in New York.
"It was a rush for the exits," Mr. Evans said. "We've gone from being very optimistic to being very near panic."
In other commodity markets, grain and soybean futures sank; precious metals slid on profit taking, and coffee futures rose to a three-and-a-half-week high. The Commodity Research Bureau's index of 21 commodities fell 2.33 points, to 242.90.
Light sweet crude oil for February delivery settled 88 cents lower at $18.79 a barrel, the lowest price since Dec. 12; February heating oil fell 3.43 cents, to 56.16 cents a gallon, the lowest since Dec. 7; February unleaded gasoline fell 3.75 cents, to 54.44 cents a gallon, also the lowest since Dec. 7, and February natural gas fell 3.19 cents, to 2.490 for 1,000 cubic feet, the lowest since Dec. 26.
Traders' initial rush of optimism, brought on earlier this week by the blizzard that socked the Northeast, began fading on Wednesday after prices failed to break through psychological resistance points, Tom Bentz, an analyst at ING Futures and Options, said. "It was the first sign of weakness in the energy markets for at least a month, and the retreat just snowballed," he added.
Grain and soybean futures prices sank on the Chicago Board of Trade as thundershowers brought needed water to corn- and soybeans-growing regions in Argentina and Brazil. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: CME GROUP INC (84%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); NEW YORK MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); ARGENTINA (79%); BRAZIL (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FUTURES AND OPTIONS TRADING; HEATING FUEL; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) FUTURES (96%); HEATING OIL (91%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (91%); CRUDE OIL MARKETS (90%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (90%); COMMODITIES TRADING (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (90%); FUEL MARKETS (90%); WEATHER (90%); OIL & GAS PRICES (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY SECTOR PERFORMANCE (90%); GASOLINE PRICES (90%); HEATING OIL PRICES (90%); ENERGY MARKETS (90%); SOYBEAN MARKETS (90%); CORN MARKETS (89%); GRAIN MARKETS (89%); ENERGY & UTILITY TRADE (79%); METALS MARKETS (79%); GASOLINE (79%); COMMODITIES MARKETS (79%); CRUDE OIL PRICES (79%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); PRECIOUS METALS MARKETS (78%); GASOLINE MARKETS (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (78%); COMMODITIES EXCHANGES (77%); AUTOMOTIVE FUELS (77%); COFFEE MARKETS (74%); COFFEE (70%); 

PERSON: TIM EVANS (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



318 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 385 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Rises Against the Mark On Rebound in American Stocks

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar climbed slowly and steadily against the German mark in light trading yesterday, bolstered by a strengthening of battered American stocks and bonds.
Foreign investors sold off the dollar in overnight trading in anticipation of further losses in the United States, following a steep two-day drop, but when Wall Street stocks and bonds firmed, the dollar managed a comeback. 
 "We saw a lower dollar overnight on expectations for capital markets to drop, but the market really didn't get any satisfaction," said Paul Farrell, managing director for foreign exchange trading at Chase Manhattan Bank.
The dollar rose to 1.4408 marks late yesterday from 1.4368 late Wednesday and edged down to 104.77 Japanese yen from 104.86.
The Dow Jones industrial average climbed 32.16 points, regaining some of its 3 percent decline over the previous two trading sessions. The 30-year Treasury bond also rose sharply, helping guide the dollar higher, traders said.
A momentary stalemate in the heated battle between the White House and Congress over the Federal budget added stability to the market and supported the dollar's rise.
"The budget is becoming a mess, but people still expect it to be resolved," said Alex Scarsini, director of foreign exchange at Barclays Group P.L.C.
President Clinton said he remained "optimistic" that he and Republican Congressional leaders would reach an agreement on a balanced budget.
"A historic agreement on a balanced budget is within reach if we set aside partisanship and seize this moment," Mr. Clinton said at a news conference.
Aside from the rebounding markets, economic weakness in Europe and Japan appears to have helped the dollar avoid a big selloff.
"Confidence in the American markets is the highest in any country," Mr. Scarsini said. "Any currency in Europe would've sold off 3 or 4 percent under this kind of pressure."
The dollar may have gotten a modest lift from reports that a German finance official visiting the United States said that the mark was too strong. Such remarks support a widely held belief that Germany prefers to strengthen the dollar against its own currency.
In other trading, the dollar rose to 1.1622 Swiss francs, from 1.1603 on Wednesday. The British pound slipped to $1.5440 from $1.5465. 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: BCS (NYSE) (84%); BARC (LSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (84%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BARCLAYS PLC (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GERMANY; UNITED STATES (97%); EUROPE (92%); JAPAN (92%); GERMANY (90%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (91%); GERMAN MARK (91%); BONDS (91%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); BUDGETS (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); EXECUTIVES (76%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (73%); TREASURY SECURITIES (73%); STOCK INDEXES (73%); BRITISH POUND (70%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



319 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 268 words

HEADLINE: For City Council

 BODY:
Residents of Manhattan's East Side are being asked to trudge through the snow next Tuesday to vote in a special election for the Fifth District City Council seat. Two aides to local politicians are vying to replace Charles Millard, a Republican who resigned to become head of the city's Economic Development Corporation.
Judy Marcus, Mr. Millard's director of constituent service, has a long history of working with the community on neighborhood problems. Ms. Marcus, who has the backing of Manhattan's Republican organization, held the same job under Mr. Millard's predecessor, a Democrat, and deserves plaudits for her long service to the area. However, her grasp of citywide issues seems weak. 
 Gifford Miller, her opponent, headed the district office for the Democratic Congresswoman Carolyn Maloney. Mr. Miller is only 26, but his understanding of the issues seems much more sophisticated than Ms. Marcus's. Mr. Miller has deep roots on the East Side, where he grew up and served briefly as a full-time volunteer for the Parks Council before working for Ms. Maloney.
The winner of this election could occupy a peculiar position in the city government. Because of the term-limits law, all but one of the Council members will be forced to retire in 2001. If the new Council member from the East Side remains in office, he or she will be one of the few surviving members in a year of widespread turnover.
The East Side should elect a member who has the capacity to grow in office and become a leader. Both candidates are worthy, but Mr. Miller seems more likely to fill that job description.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PARKS COUNCIL (92%); 

ORGANIZATION: PARKS COUNCIL (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER EAST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS; ENDORSEMENTS; EDITORIALS CITY GOVERNMENT (93%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); CITIES (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); TERM LIMITS (72%); 

PERSON: MILLER, GIFFORD CAROLYN MALONEY (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



320 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 1; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1708 words

HEADLINE: 2 Win by Not Quitting 42d Street;
Milstein Brothers at Last Get In on Renewal Plan

BYLINE: By BRETT PULLEY 

 BODY:
For 15 years, a stretch of property facing the Port Authority Bus Terminal has been part of the widely heralded and richly tangled effort to rehabilitate Times Square. Although the site is now a parking lot, it is expected soon to become much more. Behind this plain plot of land is a classic tale of New York development, and the story of two tough and shrewd brothers, Seymour and Paul Milstein.
While state and city officials have plodded away at the huge public-subsidized urban renewal plan known as the 42d Street Development Project, an ever-changing cast of characters -- from the Kennedys of Massachusetts to the Crows of Texas -- has been linked to this single 40,000-square-foot plot at the southeast corner of 42d Street and Eighth Avenue. 
 The seemingly indistinctive piece of land was the topic of contentious meetings between Gov. Mario M. Cuomo and Mayor Edward I. Koch, and it has been the subject of protracted courtroom debates.
Now, as the last major property not yet designated for development in the 13-acre site of the $1.6 billion project, the tract is becoming the focus for officials who must decide how it will fit into the plan to transform 42d Street into an entertainment and tourism center. As a result, the Bronx-bred Milstein brothers are poised to score a real estate victory reminiscent of Peter Minuit's purchase of Manhattan for $24.
It is a reversal of fortune for the Milsteins, developers who have tried for nearly 15 years to become part of the Times Square plan, only to be repeatedly rejected by the officials responsible for designating developers. The Milsteins, who have a long history of developing well-known sites, have managed to retain ownership of the site at 42d and Eighth, despite a recurring threat of condemnation from the state.
And now that the Walt Disney Company has started renovation of a historic theater on the block and other attractions like Madame Tussaud's wax museum and the AMC movie chain are also committed to 42d Street's renaissance, the Milsteins' property has grown in value to more than $32 million since they bought it in 1983 for $5 million, real estate appraisers say. Moreover, people involved with the Times Square project have revealed that the Milsteins bought the land shortly after state and city officials passed on an option to buy it from a now-defunct savings bank for only $1 million.
Despite the government's rejection of the Milsteins as developers in the project, "they're coming out on top anyhow," said State Senator Franz S. Leichter, the Bronx Democrat who has been a vocal opponent of various aspects of the 42d Sreeet plan. "They're going to make out like bandits on this."
The Milsteins -- Paul, 73, and Seymour, 75 -- became two of New York's wealthiest citizens by building their father's floor-covering company into one of the nation's largest flooring subcontractors and transforming it into a conglomerate of corporations and real estate holdings throughout the city.
They have also developed a reputation as difficult businessmen. Their skirmishes with public and private entities have reached legendary proportions. In 1981, for instance, they outraged the Landmarks Preservation Commission by demolishing the famed Palm Court lounge and gilded landmark clock, which they had promised to preserve from the old Biltmore Hotel on Madison Avenue. Over the years they have also filed several lawsuits against the city, some related to the Times Square project.
It once seemed that the Milsteins would never win on 42d Street. In the early 80's, they applied to become the builders of the four huge office towers that are expected to anchor the project. But officials of the 42d Street Development project, a joint undertaking of city and state, chose a then lesser-known developer, Park Tower Realty.
Then, in 1983, so sure they would win the right to build a giant merchandise mart that was planned for the area, the Milsteins bought the site at 42d and Eighth in advance, because it was the property the state had designated for the mart. The purchase seemed risky, because under the guidelines of the urban renewal plan, the state has the right to condemn an owner's land, pay the owner fair market value for it and give the property to a developer chosen by public officials.
Instead of the Milsteins, public officials first courted the Kennedy family, because of their success in developing the Merchandise Mart in Chicago. Those talks did not go far, and ultimately, after a struggle between Mayor Koch and Governor Cuomo, the designation went to a partnership that included the New York developer Jerry Speyer and Trammel Crow, the Dallas real estate magnate who has built marts in Atlanta and Brussels. Again, the Milsteins had been passed over. But a weakened market ultimately killed the mart plan anyway.
Last year, after many developers had come and gone without building a thing, the Milsteins' relentless pursuit was stymied twice more, as public officials rejected their proposal to develop a multiscreen movie theater, then shunned a separate Milstein plan to build two hotels, one on their own site and another across the street on publicly owned land.
Tishman Urban Development, in a partnership with Disney, was chosen for the hotel on the public land. Disney will be a retail anchor in the project. And Forest City Ratner was later designated as the movie developer. As Senator Leichter said in a recent interview, the state and city officials responsible for the project "saw the Milsteins as pariahs of some sort."
Public officials are "fearful" of including the Milsteins because of their combative reputation, and the project has stalled as a result, said William J. Stern, who worked closely on the 42d Street Project as chairman of the State Urban Development Corporation in the early 80's. In a recent interview, Mr. Stern cited the Milsteins' infamous fights with public officials over proposed projects like the Biltmore, the South Street Seaport and Times Square.
"They are barbarians," said Mr. Stern, who added that he had personally favored selecting the Milsteins for the merchandise mart but had been overruled by Mayor Koch and Governor Cuomo.
After they were passed over as developers of the office towers and the mart, the Milsteins sued the city, charging favoritism in the selection of developers. Meanwhile, they began planning to develop an apartment building on the site. A State Supreme Court judge ultimately dismissed the suit, and the Milsteins were denied Federal mortgage insurance for the apartment tower because of the state's plans to condemn the property. The legal actions held the project up for years and enabled the Milsteins to hold on to their investment, which they hold in partnership with Weiler Arnow Management Company, as it grew in value.
Both Milstein brothers, as well as Paul's son, Howard, who manages many of the family's holdings, refused to be interviewed for this article. Apparently the brothers have decided that, as Seymour put it several years ago, "Part of our problem is that we don't interview well."
In one telling moment during a 1981 interview with The New York Times, Paul Milstein, a gruff man who favors pinky rings, expounded on his reputation for toughness. "We live in a jungle," he said in his gravelly Bronx accent, as he hit his index finger on a table for emphasis. "In order to survive in a jungle, I guess you've got to be tougher to be a winner. My competitors, my adversaries and my friends cannot really say I'm tough. They don't understand the word tough."
The Milsteins have also proved to be astute developers and investors. In addition to the Biltmore, now the Bank of America Plaza, their holdings include three apartment towers with more than 2,000 units in the Lincoln Center area, and several other office and apartment buildings. They are principal owners of Emigrant Savings Bank.
Some people even credit the Milsteins with having initiated the revival of Times Square by rehabilitating an Eighth Avenue hotel called the Royal Manhattan, originally the Lincoln, which they reopened in 1980 as the Milford Plaza. And when most other developers fell on hard times during the late 80's, the Milsteins were not affected because they had not left themselves exposed to market conditions as many highly leveraged developers had.
Mr. Stern said of Paul Milstein: "He should have been brought into the process, but they keep freezing him out. He's got money and resourcefulness, so he screws it up and delays it. I hate to say, 'I told you so,' but he's still sitting there."
Of the 280 tenants on the once notorious strip between Seventh and Eighth Avenues five years ago, all but one -- the Milsteins -- have been forced to move out as a result of the state's power of condemnation.
According to Robert Van Ancken, executive managing director of appraisals at the Grubb & Ellis real estate firm, the property's estimated value is now $32 million to $40 million. Mr. Van Ancken said the recent commitments from Disney and other entertainment and retail tenants, as well as the visible signs of renewal along the street, had helped the Milsteins. "All of this will enhance the value of their property," he said. "The Milsteins will benefit either way. Whether they develop it, or if the state takes it through condemnation and develops."
On the Milsteins' ultimate role, Rebecca Robertson, president of the 42d Street Project, said: "Deciding what to do with that site is the next step, the final step. I don't know how the Milsteins will fit in."
Abby Hamlin, the president of Weiler Arnow, the Milsteins' partner on the site, said they were considering proposing to the state that it be used for a no-frills business hotel or an office tower.
The site is now so valuable that state officials admit they are unable to pay condemnation costs on it unless a private developer puts the money up first -- which makes it more likely that the Milsteins will finally get to build as they choose. "The Milsteins have had some disappointments on that site," said Charles Aug, chairman of Garrick-Aug Associates, a New York-based retail store leasing firm. "But they're going to come out smelling real good."

GRAPHIC: Illustration (Tishman Realty & Construction Co. Inc; The New 42nd Street Inc.; 42nd Street Development Project) 

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (64%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (64%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (64%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (64%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (64%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: MILSTEIN BROTHERS WALT DISNEY CO (64%); NEW YORK (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: MILSTEIN BROTHERS NEW YORK (60%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; TIMES SQUARE (NYC); UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: AREA PLANNING AND RENEWAL CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); PORT AUTHORITIES (90%); REAL ESTATE (89%); CITIES (89%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (77%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (76%); REAL ESTATE APPRAISALS (73%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (71%); DESTINATIONS & ATTRACTIONS (70%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (63%); MOVIE THEATERS (61%); 

PERSON: PULLEY, BRETT; MILSTEIN, SEYMOUR; MILSTEIN, PAUL PAUL MILSTEIN (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



321 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 12, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 30; Column 6; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 99 words

HEADLINE: Whitewater Affair Distracts From Real Crisis

 BODY:
To the Editor:
William Safire is up to his old persiflage by attacking Mrs. Clinton when the real issue before the nation is House Speaker Newt Gingrich and his gang, who wish to destroy any economic safety net for the average American by means of a federalism that did not work by 1932. 
 By changing the subject from Medicare, Medicaid, education and Federal controls on governors and legislatures that have permitted starvation of the poor and elderly in the recent past, Mr. Safire helps Mr. Gingrich and his pals.
 
PHYLLIS B. ABRAMS
Plymouth Meeting, Pa., Jan. 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ARKANSAS, USA (59%); 

COMPANY: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN MEDICARE (57%); MEDICAID (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: MADISON GUARANTY SAVINGS & LOAN ASSN MEDICARE (57%); MEDICAID (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (92%); ARKANSAS, USA (59%); 

SUBJECT: WHITEWATER CASE; ETHICS LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); MEDICARE (88%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (87%); ETHICS (85%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (85%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); MEDICAID (53%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; ABRAMS, PHYLLIS B; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) NEWT GINGRICH (90%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 1996



322 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 13; Column 5; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 748 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
An England Where Heart and Purse Are Romantically United

BYLINE: By JOHN J. O'CONNOR 

 BODY:
The Jane Austen bandwagon barrels along. "Sense and Sensibility" and "Persuasion" are in movie theaters. Versions of "Emma," which was given a contemporary spin in "Clueless," are in the making (and an audiotape edition, produced for BBC Radio, can be found in bookshops). And tomorrow, after setting ratings records in England, the best Austen of all, "Pride and Prejudice," begins a three-night, six-hour run on A&E.
This splendid adaptation, with a remarkably faithful and sensitively nuanced script by Andrew Davies, is a co-production of the BBC and A&E. One word of warning: this is not, as might be expected, a presentation of public television's "Masterpiece Theater." There will be commercial breaks. 
 Opening with what Austen considered a universally acknowledged truth, "that a single man in possession of a good fortune must be in want of a wife," "Pride and Prejudice" is a witty mix of love stories and social conniving, cleverly wrapped in the ambitions and illusions of a provincial gentry. The surface froth is deceptive. W. H. Auden claimed he was made most uncomfortable by seeing an English spinster of the middle class "reveal so frankly and with such sobriety the economic basis of society." Love was one thing; financial security through marriage was another, and perhaps even more important.
And so we find Elizabeth Bennet (Jennifer Ehle), the practical and decidedly virtuous narrator of this tale, casting a keenly sharp eye on anyone venturing into her vicinity. She realizes that Mrs. Bennet (Alison Steadman) is one of the silliest and most exasperating mothers in England, and that Mr. Bennet (Benjamin Whitrow) verges on being irresponsible with his protective cynicism. Of her four sisters, Elizabeth, or Lizzy, confides only in sweet-natured Jane (Susannah Harker). The others are empty-headed twits, especially Lydia (Julia Sawalha) who will drag the family into scandal.
But for all her special insight, Lizzy is not beyond being duped herself, at least in first impressions. She is only too willing to sympathize with the rotter Wickham (Adrian Lukis) when he bad-mouths Mr. Darcy (Colin Firth), whose seeming arrogance greatly irritates Lizzy. But will the dashing Mr. Darcy, who does a lot of riding about on a white horse, turn out to be the true love of Lizzy's life, especially since he has a substantial annual income and a grand home that looks like something out of a fairy tale. The ending is never really in doubt, but Austen is positively ingenious in getting us there.
Scattered portions of this handsome production might seem a bit slow for American viewers (British imports are often snipped and speeded up for consumption here). There are perhaps too many languorous walks across meadows, and one or two ornately choreographed dances seem to go on forever. But like the novel, the production overflows with memorable set pieces.
There is, for instance, Mr. Collins (David Bamber), the fawning vicar whose marriage proposal is quickly rejected by a horrified Lizzy. Mr. Collins's scenes with his patroness, Lady Catherine de Bourgh, are hilarious as he obsequiously sings the praises of her condescension. And Barbara Leigh-Hunt turns Lady Catherine into a marvelously imperious witch.
But the story never ventures far from Elizabeth and Mr. Darcy. Miss Ehle, daughter of the fine actress Rosemary Harris, manages to make Lizzy strikingly intelligent and authoritative without being overbearing. And Mr. Firth brilliantly captures Mr. Darcy's snobbish pride while conveying, largely through intense stares, that he is falling in love despite himself. There is an element of wishful fantasy in "Pride and Prejudice." Austen died in 1817 at age 41. She never married.
 
PRIDE AND PREJUDICE
A&E, Sunday at 8 P.M., Monday and Tuesday at 9 P.M.
 
Screenplay by Andrew Davies, based on a novel by Jane Austen. Directed by Simon Langton; produced by Sue Birtwisle; music by Carl Davis; photography by John Kenway; Peter Coulson, film editor; Susie Conklin, script editor; Julie Scott and Fiona McTavish, associate producers. from A&E and BBC-TV. Delia Fine, A&E executive in charge; Michael Wearing, executive producer.
 
WITH: Colin Firth (Mr. Darcy), Jennifer Ehle (Elizabeth Bennet), Alison Steadman (Mrs. Bennet), Julia Sawalha (Lydia Bennet), Susannah Harker (Jane Bennet), Benjamin Whitrow (Mr. Bennet), David Bamber (Mr. Collins), Adrian Lukis (Wickham) and Barbara Leigh-Hunt (Lady Catherine de Bourgh).

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jennifer Ehle and Colin Firth in an adaptation of Jane Austen's "Pride and Prejudice," to be shown on A&E. (Joss Barratt/A&E)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: PRIDE AND PREJUDICE (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ENGLAND (93%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (91%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (90%); MOVIE THEATERS (89%); TELEVISION MOVIES & MINISERIES (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); MARRIAGE (72%); BOOKSTORES (57%); 

PERSON: O'CONNOR, JOHN J COLIN FIRTH (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



323 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 690 words

HEADLINE: Observer;
Hillary In Lower Slobbovia

BYLINE: By RUSSELL BAKER 

 BODY:
By week's end the blizzard had lost its charm and worn out its welcome. Much of the East Coast still looked like Lower Slobbovia, that miserable country invented by Al Capp, where the entire population lived eternally in shoulder-deep snow.
Except for Boston, whose winters often seem blood kin to Buffalo's, the geographical reach of this storm seemed contrived to create maximum and despairing helplessness. 
 The blasted cities, where winter is normally temperate, haven't the experience to cope with snow hitting the boulevard by the ton every minute, nor the equipment to do so, nor the big money required to keep great snow-removal systems ever ready to clear the streets.
So -- just when half-mad parents began to fear that the children would never go back to school again, just when cabin fever was beginning to crush the spirits of millions, just when you thought you might shoot the television set if it told one more tale of an unplowed cul-de-sac -- just then, the Republicans to the rescue!
Once again they sank their teeth into Hillary Clinton, into the infamous "travelgate" adventure, into the impenetrably confusing Whitewater story.
Good old Republicans. They had been taking a shellacking on the budget fight with President Clinton. People of all varieties, except those who phone Rush Limbaugh and C-Span, were as tired of the Government's being eternally "shut down" as they were of unplowed cul-de-sacs.
And now for something completely different!
Not Monty Python's Flying Circus, unfortunately, but a complete change of subject anyhow, and bless the Republicans for bringing it onstage: The Hillary Follies.
What does it all mean? Only a hardened nitpicker could care in a winter like this. You meet reporters who swear they understand the Whitewater deal and put you to sleep trying to explain it, and why it was or wasn't nastier than the really big-time swindles that characterized the glory days of the savings and loan business.
So what if it happened back at the dawn of time when she was a young lawyer and he was a young Governor? It goes to the "character issue," doesn't it? The press is always ready to throw its vast forces of nobility into the fray when the issue is "character."
What works for the Republicans is the rapid change of subject. Ill-tempered Newt departs the TV and front pages. So do stories about shutting down the Government, which make people think of old-time schoolyard quarrels -- before schoolchildren started quarreling with knives and guns.
By cutting suddenly to Hillary, the Republicans are able to stir up personal passions about her. A well-stirred personal passion always goes down well in today's politics of personal attacks. Hillary seems to stir easily.
There at the center of things, stirring, is New York's own Senator Alfonse D'Amato, only recently released from the threat of a "character-issue" attack himself by the Senate's experts on ethics. It is all too rich, and Hillary is so easy to pillory.
What about that firing of the old White House travel bureaucrats and of their being replaced by Hillary pals? What right does the lady have to throw her weight around like that in the White House? Who elected her?
And anyhow, even if "travelgate" doesn't make a very big hill of beans, what about the Vince Foster suicide? Suicide was it really? Can we be sure it wasn't murder by persons who wanted Foster silenced about Whitewater?
And so on. It has always been easy to turn Hillary into a political issue, perhaps because she really does have a hunger for power. First Ladies are not supposed to, but they sometimes had in the past.
Eleanor Roosevelt is said to have kept Franklin's energies focused on social and economic issues when he might have been willing to let them go by the boards. Nancy Reagan, of course, seems to have run the White House with the advice of an astrologist and even to have fired President Reagan's chief adviser, Donald Regan.
More heavy snow is forecast for the dismal mid-Atlantic states this weekend. If another week of Lower Slobbovia is in the cards, Hillary may be tempted to curse the blizzard.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); 

CITY: BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ARKANSAS; UNITED STATES (79%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (92%); BOSTON, MA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; WHITEWATER CASE EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); CHILDREN (88%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (87%); BUDGETS (75%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (73%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (72%); POLITICS (70%); 

PERSON: BAKER, RUSSELL; CLINTON, HILLARY RODHAM; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); BILL CLINTON (70%); RUSH LIMBAUGH (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



324 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 827 words

HEADLINE: An Election With Partisan Shadows

BYLINE: By JONATHAN P. HICKS 

 BODY:
Five minutes into a discussion about his political aspirations, A. Gifford Miller reiterated his party affiliation no fewer than a dozen times, speaking about "Democratic ideals." Meanwhile, Judith G. Marcus has mailed material to voters highlighting her endorsements by prominent Republicans. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani's name is at the top of the list.
Tuesday's special election to fill the seat for City Council District 5, representing the Upper East Side of Manhattan and Roosevelt Island, is officially a nonpartisan choice. In fact, the City Charter forbids candidates to use the names of established political parties -- an effort to minimize the impact of parties in special elections. Nonetheless, party affiliation, and the power behind it, is clearly playing a central role in the candidates' political strategies. 
 After the resignation of Charles Millard, the Republican Councilman who has represented the district since 1992, five candidates filed petitions to run for the seat. But only two gathered enough signatures. Officially, Mr. Miller, a top aide to United States Representative Carolyn B. Maloney, will run on the East Side Neighbors ticket and Ms. Marcus, a deputy to Mr. Millard, will carry the Community First Party banner.
But both candidates are trying to make the most of the formidable political machines behind the parties with which they are, unofficially, affiliated. Ms. Marcus, for example, is hoping to benefit from one of the strongest Republican operations in New York City, the East Side organization. It is led by State Senator Roy M. Goodman and includes Mr. Millard, who resigned to become the president of the Economic Development Corporation in the Giuliani administration.
Ms. Marcus, who dealt with constituent complaints when she worked for Mr. Millard, is now getting help from several of Mr. Goodman's Manhattan Republican proteges, including City Councilman Andrew Eristoff, from the adjacent East Side district, and Assemblyman John A. Ravitz. Citizens Union has also endorsed her.
She has also mailed district voters a letter from Mayor Giuliani praising Ms. Marcus as "an extraordinarily capable candidate."
Mr. Miller, meanwhile, is not without his political muscle. Virtually every prominent Democrat in Manhattan has endorsed him, including Borough President Ruth W. Messinger, Public Advocate Mark J. Green, Assemblyman Herman D. Farrell Jr. -- who is also the chairman of the Manhattan Democratic county committee -- and the entire Manhattan delegation in the City Council.
He also has the support of District Council 37 of the American Federation of State, County and Municipal Employees, the city's largest municipal employees' union. Its members are running telephone banks in the candidate's behalf.
In addition, Mr. Miller is to receive $1,775 from C-PAC, the political action committee of the City Council Speaker, Peter F. Vallone. And Mr. Vallone has given him the services of Harris Leitstein, the City Council's chief of operations, as campaign manager.
At 26, Mr. Miller would be the youngest person elected to the Council. If Ms. Marcus, 51, wins, the Republicans will keep the seven seats they held in the 51-member Council before Mr. Millard resigned.
Ms. Marcus's strategy is to paint her opponent as a young, well-intentioned political novice with little knowledge of either the problems of the district's constituents or the bureaucracy that can solve them.
"What differentiates me from Mr. Miller is the fact that I've been working in the community for 14 years," Ms. Marcus said in an interview in her campaign headquarters in the basement of the Metropolitan Republican Club.
But Mr. Miller said his Republican opponent embodied "the Republican agenda, which is hurting the city." He added: "She changed to be a Republican at the same time that Newt Gingrich was passing his Contract With America, and George Pataki was proposing budgets which devastate the city. I think that says a lot about her and her philosophy."
Campaigning in New York's Fifth Council District is a challenging business. The Upper East Side is the home of many of the city's wealthiest residents, which has given the area its nickname, the Silk Stocking District.
For most New York City politicians, subway stops are the best places to meet voters. But there are only two subway stations in the district, on Roosevelt Island and on Lexington Avenue at 86th Street. And those -- as well as many of the stops nearby -- are used by people who live in other districts and commute in to work. Also, many constituents live in apartment buildings with doormen, making door-to-door campaigning impossible.
As a result, the candidates have taken to the phones, both to raise money and to talk with potential voters.
Each candidate has raised about the same amount so far, about $70,000; the campaign finance laws permit spending up to $120,000 each. Each also has about 100 volunteers.

GRAPHIC: Photo: In a special election on Tuesday, A. Gifford Miller and Judith G. Marcus will vie to fill the City Council seat vacated by Charles Millard, who represented District 5 on the Upper East Side of Manhattan. (Photographs by Ruby Washington/The New York Times)
 
Map of Manhattan

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (97%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: CITIZENS UNION BANCORP (53%); CITY COUNCIL (87%); METROPOLITAN REPUBLICAN CLUB (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: CITY COUNCIL (87%); METROPOLITAN REPUBLICAN CLUB (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER EAST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (97%); NEW YORK, USA (97%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS CITY GOVERNMENT (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); CITIES (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (90%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2008 (89%); MAYORS (89%); POLITICAL ORGANIZATIONS (89%); POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEES (78%); POLITICS (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); COUNTIES (77%); VOTERS & VOTING (77%); PETITIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); RESIGNATIONS (73%); LABOR UNIONS (67%); 

PERSON: MILLER, A GIFFORD; MARCUS, JUDITH G; HICKS, JONATHAN P RUDY GIULIANI (78%); CAROLYN MALONEY (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



325 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 23; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 561 words

HEADLINE: At Yale, a Decent Life Is a Radical Idea

BYLINE: By Debby Applegate and Bruce Tulgan; Debby Applegate is a doctorate candidate in American Studies at Yale University. Bruce Tulgan is the author of "Managing Generation X."

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
The first baby-boomer administration at Yale is reliving its radical youth -- but this time as the Establishment.
On Wednesday, 137 protesters were arrested on the campus for civil disobedience. This unrest is the latest episode in a five-year battle between the administration and the Graduate Employees and Students Organization, which is seeking to unionize the university's graduate students. 
 Many graduate-student teachers are withholding undergraduate grades until the administration agrees to negotiate. In response, Yale has singled out three student leaders for disciplinary action and has threatened other students with expulsion and lockouts.
Unlike the campus protests of the 1960's, the current unrest is not about an unpopular war or the counterculture. Nor is it about political correctness, tenured radicals or multiculturalism. Instead, the demonstrations are over mundane issues like health care and job training.
Yale set the protesters' agenda. After riding the stock market to a $4 billion endowment in the 1980's, the university announced that in the austere 1990's it would be run more like a corporation.
Following downsizing trends in the private sector, Yale initiated a severe economic restructuring, cutting faculty, services and clerical and custodial staff. It also continued admitting large numbers of graduate students to fill its need for inexpensive teaching labor, even as job opportunities were diminishing throughout academia.
Yet Yale insists that the graduate students remain within a traditional apprenticeship system, which was set up to groom them for tenured positions that are now in short supply. Until 1990, after the students organized, the apprenticeship system offered no teacher training, no effective grievance procedure and no job-placement services.
The Draconian response to the student protests by Yale's president, Richard C. Levin, indicates that he doesn't understand the changes in the profession and the career concerns of our generation.
The university leaders of his generation remember their own era of student agitation as idealistic, concerned with abstract principles like peace, civil rights and personal freedom.
Because today's students are protesting their own working conditions, Yale dismisses the students as mere malcontents, unwilling to pay their dues, motivated by self-interest rather than boomer-like ideals. But our generation's battleground is the workplace. Unlike our predecessors, we don't have the luxury of choosing our causes.
The students in the 1960's earned graduate degrees during the biggest expansion of higher education in American history. They willingly lived on the brink of poverty for six years, but they knew that almost everyone would get a job, win tenure and live happily ever after in an ivory tower.
Today's students face a very different marketplace. Grant money is evaporating and institutions are hiring fewer tenured faculty and more part-time adjuncts. Yale has backed out of the traditional workplace bargain but still demands that graduate students pay dues to a club that no longer exists.
The university's graduate students are using the strategies of the labor movement to address the diminution of job security. Unlike the activism of the 1960's, the student union movement is a hotbed of realism, not radicalism.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); 

CITY: NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

ORGANIZATION: YALE UNIVERSITY YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); YALE UNIVERSITY (94%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CONNECTICUT, USA (58%); NEW HAVEN, CT, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES; GRADUATE SCHOOLS AND STUDENTS; UNIONIZATION STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (93%); GRADUATE & PROFESSIONAL SCHOOLS (90%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (90%); EMPLOYMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); COLLEGES & UNIVERSITIES (89%); STUDENT ACTIVISM (89%); TEACHER EDUCATION (89%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (89%); BABY BOOMERS (89%); ACADEMIC TENURE (89%); CIVIL DISOBEDIENCE (78%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (77%); LOCKOUTS (77%); STUDENT ORGANIZATIONS (77%); LABOR UNIONS (77%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (77%); SCHOOL SUSPENSION & EXPULSION (76%); HISTORY (76%); STUDENT DISCIPLINE (76%); ENDOWMENTS (76%); ARRESTS (73%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); GRANTS & GIFTS (72%); 

PERSON: APPLEGATE, DEBBY; TULGAN, BRUCE

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



326 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 45; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 472 words

HEADLINE: Long Bond Loses Ground; Other Prices Up Slightly

BYLINE: By ROBERT HURTADO 

 BODY:
With the exception of the bellwether 30-year bond, prices of Treasury securities rose slightly yesterday in an abbreviated session ahead of a three-day holiday weekend.
For the second time in a week, Federal offices were closed because of a snowstorm. Meanwhile, investors sold long maturities while waiting for some signs of progress in talks aimed at producing a balanced budget. The stalled talks between the Administration and Congressional Republican leaders have pushed interest rates on the long bond up nearly 20 basis points, or one-fifth of a percentage point, since the start of the year. 
 The benchmark long bond fell 2/32 , to a price of 10929/32 to yield 6.14 percent, unchanged from the previous session. Traders said talk of a large hedge fund's buying short maturities helped shore up prices in Treasury bills, which were up a basis point.
The only data released yesterday -- the Atlanta Fed index for December, which showed a sharp drop -- helped push bond prices higher. The data reflected the most recent survey of regional business activity.
While news of a foundering factory sector is hardly surprising, it was all that was needed to squeeze out any remaining shorts who would be looking to get out of the market ahead of the long weekend. On Monday no trading is scheduled in government securities because of the Martin Luther King Jr. Birthday holiday.
James Hale, fixed-income analyst at MMS International in San Francisco, attributed most of the weakness in the long maturities to investors' moving away from the long end into the shorter maturities to protect themselves against further price volatility during the budget negotiations.
"The Atlanta Fed survey said manufacturing activity deteriorated considerably last month," Mr. Hale noted. "The index dropped to minus 19.9 from a revised minus 11.1 in November, and if translated and included in the National Association of Purchasing Management index, the N.A.P.M. would fall to 45.8 percent from 48.7 percent."
Theodore Ake, government trading manager at Kemper Securities Inc. in Chicago, said the early focus of market activity was the optimism generated by the first economic number in some time. The partial Government shutdowns experienced during the budget talks have wreaked havoc on the gathering, compilation and timely release of economic statistics.
The weak economic data and disappointing car sales, managed to raise expectations among some investors that the Fed could cut short-term rates once more. The Federal Reserve's Open Market Committee meets on Jan. 30 and 31.
Mr. Ake said of President Clinton's plea for negotiations now to hammer out a budget deal before the November elections, "He seems to be telling the market that he may make some concessions and that has raised market expectations of a settlement."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS521110 MONETARY AUTHORITIES - CENTRAL BANK (56%); SIC6011 FEDERAL RESERVE BANKS (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

COMPANY: INSTITUTE FOR SUPPLY MANAGEMENT (64%); FEDERAL RESERVE BANK OF ATLANTA (56%); ATLANTA FED (81%); 

ORGANIZATION: ATLANTA FED (81%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (51%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS BOND MARKETS (92%); TREASURY SECURITIES (91%); BONDS (91%); PRICE INCREASES (90%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (90%); PRICE CHANGES (90%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (90%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (90%); BUDGETS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT SHUTDOWNS (77%); MONETARY POLICY (76%); STATISTICS (76%); POLLS & SURVEYS (76%); ECONOMIC INDICATORS (76%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (75%); FIXED INCOME RESEARCH (73%); ELECTIONS (72%); AUTOMOTIVE SALES (72%); MANUFACTURING SECTOR PERFORMANCE (72%); INTEREST RATES (71%); ECONOMIC NEWS (71%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (71%); HEDGE FUNDS (54%); 

PERSON: HURTADO, ROBERT BILL CLINTON (57%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



327 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 38; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 318 words

HEADLINE: CURRENCY MARKETS;
Dollar Up but Gains Are Curbed As Traders Await Fresh Data

BYLINE: By Reuters 

 BODY:
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen and the German mark yesterday as traders sold low-yielding Japanese investments, but gains were limited as the market awaited the first major American economic reports in a month.
 In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 1.4420 German marks, from 1.4408 marks on Thursday, and to 105.20 Japanese yen from 104.77 yen. The British pound edged up to $1.546 from $1.544. 
 The Federal Government's partial shutdown and bad weather have delayed Government reports while the economy seemed to falter. Even modest growth signals when the reports resume next week are likely to bolster the dollar, analysts said.
 "You don't need 5 percent growth here," said Graham Broyd, a senior vice president at NatWest Bank P.L.C. "Two percent will outdo most of Europe, and that may be enough to stimulate the dollar vs. European currencies."
Weak economies in Europe and Japan have encouraged many foreign investors to hold their American securities, giving the dollar a modest gain.
 "The potential recession that's going to hit Europe should help the dollar," Mr. Broyd said. "When Europe cuts interest rates again to stimulate the economy, that lifts the dollar."
 Investors in Asia lifted the dollar against the yen, selling the Japanese currency for marks. Japan's low interest rates were attributed for the selling.
"The trend is money going into high-yielding markets, playing off interest-rate differentials," said Chris Iggo, an international economist at the Chase Manhattan Bank. "The yen continues to slip against everything else."
 The dollar was modestly firm in trading throughout the day, and traders said it was likely to rally next week if there was any positive economic news, like some resolution of the Federal budget dispute.
"The dollar seems to be looking for a reason to rise and if it gets one, it probably will," Mr. Broyd said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: NWBD (LSE) (69%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522110 COMMERCIAL BANKING (69%); SIC6029 COMMERCIAL BANKS, NEC (69%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); ASIA (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL WESTMINSTER BANK PLC (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (95%); EUROPE (94%); UNITED STATES (92%); GERMANY (91%); ASIA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: CURRENCY CURRENCIES (93%); JAPANESE YEN (90%); GERMAN MARK (90%); US DOLLAR (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (78%); RECESSION (78%); BUDGETS (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); TRENDS (76%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (74%); BRITISH POUND (71%); INTEREST RATES (71%); 

PERSON: GRAHAM BROYD (89%); JOHN MAJOR (72%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



328 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 3; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 803 words

HEADLINE: Russia's New Foreign Minister Sets a More Assertive Tone

BYLINE: By ALESSANDRA STANLEY 

DATELINE: MOSCOW, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Russia's new Foreign Minister, Yevgeny M. Primakov, set the tone today for Russian foreign policy until the presidential elections next June. And in keeping with the emotional political climate at home, the tone was decidedly nationalistic.
"Russia was and remains a great power," he declared in his first news conference since he was appointed on Tuesday. "Her foreign policy should correspond to that status." 
 Mr. Primakov said he intended to make Russia's partnership with the United States more "equitable" and reiterated his opposition to NATO expansion. He stressed that Russia needed to show more leadership in its relations with the republics of the former Soviet Union and play a more significant role in Bosnia and other hot spots around the world.
But for all his tough talk, Mr. Primakov avoided any statements that might set off alarms in Washington or in Western Europe.
Self-assured and echoing the recent statements of President Boris N. Yeltsin, Mr. Primakov's smooth presentation helped explain why Mr. Yeltsin chose him to take over from Andrei Kozyrev, who was accused of being too accommodating to the West. With his decades of experience and solid Soviet credentials, Mr. Primakov is far less likely to become a target of nationalists and Communists, and could help defuse foreign policy as a political issue at home.
His performance also shed some light on how Mr. Primakov, 66, who until this appointment was director of Russia's foreign intelligence service, managed to stay in the inner circles of power first under Leonid I. Brezhnev, then Mikhail S. Gorbachev, and now Mr. Yeltsin.
"He's pragmatic, not ideological, and he is very loyal," said Georgi Mirsky, a senior research fellow at the Institute of World Economy and International Affairs, who has known Mr. Primakov since their student days. "And he is very good at changing his loyalties to match the powers that be."
Some policy makers in Washington have expressed reservations about Mr. Primakov, concerned that his background as an Arabist -- he studied Arabic and was a reporter for Pravda in Cairo in the 1960's -- might prompt him to try to expand Russian influence in the Middle East.
Mr. Primakov earned the enmity of former Secretary of State James A. Baker just before the Persian Gulf war, when, on the instructions of Mr. Gorbachev, he tried to persuade his old acquaintance Saddam Hussein to withdraw his army from Kuwait. Mr. Primakov's attempt to broker a face-saving withdrawal for Mr. Hussein succeeded only in annoying the Bush Administration, which viewed his efforts as meddling.
Mr. Primakov, who said he had agreed to meet with Secretary of State Warren Christopher in February, will almost certainly reflect Russia's new belligerence about its status -- and insecurity about Western intentions. But unlike Mr. Kozyrev, he will be able to speak for Mr. Yeltsin with confidence.
Mr. Primakov was born in Kiev, Ukraine, but grew up in Tbilisi, Georgia, before entering the prestigious Institute of Oriental Studies in Moscow. After reporting for Pravda in the Middle East, he worked at various official research centers and was sufficiently respected as an administrator and international affairs analyst to be inducted into Mr. Brezhnev's circle of more progressive foreign policy advisers. Mr. Gorbachev recruited him to help implement perestroika, and he served the last Soviet leader loyally, defending him during the failed coup of August 1991. But when power shifted to Mr. Yeltsin, Mr. Primakov was able to transfer his loyalties once again.
"He has managed to conserve his roots in the old establishment while taking part in the Yeltsin revolution," said Aleksei Pushkov, a foreign affairs columnist for The Moscow News, "and in that sense he represents continuity."
But there are those in Moscow who say he is more rooted in the past than the present. "His experience belongs to previous times," said one former colleague in the Gorbachev Government who spoke on condition he not be identified. "I don't know whether he will have a fresh approach in appraising new information and new situations."
Russians who know Mr. Primakov well say he would probably like to increase Russia's influence in the Middle East, but that he is a realist about his chances. Mr. Mirsky said Mr. Primakov was more likely to concentrate on repairing Russia's relations with former republics of the Soviet Union like Ukraine, areas that Mr. Kozyrev was widely accused of neglecting.
Mr. Primakov did permit himself one joke today. When a Polish reporter asked how Russia's plans to play a more assertive role in the world would effect Central Europe, and Poland in particular, Mr. Primakov smiled sardonically. "Well, of course, we're not going to send in tanks, if that's what you are worried about."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Yevgeny M. Primakov, the new Russian Foreign Minister, at a news conference yesterday. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Biography

TICKER: ALMUDON (KUW) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS531110 LESSORS OF RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS & DWELLINGS (51%); SIC6513 OPERATORS OF APARTMENT BUILDINGS (51%); 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (67%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

COMPANY: AL MUDON INTERNATIONAL REAL ESTATE CO KSCC (51%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; EUROPE; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (99%); UNITED STATES (94%); EUROPE (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); WESTERN EUROPE (79%); KUWAIT (79%); GULF STATES (67%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (79%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTION ISSUES; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; RUSSIA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (95%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); FOREIGN POLICY (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); US PRESIDENTS (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (78%); DEFENSE & MILITARY POLICY (78%); POLITICS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); APPOINTMENTS (78%); PRESS CONFERENCES (77%); ESPIONAGE (66%); DESERT STORM (64%); 

PERSON: PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (MIN) SADDAM HUSSEIN (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



329 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 29; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1268 words

HEADLINE: THE BLIZZARD OF 1996: PLOWING;
For Sanitation Chief, Many Tough Battles

BYLINE: By FRANK BRUNI 

 BODY:
Walking rapidly at the crack of dawn, smiling earnestly despite plenty of reasons not to, Sanitation Commissioner John J. Doherty dropped in on one of his department's garages in lower Manhattan yesterday morning, a commander come to salute his snow-besieged troops.
"It's been tough," Mr. Doherty said to one of the many plow drivers whose hands he shook. "You should be proud of the way you held up." 
On some level, Mr. Doherty was undoubtedly talking to himself as well. For while his workers suffered something akin to hell week, the Commissioner endured a trial by even hotter fires.
He was battered not only on the professional front, dealing with one of the worst blizzards ever to hit New York City, but also on the personal one.
On Saturday, a day before the first flakes fell, his son Brian, 27, was arrested for possession of cocaine and an unregistered 12-gauge shotgun. And a week before that, Mr. Doherty's 91-year-old father, also named John, had a stroke.
In an odd way, Mr. Doherty said late this week, it was the blizzard that sustained him.
"This was the one you had to get right," Mr. Doherty said. "That kept my mind a little more focused on what I had to do here. I couldn't dwell on other problems."
Just how right Mr. Doherty got it will surely be debated for some time. He did not help himself by predicting at one point that all city streets would be plowed within 24 hours of the snow's end. He fell at least nine hours short.
But friends and colleagues said that his venture out onto that limb was typical of a man whose exuberance, optimism and, above all, intensity carried him from an entry-level job as a trash collector in February 1960 to the helm of the Sanitation Department in August 1994. Mr. Doherty is only the 5th of 40 commissioners in the department's 115-year history to have risen through the ranks that way, and the first to do so in more than three decades.
"He puts too much pressure on himself," said Joe Timpone, one of Mr. Doherty's longtime friends. Mr. Timpone worked with Mr. Doherty for 30 years in the Sanitation Department but left about a year ago to join the Alliance for Downtown New York, a business improvement district.
Mr. Timpone said the risky 24-hour call was indicative of something else about Mr. Doherty: he is perhaps not as attuned to the political dimensions of his job as he is to the practical.
"He will put his neck on the line just because it's the best way to get the job done," Mr. Timpone said, speaking of the failed prediction. "I think he wanted to put that out as the challenge to his folks, so they would get it done as fast as possible. I think he knew he was going to take it on the chin."
Mr. Doherty, a red-haired whirl of energy whose fleet gait and athletic physique make him seem a good decade younger than his 57 years, smiled mischievously at that assessment, neither disputing nor confirming it.
"I thought we had a real good chance," he said with ambiguous conviction. "It ended up as 33 hours, I think."
Whatever the count, it does not seem to have winnowed Mr. Doherty's legions of admirers or tempered their regard for him.
Current underlings, former supervisors, front-line workers, sideline observers -- all expound at length on Mr. Doherty's honesty and dedication, and all say that he is doing a mostly excellent job, abetted by his personal knowledge of every facet of the Sanitation Department.
"I think that John Doherty is -- and I say this unequivocally -- the best public sector manager I've ever worked with," said Emily Lloyd, his predecessor as Sanitation Commissioner. Mr. Doherty served as her first deputy commissioner.
Even critics who disparage Mr. Doherty's recycling record, which they cite as his one glaring failure so far, digress to make their general respect and affection for him perfectly clear.
"His rise through the ranks is inspiring," said Eric A. Goldstein, a spokesman for the Natural Resources Defense Council, a city environmental group. "In many ways, it's the quaint New York success story: sanitation worker makes it to the top."
It is not a place that Mr. Doherty ever consciously set his sights on, and he said he still frequently finds himself a bit stunned to be there, particularly when he surveys his enormous wood-paneled corner office at 125 Worth Street in Manhattan. It comes with an annual salary of $133,000.
A lifelong resident of Staten Island, where he and his wife of 35 years still live in the three-bedroom ranch they bought for $20,000 in 1964, Mr. Doherty grew up with ill-defined ambitions.
His father, a carpenter, immigrated to America from Ireland in the 1920's only to encounter desperate economic hardship the following decade. He told his three sons they must do one of two things after high school: attend college or take the civil service exam. Civil servants, his father said, were among the only workers who still drew paychecks during the Depression.
None of the Doherty boys chose college. Mr. Doherty's brothers became firefighters, which is what he would have done too, but a neck injury blocked his way. The city offered him a job in the Sanitation Department instead.
He accepted it grudgingly. "It was the stigma," he said. "In high school, they used to say, 'If you don't do your homework, you're going to be a garbage man.' It was looked down upon."
About a year later, he said, he found himself sweeping a street in downtown Manhattan right outside a bank where he had worked briefly as a clerk. "I had my hat down over my head," he said. "I was ashamed to be recognized."
But he worked hard and rose far, taking every promotional exam he could, catching the eye of his bosses, becoming indispensable to them. He said that at no point was he reaching for the brass ring of commissioner, and those who know him well agree.
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said that Mr. Doherty's ability to identify with workers at all levels of the Sanitation Department has been an essential tool in the city's ability to negotiate contract changes with sanitation workers that have increased their productivity. "He has the confidence of the work force," the Mayor said.
Several sanitation workers interviewed yesterday at the garage Mr. Doherty visited said they felt a kinship with him that they did not feel with his predecessors. "You can relate to him better," one of the workers, Roy Edmonds, said.
Still, the Sanitation Department has problems. Its uniformed work force has been cut by more than 15 percent in the past five years, and "you do shrink the services, no doubt about it," Mr. Doherty readily conceded.
Mr. Doherty said that streets could be cleaner than they are, and that he is unhappy with what he sees. He also admitted that the percentage of municipal trash being recycled, which is supposed to be increasing steadily, has fallen in the last two years from 15 percent to below 14.
But in regard to snow removal, he made no apologies, saying his department did exemplary work. To oversee it, he spent about 20 hours a day on the job, sleeping most nights on a cot in his office. During his rare pauses, he called home to check on both his father and his son.
"You raise your children, you give them all you can," said Mr. Doherty, who has four in all, plus three grandchildren. "Then they go out on their own, and sometimes one of them slips."
He finally found some time on Thursday night to return home and sit down with Brian. But yesterday morning, he had little to say about it. He was back on the job, more snow was about to fall and there was no time to think about anything else.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Sanitation Commissioner John J. Doherty talking to workers at a department garage in lower Manhattan. (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) SANITATION DEPARTMENT (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: SANITATION DEPARTMENT (NYC) SANITATION DEPARTMENT (85%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (78%); COCAINE (78%); WEATHER (77%); ARMED FORCES (72%); STROKES (70%); ARRESTS (53%); 

PERSON: BRUNI, FRANK; DOHERTY, JOHN J (COMR) JOHN J DOHERTY (97%); JOE TIMPONE (60%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



330 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 48; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 131 words

HEADLINE: Fannie Mae Increases Its Mortgage Limit

BYLINE: By Bloomberg Business News 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12

 BODY:
The Federal National Mortgage Association has raised the limit on the size of the mortgages it buys.
The company, better known as Fannie Mae, said today that it would now buy mortgages as large as $207,000, up from its $203,150 limit. The decision could help lower mortgage rates for more Americans, since Fannie Mae is the largest investor in United States home mortgages. 
 The move comes weeks after the company's main competitor, the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation , or Freddie Mac, lifted its own limit on the mortgages it buys from lenders.
Keeping two separate loan limits created "a two-tiered system that undercut the standardization and competition the two companies brought to mortgage finance," said David Jeffers, vice president for corporate relations.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: FNM (NYSE) (94%); FRE (NYSE) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS522292 REAL ESTATE CREDIT (94%); SIC6162 MORTGAGE BANKERS & LOAN CORRESPONDENTS (94%); SIC6111 FEDERAL & FEDERALLY-SPONSORED CREDIT AGENCIES (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA) FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSOCIATION (FANNIE MAE) (94%); FEDERAL HOME LOAN MORTGAGE CORP (FREDDIE MAC) (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: FEDERAL NATIONAL MORTGAGE ASSN (FNMA)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; MORTGAGES MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (93%); SECONDARY MORTGAGE MARKET (90%); MORTGAGE LOANS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE ASSOCIATIONS (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING (88%); MORTGAGE RATES (73%); INTEREST RATES (73%); ECONOMIC NEWS (73%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



331 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 39; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 565 words

HEADLINE: Stocks Off in Volatile Day; Earnings Reports Awaited

BYLINE: By LEONARD SLOANE 

 BODY:
Stocks inched lower yesterday in a volatile trading session, as the market prepared for the flood of fourth-quarter corporate earnings reports expected to begin next week.
The Dow Jones industrial average rose almost 25 points at the opening, apparently in reaction to President Clinton's remarks on Thursday that a budget agreement was within reach. But by midday it plunged more than 40 points after a report by the Atlanta Federal Reserve indicated an economic slowdown would be forthcoming. At the close, the Dow was down 3.98 points, to 5,061.12, marking the third decline this week. 
 "Next month when the Atlanta report comes out, there might be a big yawn," said Robert Froehlich, chief investment strategist of Van Kampen American Capital. "However, we're starved for information now, and the whole market moved on that number," he said, referring to the lack of Government statistics during the recent shutdown.
Among the broader-based indicators, the Standard & Poor's 500-stock index slipped 0.88 point, to 601.81, and the Nasdaq composite index fell 2.87 points, to 1,008.23. Advances and declines were about even on the New York Stock Exchange, with 1,206 issues down and 1,102 issues up. With many traders in the Northeast leaving early because of a new winter snowstorm, volume dropped to 383.4 million shares, from 408.8 million shares Thursday.
Looking ahead, Sung Won Sohn, an economist at the Norwest Corporation, said, "Declining short-term interest rates, continuing economic expansion, mergers and acquisitions, and stock repurchases should support the stock market." But he added that "investors may have to settle for only a fraction of last year's gains."
The selloff in high-technology stocks resumed yesterday after three securities concerns cut their fourth-quarter earnings estimates for Dell. Dell dropped 4 7/8, to 28 5/8; Apple, which said that it expected to report a loss for the quarter ended Dec. 31, tumbled 1 1/8, to 33 7/8, and Motorola eased 3/4, to 49 3/8.
Retailers were also weak, amid concerns that the recent storms after a poor Christmas selling season would hurt profits. Kmart, whose debt ratings were downgraded by Standard & Poor's, closed at 7, off 5/8; Wal-Mart ended at 22 1/4, down 5/8, and Dayton Hudson closed at 72 3/4, off 1 1/4.
Oil issues slipped on forecasts of lower demand later this year. Exxon declined 1 1/8, to 79 5/8; Texaco fell 1 3/4, to 76 1/4, and Mobil dropped 2 3/4, to 110.
Other decliners included Cincinnati Microwave, which announced it had defaulted on a bank loan; its share price plunged 1 3/8, to 2 1/2. Tyson Foods, which said that price jumps in corn and other feed grains would add at least $125 million to its fiscal first-half costs, fell 1 1/8, to 23 7/8. And Hollywood Entertainment, which disclosed that it had changed accounting firms, dropped 1/2, to 6 3/4.
In contrast, the Student Loan Marketing Association, known as Sallie Mae, which yesterday announced a 14 percent rise in fourth-quarter net income, led some financial services stocks upward. Sallie Mae gained 5 1/4, to 70 1/4; Citicorp climbed 3/4, to 63 1/4, and BankAmerica advanced 1 7/8, to 61 1/4.
Some of the drug issues, whose profits are less likely to be affected by the extent of overall economic growth, were higher as well. Merck closed at 62 1/8, up 5/8, and Pharmacia & Upjohn closed at 37, up 7/8.

GRAPHIC: Table: "The Favorite Stocks" shows performance of the 15 issues with the most shareholders.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: WFC (NYSE) (83%); DELL (NASDAQ) (64%); MSI (NYSE) (52%); TGT (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS551111 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); SIC6712 OFFICES OF BANK HOLDING COMPANIES (83%); NAICS334111 ELECTRONIC COMPUTER MANUFACTURING (64%); SIC3571 ELECTRONIC COMPUTERS (64%); NAICS523999 MISCELLANEOUS FINANCIAL INVESTMENT ACTIVITIES (56%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (56%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (56%); NAICS334220 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC3663 RADIO & TELEVISION BROADCASTING & COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (52%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (51%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

COMPANY: WELLS FARGO & CO (83%); DELL INC (64%); INVESCO INVESTMENT SERVICES INC (56%); NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE LLC (55%); MOTOROLA SOLUTIONS INC (52%); TARGET CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); ATLANTA, GA, USA (55%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; DOW JONES STOCK AVERAGE STOCK INDEXES (95%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); STOCK EXCHANGES (90%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); COMPANY EARNINGS (90%); CREDIT BUREAUS (89%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (89%); MERGERS (79%); BANKING & FINANCE (79%); INTERIM FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); EARNINGS PREANNOUNCEMENTS (78%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); COMPANY PROFITS (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); BONDS (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (76%); BUDGETS (76%); STOCK REPURCHASE PLANS (74%); MERGERS & ACQUISITIONS (74%); STATISTICS (72%); CHRISTMAS (65%); RETAILERS (60%); INTEREST RATES (50%); 

PERSON: SLOANE, LEONARD BILL CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



332 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 10; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 863 words

HEADLINE: THE 1996 ELECTION: THE IOWA DEBATE;
Race Is Still a Blur, With a Month to Focus

BYLINE: By JAMES BENNET 

DATELINE: DES MOINES, Jan. 12

 BODY:
The nun came to play "You Are My Sunshine" on her accordion before Senator Phil Gramm spoke at a chili supper in Dubuque on Thursday night. But that did not mean she supported his candidacy -- or anyone else's, for that matter.
"I have not made up my mind," said Sister Mary Jean Evelyn Menster. "I don't know enough about any of them." 
 The candidates will gather here for a debate on Saturday, and Iowans will caucus one month from today. But many Republican voters say they are just beginning to focus on the race, even though some candidates have been running here for more than two and a half years.
Voters say they are pleased with their alternatives, but are still searching for meaningful differences in what can seem like sound-alike messages. Some of the candidates trailing Senator Bob Dole of Kansas, the Republican front-runner, find ground for hope in the many bumpers without stickers and lawns without political signs.
"I haven't made any decisions yet," said Dwight Glenney, a farmer and seed salesman in Muscatine. Mr. Glenney's ambivalence was surprising, since he was the host at a political appearance that Senator Gramm was making in his barn. But Iowans' expectations of coddling by candidates are notoriously high.
Mr. Glenney said he was trying to learn more details about each candidate's agricultural policy. "We still need a program that has some safety net in it," he said.
For his part, Mr. Gramm, standing before a John Deere tractor, declared himself "an ethanol senator" -- that is, a booster of plans to use a corn derivative as fuel. And the Texas Senator promised to improve the locks on the Mississippi River.
Senator Dole still has a commanding lead in Iowa, but his opponents are hoping to exploit the voters' apparent open-mindedness.
"In Iowa, people are still holding back," said Pat Buchanan, the conservative commentator and candidate. At Saturday's debate, Mr. Buchanan said, he hopes to draw clear lines between himself and the other candidates on economic issues.
Mr. Buchanan has made trade a big issue in his campaign, and on Thursday he unveiled billboards around the state promising, "He'll Bring the Jobs Home."
The candidates are also taking to the airwaves more intensely, carving up the near-monopoly on commercials of Steve Forbes, the millionaire publisher who is financing his campaign with his personal funds.
Recent polls here show that, after Senator Dole, Mr. Forbes is the only candidate in double digits, and just barely so.
But the state party chairman, Brian Kennedy, recalled that former Vice President Walter Mondale appeared to have the Iowa Democratic caucuses locked up at this point in 1984, only to see then Senator Gary Hart of Colorado finish a strong second, and then go on win the New Hampshire primary before Mr. Mondale eventually won the nomination.
"That's a good analogy," Mr. Kennedy said. "Everbody's wondering, is one of them going to grab some momentum and surge ahead in January, or are they just going to stay in that pack?"
Even when they say they support a particular candidate, some voters sound like they are still hoping to be swayed by another. Bill Egleston, of Marshalltown, said today that he supported Mr. Gramm, in part because Mr. Dole is 72 years old. "I would like to see Dole say, 'I would run for four years, and I would like Gramm to be my Vice President, and I want Colin Powell to be Secretary of State.' "
Mr. Egleston's wife, Marylin, said she was leaning toward Mr. Dole. "She'll vote the way I say," Mr. Egleston said.
"I'll listen to his arguments," she amended.
Popular support here does not necessarily translate into a strong showing at the caucuses. Historically, candidates need networks of aggressive volunteers to turn out supporters in the state's 2,142 precincts. So Senator Gramm, who has emphasized organization, could achieve his stated goal of a strong second place behind Mr. Dole, even though he is now stuck in single digits in the polls.
"My prediction is Gramm is going to score an upset in Dubuque County," said Rob Blum, the Republican county chairman. "Pat Robertson in '88 scored an upset, because of his organization, and Gramm has a lot of the Robertson people."
"We have literally thousands of people now who are involved as volunteers," Mr. Gramm said. "We have an active volunteer phoning program working every night in Iowa. We have an aggressive mail program, we're on radio and television, and I believe we're gaining ground."
In a two-day swing through the state before the debate, the Texas Senator presented himself as the candidate most committed to balancing the budget. But he found himself fielding questions on everything from health care to gun rights from voters who seemed almost to have scorecards with which they were tracking the candidates.
When Mr. Gramm stopped taking questions after the chili dinner for more than 300 people on Thursday night, one sixth grader's hand was still frantically waving in the air. Her teacher, Sister Mary Lee Cox, offered solace, saying that perhaps only a resident of this state or New Hampshire could expect to be told, "Save it for the next candidate."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, running for the Republican Presidential nomination, greeted supporters before a campaign stop in Muscatine, Iowa, on Thursday. The Iowa caucuses are scheduled for next month. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (98%); IOWA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (92%); MISSISSIPPI RIVER (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996 POLITICAL CANDIDATES (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); VOTERS & VOTING (89%); POLITICS (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (77%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (77%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (76%); CONSERVATISM (75%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (75%); CONSERVATIVE MEDIA (70%); OUTDOOR ADVERTISING (69%); BIOFUELS (68%); AGRICULTURE (64%); ETHANOL (63%); ALCOHOLS (63%); AGRICULTURE REGULATION & POLICY (50%); 

PERSON: BENNET, JAMES PHIL GRAMM (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



333 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 867 words

HEADLINE: U.S. Strengthening Patrols Along the Mexican Border

BYLINE: By ROBERT PEAR 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Just one week after Congress increased its budget by 24 percent, the Immigration and Naturalization Service said today that it was beefing up enforcement along the Southwestern border to prevent any increase in illegal immigration that might be caused by Mexico's severe economic problems.
Local law enforcement agencies will help the Border Patrol, and the armed forces will continue providing assistance, officials said. 
 Attorney General Janet Reno said the immigration service was sending 200 Border Patrol agents and 100 additional inspectors and investigators to California and Arizona. About 2,200 agents now patrol that section of the border.
Doris M. Meissner, the Commissioner of Immigration and Naturalization, said that local law enforcement officers would help the Border Patrol but that "they cannot arrest people" on suspicion of violating Federal immigration laws.
Mrs. Meissner said Mexico's economic crisis, including the devaluation of the peso, "definitely is creating migration pressures."
On Jan. 6, President Clinton signed legislation increasing the budget for the immigration service to $2.6 billion, from the $2.1 billion provided in 1995. Most of the additional money is for border enforcement and detention of illegal aliens.
Jeffrey M. Weber, budget officer for the immigration service, said the agency was planning to hire 3,200 new employees, raising the total to 24,200. These numbers include an increase of 800 Border Patrol agents, raising the total to 5,700.
Mexican officials, including Foreign Minister Jose Angel Gurria, have expressed concern that Mexico will become an issue in the United States Presidential election, and they tend to see actions by Washington as motivated by domestic American politics. Some Mexican officials suggest that the United States is militarizing the border as part of a strategy to encourage hostility to Mexico.
But Ms. Reno said today: "It's quite to the contrary. We are trying to control against illegal immigration. Alien smuggling is against the law in Mexico. I think Mexican officials share the same concern we have."
Rahm I. Emanuel, a White House aide who handles immigration policy, said the armed forces had provided support for civilian law enforcement along the border since January 1995. "Their actions and involvement are consistent with their mandate in protecting national security," Mr. Emanuel said. "After years of neglect, we are finally restoring the rule of law, locking down the Southwest border."
Mrs. Meissner said her agency was planning better coordination with the military but no increase in the 200 to 300 members of the armed forces already helping the immigration service along the Southwestern border.
The Pentagon provides surveillance and intelligence information to the Border Patrol, builds roads and fences, and handles some communications along the border. Soldiers also help with sophisticated equipment, like night-vision equipment and ground sensors.
Hispanic groups have often criticized efforts to crack down on illegal immigration. But Raul Yzaguirre, president of the National Council of La Raza, a Hispanic-American advocacy group, today praised the Clinton Administration's latest effort as "both sound policy and good politics."
"It is sound policy," he said, "because the most effective, most humane method of reducing undocumented immigration is enforcement at the point of entry, including the Southwestern U.S. border. It is good politics because I.N.S. efforts in this area stand in sharp contrast to some of the high-profile, irresponsible and draconian proposals currently being debated in Congress."
One of those proposals would require citizens and immigrants to carry identification cards. Another would deny United States citizenship to children born in this country to illegal immigrants. Under the 14th Amendment to the Constitution, such children now become citizens automatically.
As part of the new initiative, immigration officials said, they are transferring 40 inspectors to San Ysidro, Calif., to check the documents of people crossing the border. Eventually, they said, there will be 220 new inspectors, in addition to the 170 already assigned to the Southwestern border.
Mrs. Meissner said the Border Patrol would deploy 79 new agents in the San Diego area, 48 around El Centro, Calif., 21 in Yuma, Ariz., and 52 in other parts of Arizona, including Tucson.
Mrs. Meissner said the immigration service would assign 60 plainclothes agents to combat the smuggling of illegal aliens through airports in Los Angeles, San Diego, Phoenix, Tucson and Las Vegas, Nev. "As we tighten enforcement on the border," she said, "smugglers increasingly use airports as transportation hubs to get people into the United States."
In the 1996 appropriation for the immigration service, Congress said that $4.3 million should be spent on a fence along the border near San Diego. And $11 million was earmarked for the construction of a jail for illegal immigrants in Batavia, N.Y.
Alan D. Bersin, the United States Attorney in San Diego, said there were few precedents for the collaboration by the Border Patrol, the armed forces and local sheriffs.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Immigration and Naturalization Service is increasing enforcement along the Mexican border. Workers installed a security fence yesterday. (Jack Kurtz/Impact Visuals)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: IMMIGRATION AND NATURALIZATION SERVICE (US) IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%); IMMIGRATION & NATURALIZATION SERVICE (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MEXICO; CALIFORNIA; ARIZONA; MEXICO (99%); UNITED STATES (95%); ARIZONA, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: IMMIGRATION AND REFUGEES; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS BORDER CONTROL (93%); IMMIGRATION (93%); BUDGETS (91%); ILLEGAL IMMIGRANTS (91%); TERRITORIAL & NATIONAL BORDERS (91%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (91%); SPECIAL INVESTIGATIVE FORCES (90%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); IMMIGRATION LAW (90%); ARMED FORCES (89%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); US PRESIDENTS (88%); NATURALIZATION (78%); LEGISLATION (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); AGENCY RULEMAKING (78%); REFUGEES (78%); TRENDS (78%); SMUGGLING (77%); DEVALUATION (77%); INVESTIGATIONS (75%); ELECTIONS (73%); ALIEN SMUGGLING (73%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (73%); NATIONAL SECURITY (72%); POLITICS (72%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (72%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (64%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (64%); SURVEILLANCE TECHNOLOGY (62%); NIGHT VISION DEVICES (60%); 

PERSON: PEAR, ROBERT; RENO, JANET (ATTY GEN) BILL CLINTON (70%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



334 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 2; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1694 words

HEADLINE: America's Small-Town Team;
Packers Play for Touchdown Not for Profits

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
Most football fans know who owns the Dallas Cowboys -- the ultra-aggressive Jerry Jones, a one-time oil wildcatter who bought the team and Texas Stadium for $140 million in 1989, hired and then fell out with Jimmy Johnson as his coach, won two Super Bowls and stars in Pizza Hut commercials with Deion Sanders.
Now, name the Green Bay Packers' owner. You can't. There are too many. 
 Fred Trowbridge Jr., James Nelson and Dick Peal, who grew up in Green Bay, each own part of "The Pack." So do Willie Davis, the Hall of Fame defensive end; Bud Selig, baseball's acting commissioner; The Green Bay Press-Gazette and nearly 1,900 others.
This study in corporate contrasts, matching up Big D against small town America, will be on view tomorrow at Texas Stadium in the National Football Conference championship game. The winner will advance to the Super Bowl on Jan. 28. Led by the legendary coach Vince Lombardi, the Packers won Super Bowls I and II in 1967 and 1968 but have not returned since.
The Packers are not only an anomaly in the National Football League, but also in all major league sports. The team is a nonprofit corporation owned by stockholders whose shares yield no dividends, do not appreciate and are not publicly traded.
And in a turbulent time for professional sports, with more and more teams up for grabs to the highest bidders, the Packers are also a refreshing exercise in public pride and a mutual long-term commitment.
"We're a community project," said Mr. Trowbridge, a 65-year-old lawyer whose father owned shares before passing them on. Both Trowbridges have been members of the Packers' board. "That's what makes us different," he said.
Mr. Peal, a 59-year-old marketing consultant, added, "It's just special that the team is where it belongs."
To be sure, playing in a city of barely 100,000 people in northeastern Wisconsin, the Packers are an anachronism that could not exist without help from the league in the form of revenue sharing. Still, teams in much bigger cities receiving the same amount of help often find themselves in a bind or simply become itchy for greener pastures. In the N.F.L., the Cleveland Browns are trying to move to Baltimore and the Raiders and Rams left Southern California before the past season.
How Green Bay has managed to hold on to the Packers is increasingly a matter of interest to local government officials around the country who are keenly aware of the growing value of a major sports franchise to a city's economy and prestige.
While the Packers are now firmly rooted in Green Bay, the early years were precarious. The team was created in 1919, but its founders, led by the coach, Earl (Curly) Lambeau, were nearly broke by the end of 1922. Local businesses, including The Press-Gazette, lent the team $2,500.
There were other financial woes in the years before the N.F.L. became widely accepted. In 1934, local businesses raised $15,000 to rescue the team from receivership. Fifteen years later, the team played an intrasquad game on Thanksgiving to raise $50,000. A year later, in 1950, it sold stock to the public, this time to raise $118,000.
"I was 15 years old, making $5 a game selling programs, which I used to buy my share," said Mr. Peal, whose father was among the founders.
"That was a time when there was talk the team would move to Milwaukee," 100 miles away, said Mr. Nelson, 68, an electrical engineer who now lives in Arlington, Tex., and has not been to a game in 40 years. "So I bought a share."
Each of the 4,634 shares is worth the same $25 as when it was issued 46 years ago. A share can be passed from one relative to another, but it cannot be sold to outsiders unless first offered to the team to retire. No one can own more than 200 shares.
And there is no profit motive for the 1,898 shareholders. If the team were sold -- and N.F.L. teams now sell for at least $150 million -- the proceeds would go to build a war memorial at a local American Legion post.
"The founders were a bunch of guys who wanted something to do on Sundays," said Robert Harlan, the Packers' president. "They thought they'd operate it for a few years, and if it made a little money, it would go to the legion."
The legion, whose honor guard presents the colors before each Packers game, "would get the damnedest war memorial anyone's ever seen," Mr. Harlan said.
But no one can imagine the Packers being sold. The team is a bedrock franchise, whose only major move was from an old high school park it used for 33 years to Lambeau Field in 1957.
It had net income of $2 million in the fiscal year that ended March 31, 1995, a period in which several teams lost money in the N.F.L., not to mention those with losses in other sports. The Packers financed construction of 90 luxury boxes this past season, for a total of 198, then handed ownership of the suites to the city, which owns the stadium.
The team's loyalty is matched only by the fans' dedication. Early last Sunday morning, about 8,000 fans crowded the airport to cheer the return of the team after it upset the San Francisco 49ers the day before.
Fans around Wisconsin are buying Packers' goods in the familiar green-and-gold colors so rapidly that the jackets, T-shirts and caps are the fastest-selling of all 30 teams, said N.F.L. Properties, the league's licensing arm.
Maybe the truest indicator of the current wave of Packermania is the shortage of the foam cheese heads worn proudly by Green Bay fans. "There's a black market in them," said David Rosenwasser, president of the Green Bay Area Visitors and Convention Bureau. "The company that makes them got behind in production making sourdough heads for San Francisco last week."
Green Bay has retained the Packers long after teams in other smaller markets in the Midwest -- like Decatur, Ill., Akron and Canton in Ohio and Evansville, Ind. -- faded into history or moved to large urban centers. Green Bay is the 199th-largest city in the United States, and its television market, which includes Appleton, Wis., is ranked 71st.
Teams in other cities inspire devoted, even fanatic, followers. But the Packers may be more important to Green Bay than other teams are to their cities, for its sports domination of a small market and for its quaint ownership structure.
The convention bureau estimates the team creates direct spending of $30 million to $35 million, and counts on the free advertising from Packers' television games to lure tourists to local attractions like the railroad museum, the Oneida Casino, the Neville Museum and the Weidner Performing Arts Center.
"In 100 years we couldn't afford to pay for the exposure we get from the games," Mr. Rosenwasser said. And thanks to the Packers' presence in the conference title game, WLUK-TV, the local Fox affiliate that will televise the contest, has raised its rates 25 percent from the regular season, said Steve Banka, the station's vice president for marketing. Packer viewership borders on the astounding: this season's average local Nielsen rating has been a 56, meaning that 56 percent of all televisions in the area were tuned in.
Despite its wild popularity, the team needs the league's assistance to make a profit. Under N.F.L. rules, each team, regardless of size, gets an equal share of media and licensing revenues and 40 percent of the gate receipts at away games.
"We're only here because Pete Rozelle convinced the owners to share that money," Mr. Harlan conceded, referring to the former N.F.L. commissioner. The current four-year network and broadcast televison contracts total $4.4 billion.
For the 1995 fiscal year, the Packers got $37.3 million from television and radio contracts, and $2.6 million from N.F.L. Properties. Revenues from road games totaled $6.4 million. Those shared funds represented 74 percent of the Packers' total revenues of $62.2 million, with much of the rest coming from receipts from home games.
"It's testimony to the way the league is set up because no one starting a league now would put a team in a city that small," Alan Friedman, editor of Team Marketing Report, a Chicago-based sports newsletter said. "They support their team as well as a city 10 times their size."
All of the Packers' profits are plowed back into team operations and capital improvements. The team has spent $38 million over the years to expand the stadium, add the suites and build a practice facility.
All of the suites are sold out -- for a league low of $19,000 to $24,000 -- as is the entire 60,790-seat stadium game after game. The team is contemplating raising suite and ticket prices, but realizes the modest admissions charges (the top price is $28) forge a bond with the middle-class fan base. "But we know we're leaving a lot of money on the table," said Lance Lopes, the team's general legal counsel.
There are 23,000 names on the waiting list for season tickets. Mayor Paul Jadin, a season-ticket holder, figures that his children will get their own tickets in, say, 20 to 30 years. "This team is like our Statue of Liberty," he said.
The team's finances are helped by a favorable city lease: the Packers get all ticket, concession and parking revenues in return for rent of $400,000, which will rise to about $1 million under a new 20-year extension.
"This franchise isn't leaving," said John Underwood, the president of Firstar Bank in Green Bay, and the team's treasurer. "We don't have an owner who needs or wants the money. We just have a different perspective."
That perspective has drawn interest from cities fearful of losing teams. "There was an awful lot of envy from the other cities for the Packers and the city," Mr. Jadin said, describing a recent meeting with other mayors in Cleveland. They want to find a way to make sure a team stays, and think nonprofit public ownership offers that assurance.
But the Packers' setup is permitted only because of a grandfather clause in the N.F.L.'s ownership rules, which now seek to have one individual motivated by profit who owns at least 30 percent of the team and has the authority to make decisions.
"Maybe it's a thing that could only happen in 1919," Mr. Jadin said.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Fans gearing up for tomorrow's Packers-Cowboys game. A haircut in Milwaukee (Milwaukee Journal Sentinel); A 42-foot snowman in Marinette County, Wis. (Brian Humphrey/Eagle Herald); A cheese head. (Allsport); Brett Favre, Packers quarterback. (Associated Press)
 
Cahrt: "Fiscal Matchup" shows the fiscal breakdown of the Green Bay Packers -vs- the Dallas Cowboys
 
Map of Wisconsin.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5812 EATING PLACES (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: WISCONSIN, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: GREEN BAY, WI, USA (95%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DALLAS COWBOYS; GREEN BAY PACKERS PIZZA HUT INC (58%); GREEN BAY PACKERS INC (57%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: DALLAS COWBOYS; GREEN BAY PACKERS GREEN BAY PACKERS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); GREEN BAY PACKERS (94%); DALLAS COWBOYS (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GREEN BAY (WIS); UNITED STATES (95%); WISCONSIN, USA (95%); TEXAS, USA (94%); OHIO, USA (79%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); GREEN BAY, WI, USA (95%); DALLAS, TX, USA (94%); MILWAUKEE, WI, USA (91%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES; SUPER BOWL SPORTS (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (92%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS FANS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (87%); SPORTS REVENUES (78%); SPORTS & RECREATION (78%); BASEBALL (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (73%); SHAREHOLDERS (65%); PUBLIC FINANCE (64%); CONSULTING SERVICES (64%); LAWYERS (63%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD BEN NELSON (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



335 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 717 words

HEADLINE: BUSINESS DIGEST

 BODY:

Isetan Sues Barney's,Calls Attitude Deplorable
 
Isetan of Japan sued Barney's Inc., accusing its management of deception. "The attitude of Barney's management up to this stage is totally deplorable," said a statement from Isetan, which bankrolled the Barney's expansion. 
 This week Barney's Inc. filed for bankruptcy protection, and set off a public battle with its partner by filing its own suit seeking to recover $50 million in payments made over two years. [Page 37.]
 
German Company Seeks Maybelline
 
A German cosmetics company went after Maybelline, saying it wanted to top L'Oreal's $660 million bid, which the American cosmetics company accepted in December. Maybelline was noncommittal about what it would do now. The new suitor, Joh. A. Benckiser G.m.b.H., makes Coty and Lancaster cosmetics. [36.]
 
Financial News Service for Sale
 
Knight-Ridder gave up its hopes of making its electronic financial news service into a leading competitor, saying it would put the service up for sale at auction this spring. Knight-Ridder's stock rose $3.375, to $63.25. The financial service competes against services from Reuters, Dow Jones and Bloomberg that deliver constantly updated news, prices and analysis to traders, and those companies are considered potential bidders. [37.]
 
Kmart Given Junk Bond Rating
 
Standard & Poor's lowered the Kmart Corporation's bond rating to junk status. The retailer, which reached new agreements with its lenders on Thursday, said the move was "excessively severe" but unlikely to cause any immediate cash problems. [37.]
 
Clinton Pushes Fairness Theme
 
President Clinton portrayed the budget battle as a test of fairness, saying the nation must choose between "a society where winner takes all, or a society where everybody's got a chance to win." In Tennessee, he revived some of the economic themes that characterized his 1992 campaign. [1.]
 
Taiwan Rejects Capital Gains Tax
 
Taiwan's Parliament defeated a proposed capital gains tax on stock profits, relieving the market which had plunged 6.7 percent earlier this month after opposition legislators voted to levy a 14 percent tax on capital gains. The latest vote left the tax on stock transactions unchanged at three-tenths of 1 percent. [36.]
 
Another Drop in Heating Oil
 
Heating oil prices fell for a third day, as forecasts for warmer weather signaled weakening demand for fuel. Heating oil for February delivery tumbled 2.59 cents, to 53.57 cents a gallon. That brought its two-day loss to 9.8 percent. [38.]
 
Sony Sees Eventual Public Sale
 
Sony's president envisions selling stock in the company's American entertainment and electronics operations to the public, though not soon. Sony, which forced the resignation of Michael P. Schulhof as the president of Sony of America last month, does not intend to replace him, but instead wants the heads of the movie, music and consumer electronics businesses to report to Tokyo. [36.]
 
Stocks Fall at End of Rocky Week
 
Stocks edged lower in volatile trading as the market prepared for a flood of fourth-quarter corporate earnings reports next week. At the close, the Dow was down 3.98 points, to 5,061.12, for its third decline this week. The Nasdaq composite index fell 2.87, to 1,008.23. Dell, Motorola and Apple were lower. Retailers and oil were also weak. [39.]
 
Prices of Treasury securities rose slightly in a short session, but investors sold long maturities while waiting for signs of progress toward a balanced budget. The yield of the 30-year bond stayed at 6.14 percent. [45.]
 
Moody's Questions Pataki Budget
 
Moody's questioned the assumptions of Governor Pataki in formulating his 1996-97 budget, saying he relied too heavily on Federal changes that are far from certain. The Governor needs to close a projected $3.9 billion shortfall in the year beginning April 1. [26.]
 
Dollar Makes Limited Gains
 
The dollar rose against the Japanese yen and the German mark as traders sold low-yielding Japanese investments, but gains were limited as the market awaited the first major American economic reports in a month. In late New York trading, the dollar rose to 1.4420 German marks, and to 105.20 yen. [38.]
 

GRAPHIC: Chart: "YESTERDAY"
Dow Industrials -- 5,061.12 down 3.98
30-yr. Treasury yield -- 6.14% Unchanged
The Dollar -- 105.20 yen up .43

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

TICKER: OR (PAR) (93%); OR (BIT) (93%); MNI (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (93%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (93%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (93%); NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (93%); SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (91%); NAICS452990 ALL OTHER GENERAL MERCHANDISE STORES (83%); SIC5331 VARIETY STORES (83%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (70%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (70%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); NAICS519130 INTERNET PUBLISHING & BROADCASTING & WEB SEARCH PORTALS (55%); NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: BARNEYS INC (93%); L'OREAL SA (93%); ISETAN CO LTD (91%); KMART CORP (83%); JOH A BENCKISER SE (70%); MCCLATCHY CO (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (55%); SONY OF AMERICA (78%); ISETAN OF JAPAN (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: SONY OF AMERICA (78%); ISETAN OF JAPAN (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); TAIWAN (92%); JAPAN (92%); TENNESSEE, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS NEWS BRIEFS (91%); COSMETICS & TOILETRIES COMPANIES (91%); COSMETICS (90%); BANKING & FINANCE (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); HIGH YIELD BONDS (90%); STOCK INDEXES (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); TOILETRIES MFG (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (89%); CAPITAL GAINS TAX (88%); OIL & GAS PRICES (87%); HEATING OIL MARKETS (87%); HEATING OIL PRICES (87%); HEATING OIL (86%); TAX LAW (85%); BUDGETS (76%); ELECTRONICS (75%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (71%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (69%); RETAILERS (68%); CONSUMER ELECTRONICS (68%); PRICE CHANGES (66%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



336 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 26; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 493 words

HEADLINE: Bond-Rating Firm Frowns On Pataki's Budget Plan

BYLINE: By JAMES DAO 

DATELINE: ALBANY, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Raising sharp questions about Gov. George E. Pataki's plans to shrink state government, a firm that rates New York State's bonds released a report today saying that the Governor's 1996-97 budget proposal relies far too heavily on Federal changes that are far from certain.
In its preliminary review of Mr. Pataki's proposed budget, Moody's Investors Service said the Governor presumes changes in Federal Medicaid and welfare rules that would provide more than two thirds of the savings needed to close a projected $3.9 billion shortfall in the fiscal year beginning April 1. But, the report says, "Recent Federal budget negotiations leave it unclear whether New York State will be able to rely on the assumed savings." 
 Moreover, the report notes that local governments in New York State have already begun demanding a share of the $1.3 billion savings that Mr. Pataki hopes to receive under a proposal that would require the Federal Government to pay a larger portion of Medicaid, the Federal, state and local health care program for the poor and elderly.
If the local governments succeed, Mr. Pataki and the Legislature would be forced to find new cuts in other programs.
Finally, the report says that budget negotiations with the Legislature are likely to be "lengthy, controversial and contentious," with Republicans and Democrats expected to fight to restore much of the $1.1 billion Mr. Pataki wants to cut from the state share of Medicaid.
Moody's has given an A rating to New York State's general obligation bonds, the second lowest rating among the 40 states it grades. Only Louisiana's rating is lower. Standard & Poor's Corporation, the other major bond rating firm, has given New York its lowest bond rating.
Peter Murphy, a spokesman for the state Division of the Budget, called the Moody's report overly pessimistic. "We agree that there are uncertainties," he said. "But these are pretty reasonable assumptions."
The report does say that Mr. Pataki's budget is based on reasonable assumptions about the general shape of the economy and reduces reliance on nonrecurring sources of revenue -- the bane of bond raters. But it says the plan makes little headway in reducing the state's long-term debt of $7.5 billion.
The Moody's report was released just as Mr. Pataki was proposing amendments to his $63.8 billion budget. The changes would restore $52 million to a range of programs, almost all of which would be offset by lower than anticipated costs for welfare and debt payments, state budget officials said.
The release of the amendments today marks the completion of Mr. Pataki's budget proposal and the official beginning of negotiations between the Governor and legislative leaders over the plan.
The largest change is the addition of $13 million for the state AIDS Institute, which distributes grants for education and treatment programs. The change raises the institute's proposed 1996-97 budget to $70 million.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCO (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS561450 CREDIT BUREAUS (85%); SIC7323 CREDIT REPORTING SERVICES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

COMPANY: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE MOODY'S CORP (85%); MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE LTD (72%); STANDARD & POOR'S FINANCIAL SERVICES LLC (66%); MEDICAID (93%); 

ORGANIZATION: MOODY'S INVESTORS SERVICE MEDICAID (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK STATE; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); ALBANY, NY, USA (73%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; FORECASTS; RATINGS AND RATING SYSTEMS; MEDICAID; FEDERAL AID (US); MEDICINE AND HEALTH; GOVERNMENT BONDS BUDGETS (93%); MEDICAID (91%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (91%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (90%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BUDGET PROPOSALS (90%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); BONDS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); PUBLIC DEBT (89%); CORPORATE DEBT (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); HEALTH CARE (52%); 

PERSON: PATAKI, GEORGE E (GOV); DAO, JAMES EDWARD ALAN JOHN GEORGE (74%); EDDIE GEORGE (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



337 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 28; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1184 words

HEADLINE: THE BLIZZARD OF 1996: THE DAMAGE;
At Least 14 Hurt as Snow's Weight Brings Down the Roof of an L.I. Supermarket

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
At least 14 people were injured, one seriously, when half the sprawling roof of a Waldbaum's supermarket in Massapequa, L.I., collapsed late yesterday, dumping a mountain of snow, slush and debris among the nearly deserted aisles of foodstuffs and household goods. The store appeared to be a total loss.
In a week of winter storms, including a historic blizzard that left up to three feet of snow and paralyzed much of the Northeast, it was one of at least 10 roofs that fell under the weight of snow in the New York region. Roof and ceiling collapses were reported in residential and public buildings up and down the East Coast yesterday. 
 The roof of an 85-year-old Harlem church partly fell yesterday, with damage estimated at $1.5 million. Later, as pounding rains added to their burdens, the roofs of a shop in Blue Point, L.I., and a printing plant in Voorhees, N.J., fell in, injuring one person in each case. Earlier in the week, roofs caved in at three industrial sites on Long Island, a state office in Elizabeth, N.J., a clothing store in Edison, N.J., and a paper factory in Danbury, Conn.
In Massapequa yesterday, a cashier was trapped briefly in a collapse that left a 100-foot crater and almost wall-to-wall snow and debris inside the store at Hicksville Road and Jerusalem Avenue about 5 P.M. But fellow employees and rescue workers extricated the cashier, who suffered severe facial cuts.
"I could hear her screaming from under the debris," Mouded Siddiqui, 19, a Waldbaum's worker, said of the trapped cashier, whom he called Melanie. "So I crawled in and pulled apart the wires and chunks of the roof and took her hand. She was soaking from all the water that came down from the roof. She was freezing to death -- that's why I gave my jacket to her."
The terrified woman pleaded with him to remain with her, he recalled. "I wanted to stay in there longer, but you could smell the propane gas and that was very dangerous," he said. Though ordered out by his manager, he said, he returned later and with the help of a firefighter and a medic pulled the woman to safety.
Witnesses said the collapse might have been a deadly disaster if there had been more customers in the store at the time, and if there had been no warning. But many shoppers had stocked up Thursday night in anticipation of yesterday's storm, and instead of the usual Friday night crowd only a relative handful of people were there. Many ran for the exits when the building began to shake and groan and ceiling tiles began to pop moments before the collapse.
"I felt it shaking, heard a tremble, looked up and the whole roof was coming in, front to back, the whole length of the store," Neil Hurley, who was working in the frozen food section and escaped without serious injury, told The Associated Press. "I started running toward the back of the store."
Carolynn Hansen of Massapequa was just outside when the roof fell.
"I never actually got into the store," she said. "I was just entering and it just came crashing down right over the cashiers. All you saw was feet and feet of snow. The lights immediately went out and it was pitch black. There was a smell of gas and it looked like water or oil was pouring into the store."
Detective Frank O'Connor, a Nassau County Police spokesman, said 14 people were taken to nearby hospitals with minor injuries, mostly cuts and bruises, after the roof caved in, apparently under tons of snow from the blizzard, the added burden of yesterday's sleet and rain, and an air-conditioning unit, which also fell into the store.
As darkness came and a steady, freezing rain pounded the site last night, searchlights played over the store and the police and firefighters continued searching the debris. Gas and electricity were shut off. Ambulances and other emergency vehicles stood by, but all store employees had been accounted for and no one was believed to be trapped in the rubble.
The store was a bizarre sight. From a helicopter overhead, a 100-foot crater full of snow and debris was visible, and a large dark mass -- apparently the air-conditioner -- jutted up out of the snow.
From a parking lot in front, through ground-to-ceiling windows that still bore decals of snowmen in red scarfs popping champagne corks to celebrate the holidays, one could see a wall of snow filling the interior, burying shopping aisles, foodstuffs, household goods, carts and cashiers' checkout stations.
Angelo Delligatti, a Massapequa resident and an Oyster Bay Town Councilman, said the building had been erected about 20 years ago and had had its facade replaced about two years ago.
"We'll let the Police and Fire Department do what they have to do and then the building inspector will have to determine what caused the collapse and if there were any code violations that might have contributed," Mr. Delligatti said. "At this point, it would seem like it was just due to all the snow we've had and then the rain that we got on top of that today."
Alan Landman, superintendent of the Oyster Bay Department of Buildings, said he thought the supermarket had been built in the 1960's in accordance with the state building code, which specifies minimum "snow load" strengths for commercial structures. He said it had probably been built to exceed those standards and, as far as he knew, had no history of structural problems.
"As the snow and rain is coming, it's just exerting extraordinary pressure on these roofs," Mr. Landman said, adding that the roofs of three industrial buildings in his area had collapsed in the previous three days.
On Monday, as the Blizzard of 1996 reached its height, three roofs collapsed: at the State Unemployment Office in Elizabeth, N.J., which had 28.5 inches of snow; at a T. J. Maxx clothing store in Edison, N.J., which had 30 inches of snow, and at a paper factory on Main Street in Danbury, Conn., which had 21 inches of snow.
In Harlem yesterday, the roof of St. Philip's Episcopal Church partly collapsed over the sanctuary and altar area. Emily Frye, the church's senior warden, said the damage could total $1.5 million. "We have someone working on the roof now to see if they can stabilize it and prevent further damage," she said of the church, which was built in 1911.
In Suffolk County, the roof of a Linens 'n' Things store at Gateway Plaza in Blue Point, collapsed about 4:50 P.M. A spokesman for the Suffolk County Fire Department said there was only one minor injury.
And in Voorhees, N.J., last night, one man was injured and trapped for an hour when the roof of AFL Printing Company collapsed under the weight of snow and rain. Nine or 10 other employees escaped when it occurred about 7 P.M., but the injured man, whose name was not released, fell face down under debris.
Mayor Pamela Hammer said the man had yelled to rescue workers that he was lying prone in rising rainwater and was in danger of drowning. A plastic tube was used to enable him to breathe while rescue teams used a hydraulic jack to extricate him. He was listed in stable condition at Cooper Hospital-University Medical Center in Camden.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A Fire Department rescue worker being lowered in a steel cage last night through the hole in the Waldbaum's roof to secure unstable machinery so that other emergency workers could enter. At least 14 people were hurt. (Steve Berman for The New York Times)
 
Chart: "A CLOSER LOOK: A Heavy Sponge" shows how much snow fell yesterday and how it added to the weight of the snow that fell during the blizzard. (Pennsylvania State University)
 
Map of Nassau

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

CITY: JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (50%); 

COMPANY: WALDBAUM'S (SUPERMARKET CHAIN) L I SUPERMARKET (68%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WALDBAUM'S (SUPERMARKET CHAIN) PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); PENN STATE UNIVERSITY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MASSAPEQUA (NY); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); CONNECTICUT, USA (79%); PENNSYLVANIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); JERUSALEM, ISRAEL (50%); 

SUBJECT: BUILDINGS (STRUCTURES); WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS; SUPERMARKETS; FOOD; ROOFS GROCERY STORES & SUPERMARKETS (93%); WEATHER (90%); RESCUE OPERATIONS (89%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (89%); COLD INJURIES (77%); COASTAL AREAS (74%); FACIAL INJURIES (73%); PAPER MILLS (68%); PRINTING INDUSTRY (53%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (52%); 

PERSON: MCFADDEN, ROBERT D

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



338 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 914 words

HEADLINE: Clinton Casts Budget Battle As Test of Nation's Fairness

BYLINE: By ALISON MITCHELL 

DATELINE: NASHVILLE, Jan. 12

 BODY:
Before hundreds of cheering truck assembly-line workers in a state important to his re-election hopes, President Clinton today called his budget battle with the Republican majority in Congress a choice between a vision of "a society where winner takes all or a society where everybody's got a chance to win."
In back-to-back appearances at the Peterbilt Truck Factory and a Democratic fund-raising lunch, Mr. Clinton and Vice President Al Gore provided a taste of how they might take the budget theme to the hustings if the November elections become a referendum on the two parties' competing visions for shaping the Federal Government. 
 Impassioned, folksy and quoting lines from a country-western song in the city that is home to the Grand Ole Opry, Mr. Clinton returned to some of the economic themes that had characterized his first race for President in 1992 -- an emphasis on the needs of the middle class.
"We want to grow the middle class and strengthen the underclass," Mr. Clinton said. "We think the best way to make more millionaires is to have more successful working people buying what they're putting out, whether they're products or services."
Mr. Gore, returning to his home state, where Republicans captured the Governorship and both Senate seats two years ago, called Republican prescriptions "an extremist agenda" and tied them to the 'trickle-down economics" of the Reagan Administration. And going on the offensive on the Whitewater controversy, he said that the Republicans were using "character assassination" tactics against Hillary Rodham Clinton because they could not "make any progress talking about the issues Americans care about."
Mr. Clinton left Nashville at midday on an overnight flight to Bosnia, where he planned to meet Saturday with American troops stationed in Tuzla as part of the NATO peacekeeping mission. He also planned to meet with the presidents of Bosnia and Croatia. [The President arrived on Saturday morning at Aviano Air Base in northern Italy and was expected to go on to Tuzla.]
President Clinton asked the truck-factory workers to applaud three of their co-workers who had been sent to Germany with National Guard units to provide support for the deployment of United States troops to Bosnia.
"We have worked hard, not to fight a war, but to win a peace," he said, "for the humanitarian reasons that involved the people there and to keep that war from spreading in ways that could hurt the United States and our friends and allies in Europe."
Mr. Clinton's two stops in Nashville, however, mainly focused on campaign-style appeals for support in Washington's budget fight, just a day after he declared at a news conference that he was optimistic that a budget deal could be reached "if we set aside partisanship and work to seize this moment."
Describing the 50 hours of face-to-face negotiations he has had with the Republican Congressional leaders, Mr. Clinton said the talks had often reminded him of the lyrics of a country-western song, "It's hard to soar like an eagle when I'm stuck with a turkey like you."
"Sometimes they think that about me. Sometimes I think that about them," he said in reference to the Congressional leaders -- drawing hoots of laughter.
The President's appearances came while Congress was taking a short recess and both parties were maneuvering for advantage in the budget standoff, either to force a deal on their terms or to prepare for a long-term political battle during the November elections.
More than a quarter of the 1996 fiscal year has already been passed without a budget agreement, and a temporary spending bill that returned Federal workers to their jobs after a three-week partial Government shutdown expires on Jan. 26.
Representative Newt Gingrich, the House Speaker, continued sharply castigating Mr. Clinton today, saying he had misled the American people by accusing Republicans of seeking excessive cuts in Medicare, Medicaid and other social-welfare spending. Mr. Gingrich said Republicans wanted to slow the growth in the costs of the programs. "I don't know how you have good-faith negotiations when somebody does that," Mr. Gingrich said after the Clinton news conference on Thursday.
But today Mr. Clinton went on the political offensive, calling Republican proposals to rein in Medicare spending and turn Medicaid into a block grant to the states a strike at the pockets of the middle class. The Medicare debate, he said, was not just about the elderly but about "people like you," who "will have to spend more money on your parents and you'll have less money to send your kids to college."
Mr. Clinton said that increased Medicare charges proposed by the Republicans would cost older couples an additional $400 a year.
"Well, if you're making a good living, $400 may not be very much," the President said. "But there's a lot of retired people in the hills of Tennessee and rural Arkansas for whom $400 is a whole bunch of money."
It is not clear how Mr. Clinton arrived at his estimates. Under his own proposal for Medicare, the monthly Medicare premium, $42.50, would rise to $67.90 in 2002. Under the Republican proposal, it would rise to $88.90 in 2002.
The President said that Medicaid, known primarily as a health plan for the poor and disabled, "is the program that pays for middle-class folks to send their parents to nursing homes so that they don't have to go totally bankrupt and their kids don't have to go totally bankrupt."

GRAPHIC: Photo: President Clinton campaigned in Nashville yesterday before leaving for Bosnia. He and Vice President Al Gore applauded supporters at a fund-raising event at the Grand Ole Opry in the Tennessee capital. (Reuters)(pg. 9)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); ITALY (77%); 

STATE: TENNESSEE, USA (97%); 

CITY: NASHVILLE, TN, USA (97%); 

COMPANY: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: ;NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (NATO) NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (84%); NORTH ATLANTIC TREATY ORGANIZATION (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; NASHVILLE (TENN); TENNESSEE; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA; YUGOSLAVIA; UNITED STATES (97%); BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); EUROPE (79%); GERMANY (79%); CROATIA (79%); ITALY (77%); TENNESSEE, USA (97%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (97%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; ELECTION ISSUES; PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS ; BOSNIA AND HERZEGOVINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US; UNITED STATES ARMAMENT AND DEFENSE BUDGETS (92%); ELECTIONS (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (91%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); AUTOMOTIVE MFG (89%); ASSASSINATION (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (78%); FUNDRAISING (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); COUNTRY MUSIC (74%); REFERENDUMS (73%); CAMPAIGN FINANCE (73%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (69%); WAR & CONFLICT (69%); ARMED FORCES (67%); PEACEKEEPING (67%); MILITARY WEAPONS (67%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (52%); 

PERSON: MITCHELL, ALISON; CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GORE, AL (VICE PRES) BILL CLINTON (94%); AL GORE (89%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (79%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



339 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 4; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 715 words

HEADLINE: Mayor Sees More Cuts if Rate Plan Fails

BYLINE: By STEVEN LEE MYERS 

 BODY:
Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said yesterday he might have to make deeper cuts in spending in response to Comptroller Alan G. Hevesi's decision earlier this week to refuse to approve a plan to reorganize New York City's debt for an infusion of cash.
The Mayor's office had quietly drafted the refinancing plan -- not unlike a homeowner refinancing a mortgage -- as part of its efforts to close a widening shortfall in the city's $32 billion budget. Halfway through the fiscal year, that shortfall has now reached at least $600 million and possibly much more, forcing Mr. Giuliani to act if he hopes to keep the budget balanced. 
 In the past, similar proposals have come under criticism from the city's fiscal monitors and bond raters, who consider them to be fiscal gimmicks -- "one shots" in budget parlance -- that push the city's debt costs into the future to provide immediate relief. A slightly smaller refinancing last spring led in part to the lowering of the city's credit rating by Standard & Poor's last July.
In talks with the Mayor's aides earlier this week, Mr. Hevesi, a Democrat who as Comptroller has the authority to approve the sale of city bonds, objected to the latest plan, which would save $157 million immediately by reorganizing principal and interest payments on $553 million in bonds now coming due.
Mr. Hevesi, who has feuded with the Republican Mayor recently over several fiscal issues, including the proposed sale of the city's waterworks, said in an interview yesterday that Mr. Giuliani's latest proposal would saddle future mayors with higher debt costs for nearly a decade, starting in 2001.
"In order to accomplish this immediate savings, you blow up your budget for the next decade," he said. "It's mortgaging your future. It's wrong."
Mr. Giuliani disagreed with the Comptroller, saying the refinancing was arranged to take advantage of lower interest rates. Even though the plan would mean higher costs in some years, he said, the city would save $7 million over the life of the new bonds, through 2014.
"It's almost irresponsible not to take advantage of opportunities like that," the Mayor said at a news conference at City Hall. "Almost any sophisticated city in America does refinancings like this all the time."
Bond raters and fiscal monitors, however, agreed with Mr. Hevesi.
Richard P. Larkin, managing director of Standard & Poor's, said the refinancing seemed to be intended to give a cash infusion now by putting off payment of principal. That, he said, provided one-shot savings without addressing rising costs in next year's budget.
Mr. Larkin said his agency lowered the city's rating to BBB+ from A- because of these kinds of budgetary ploys. "I guess the best way to put it is the city is living down to our expectations," he said.
Mr. Giuliani said he still hoped to address the Comptroller's concerns. He warned, however, that Mr. Hevesi's continued refusal would worsen the city's fiscal affairs. "The consequence would be that there'd be more stress and more cutting that would have to be done," he said.
The dispute, which, officials said, became public when the men were overheard shouting at each other over the telephone on Thursday, underscored the efforts Mr. Giuliani is making to balance his budget.
The Mayor has ordered city commissioners to cut $200 million more, or 18 percent, from their budgets for supplies, contracts and other non-salary costs by the end of January.
The Mayor's budget director, Joseph J. Lhota, said the refinancing was intended to save $157 million this year, as well as small amounts in the next four years, before costing $50 million a year in higher costs for seven years, starting in 2001, then providing savings thereafter. The sale would have to take place before Feb. 1, when the city must pay off $150 million in bonds that have matured, officials said.
Mr. Lhota and the Mayor said the refinancing met a new set of criteria imposed by the Comptroller last year -- a step praised by the State Financial Control Board -- by saving money over the life of the bonds.
Mr. Lhota argued that the Comptroller had injected arbitrary criteria by insisting that the costs not increase in any one year in the future, although Mr. Hevesi said that was a criterion all along.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; GOVERNMENT BONDS BONDS (91%); FINANCIAL RATING DOWNGRADES (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); APPROVALS (90%); MAYORS (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); BUDGETS (90%); CITIES (89%); MORTGAGE REFINANCING (89%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (89%); CREDIT BUREAUS (87%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (79%); MUNICIPAL BONDS (77%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (77%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); BOND ISSUES (76%); INTEREST RATES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (71%); MORTGAGE LOANS (71%); INTERVIEWS (69%); PRESS CONFERENCES (50%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); HEVESI, ALAN G (COMPTROLLER); MYERS, STEVEN LEE RUDY GIULIANI (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



340 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 37; Column 3; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 1039 words

HEADLINE: Japan Retailer Files $168 Million Suit Against Barney's

BYLINE: By SHERYL WuDUNN 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 12

 BODY:
The Isetan Company, the upscale fashion retailer in Japan that bankrolled the recent expansion of Barneys New York, strongly suggested today that it had been misled by the Barneys management and filed suit against the owners of Barneys.
"The attitude of Barneys management up to this stage is totally deplorable," a statement released here by Isetan said. 
 On Thursday, the parent company of Barneys announced that it had filed for bankruptcy protection, setting off the public battle with Isetan by filing its own suit seeking to recover $50 million in payments to Isetan over the last two years.
In response, Isetan's suit, filed in New York today against the two brothers who head the company, Bob and Gene Pressman, seeks the return of roughly $168 million in short-term loans made by Isetan of America, a subsidiary of the Japanese retailer. The loans, Isetan said, were personally guaranteed by the Pressmans and are now in default.
In a statement, Isetan said it had been kept in the dark until late November about major financial problems at Barney's Inc., the parent of the high-fashion retailer, Barneys New York.
Barney's is a private company and does not publicly release its financial statements, but it disclosed them to Isetan as its financial partner. After six years of submitting annual statements showing profits, including reports on the fiscal year that ended in July 1995, certified by its accounting firm, Isetan said that Barney's executives surprised them by announcing that Barney's had sustained large pretax losses instead.
"At the official meeting, which took place in Tokyo on Nov. 28 and 29, 1995, the chairman of Barney's gave the top officials of Isetan for the first time the incredible explanation that Barney's had been drastically in the red on the basis of recurring business profits," the statement by Isetan said.
[In New York, Charles W. Bunstine, president and chief operating officer of Barney's, called the accusations "absolutely not true."
["There was no issue of disclosure," Mr. Bunstine said. "We showed them current scenarios that could have a material effect on the company based upon the treatment of the global partnership. On an operating level, it made no difference."]
Isetan would not disclose the actual amount of the loss or how long a period the loss covered, but it said that the disclosure radically altered the nature of negotiations over its joint venture with Barney's.
"The biggest trouble is that top management at Isetan thinks that Barney's top management is not faithful," said Seiichi Yamada, a retail analyst at UBS Securities Ltd.
Analysts said that Barney's entered bankruptcy proceedings mainly as a strategic move to extract the maximum concessions in its dispute with Isetan. While both sides professed an interest in maintaining the six-year-old financial partnership, the relationship between Isetan and Barney's may be doomed.
Analysts here said that the different styles in management, the miscues and the lack of communication played a role in undermining it. Company officials agreed.
"Their way of thinking and our way of thinking are very different," said Kunihiko Murata, a spokesman at Isetan.
Isetan may be regarded as a fashionable department store in Japan, but its management is highly traditional, shunning confrontation and valuing friendship and loyalty.
Partly because it is a private company, Barney's has always been secretive about its financial position, and it kept up a high level of discretion even with Isetan. Isetan said it pressed Barney's repeatedly for more financial information, but was unsuccessful.
Yet Isetan continued to step up its investment, effectively spending 61.6 billion yen, or $592 million, in real estate purchases, loans and other investments to finance the expansion of Barneys from its original location in lower Manhattan to Madison Avenue and other locations in major American cities. So some analysts fault Isetan for falling into a trap.
"If they didn't have any information about the financial statements," said Mashahiro Matsuoka, a retail analyst at BZW Securities (Japan) Ltd., "why did they pay such a huge amount to Barneys?"
Analysts also said that the balance of power may have shifted to Barney's once Isetan had financed the big new stores on Madison Avenue, in Beverly Hills, Calif., and in Chicago.
In filing for bankruptcy, "Barney's really pulled a fast one on them," said Victoria T. Melendez, a retail analyst at Morgan Stanley Japan Ltd. "From a human perspective, it is not a warm and friendly thing to do. From a business perspective, you really cut down on your credibility from a partner's perspective."
Isetan may be in an awkward position now. Isetan introduced to Japanese shoppers here two flamboyant Barneys stores, replete with elegant doormen, and it has numerous other arrangements with Barneys.
Mr. Murata, Isetan's spokesman, refused to disclose financial results on its overall tie-up with Barney's. But analysts said that Isetan could lose up to 24.5 billion yen, or $236 million, from its various loans to Barney's and preferred shares.
[John Campo, a lawyer for Barneys, disputed Isetan's claim on the $168 million it is seeking in its suit. "What they are calling loans the company doesn't believe are true loans," Mr. Campo said. "They were part of the investment that Isetan made in the joint-venture properties."]
Japan's stagnant economy has taken its toll on Japanese retailers and in its fiscal year ending in March 1995, Isetan reported profits of only $21 million, on revenues of $6.1 billion. Analysts said, however, that Isetan could cover extraordinary losses by selling marketable securities and valuable properties.
After last March, the Barney's management stopped paying interest to Isetan on the short-term loans, and it failed to pay rent to Isetan this month. Still, Isetan has suggested that it may want to continue its relationship with Barney's, and analysts said that Isetan might be interested in continuing the use of the Barneys brand name in Japan.
"We have to see what happens in court, but we are not saying that we definitely have to sever ties with Barney's completely," Mr. Murata said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC5311 DEPARTMENT STORES (98%); SIC5621 WOMEN'S CLOTHING STORES (69%); SIC5611 MEN'S & BOYS' CLOTHING & ACCESSORY STORES (69%); 

COUNTRY: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

COMPANY: BARNEYS NEW YORK; ISETAN CO; BARNEY'S INC ISETAN CO LTD (98%); BARNEYS INC (69%); UBS SECURITIES LTD (60%); 

ORGANIZATION: BARNEYS NEW YORK; ISETAN CO; BARNEY'S INC

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN (94%); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); TOKYO, JAPAN (73%); 

SUBJECT: SUITS AND LITIGATION; BANKRUPTCIES; CREDIT LITIGATION (92%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (90%); ANNUAL FINANCIAL RESULTS (90%); PARENT COMPANIES (90%); SUITS & CLAIMS (90%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (90%); RETAILERS (89%); BUSINESS FINANCIAL TROUBLE (78%); COMPANY LOSSES (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (78%); FASHION & APPAREL (78%); BUSINESS INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (78%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); EXECUTIVES (77%); COMPANY EARNINGS (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (70%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (70%); JOINT VENTURES (65%); 

PERSON: WUDUNN, SHERYL

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



341 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 13, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 35; Column 5; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 907 words

HEADLINE: New York City Plans Market In Its Tax Bills

BYLINE: By DAVID CAY JOHNSTON 

 BODY:
In a bid to raise $125 million quickly from New York City's huge backlog of unpaid property taxes, the Giuliani administration is moving to market the tax bills in the same way that Wall Streets sells securities, investment bankers in New York and Philadelphia said yesterday.
The deal, which would require City Council approval, is a historic departure from the city's past methods of collecting property taxes and is quite different from the practice in most cities. For delinquent New York commercial property owners, the plan will mean dunning calls to pay up, one investment banker said. 
 Two former city finance officials said that historically the city was not aggressive in trying to collect unpaid property taxes. Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani recently said he wanted the city to shift its focus from foreclosing on properties with taxes that have gone unpaid for years and instead help people keep their homes and help merchants stay in business.
The city's plan to bundle up some of its $2 billion of unpaid property tax bills and market them wholesale also differs from the much more common municipal practice of handling such debts at the retail level, auctioning off tax bills one at a time to investors, who then try to collect the unpaid tax bills. Failing that, the investors can foreclose and take ownership of the properties.
New York City has been circulating to investment bankers a request for proposals on how they would manage a sale of securities backed by tax liens, Eamon Moynihan, a spokesman for the city Finance Department said. The proposals are due on Tuesday. The plan was first disclosed by Private Placement Report, a newsletter affiliated with the trade paper American Banker, in an issue that subscribers are to receive on Monday.
About $200 million of unpaid tax bills would be sold to a trust, which would then borrow an estimated $125 million from pension funds and other institutional investors by issuing them senior notes. The city would then get junior or subordinated notes for the balance of the face value of the unpaid tax bills. As an incentive to the collectors, the city would give them a share of that money.
The pension funds and other investors would thus lend the city about 62 cents on the dollar for the unpaid tax bills, according to a senior city finance official.
That means that for each dollar the investors lend the city, they would have $1.60 of collateral, compared with a typical home mortgage where at the outset the lender has $1.25 of collateral for each dollar lent. At that level of collateral the lenders' risk is tiny, five investment bankers in New York and Philadelphia said yesterday.
The deal has such low risk because of the high level of collateral that one Manhattan investment banker said the interest rate the city would have to pay for the loan might be just three-quarters of one percentage point above short-term commercial borrowing rates, which are currently a little above 6 percent.
The city would then hire private companies to collect the overdue tax bills.
Once enough of the overdue tax bills had been collected to repay the loan with interest, the city would then get all the extra money that was collected.
How much the city can borrow against its unpaid property taxes depends on whether the unpaid tax bills represent a large or small portion of the value of the real estate being taxed, said Ben Hayllar, the finance director in Philadelphia, where a similar financing deal is being developed.
"The lower the tax-lien-to-value ratio, the better the chance that the taxes will be paid to protect the owner's investment," Mr. Hayllar said. "This is a way to clean out a city's inventory of unpaid taxes."
New York relies on property taxes for $8 billion of its $32 billion budget. Tax delinquencies are currently running $400 million, or about 5 percent, up from just 2 percent before the 1988-90 recession, the city finance official said last night.
"Basically, a lot of people are borrowing money from the city by not paying their taxes until the last minute," the official said. He said that while the city charges 18 percent annual interest on past-due property taxes, many companies that delay payment could not borrow the sum elsewhere at lower interest rates.
"We become a lender whether we want to or not," the official said. "We view this as an enforcement tool; it just happens to have the effect of producing revenue. If we can push our collection rate up just one percentage point the city will bring in $80 million more."
Both Jersey City and New Haven have made similar deals in the past. New Haven borrowed $19 million in 1994 against $26 million in tax liens and paid an interest rate that was 2.2 percentage points above market, Private Placement Report said.
Pittsburgh is also looking at wholesale marketing of unpaid property taxes, according to Mr. Hayllar, who was previously Pittsburgh's city finance director.
Mr. Hayllar said cities could also just sell property tax bills outright at a discount, much as merchants sell their accounts receivable at a discount to financiers known as factors. But by using the loan technique, he said, cities can maintain control over methods used to collect property taxes, and they can also substitute one tax lien for another in the event such a switch would benefit the city by making possible a new industrial development or a deal that would create jobs.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article in Business Day on Saturday about New York City's plans to offer a new kind of security backed by unpaid tax bills misstated in some copies the amount to be raised and the value of the bills being used as collateral. The city hopes to raise $125 million, not $200 million; the collateral is $200 million, not $1.5 billion.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: AMERICAN BANKER NEWSLETTERS (53%); AMERICAN BANKER (53%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: TAXATION; PROPERTY TAXES; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; STOCKS AND BONDS; GOVERNMENT BONDS PROPERTY TAX (91%); FORECLOSURE (90%); INVESTMENT BANKING (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); CITIES (89%); DEBT NOTES (89%); NEW ISSUES (89%); PENSION FUNDS (87%); REAL ESTATE (78%); SECURITIES TRADING (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (78%); TAX LAW (78%); AUCTIONS (78%); PUBLIC DEBT (78%); MAYORS (78%); BUDGETS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); PRIVATE PLACEMENTS (77%); RETAILERS (77%); BONDS (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (73%); APPROVALS (71%); CURRENCIES (68%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (68%); INTEREST RATES (60%); ECONOMIC NEWS (60%); 

PERSON: JOHNSTON, DAVID CAY RUDY GIULIANI (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 1996



342 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 12; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 1097 words

HEADLINE: Elbow Room

BYLINE: By William D. Nordhaus; William D. Nordhaus, the A. Whitney Griswold Professor of Economics at Yale University, writes frequently about environmental issues.

 BODY:

HOW MANY PEOPLE CAN THE EARTH SUPPORT?
By Joel E. Cohen.
Illustrated. 532 pp. New York:
W. W. Norton & Company. $30.
WHAT is the history of human populations on earth? How might we project future population growth? And how close are we now to the limits of sustenance of our finite orb? These are the questions that this fascinating volume addresses. 
 The author, Joel E. Cohen, heads the laboratory of populations at Rockefeller University in New York City. A distinguished biologist, he has written on mathematics, demography and mathematical ecology. In "How Many People Can the Earth Support?," his most ambitious book, he tackles one of the central questions facing humanity: Has the rapid population growth of the last two centuries pushed us dangerously near a cliff, beyond which lies decline or disaster? Although these issues have been addressed by scientists for more than three centuries, they have assumed heightened importance as population and environmental concerns take center stage in the post-cold-war era.
It would be hard to conceive of a better book for those interested in a scholarly and nonideological review and analysis of population issues. You will find in the early pages a historical census of human numbers along with a sophisticated review of methods for projecting future populations. Mr. Cohen then tackles the issue of the carrying capacity of the earth. This concept is defined dozens of times in the study but is best understood as motivated by the concern that "the world has, or will soon have, more people than the world's economies, environments and societies can accommodate in acceptable ways."
Mr. Cohen's major contribution is his review of alternative approaches to estimating how many people can live on earth. He analyzes different ways of calculating the constraints imposed by land, food production and water supply. And he reminds us that social and political institutions, human ingenuity and time itself are equally important. Woven throughout the book are reflections on the choices faced by humans, either individually or collectively, that can reduce whatever modest or catastrophic threats we may face as a consequence of population growth.
Not surprisingly, studies of the earth's capacity generally rely on one of its finite resources, like space or food. Apparently, the first estimate of the maximum number of people the earth could support was made in 1679 by Antoni van Leeuwenhoek, a Dutch microscopist who turned to larger game. He assumed that the binding constraint on human populations was living space and that the upper limit on human density was that of Holland. From this, he concluded that the limit on human beings on earth was 13.4 billion. (The world's population was estimated to be 5.3 billion in 1990, and the United Nations projects world population in 2100 to range somewhere between 6 billion and 19 billion.)
Following Malthus's "Essay on the Principle of Population" (1798), most estimates assumed that food was the limiting factor. One of the most influential approaches was that of the German geographer Albrecht Penck, who published his findings in 1924. He divided the earth into 11 climatic zones and estimated the possible food production in each. From this, he concluded that "the potential population of the earth may be set between eight and nine billion."
With governments of high-income countries paying farmers not to produce, and with obesity becoming a major health problem in countries like the United States, Malthusianism appears increasingly obsolete. More recently, scholars have begun to look elsewhere, emphasizing environmental issues or combinations of factors. These approaches got off to a bad start around 1970 with the infamous studies on the limits to growth by the Club of Rome, which concluded that the added carrying capacity of the world had essentially reached zero. This "systems approach" never recovered from being (not inaccurately) caricatured as Chicken Little with a computer.
MR. COHEN'S survey of scientific estimates of carrying capacity finds a wide variety of results, but the conclusions are sobering. First, estimates of sustainable population range from 5 billion to 20 billion. Second, because of their explosive growth, human numbers have now reached the lower estimates. Hence, combining United Nations projections of future population growth with Mr. Cohen's survey of carrying capacity, we must take seriously his warning: "The human population of the earth now travels in the zone where a substantial fraction of scholars have estimated upper limits on human population size."
This volume is a fascinating and lucid survey of population issues, but caveat lector: While its impressive erudition covers a wide variety of disciplines, it does not succeed in bridging the gulf between demography and the other social sciences. An economist's reaction to the study might be the following: If the earth is reaching its carrying capacity because of land or food or energy shortages, where are the warning signs? Why have economic growth rates increased rather than slowed in the last two decades virtually everywhere? Put differently, if the globe is reaching its limits on land and resources, the increased stress should be accompanied by rising prices of land, food and energy. But these prices have been declining relative to labor for two centuries and particularly over the last 15 years. Markets provide signals of scarcities, yet Mr. Cohen doesn't explain why there are so few signals of resource shortages if we are approaching earth's capacity.
A second flaw is that the work is encyclopedic yet its material is curiously undigested. If you lay all the studies end to end, they still don't reach a conclusion. Each one reveals further levels of complexity, which on reflection produce yet more subtleties. Hence, after hundreds of pages of analysis and mathematics, we conclude that the number of humans the earth can durably support lies somewhere between one billion and one trillion; that the number changes over time and with technology; and that the factors determining the number are a complex and poorly understood interaction of land, water, social institutions and ingenuity. A reader can hardly help feeling disappointed that a labor of such intelligence and erudition leaves us with so little progress in charting a course between the "alarmist tracts" and the "cornucopian lullabies."
But of course few works of art or scholarship are perfect. These are only minor flaws in what is a gem of a book.

GRAPHIC: Drawing.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: HOW MANY PEOPLE CAN THE EARTH SUPPORT? (BOOK)

INDUSTRY: NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (91%); SIC5192 BOOKS, PERIODICALS, & NEWSPAPERS (91%); SIC2732 BOOK PRINTING (91%); SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: W W NORTON & CO INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; REVIEWS BOOK REVIEWS (91%); POPULATION ESTIMATES & PROJECTIONS (90%); POPULATION GROWTH (89%); POPULATION & DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); POPULATION SIZE (89%); FOOD & BEVERAGE (78%); ECOLOGY & ENVIRONMENTAL SCIENCE (77%); SCIENCE NEWS (76%); SCIENCE & TECHNOLOGY (76%); LITERATURE (76%); WRITERS (76%); ENVIRONMENT & NATURAL RESOURCES (70%); COLD WAR (67%); 

PERSON: NORDHAUS, WILLIAM D; COHEN, JOEL E JOEL E COHEN (90%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



343 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 21; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 769 words

HEADLINE: Mud Wrestling

BYLINE: By Elizabeth Kolbert; Elizabeth Kolbert reports on media and politics for The New York Times.

 BODY:

GOING NEGATIVE
How Attack Ads Shrink and Polarize the Electorate.
By Stephen Ansolabehere
and Shanto Iyengar.
Illustrated. 243 pp. New York:
The Free Press. $24.
IN the last Presidential election cycle, candidates for all manner of public office sprang for an estimated $300 million worth of television advertising. Apparently they accepted the conventional wisdom. Put simply: advertising works. But does it? And if so, how? 
 Four decades after television advertising became a major expense in American politics, scholars are still surprisingly divided about its impact. Some argue that campaign commercials, with their ominous imagery and evocative music, can persuade voters to do pretty much anything -- including even to vote against their best interests. Others maintain that political ads actually provide more substantive information than the press does. And then there are those who say forces like the state of the economy so overshadow the ads' effects that they are hardly worth talking about.
In "Going Negative: How Attack Ads Shrink and Polarize the Electorate," the political scientists Stephen Ansolabehere and Shanto Iyengar offer the latest, and for fans of participatory democracy perhaps the most discouraging, theory of how ads affect our political culture. By the authors' account, it is not so much what negative advertising persuades viewers to do that matters; it is what it persuades them not to do. Such ads, Mr. Ansolabehere and Mr. Iyengar maintain, encourage viewers to opt out of electoral politics altogether, and they are used strategically by candidates who believe they would benefit from a low turnout. "Political advertising -- at least as it is currently practiced -- is slowly eroding the participatory ethos in America," they write.
Mr. Ansolabehere, an associate professor of political science at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, and Mr. Iyengar, a professor of political science at the University of California, Los Angeles, base their dispiriting conclusions on an exhaustive set of experiments involving some 3,500 potential voters. These voters were paid to show up at rented offices, watch videotapes of news broadcasts studded with political ads and fill out lengthy questionnaires. The controlled circumstances give the authors' conclusions heft but are also likely to invite skepticism: this, after all, is not the way most Americans watch television.
A central target of the book is the oft-repeated notion that television advertising's rise has meant party loyalty's demise. Mr. Ansolabehere and Mr. Iyengar reach the opposite conclusion: advertising, they maintain, tends to reinforce partisan ties. Democrats are more likely to respond to political ads with a positive message, a tendency they attribute to the Democratic view of government as problem solver. Republicans, in contrast, are more likely to respond to negative ads. The good news, they say, is that advertising does not "manipulate" voters; rather, commercials are effective only to the extent that they resonate with beliefs voters already hold.
The bad news, though, is that an increasing number of Americans don't hold any particular party loyalties, and these people respond only to negative appeals, which, in turn, reinforce their already low opinion of politics. The paradoxical result, Mr. Ansolabehere and Mr. Iyengar argue, is that both parties can engage nonpartisan voters only through attacks that end up persuading large numbers of them simply to sit the election out.
WHAT can be done? Well, the news media tried to help by introducing the "ad watch," a feature aimed at exposing the distortions and inaccuracies of political commercials. This well-intended effort, according to the authors, has "clearly backfired," because what sinks in is the candidate's hostile message, not the reporter's criticism of it. Mr. Ansolabehere and Mr. Iyengar end up arguing in favor of stronger national party organizations, which, they claim, would work against individual candidates' efforts to depress turnout. The argument seems pretty flimsy, though, in the face of what almost everyone acknowledges to be the fallen state of the two major parties.
Among political professionals, the central message of "Going Negative" is not likely to raise many eyebrows. Insiders have appreciated for years the chief virtue of the attack ad: persuading the opponent's voters to stay home. But the message deserves a good deal more attention from the public at large, and with another slash-and-burn election season upon us, it couldn't have arrived at a better time.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: GOING NEGATIVE (BOOK)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: MASSACHUSETTS INSTITUTE OF TECHNOLOGY (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; ADVERTISING; POLITICAL ADVERTISING POLITICAL ADVERTISING (92%); MARKETING & ADVERTISING (91%); BOOK REVIEWS (91%); ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); HUMANITIES & SOCIAL SCIENCE (89%); POLITICAL SCIENCE (89%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (89%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (89%); BROADCAST ADVERTISING (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (89%); WRITERS (87%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); TELEVISION NEWS SHOWS (77%); LITERATURE (76%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (63%); 

PERSON: KOLBERT, ELIZABETH; ANSOLABEHERE, STEPHEN; IYENGAR, SHANTO STEPHEN ANSOLABEHERE (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



344 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 7; Page 28; Column 1; Book Review Desk 

LENGTH: 941 words

HEADLINE: New & Noteworthy Paperbacks

BYLINE: By LAUREL GRAEBER 

 BODY:

ARISTOCRATS: Caroline, Emily, Louisa, and Sarah Lennox, 1740-1832
By Stella Tillyard. Noonday/Farrar, Straus & Giroux, $16.
Women's part in history was often enacted in the wings, but this author has moved it center stage in her story of the daughters of a powerful British duke. Drawing on their correspondence, she shows that their lives, though largely domestic, were nonetheless dramatic. She "has devised a form of history in which character has the depth of fiction," Lyndall Gordon said here in 1994.
 
FELICIA'S JOURNEY
By William Trevor. Penguin, $10.95.
An examination of the nature of good and evil, this novel is on the surface a thriller: the title character, a pregnant Irish girl, leaves her father's home to search in England for her vanished lover. There she attracts the attention of an obese and seemingly genial middle-aged man who, it is soon revealed, has a mysterious history involving young women like herself. " 'Felicia's Journey' confirms the maxim that to understand all is to forgive all," our reviewer, Patrick McGrath, wrote last year, "and it demonstrates . . . that in hands like Mr. Trevor's, fiction is a tool without equal for creating such understanding."
 
A PIECE OF THE ACTION: How the Middle Class Joined the Money Class
By Joseph Nocera. Touchstone/Simon & Schuster, $14.
The author shows how computers, credit cards and mutual funds changed the American economy, opening up financial opportunities to people whose dreams had previously kept pace with their paychecks. He chronicles this history "with rare insight and considerable flair," Lawrence S. Ritter said in these pages in 1994.
 
THE PAPERBOY
By Pete Dexter. Delta, $11.95.
Men who are wounded -- frequently physically, always emotionally -- populate this author's fiction. Ward James, who fits both categories, is a Florida reporter investigating the possibly wrongful conviction of a man on death row. His story is "eerie and beautiful," Brent Staples wrote in the Book Review last year.
 
ANTISEMITISM IN AMERICA
By Leonard Dinnerstein. Oxford University, $15.95.
The author shows how war and economic crises have often caused Jews to be cast as scapegoats, while evangelical Christianity has portrayed them as enemies. "Mr. Dinnerstein . . . warms to his subject," David Klinghoffer said here in 1994. BLACKS AND JEWS: Alliances and Arguments, edited by Paul Berman (Delta, $12.95), analyzes the recent polarization of these two groups. Including essays by authors like Henry Louis Gates Jr., Andrew Hacker, Cornel West and Cynthia Ozick, it "provides much insight into the history and underlying causes of the current tensions," our reviewer, George M. Fredrickson, said in 1994.
 
THE FOLLOWING STORY
By Cees Nooteboom. Translated by Ina Rilke. Harvest/ Helen and Kurt Wolff/Harcourt Brace, $9.
A former teacher who fell asleep in his Amsterdam home wakes up in a Lisbon hotel where he slept with another man's wife 20 years earlier. His meditation on his life, which appears about to end, is one in which "you can feel the fury and melancholy only just under control," Penelope Fitzgerald wrote in these pages in 1994.
 
AN HONOURABLE DEFEAT: A History of German Resistance to Hitler, 1933-1945
By Anton Gill. Owl/Holt, $14.95.
Always small in number, they were even fewer by the end of the war. But those Germans who tried to undermine the Reich -- from clergymen to soldiers -- enjoyed moral if not substantive victories. "Mr. Gill fluidly conveys the attitudes and personalities of key figures," Richard Breitman said in the Book Review in 1994. The extent of popular support for Hitler is demonstrated in THE 12-YEAR REICH: A Social History of Nazi Germany, 1933-1945, by Richard Grunberger (Da Capo, $17.95). Just restored to print, this book shows that renewed prosperity and an authoritarian mentality led ordinary Germans either to support or to blissfully ignore Government atrocities. "Full of dry wit and bitter irony, Grunberger's book is invaluable," Terence Prittie said here in 1971. Also reissued is HITLER'S LAST GAMBLE: The Battle of the Bulge, December 1944-January 1945, by Trevor N. Dupuy, David L. Bongard and Richard C. Anderson Jr. (Harper Perennial, $15), which concentrates on the operational aspects of one of the bloodiest battles America ever fought. "Dupuy has a keen eye for technical military factors that are very important but often ignored," one critic wrote in 1994.
 
FAIR LAND, FAIR LAND
By A. B. Guthrie Jr. Houghton Mifflin, $10.95.
Now restored to print, this novel is a sequel to "The Big Sky" and "The Way West," the first two books in the author's series about the American frontier. Unfolding between 1845 and 1870, it focuses on two of Guthrie's earlier protagonists and the despoiling of the landscape. "Mr. Guthrie has passionately avoided the myths of the West," The New York Times said in 1983. The same publisher has also reissued another novel in the series, THESE THOUSAND HILLS ($11.95), which records the struggles and moral compromises of Lat Evans, a young Montana rancher in the 1880's. "Mr. Guthrie is moved by a fictional purpose as high and valid as his historical purpose is big," Walter Van Tilburg Clark wrote in The New York Times in 1956.
 
A FEATHER ON THE BREATH OF GOD
By Sigrid Nunez. Harper Perennial, $10.
Like the author, the narrator is the child of a German mother and a Chinese-Panamanian father. Through ballet, she tries to transcend her parents' clashing cultures and postwar poverty. This "is a forceful novel by a writer of uncommon talent," our reviewer, Bharati Mukherjee, said last year. LAUREL GRAEBER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

INDUSTRY: SIC2731 BOOKS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (58%); NAICS511130 BOOK PUBLISHERS (54%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); 

COMPANY: FARRAR STRAUS & GIROUX INC (58%); SIMON & SCHUSTER INC (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (90%); ENGLAND (79%); 

SUBJECT: BOOKS AND LITERATURE; PAPERBACK BOOKS; BOOK TRADE BOOK REVIEWS (92%); WRITERS (90%); JEWS & JUDAISM (85%); CHRISTIANS & CHRISTIANITY (85%); WOMEN (78%); LITERATURE (77%); NOVELS & SHORT STORIES (77%); RELIGION (65%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (64%); INVESTIGATIONS (62%); MUTUAL FUNDS (50%); 

PERSON: GRAEBER, LAUREL WILLIAM TREVOR (71%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



345 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 14; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 1100 words

HEADLINE: On Language;
What's an Extremist?

BYLINE: By William Safire 

 BODY:
NOT A DAY GOES BY," WROTE THE Wall Street Journal editorialist, "without some Clinton official using the word extremist to describe something in Washington."
That was surely the word of the year for President Clinton. "If the Congress gives in to extremist pressure," one statement began; a radio broadcast included, "We can't let welfare reform die at the hands of ideological extremism"; a farewell to a rejected nominee began, "By choosing to side with extremists who would do anything to block a woman's right to choose," and in a philosophical moment, he observed, "Ideological purity is for partisan extremists." 
 What "economic royalists" were for F.D.R., and "the do-nothing 80th Congress" was for Truman, extremists are for Bill Clinton: the villain, unnamed but clearly labeled, and you know who you are.
The noun was apparently coined in the magazine The Eclectic Review during the Polk Administration, was noted in Joseph Worcester's 1846 dictionary and was popularized in 1850 by Senator Daniel Webster in connection with views about slavery and its abolition: "The extremists of both parts of the country are violent."
An earlier term, extremite, did not catch on: in 1546, Bishop Stephen Gardiner, criticizing a Protestant leader, noted, "Folowynge the newe scoole of extremites, he denied all degrees of grace." Another form of the noun was used in an English proverb cited in 1639: "Extremity of right is wrong."
But extremist triumphed, and as night follows day, the -ist led to the -ism. The Daily Telegraph of London wrote in 1865 of "these days of extravagance and extremeism," trying it out with an e before the -ism.
In our time, when the label was tagged on Senator Barry Goldwater by supporters of moderate Republican Nelson Rockefeller, he blasted back at the 1964 G.O.P. convention with a contrapuntal line submitted by the speech writer Karl Hess: "I would remind you that extremism in the defense of liberty is no vice." A roar went up from his partisans as he continued: "And let me remind you also that moderation in the pursuit of justice is no virtue!"
That only defense of the word in its history led to political disaster for its user. I was there in the Cow Palace of San Francisco, vainly pulling along a banner reading "Stay in the Mainstream," and looked over at Richard Nixon's box: in the pandemonium, Nixon was sitting on his hands, shaking his head; he knew that Goldwater lost all chance of winning with that refusal to move toward uniting the party. A few weeks later, Nixon pointed out to the G.O.P. standard-bearer that his applause line was being construed as an endorsement of extremism, and Goldwater responded he should have said that "wholehearted devotion to liberty is unassailable and that half-hearted devotion to justice is indefensible." But it was too late to rewrite the speech.
The Clinton use of extremist was encouraged by his public-opinion adviser, Richard Morris, as part of a plan to "triangulate" -- to rise above party and to place Mr. Clinton as a man of moderation between the liberal left and the true-believer right. (This Washington vogue term was bottomed on the Nixonian strategy of exploiting the break between Russia and China; "playing the China card" was in that era synonymous with triangulation.) That led to the adoption of extremist as a regular part of Clintonite rhetoric, its effectiveness endangered only by possible overuse.
True believers of the right are searching for a word to serve as a rhetorical riposte to extremist. It is hardly effective to counteraccuse the labeler of being a moderate or centrist, words that are losing their pejorative connotations as the position becomes more popular than leftist; more pointed is compromiser, or waffler, or -- if an extreme reaction is wanted -- unprincipled sell-out artist.
 
What Nature Abhors
 A part of speech can be the basis for a series of angry speeches.
After the Senate Whitewater committee wrested a memo from the White House with the threat of a court suit, attention focused on one word of one line in the memo written by the associate White House counsel, William Kennedy 3d: "Vacuum Rose Law Firm files."
Republicans read vacuum as a verb, meaning "clean out; sanitize; empty." The verb was formed to describe the action of a vacuum cleaner, invented in 1903, which uses a partial vacuum to suck particles of dust into a bag.
The White House counsel, Mark Fabiani, in charge of rebuttals of Whitewater accusations, was able to present a different interpretation of the note by changing the verb to a noun. Thus, vacuum was treated as a short form of "information vacuum," or a regrettable lack of copies of documents in the Rose Law Firm files. Changing from verb to noun changed the meaning from suspicious act to innocent fact. This creative deconstruction of the line was widely hooted at by journalists, but sometimes a stretch is better than no explanation at all.
Both noun and verb come from the Latin vacuus, "empty"; the adjective vacuous means "empty-headed, stupid."

Vulgar? Moi?
 The same euphemistic technique -- this time in reverse, from noun to verb -- was employed by United Nations diplomats to soften a controversial word. Madeleine K. Albright, the United States Ambassador to the United Nations, said in a closed meeting of the Security Council that a proposal by Secretary General Boutros Boutros-Ghali to draw American forces into Eastern Slavonia would be "misguided and counterproductive."
 Those words would be taken as polite conversation in most political discourse, but diplomats accustomed to soft words found them at the outer edge of diplomatese. The Secretary General, speaking in French, said he was "shocked by the statement of the American spokesman and shocked by its vulgarity." (He must have just come from a showing of "Casablanca.")
Ambassador Albright slammed right back with "to use a word like vulgar is unacceptable." Seeking a diplomatic way out, the translator suggested that it may not have been the noun vulgarite, but could have been the verb vulgariser, which means "to disseminate to the public," from the Latin vulgus, "common people."
Again, few bought the reinterpretation -- this time from offensive noun to inoffensive verb -- but many admired the creative twist. A French diplomat smoothed it over further with "We don't think vulgarity was the most precise translation of what the Secretary General said. We think the term he had in mind was 'tastelessness.' " Nice try, but counterproductive does not strike most nondiplomats as tasteless.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TITLE: ON LANGUAGE (TIMES COLUMN)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (58%); WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: WHITE HOUSE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); LONDON, ENGLAND (50%); 

SUBJECT: ENGLISH LANGUAGE LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); LANGUAGE & LANGUAGES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); CONFERENCES & CONVENTIONS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); PROTESTANTS & PROTESTANTISM (76%); WRITERS (73%); FEMINISM & WOMEN'S RIGHTS (55%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM BILL CLINTON (90%); RICHARD NIXON (78%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



346 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 6; Page 33; Column 1; Magazine Desk 

LENGTH: 3468 words

HEADLINE: The Triumph of Liberalism

BYLINE: By Roger Rosenblatt; Roger Rosenblatt is a contributing writer for the Magazine.

 BODY:
THE AMERICA I HEARD SINGING WHEN I WAS a teen-ager in the late 1950's forced homosexuals into hiding, ignored or derided the disabled, withheld rights from suspects of crimes and kept women in their place, which was usually the kitchen and sometimes an abortionist's back room. It foisted prayers on schoolchildren, paid no attention to the health needs of the impoverished or the elderly, endangered endangered species and threw people out of work because they held an un-American ideology. In certain places, it denied black Americans the right to sit where they wished to on a public bus, to drink from a public water fountain, to eat in restaurants, stay in hotels, go to public schools with whites or vote.
Every one of these conditions has been corrected or improved by laws and attitudes derived from a philosophy that is held in such low esteem it dare not speak its name. Today, as America enters the 1996 Presidential election year, it is singing two different tunes. One is "Liberalism Is Dead and I'm Feeling So Sad." The other is "Liberalism Is Dead and I'm Feeling So Glad." If this keening and gloating sounds familiar, it is. You last heard it in the election year of 1992. The gloating came most elegantly from Irving and William Kristol, the formidable father-son team of conservative thinkers. In an article in Commentary, William, the son, stated that "liberalism is in a deep crisis" and has "a hollowness at the core." Irving wrote in The Wall Street Journal that "the beginning of political wisdom in the 1990's is the recognition that liberalism today is at the end of its intellectual tether." 
 Regrets over liberalism's death arrived in defensive books from equally thoughtful people who celebrated the New Deal and the Great Society as brave last stands against the inevitable, and in statements like that of the former Democratic Presidential candidate Walter Mondale that liberals "kind of used up the old agenda." The final draft of the Democratic Party platform in 1992 openly spurned liberalism by attempting to stake out a middle ground between laissez-faire capitalism and the welfare state. Respected authors sought to redefine the term. Jim Sleeper, Mary D. and Thomas Byrne Edsall and Mickey Kaus, among others, produced books that searched for a liberalism that repudiated liberalism.
What is interesting about these two kinds of attacks, since both are attacks with different motives, is that underneath it all, they take their ardor from the presumption that liberalism is not dead, but robust and established. They are right. "Liberal society is in trouble," says the historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr., "but I would be surprised at a retreat from a basic liberal ethos." Conservative Republicans like to point to their slim majority in Congress as a sign that liberals are goners, but analyses of public opinion show that the majority of voters in 1994 never heard of the Contract With America, or of plans to reduce Medicare, Medicaid, public assistance and education and environment programs. They simply wanted the Democrats out. Americans have never hated big government as much as they have loved its services. But their feelings go beyond self-interest. It is highly unlikely that they will approve of the budget severities proposed by Congress, because they have accepted, indeed embraced, the national obligation to help the young, the elderly, the ill and the poor. This is sometimes difficult to prove, but as was said in the O. J. Simpson trial, the absence of evidence is not evidence of absence.
Liberalism dominates the debate and defines the terms of the debate. The conservative assaults on the L word, which were made most effectively by President Reagan, have been so routine over the past 16 years that there is a whole generation of people under 35 who have never heard "liberal" uttered as anything other than a joke or an insult. Yet they live in a liberal country. Conservatives may have ruined the word but have adopted most of the content of liberalism. If this year's Democratic platform looks Republican, it will not be so much that the Democrats have abandoned the liberal agenda but that the Republicans have absorbed it.
The liberalism I am thinking of is a kind of general cultural-political liberalism, a mixture of the New Deal programs of the 1930's and the individual-rights movements of the 1960's, which knocked the wind out of all the callous, restrictive and narrow-minded conditions that I grew up with a few decades ago. It is a malleable philosophy, generous and socially responsible, that governs how people ought to live with one another in a healthy democracy. It is not the specific liberalism of the Franklin Roosevelt era, or the Lyndon Johnson era, or explicitly that of voting-rights laws or expanded civil liberties, though it creates and encourages such developments. Rather, it is the sentiment that may be traced back to the Declaration of Independence and the Constitution (a superior Contract with America) and to the moderate Enlightenment from which those documents sprang, that people are inherently equal, that they have a right to pursue their individuality in an open society and that the state must use its power and authority to secure their rights and to help the needier among them.
This liberalism is neither dead nor on the run. The country backs away from it in frightened and hardscrabble times. Most observers concede that it needs to make some corrections in its details and attitudes. And from the viewpoint of liberal candidates seeking office, it needs to regain political power to further its aims. But in its competition with conservative thinking for the soul of America, it has won hands down.
"People say that the Great Society failed," says Robert Caro, the historian of the Lyndon Johnson Presidency. "That really is nonsense. Is anyone today suggesting that we resegregate public accommodations, that we have 'colored' and 'white' toilets? It is unthinkable that we would make such retreats. Those aspects of liberalism are now so much a part of America that they are indistinguishable from America. In that sense, America is liberalism."
So why does it seem that liberalism is on the way out? Because the ruckus that has been raised against it in recent years has been countered by little or no persuasive defense. Because there have been a number of substantial right-wing victories or near-victories both electoral and involving such issues as homosexual rights, book and press censorship and flag-burning. Because public figures who oppose one or another element of liberal thought, like Pat Robertson, Ralph Reed, Pat Buchanan and Newt Gingrich, and right-wing talk-show hosts like G. Gordon Liddy and Rush Limbaugh are more colorful and draw more attention than do their fading targets, like Mario Cuomo or Edward Kennedy. Because liberalism has no true leader. And because it has shot itself in the foot; through careless statements and errors of omission it has misrepresented both its intelligence and its sense of civic responsibility.
Given liberalism's accomplishments, it is astonishing how silent liberals have been when attacked. In a New York Times article by Tamar Lewin in November about liberals' response to the proposed Congressional budget cuts, Alan Ehrenhalt, the executive editor of Governing magazine, wondered about "why there is such an eerie silence on issues that are so central to so many people's lives" and said: "There's so many important things going on in Congress with Medicaid, Medicare and welfare reform. I read the paper, and I think: 'Where's the noise?' "
Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, who has long defined himself as a neoconservative, wonders the same thing. He told me: "Liberalism has to learn to deal with the aftermath of its successes. We've lost the labor movement. We've lost the sense of people who need jobs." It was instructive to hear him use the "we" in describing liberals, but it was not surprising. Like many who call themselves neoconservatives, Moynihan is frustrated with liberal social politics "that have not been able to come to terms with the social decline." Liberalism, he maintained, "has not produced a more liberal society in my lifetime." He compared neoconservatives to "good Catholics who were excommunicated and who said, finally, 'O.K., we're Protestants.' " Irving Kristol defined a neoconservative as a liberal who has been mugged by reality. Moynihan might say that a neoconservative is a liberal who has been mugged by a liberal. Yet he conceded: "The conservatives don't have answers either. They merely say that the unemployed are shiftless. Neoconservatism got so disappointed with the turn of liberalism that it found another name."
Liberals doubt themselves. They doubt their courage and principles, and they make their self-doubts public. Evidently this is not a new mood. In 1940, Lewis Mumford wrote in the New Republic: "The liberal lacks confidence in himself and in his vision of life. He has shown in every country where the attacks on liberalism have been forceful that he either does not possess stable convictions, or that he lacks the insight and the courage that would enable him to defend them." Heywood Broun defined a liberal as "a man who leaves the room when the fight begins." These days, Hillary Clinton speaks of America needing to discover "a new definition of civil society." Why?
In the interests of fostering open-mindedness, liberals have allowed the misimpression to be bruited about that they have no standards of taste, morality, educational values, spiritual life, community life or common sense. The Wall Street Journal says, "Liberalism today is just plain silly." But conservatives do not need to ridicule liberals when liberals do the work for them. At the 30th-anniversary dinner of the left-wing Institute for Policy Studies in Washington in 1993, the new executive director shamefacedly apologized to the hissing audience for holding the event in a nonunion hotel. The president of the University of Massachusetts, claiming that he is supporting freedom of the press, has refused to condemn anti-Semitic articles in the college newspaper. Mayor Marion Barry of Washington pledged to set up an Office of Offenders' Affairs, with a staff made up of former prisoners, which would enact liberalized sentencing laws and give "set-aside gate money" to released inmates. Kurt Vonnegut once explained that he never put a villain in his early novels because of the liberal thinking he picked up at the University of Chicago: "They taught us that nobody was ridiculous or bad or disgusting."
Political correctness, often properly called a fundamentalism of the left, is a bitter joke to all but those who practice it. The lapsed liberal Moynihan calls it "a form of intolerance, as illiberal as an attitude can be." The open society that has allowed for everything from Andres Serrano's urine-soaked Jesus to Jerry Springer, Jenny Jones and Howard Stern suggests that liberalism favors such aberrations and is to be identified with them. By their awkward silence liberals have confirmed this. The silence has created a vacuum of moral thought that has been filled by such works as Allan Bloom's "The Closing of the American Mind," the best-selling plaint against the vulgarity and barbarism of liberal education, and William J. Bennett's equally successful and pious "Book of Virtues."
In a cultural atmosphere in which liberals are assumed to support the purveyors of sacrilege and dirty talk, the purveyors of simple-minded virtue come off as moral leaders, and the public has a choice between the tasteless and the boring. In fact, most liberals who favor the protections of an open society are appalled by its excesses, but they have not made that clear. It has been said that they are in favor of every subculture except that of married, hard-working, home-buying, church-going Americans. The themes raised by conservatives that have been warmly welcomed by the rest of the country are not taxes or a trickle-down economy, but rather an evocation of communal values and morals.
The popular image of the liberal remains a shaggy, dewy-eyed Edward Koren cartoon character, vaguely professorial, swishy Los Angeles or dour Manhattan Upper West Side, predictably reactive and wretchedly anachronistic. He still listens to Peter, Paul and Mary, and wonders where all the flowers have gone. He is a member of the overeducated, oversensitized elite -- a teacher or a social worker or a Hollywood producer or, the worst of the lot, a journalist. He has (or shows) a disdain for money and tends to stigmatize those who stray from the orthodoxy. The liberals who do not carry that image, like Bill Bradley and Sam Nunn, have left or are about to leave politics, thus reinforcing the impression that liberalism has no steam left. They, too, are moving toward family values, but because they are simultaneously moving out of Washington, their shift of focus seems more a desertion than an assertion, and in some cases it is.
Liberals have also diminished their stature by condemning the teaching of what goes by the name of middle-class morality in schools, by referring to teen-age motherhood as just another manifestation of family life, by appearing to pay more attention to the rights of criminals than to the plight of victims. Representative Barney Frank, Democrat of Massachusetts, says, "Nothing causes liberals more political harm than that perception." Passively or actively, they have contributed to the picture of an America composed solely of victimized minority groups. They have dwelt on small-potatoes infringements like the raising of creches and menorahs in public squares. A mainstay of liberalism, the separation of church and state, has taken the odd form of a disregard of, and disrespect for, religion. The notion that liberals are anti-religion has emboldened the crackpot intolerances of the religious right.
Much of this self-destructive behavior was born of overconfidence bordering on cockiness. In the January Dissent, Michael Walzer of the Princeton Institute for Advanced Study cites two off-the-mark liberal responses to the Barry Goldwater Presidential defeat in 1964: the historian Richard Hofstadter predicted that conservatism "had no future in an increasingly modern, secular, liberal and pluralistic America." Seymour Martin Lipset, professor of sociology at Harvard, wrote in the British magazine Encounter: "It cannot be stressed too strongly that the politics of backlash, whether religious-cultural, economic, or racially motivated, is a consequence of the fact that the U.S. is becoming more liberal. The groups now reacting with such desperation are desperate precisely because they are growing less influential and less numerous."
When liberals had the numbers and the self-confident power in the early 1970's, Roe v. Wade was seen as a political victory exclusively. The inherent confusion, doubt and pain in a woman's decision to have an abortion, and the opposition of most religious groups, including the Roman Catholic Church, were overridden by a formalistic declaration of rights -- a woman's right to choose. That right was, and is still, seen by most Americans as reasonable and sensible, yet liberals saw no need to have an open, sympathetic discussion with those who were opposed to abortion rights. The failure to acknowledge the right to abortion as something more complicated and more human than a political victory contributed to the backlash against it in the 1980's.
Liberalism is most scorned for its association with big government, even though liberals were against the abuses of Presidential power under President Johnson in Vietnam and President Nixon in Watergate. While originally fearing a too-powerful state, it has been seen as willing and eager to give the state power in order to realize egalitarian goals. In "Liberal Purposes" (1991), Professor William A. Galston of the University of Maryland wrote: "A government too weak to threaten our liberties may be by that very fact too weak to secure our rights, let alone advance our shared purposes."
Yet the fact remains that with all of liberalism's missteps and inadequacies, America has signed on to it. There are major areas of activity, like the rights of women and of members of minorities, and the environment, that could not have changed the American landscape without great numbers of people agreeing that they wanted government in their lives. Since the passage of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, the presence of minority-group members in the workforce has grown from 11 percent to 23 percent. "Of course we don't have social justice," says Robert Caro, "but we have moved a long way toward it."
Women today make up nearly half the managerial and professional ranks. This is because of big government -- Title VII of the 1964 Civil Rights Act, the Equal Pay Act of 1963, the Equal Credit Opportunity Act of 1974. Suzanne Levine, editor of the Columbia Journalism Review, said, "There has not been a single woman in this country who has not been changed by the last 30 years of activism, and even those who resist what used to be called 'women's lib' are beneficiaries of it."
Even affirmative action, one of the most fragile and hotly contested of liberal programs -- debated by both conservatives and liberals -- has proved to be wanted, at least in some form, by most Americans. Last year much was made of California's attempts to outlaw affirmative-action programs in that state, but California businesses are not abandoning their affirmative-action programs. State bills in Texas and in Mississippi died in committee or went down to defeat.
One of the less noted but highly significant areas in which government has proved indispensable is the environment. According to the Environmental Protection Agency, the effects of the Clean Air Act Amendments of 1990, signed by President Bush, will reduce the country's air pollution by over 49 billion pounds per year. The number of cities violating the air-quality standards for carbon monoxide has dropped to 9 from more than 40 in the past five years. Sulfur dioxide emissions, which cause acid rain, have been reduced by 2.6 million tons.
In short, since the 1960's, the public, rather than seeking to reduce a governmental presence in the environment, has sought to ratchet it up. Bipartisan support passed the Clean Air Act Amendments in 1990 by 401 to 25 in the House and by 89 to 10 in the Senate. Industry has experienced no serious loss. Du Pont and other chemical companies have been given incentives to develop ozone-depleting chemicals. Air-quality regulations in Southern California have not touched the economy. The timber interests in Oregon originally claimed that forest-saving efforts would drain state revenues, but keeping the trees vertical has so increased tourism -- while making the state attractive to high-tech industries -- that now Oregon has the lowest unemployment numbers in a generation.
None of this is to claim that the country is not genuinely concerned with the amount of big government in its life -- although there often seems to be as much formulaic reaction against it as there is against "knee-jerk liberalism," or "big business." The reality is that in major areas of activity, it very much wants to keep government big.
The triumph of liberalism is not a political victory. Rather it is a triumph of temperament and attitude; it reflects how America wishes to exist. It has been said that liberalism is confounded by an unrealistic optimism about the possibilities of human advancement. But the idea was born in 18th-century rationalism. It picked up 19th-century Romanticism along the way as it moved forward, and the combination of thought may be read in the Constitution and the Bill of Rights -- an 18th-century document with a number of 19th-century riders.
The truth of liberalism is that it is both optimistic and pragmatic. It believes in improvement but not in perfectibility. It is often embarrassed by the freedoms it supports and encourages, and by the unwieldiness of the government it promotes. But it believes in the dream of human nobility, which historically has proved equally fanciful and reasonable.
Perhaps, as happens from time to time, America appears to be fed up with liberalism and prepared to shut down its normal impulses for a while. But every such period is followed by a further advance of both freedom and equality, because this is the way the country has wanted to go. Within my lifetime, America has progressed from a nation that quashed human rights and diminished human dignity to one that worries about cultural influences and a budget. Most people would call that a triumph.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: WALL STREET JOURNAL (54%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (66%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (95%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT LIBERALISM (91%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (88%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (78%); GAYS & LESBIANS (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (78%); RESTAURANTS (77%); CONSERVATISM (75%); ELECTIONS (74%); PLATFORMS & ISSUES (74%); POLITICS (72%); UNEMPLOYED PERSONS (72%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (71%); CHILDREN (71%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (71%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (67%); HISTORY (64%); WRITERS (64%); 

PERSON: ROSENBLATT, ROGER WILLIAM KRISTOL (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



347 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13WC; Page 1; Column 1; Westchester Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1278 words

HEADLINE: A Program That Teaches Blacks to Be Teachers

BYLINE: By ROBERTA HERSHENSON 

DATELINE: YORKTOWN HEIGHTS

 BODY:
JEFFREY COLE considers himself an average student, but there is nothing ordinary about the sudden change in his life. Tapped last year for a new program to interest black and Hispanic students in becoming teachers, the Yorktown High School 11th grader has surprised himself with his own talents and won a bevy of fans.
"I didn't think I was a teacher -- I thought I was just helping them out," Jeffrey said of a summer internship at a day-care center, which has become a paying job. "They all say I'm doing good. It was weird -- I'm just doing what they're telling me to do." 
 The soft-spoken teen-ager, who plays violin in the high school orchestra and was wearing an African-patterned tie given to him by children at the center, said he is now planning to become an elementary school teacher and is receiving scholarship offers from colleges. Besides his friendly, attentive manner and warm brown eyes, he will bring two valuable assets to the teaching market: he is a black male, a rare commodity in classrooms nationwide.
In Westchester, the number of black and Hispanic students has steadily increased in the last two years, while the number of black and Hispanic teachers has dropped slightly. Over all, according to the New York State Education Department, 35.9 percent of the county's public school students were black or Hispanic in the fall of 1994, compared with 35.3 percent the year before. The number of black or Hispanic teachers during that period dropped from 9.4 percent in 1993 to 9.2 percent in 1994.
In northern Westchester, non-white teachers are especially rare. Even in Peekskill, where nearly 60 percent of the students are non-white, less than 14 percent of the teachers come from minority groups.
Renee Gargano, Deputy Superintendent for the Board of Cooperative Educational Services of Putnam-Northern Westchester, said she had tried for years to attract black and Hispanic teachers to the organization's 18 school districts. Frustrated by failure -- even after visiting Southern black colleges, advertising in black publications and sponsoring recruitment fairs for black teachers -- she said she realized a new approach was necessary.
"We weren't getting to the heart of the matter," Ms. Gargano said recently. "It is hard to get people to relocate to this area -- where housing prices are high, to uproot themselves and move to a community where everyone is Caucasian, and to work in school districts that are primarily Caucasian. What we really need is to grow our own."
Today's Students, Tomorrow's Teachers, which is sponsored by the Learning Foundation of Putnam-Northern Westchester, is gambling on the idea that students from minority groups who already feel at home in northern Westchester would be willing to resettle there as teachers -- provided they are interested in the profession and are given enough incentives.
The program began with a small group of students last year and now includes 29 students in four school districts: Bedford, Ossining, Peekskill and Yorktown. The participating students, who were recommended by their teachers and guidance counselors, attend teacher workshops, work year round in internships and are taken on visits to nearby colleges with education divisions.
The students also meet regularly with teachers who serve as mentors and receive career counseling and help with the college-application process. Once they are in college, they will also be assigned mentors there.
Perhaps the biggest incentive is that each student is promised a 50-percent reduction in tuition by each of the participating colleges. So far these include the College of New Rochelle, Iona, Manhattanville, Mercy, Pace University and Texas College in Tyler.
In return, the students must maintain good grades, and, most important, promise to teach for a year in a northern Westchester or Putnam County district.
The adults in the program are sanguine about young people's tendency to change their minds. "Even if they decide not to go into teaching," said Angelo Piccirillo, an Ossining High School science teacher who is serving as a mentor, "they are having experiences now that are very positive." Many of the students, for example, are visiting a college campus for the first time, several of the mentors said.
Telly Mangual, who on a recent afternoon was helping students do kitchen math at a Yorktown Middle School home economics class, said that the program had injected new energy into his life. "It has given me more of a sense of responsibility," the Yorktown High School 12th grader said. "Before this, I would just go home and go to sleep. Now I come home, and I'm awake."
He said he wanted to become a teacher to help change attitudes toward black children in the mostly white suburbs. "I'm not half the person anyone thought I was when I came here," said Telly, who moved from Yonkers in the 10th grade. "I was different, and a lot of kids were amazed that all my classes were advanced."
Renee McFarlane, an Ossining High School 12th grader who volunteers at a day-care center and a community center in Ossining, said she wanted to model herself after her third-grade teacher in Mount Vernon, who was black. "To see your own color teaching you -- wow!" she said. "You think, 'I can really do something. I can really make something of myself.' "
Mr. Piccirillo said: "Minority students need someone to look up to. They look for heroes and models at the sporting figures, and this is something totally different. If I'm a first grader, I'm going to be terribly affected by the teacher. If I see someone I can relate to, it could make a tremendous difference."
Even with its promising start, Today's Students, Tomorrow's Teachers faces difficult challenges. Students must first be persuaded that teaching has rewards beyond the novelty of internships. "It all comes down to economics," said Bettye Perkins, the project coordinator. "Parents come in with students for a session, and we show them the salary structure. You should see how shocked they are to see that the first year they can make close to $30,000 in some of these districts."
Ms. Gargano said she realized someone may raise objections to the program for the same reasons that affirmative-action policies have come under fire nationally. While some white students may be jealous of the opportunities their black and Hispanic classmates are getting, however, so far no one has complained. "They recognize the need," Ms. Perkins said. "They can see it. They're in an environment where there are no teachers of color, and it's just part of the whole learning process to understand that there are other kinds of teachers."
The program's most pressing need is money, Ms. Gargano said. This year's budget of $141,000, which includes stipends to mentors and $200 for each student's summer internship, is being financed by the Learning Foundation, businesses like M.B.I.A. of Armonk and General Electric and the Plan for Social Excellence of Mount Kisco. The Learning Foundation is an independent consortium of 18 school districts in northern Westchester and Putnam County, corporations and colleges.
Ms. Gargano said the project's goal was 90 students, 5 from each of the Board of Cooperative Education Services' 18 districts. The payoff will be, she said, when the newly trained teachers fulfill their pledge to work in the districts. "We can't guarantee them a job," she said, "but we have promised to make special efforts."
The program, she said, demands a long view. "It's not a quick fix," she said. "When you grow your own, you must be patient. We need long-term funding. It's something you have to hang in with."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Jeffrey Cole helps middle school home economics students with "kitchen math." (Roberta Hershenson for The New York Times) (pg. 6)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LEARNING FOUNDATION OF PUTNAM-NORTHERN WESTCHESTER YORKTOWN HIGH SCHOOL (70%); OSSINING HIGH SCHOOL (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: LEARNING FOUNDATION OF PUTNAM-NORTHERN WESTCHESTER YORKTOWN HIGH SCHOOL (70%); OSSINING HIGH SCHOOL (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: WESTCHESTER COUNTY (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; BLACKS; TEACHERS AND SCHOOL EMPLOYEES; SPANISH-SPEAKING GROUPS (US) STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (91%); TEACHING & TEACHERS (90%); HIGH SCHOOLS (90%); PRIMARY & SECONDARY SCHOOL TEACHERS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (90%); AFRICAN AMERICANS (90%); HISPANIC AMERICANS (89%); SCHOOL DISTRICTS (89%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (89%); PUBLIC SCHOOLS (86%); EDUCATION DEPARTMENTS (78%); HOUSING MARKET (78%); HISTORICALLY BLACK COLLEGES (78%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (78%); APPRENTICESHIPS & INTERNSHIPS (78%); PRIMARY SCHOOLS (78%); CHILDREN (77%); REAL ESTATE (74%); SCHOLARSHIPS & GRANTS (73%); SPONSORSHIP (65%); REAL ESTATE VALUATIONS (60%); RELOCATIONS (60%); HOME PRICES (50%); 

PERSON: HERSHENSON, ROBERTA PUTNAM-NORTHERN WESTCHESTER (70%); TELLY MANGUAL (56%); RENEE GARGANO (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



348 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 1; Column 1; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1718 words

HEADLINE: Million-Dollar Houses, Old and New

BYLINE: By DIANE SENTEMENTES SIERPINA 

 BODY:
FOR sale: A brand new 7,500-square-foot country home on nearly 67 acres in Washington with commanding views of the Litchfield County sunsets from the south and west. Price tag: Just under $2 million.
Also for sale: A 5,300-square-foot white Colonial on four acres of Westport waterfront built in 1941 with a carriage house and caretaker's cottage. Needs total renovation. No swimming pool, tennis courts or air conditioning, but what a view! Price tag: $7.4 million. 
 These are properties described in real estate advertisements as "magnificent," "expansive" and "strikingly picturesque." They feature details like vaulted and domed ceilings, mosaic tile floors and specialty rooms: music, billiard, powder and theater. Whatever one's style, size or location, if the bank account allows, there are homes like these all over Connecticut.
And despite the consistently grim news about the state's struggling economy and steep foreclosure rate last year, Connecticut's real estate market kept going in 1995, thanks in part to the sale of homes priced at a million dollars or more. Real estate brokers are bullish that year-end bonuses in the financial industry could make 1996 a banner year.
"If Wall Street has a good year, we have a good year," said Russell Pruner, president of the Greenwich Association of Realtors, whose town offers the most million-dollar homes by far and appeals greatly to to New York-bound commuters. As of Nov. 30, 165 homes had been sold for more than $1 million, 49 of which went for more than $2 million.
George Ballantyne, a senior vice president with Sotheby's International Realty responsible for the New England region, will be watching Connecticut sales closely because, he says, as the state goes, so does the rest of the Northeast, particularly Cape Cod, the Berkshires and Vermont. Big bonuses could mean more purchases of second homes in the country.
"There were many people who financially were able to purchase these homes, but they have flexibility in their timing," said Mr. Ballantyne. "Some of them were happy to have their money in the stock market. But some see that the market can't go up indefinitely and feel justified in buying second homes as an investment and for personal enjoyment."
In Connecticut, that bodes well for Litchfield County, which, unlike Fairfield County, is dependent on the second-home market for its million-dollar sales. "These are homes people don't need," admits Seymour Surnow, a top broker with the William Raveis Agency in Washington Depot. "They're lived in 50 nights a year. Maybe!"
Who are the buyers and what do they get for their money?
Brokers around the state agree that buyers are younger (in their 30's and 40's). Many have small children for whom they seek a good school system and most made their money in financial services, technology or entertainment.
What they get for their money depends on the town or city, location (waterfront or view), type of property and landscaping, and condition of the home. "Most of the buyers are coming from New York," said Barbara Schmerzler of Century 21 Anchor Homefinders of Westport/Weston, who says up to 90 percent of her clients are new to the area. "They're leaving the city and taxes have a lot to do with it," she said. "They may be getting more land, but possibly not as much house as they thought or as new a house as they thought.
"Those who are coming are difficult to sell to and they are very, very picky," she added. "But if you're paying this kind of money, you want it all and maybe you should have it." Ms. Schmerzler said 41 homes priced between $1 million and $8 million were on the market recently in Westport and another 26 between $1 million and $3.4 million in Weston. A new 7,200-square-foot farmhouse (on more than three acres in Weston) with seven bedrooms, eight bathrooms, four fireplaces, a tennis court, pool and pond, was listed at $2.3 million and was recently bought by a corporate C.E.O.
Most buyers of high-priced homes in Fairfield County are looking for primary residences within commuting distance of their work. Even within the county, prices vary widely. Home costs average 30 percent to 35 percent higher in Greenwich because of its proximity to New York City, builders and brokers say.
"I've sold a $1.9 million house that was very much a mansion and a $4 million house that was not a mansion, just a plain house with no grand image on a wonderful property," said David Ogilvy of David Ogilvy & Associates in Greenwich, who says 38 percent of his sales are priced over $1 million.
Mr. Ogilvy, who counts 50 percent of his clientele as in-town residents trading up, says some out-of-towners hesitate to look in Greenwich because of its pricey reputation. But he heads a cheering section of builders and brokers who promote the town's low taxes, proximity to New York, good schools and beaches, as big advantages. The broker says he wins many high profile clients, like entertainers, because they like being close to friends and associates and because he respects their privacy.
Elegant homes that sell elsewhere in the state for $1 million or $2 million, may cost several million more in Greenwich, but these are rare properties usually outstanding in quality, location, gardens or view, said Mr. Ogilvy. "Most are sold by what they look like when you come up to them," he said. "Attractive design attracts buyers."
Richard Kriskey Sr., vice president of the Franco Brothers construction company in Greenwich, recently had a crew of 15 working on an 8,000-square-foot Georgian home under construction on a six-acre Riversville Road site. The million-dollar home is the second the young couple, who have a baby, has hired the firm to build for them in three years; they preferred the new location for its privacy and level ground suitable for a tennis court and pool.
During a recent tour of the property, Lauro Salas, a stone mason, meticulously cracked large pieces of fieldstone to create the rough shapes that would cover the facade of a large fireplace in the family room. Other crew members were hammering, painting and working on the grounds where 30-foot trees had been brought in to buffer the front of the house.
As is the case with many high-priced homes, the interior has a large foyer and circular staircase as well as imported marble and a whirlpool in the master bathroom, a 12-foot ceiling in the 16-by18-foot master bedroom and customized ceiling moldings.
Mr. Kriskey said prices add up for such features as customized kitchen cabinets, double-layered sheetrock with plaster on top for the walls, paneling, electrical systems, detailed hardwood floors and extensive landscaping, including stone walls and terraces.
William Fieber, a partner in the Fieber Group of New Canaan, which is building several housing developments in the town, says buyers are looking for granite countertops in the kitchen, special tiles in the bathrooms, hardwood flooring with inlaid borders, plank flooring in libraries, wood roofs or architectural asphalt shingles and up to five fireplaces. "There is definitely more attention to detail," he said.
Brokers say buyers want exercise and computer rooms, libraries, large family rooms, space for in-laws or live-in help, living space in the back of the house that can serve as separate quarters for teen-agers, even elevators and built-in aquariums. Exterior styles range from the beach house/ Hamptons look with porches and columns in Westport to farmhouses in Litchfield to Mediterranean villas on the shoreline.
In Litchfield County, to which artists, entertainers and government officials have flocked for years for its laid-back atmosphere and privacy, a million-dollar price tag is still rare, said Mr. Surnow, of Washington Depot, who sells 6 to 10 such properties a year, mostly as second homes.
"We're not a bedroom community; there is no train. You need a car to get here," he said. "I call it 'urbane,' not urban, suburban or rural. People can find a life style on a quiet, relaxed level and not feel out of touch with the world. We're only two hours from New York and Boston.
"If a woman comes to my office in high heels," he added, "I know she isn't going to buy here. This is not a high-heel place. People coming here have to be secure. They are looking to get away with their families, to go antiquing and horseback riding."
Not every region of the state has benefited from high-priced home sales. Some have seen drops up to 20 percent, said Mr. Ballantyne, of Sotheby's. According to his figures on million-dollar home sales through October, four sold in the shoreline region of Madison and Guilford, five in the Connecticut River area of Essex and Old Saybrook, eight in Litchfield County and none in eastern Connecticut. Buyers are looking for charm and are unwilling to commit the time, money and energy for extensive renovations. "Now they are willing to pay a premium to have the work already done," Mr. Ballantyne said.
The market has been stronger in the $400,000 to $500,000 range, many brokers agreed.
Susan S. Hatch, a broker with DeWolfe T.R. Preston in West Hartford, said the high-priced market has been hurt by job losses in Hartford County. Fewer executives are relocating to the area and most of the buyers are looking for new construction, especially in the Avon, Farmington and Simsbury areas. In 1995, four homes in the $1 million range sold in Hartford County, she said, two in Farmington and two in Avon. "We used to have 8 to 10."
"You were a pretty good agent if you sold two $1 million homes in a year," said Ms. Hatch. "Now, in our area, you're at the top if you sell one. Overall, I've had the best year I've ever had, but there are mornings I wake up and say, 'That's it; I'm moving.' "
Gerald R. Kunde, executive vice president of the Connecticut Association of Realtors, said he believed the overall real estate market would continue to improve in 1996, but it is contingent on steady job growth and industry diversification. "There's enough inventory at all segments of the market to satisfy demand," he said.
But from his position in the high-priced end of the market, Mr. Surnow says that for his clients the economy is irrelevant. "I always laugh," he said. "The economy here is real estate."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Franco Brothers is building this 8,000-square-foot home on a six-acre Riversville Road site in Greenwich. The buyers, like many entering the higher end of the housing market, are young. (pg. 1); A stonemason, Lauro Salas, builds a fireplace in a new million-dollar house in Greenwich. (Janet Durrans for The New York Times) (pg. 16)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: HARTFORD, CT, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

COMPANY: SOTHEBY'S INTERNATIONAL REALTY INC (65%); NEW ENGLAND (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW ENGLAND (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CONNECTICUT; UNITED STATES (95%); CONNECTICUT, USA (95%); VERMONT, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); HARTFORD, CT, USA (87%); LONDON, ENGLAND (75%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; PRICES (FARES, FEES AND RATES) REAL ESTATE (93%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (90%); HOUSING MARKET (90%); FORECLOSURE (78%); AUCTIONS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (76%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (75%); BANKING & FINANCE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (66%); EXECUTIVES (65%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (50%); 

PERSON: SIERPINA, DIANE SENTEMENTES

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



349 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 1; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1522 words

HEADLINE: Lilco Proposing Gas Competition

BYLINE: By STEWART AIN 

 BODY:
GAS customers on Long Island will soon have a chance to buy their gas from a company other than the Lilco.
But whether customers will jump at the chance -- or whether other gas utilities will even want to compete for the residential market -- is questionable. 
 One factor is that the Long Island Lighting Company wants to open the door to competition halfway. It told the State Public Service Commission on Nov. 9 that it would allow gas customers the right to choose another supplier but that it wanted to retain the right to transport the gas through its pipelines.
Twenty-one percent of gas bills reflects the actual cost of natural gas, and 27 is for pipeline and storage costs.
As the commission weighs that proposal, competing suppliers have filed objections, arguing that they should be allowed to transport the gas, as well. They say they can contract more cheaply then Lilco for space on the interstate system that carries gas from Texas and Louisiana.
In its proposal Lilco pointed out that it had long-term contracts with the pipeline companies that had to be honored. Lilco said any significant modification of its proposal would disrupt the balance between a choice of suppliers and protecting smaller customers from the effects of shifting costs. Only if its plan is approved with little change, Lilco maintained, could the utility insure that the transportation costs for all customers would remain the same.
The move toward deregulation occurs as the Long Island Power Authority has proposed breaking up Lilco, selling its gas division and its electric power plants. A member of the authority, Richard M. Kessel, said he believed that until the fate of the utility has been decided, the P.S.C. should exclude Lilco from the deregulation plan.
"I think we're going too fast," Mr. Kessel said. "We have not taken a hard look at rates and service reliability. I think that Long Island will face major problems if we break up this company all at once."
Mr. Kessel said introducing competition in the gas market here could not be carried out in a vacuum, but rather should be done in the context of a possible takeover of Lilco.
"It is possible another utility or a private company might own the gas company," Mr. Kessel said. "While I have fought for lower electric and gas rates, the rush to competition is ultimately not going to be in the best interests of rate payers. Right now we need to focus all of our attention on what to do with Lilco. It would be a mistake to begin changing the system."
Lilco has 454,508 gas customers, with 408,650 residential, and 247,061 of those who use gas for heating. The remainder buy gas just for activities like heating water and cooking. Of the 45,858 commercial customers, 35,009 use gas for heating.
The P.S.C. is reviewing the plan, as well as others submitted by the eight other gas utilities in the state. Each was asked for proposals to allow for competition.
A spokeswoman for the commission, Honor M. Kennedy, said that because each utility was unique, the commission did not chose a cookie-cutter approach. But, Ms. Kennedy said, the regulators retain the right to enact uniform requirements.
Companies, including potential competitors, are responding to Lilco. The P.S.C. has set April 1 as the deadline to modify the proposals.
Although there has been gradual deregulation of gas utilities since Congress passed the Natural Gas Policy Act in 1978, New York would be the first state to permit wide-ranging competition in the residential market.
Nearly all states permit competition for large customers.
Eight states now permit competition for residential customers, with seven limited to pilot projects, according to Nicholas W. Mattia Jr., a lawyer for Norstar Energy L.P. of Montvale, N.J., a gas supplier in 39 states. All the projects are relatively new, including one that began in Rock Valley, Iowa, in November.
The only state that has given residential customers a choice among competitors for any length of time is New Mexico, according to Kenneth W. Costello, associate director of the National Regulatory Research Institute in Columbus, Ohio. As of last week, Mr. Costello said, one customer had signed up since the program started in 1987.
Mr. Mattia said, based on responses from small stores, he expected an initial reluctance to leave traditional suppliers. No matter what people may think of their utilities, they are reliable, Mr. Mattia said, and customers will be concerned about eroding that reliability.
The senior vice president of marketing at Norstar, John S. Sadowski, said that gas utilities had been monopolies and that until consumers felt comfortable with choices they were not going to switch.
That view was echoed by Peter M. Yochum, bureau chief of the New Jersey Board of Public Utilities. In November 1994 that board authorized gas competition.
"We found that about 3 percent of the customers switched," Mr. Yochum said. "That's in the ballpark of what we expected. Natural gas is not something the average customer is familiar with. Customers have always dealt with one utility, paid their bills and have not worried about where the gas was coming from or how it got there. So people are slow to move. They are waiting to see how their neighbors who switched made out."
Competitors are offering savings of 5 to 10 percent, a figure that is not going to make customers with relatively small bills sit up and take notice, Mr. Yochum said. He added that small offices that used gas just for heating paid $200 a month, and he questioned whether that would be a sufficient incentive to switch, especially because the competitors do not have track records.
Customers of Public Service Electric and Gas in New Jersey know what the utility is, and they know where it is and whom to call about a problem, Mr. Yochum said. But all the other company names are new to homeowners, and the customers will try to balance what they are receiving against what is being offered.
Unlike competition among long-distance telephone companies, Mr. Yochum said, the public has paid scant attention to gas deregulation. "We were getting calls here," he said, "from people asking if the gas companies that had contacted them were legitimate and whether it was legal to switch. Whatever educational problem there has been with commercial establishments has to be compounded when you are dealing with residential customers."
Whether gas utilities will want to compete for residential customers or just vie for large commercial accounts remains to be seen, said a lawyer for the National Association of Regulatory Utility Commissioners in Washington, Charles D. Gray.
He pointed out that the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission directed pipeline companies in 1992 to separate their transportation businesses from gas sales. Competitors, Mr. Gray said, may view residential customers unfavorably because of their low usage and the fact that they buy gas mainly in the cold months.
There is concern about skimming the best parts of the market, Mr. Gray said. Competitors may want to serve just large customers and leave residential customers for local distributors, said Mr. Gray.
Mr. Costello, whose institute is the research arm of the regulators' association, said a survey by his organization had found that there was not much of a track record on competition for residential gas customers in the United States. But Ontario, he added, has had residential competition for years, and 30 percent of the residents have switched to competitors.
Brokers buy gas from producers and sell it to local companies, which sell it to residential customers, he said. The broker gives a part of its profit to the residential customer.
In the United States, Mr. Costello said, utilities have contended that there is no economic advantage in requiring them to compete with other gas utilities. But competitors, he said, maintain that they can buy gas and ship it at lower prices and that there is no incentive for utilities to be efficient because they are monopolies.
Mr. Costello noted that gas companies had an advantage over other utilities because they were not subject to the gross-receipts tax that utilities have to pay on gas and transportation costs. Gas utilities are also not subject to the regulatory obligations that other utilities have to deal with.
Although Norstar has been one of several utilities that has met Lilco to discuss switch overs, Mr. Sadowsky said, Norstar has not decided whether it will compete for residential business or just commercial.
In a mailing Lilco has informed residential customers that small gas consumers would have to join groups with other small users to buy from a competitor. The combined usage would have to be at least 50,000 therms. A therm equals 1.385 gallons of oil, and about 35 houses would be needed to form such groups.
Even if in cases of switches, the Lilco proposal calls for the utility to continue to service equipment, read meters and respond to all emergency calls. Customers would receive two bills, one from Lilco and the other from the suppliers.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: NGG (NYSE) (91%); NG (LSE) (91%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC4931 ELECTRIC & OTHER SERVICES COMBINED (91%); NAICS221122 ELECTRIC POWER DISTRIBUTION (91%); NAICS221121 ELECTRIC BULK POWER TRANSMISSION & CONTROL (91%); NAICS221112 FOSSIL FUEL ELECTRIC POWER GENERATION (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS) NATIONAL GRID PLC (91%); LONG ISLAND POWER AUTHORITY (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: LONG ISLAND LIGHTING CO (LILCO); PUBLIC SERVICE COMMISSION (NYS)

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (79%); TEXAS, USA (79%); LOUISIANA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: GAS (FUEL); PIPELINES NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (92%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (91%); NATURAL GAS DISTRIBUTION (90%); PUBLIC UTILITIES COMMISSIONS (90%); ENERGY & UTILITY LAW (90%); NATURAL GAS PRODUCTS (90%); UTILITY RATES (89%); ELECTRIC POWER PLANTS (89%); DEREGULATION (89%); ELECTRIC POWER INDUSTRY (89%); FUEL MARKETS (79%); OIL & GAS PRICES (79%); NATURAL GAS (79%); OIL & GAS INDUSTRY (79%); PIPELINE TRANSPORTATION (79%); ELECTRICITY TRANSMISSION & DISTRIBUTION (78%); NATURAL GAS MARKETS (77%); REAL ESTATE (77%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (77%); POWER PLANTS (74%); APPROVALS (71%); LIGHTING EQUIPMENT MFG (71%); NATURAL GAS PRICES (69%); 

PERSON: AIN, STEWART RICHARD M KESSEL (62%); NICHOLAS W MATTIA JR (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



350 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1135 words

HEADLINE: New Life for Abandoned and Derelict Edison Homes

BYLINE: By JEANETTE ALMADA 

DATELINE: GARY, Ind.

 BODY:
RECONSTRUCTION is under way on a group of town houses built in downtown Gary in 1915 using Thomas Alva Edison's patent for poured-concrete homes.
Edison was one of at least three innovators who patented methods for building poured-concrete houses in the early 1900's, according to Douglas Tarr, an architectural historian at the Edison Historic Site Museum in West Orange, N.J. 
 A number of Edison-patented houses, built with then-emerging industrial materials like reinforced steel and a refined cement on which he also held a patent, still stand. Thirteen of them are in New Jersey -- 11 of them in Union and two others in Montclair.
The technique eventually died out, largely because of the high cost of making and assembling the mold.
In Gary, several clusters of these concrete houses were built in the 40-block Horace Mann Ambridge community, where steel executives and their families once lived. They were built at a time when the Gary Land Company was converting the area from tents and shacks for steelworkers into an industrial metropolis.
But eventually Gary declined as a steel city and many houses were abandoned. In 1991, 41 of those homes, near Fourth Avenue and Polk Street, were donated by the city and the Lake County Board of Commissioners to the Horace Mann Ambridge Neighborhood Organization.
Known as the Terrace Homes, these units are being converted into three-bedroom, one-bath residences for families earning less than 80 percent of the $34,250 median income in Gary.
As they are rehabilitated, those units are marketed for $51,500.
Scattered along five tree-lined blocks, the Terrace Homes project consists of three rows of 10 attached town houses, one row of nine rowhouses, and two detached single-family homes. The two detached homes were rehabilitated in 1992 as models, and after years of fund raising, construction on the attached row houses began last summer.
Finis Springer, executive adviser in the community group, has been working since 1979 on the problem of housing abandonment, in recent years acquiring and rehabilitating these houses. Initially, the group focused on the difficulties owners found in insuring their homes as abandonment spread.
"Terrace Homes represents our largest rehab undertaking, but we evolved into rehab of abandoned properties over the years," Ms. Springer said. "When insurance companies fled, we negotiated with Allstate, which agreed to provide partial coverage if we could discourage criminal activity around vacated properties.
"So we boarded up abandoned homes from the inside, put lights between the boards and curtain-covered windows and kept the grass cut, all so these homes would not look abandoned."
In the early 1980's, the community group rehabilitated two houses and started attracting investors to buy other abandoned properties for $1 from the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development, which was trying to dispose of abandoned properties it had insured.
O F Gary's 4,000 abandoned and boarded-up buildings, Enyi Nwabara, the city's planning and development director, estimates that half are worth rehabilitating. Along the central downtown corridor on Broadway Street, 82 new town homes are being built, and 18 are under construction in other parts of the city.
Mr. Nwabara estimated that more than 300 units were rehabilitated last year and at least 150 more rehabilitations are scheduled for 1996.
While Edison's patent was originally intended for mass-producing homes for working-class families, Terrace Homes were affordable only to steel industry executives when they were built by a United States Steel subsidiary. And even marketed today as affordable houses, they depend on multiple subsidies to attract Gary's low- to moderate-income home buyer.
Among the first mortgage applicants was Karol Toombs. She and her two daughters moved into her three-bedroom town house two years ago, when renovations were under way. Ms. Toombs said she had been living in a poorly maintained building on a block that was dangerous to her children.
"As much as I dreamt of moving, I never imagined that I could afford my own home," she said. Ms. Toombs was earning $13,000 as a secretary when she placed a $25 deposit on her town house in 1992 and began receiving home ownership training through the neighborhood organization's home buyer training program.
A year ago, she closed on her home, which she described as easily maintained and heated. The interior walls are covered with drywall and the floors were covered with hardwood and carpeting. To the homeowner the use of concrete in the structure is almost undetectable.
"The only difference I've experienced so far is that ordinary nails don't go through the walls," Ms. Toombs said. For wall hangings she uses special nails that permeate concrete.
Using both grants and loans, y the community group was able to subsidize 29 of the 41 units at Terrace Homes, which cost an average of $68,000 a unit. Initially, the Amoco Foundation lent $75,000 to the projects. Low-interest loans came from Bank One Merrillville, a subsidiary of the Banc One Holding Company of Columbus, Ohio; the Local Initiatives Support Corporation, a national assistance organization for low-income housing, and the city. Bank One Merrillville is providing purchase loans to buyers.
GRANTS from the city and the Federal Home Loan Bank of Indianapolis were available to help buyers make the $5,000 down payment. Even with this help, Ms. Toombs spent months amassing her $1,500 share of the down payment. "She would come in with $15 here and $200 there," said Ms. Springer, who allowed Ms. Toombs to move in before the closing to bring some life to the project in its early construction days. "It was evident that this was really important to her and she was scrimping to get together whatever she could."
Not the least of the financing requirements was a $15,000 grant from HUD. The grant plus the down payment assistance made it possible for buyers with as little as $1,250 to obtain mortgages of $32,000 to $35,000 for the purchase.
Ms. Springer is already raising funds to lead her group to renovate and build on 16 blocks of the Horace Mann Ambridge community between Broadway and Grant Streets, an area chosen as an enterprise zone by city officials.
As Terrace Home renovations move toward completion, the community group is planning to build three steel-frame houses amid another cluster of Edison-patented homes blocks away near Sixth Avenue and Polk Street.
These new houses are being built on 20-foot lots where Edison-patented homes have been demolished and between others of those concrete homes that still stand. Simultaneously, the group will begin renovating five units at the same corner, its first rehabilitation of rental property.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Rehabilitated poured-concrete homes in downtown Gary, Ind., built in 1915 using a Thomas A. Edison patent. (Michael Bockover)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: ALL (NYSE) (51%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS524126 DIRECT PROPERTY & CASUALTY INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); NAICS524113 DIRECT LIFE INSURANCE CARRIERS (51%); SIC6331 FIRE, MARINE, & CASUALTY INSURANCE (51%); SIC6311 LIFE INSURANCE (51%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: INDIANA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: GARY, IN, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: ALLSTATE CORP (51%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: GARY (INDIANA); UNITED STATES (95%); INDIANA, USA (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); GARY, IN, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; RESTORATION AND REHABILITATION REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (89%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); FAMILY (88%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (79%); ECONOMIC NEWS (79%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); FUNDRAISING (76%); HISTORY (76%); FACTORY WORKERS (75%); CITIES (73%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (73%); HISTORIC SITES (71%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (71%); HOUSING AUTHORITIES (70%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (70%); PERSONAL & FAMILY INCOME (64%); INSURANCE (60%); COUNTIES (51%); 

PERSON: EDISON, THOMAS A (1847-1931); ALMADA, JEANETTE KAROL TOOMBS (71%); THOMAS ALVA EDISON (67%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



351 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 1; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 2801 words

HEADLINE: A Crack in the Bedrock

BYLINE: By ABBY GOODNOUGH 

DATELINE: BASKING RIDGE

 BODY:
SINCE it laid the first telephone wires across New Jersey in 1885, AT&T has carved out a presence felt in hundreds of thousands of homes and businesses. As the largest employer in New Jersey, after the state itself, it has provided enviable jobs and benefits to people in all 21 counties.
As the state's wealthiest company, it has pumped billions of dollars into the economy through taxes, purchases and charitable donations. With its world headquarters here and 282 other offices around the state, it has bolstered the real estate market year after year. 
 For a long time, AT&T's sheer size and wealth made it seem invincible -- bedrock supporting a frequently unpredictable state economy. But in September, when AT&T announced it would split into three smaller companies to stay competitive in the rough-and-tumble telecommunications market, its future in New Jersey suddenly seemed less clear. A widespread sense of unease was justified this month, when AT&T's chairman, Robert E. Allen, announced that up to 7,000 employees in New Jersey would be among 40,000 to lose their jobs during the restructuring.
Although AT&T has shed 70,000 jobs since the breakup of the gargantuan Bell System in 1984, the cuts have been staggered and the impact in New Jersey has not been especially harsh. This time, 70 percent of the layoffs will come within the year, with the rest following through 1998. As the company prepares to deliver the first pink slips on Tuesday, economists are trying to predict the repercussions in a state where AT&T still seems like Ma Bell.
"The immediate effects will be on housing markets and the spending practices of the people losing their jobs," said Joseph J. Seneca, a Rutgers University professor who heads the state's Council of Economic Advisers. "But there will also be a ripple effect in terms of consumer confidence. This throws out a cautionary signal that downsizing and restructuring are still very much a part of corporate America, not least in New Jersey."
The restructuring, which is to be completed by 1997, will break AT&T into three separate entities: a long-distance company with 110,000 employees and assets of $49 billion; an equipment company with 108,000 employees and assets of $20 billion, and a computer company with 35,000 employees and assets of $8 billion.
For now, two of the companies will remain in New Jersey. The telephone unit will take over the Basking Ridge headquarters, and the equipment concern will be based in Murray Hill, in Union County. AT&T Bell Laboratories, where scientists invented the transistor, the laser and the communications satellite, will keep its offices in Murray Hill and Holmdel, with most of its 26,000 researchers working for the equipment company. But AT&T officials say that other New Jersey offices will probably close as the new companies reach into local markets around the country.
"The basic strategic planning jobs are still going to be here," said Ritch Blasi, an AT&T spokesman. "But when you get to the regional level, it might make more sense to have the strategy coming from New Jersey, but the implementation coming from regional offices around the country."
The layoffs will surely be hard on New Jersey, where job growth slowed in 1995 and is expected to remain sluggish this year. Most of the jobs that have opened up recently are in the lower-wage retail and service sectors, economists say, while the telecommunications, pharmaceutical and manufacturing industries keep shrinking their payrolls. Last year, the Lockheed Martin Corporation, the Mobil Corporation and several other companies eliminated 5,000 jobs in Mercer County alone, sending even well-educated, highly skilled workers to unemployment lines.
In a sense, the AT&T layoffs are even more jarring because they are taking place within a corporation that is still highly profitable. In the old days, the phone company offered lifelong jobs and generous pensions. But as the telecommunications market evolves, even those who are promised jobs at the new companies will have no guarantee of stability.
"These people losing their jobs are managers in a company that had a record of lifetime employment," Mr. Seneca said. "The new business climate is uncertain; it's entrepreneurial; it requires a lot of flexibility and adjustment. That will be a difficult transition for some workers to make."
 
THE PAST
Moving to the Suburbs
Twenty years have passed since AT&T opened an enormous office in Basking Ridge, a Somerset County village whose previous claim to fame was a 400-year-old oak tree. Rural and sparsely populated, it must have seemed an odd location for what was then the world's largest corporation.
But apparently, AT&T executives believed that Somerset County, an expanse of rolling hills and farmland, was the best place for the company to expand and prosper. Bell Laboratories had moved from Manhattan to Murray Hill, not far from Basking Ridge, in 1941.
Hundreds of AT&T employees already lived in New Jersey, and a suburban location would be more convenient and less expensive than the corporate headquarters at 195 Broadway, Mr. Blasi said.
Although its official headquarters remained in Manhattan, AT&T continued its expansion into the suburbs. In 1977, a year after the Basking Ridge office opened, AT&T moved its Long Lines division to Bedminster, also in Somerset County. Other offices followed, with close to 60,000 employees working in New Jersey by 1983. (The number has dropped since then to about 48,000.)
"It was simply a matter of needing additional space, because there was no longer room in the Manhattan building," said Sheldon Hochheiser, AT&T's resident historian. "It was a gradual process of building offices here to hold overflow rather than a conscious decision to pick up stakes and put them down somewhere else."
For the 3,300 people who were transferred to Basking Ridge in the 1970's, the incentives were sweet. To lure employees out of Manhattan, AT&T offered to pay for house-hunting and driving lessons. If the cost of living in New Jersey proved more expensive than in New York, the company would make up the difference for several years.
Meanwhile, Somerset County was reaping its own benefits. Real estate values soared, and property taxes fell. Thanks to the company, local rescue squads could buy new rigs, hospitals could expand and museums could present special exhibits.
More urban companies were following AT&T to the suburbs, and the economy of central New Jersey was changing forever.
"What AT&T did in was legitimize that area around Route 287 as an acceptable place for industry, a viable market," said James W. Hughes, dean of the Edward J. Bloustein School of Planning and Public Policy at Rutgers University. "That set the stage for the 80's, when we really saw a real estate surge in the suburban corridors."
Many of the employees transferred to Basking Ridge were middle managers, people who took orders from the higher-ups and passed them down to technicians and office clerks.
In many cases, they had already devoted years to the company, and expected to be rewarded by more promotions and raises. And at the time, their expectations were usually met. Until the Federal Government forced AT&T to divest itself of its seven regional telephone companies in 1984, the company had virtually no competition in the telecommunications market. It could spend however much time and money it needed to get things right, and mergers and reorganizations were unheard of. Employees bought homes in New Jersey and stayed put, remaining loyal to a company that promised them a comfortable retirement
After the 1984 breakup, AT&T's payroll went from 1,009,000 to 373,000, and its assets dropped from $149 billion to $34 billion. But most jobs in New Jersey remained intact -- only several thousand were lost, because the planning and research operations here remained vital to the trimmed-down company, said Mr. Blasi, the spokesman.
Meanwhile, Bell Labs was more productive than ever, with scientists inventing an opitical digital processor in 1990 and making advances with fiber-optic cable systems. Perhaps the most prominent symbol of AT&T's presence in New Jersey came in 1992, when the company moved its "Golden Boy" statue, a 10-ton figure clutching lightning bolts and telephone cables, from Manhattan to Basking Ridge.
"Symbolically, this had been company headquarters for a while," Mr. Blasi said. "Bob Allen spent most of his time out here, so they moved the statue out here, too."
 
THE PRESENT
Finding Its Way
When AT&T announced that it would eliminate 13 percent of its work force as part of the restructuring plan, not everyone was surprised. Downsizing has been a popular trend for the largest corporations, and some -- including General Motors and IBM -- have eliminated even more jobs.
But the AT&T cuts are unusual, economists say, because they are taking place at a time when the company is healthy and profitable. Its total earnings in 1994 were $4.7 billion, and through September of 1995, the last month for which figures are available, they were $2.8 billion. Just two years ago, AT&T was intent on expanding, acquiring McCaw Cellular Communications for $12 billion.
Yet on Tuesday, as many as 24,000 employees will learn that they are being shut out. (Not all will be leaving against their will. About 7,300 employees, including about 2,630 in New Jersey, have accepted voluntary severance packages that were offered in September. Another round of buyouts may be offered within a month.) The company's career outplacement office is scrambling to help men and women who thought they had mailed out their last resume. AT&T officials say the layoffs will trim billions of dollars in annual costs, helping the three new companies stay competitive.
The long-distance telephone market is already highly competitive, with more than 400 companies vying for customers. The rivalries will grow even more fierce if Congress passes legislation that would allow the seven regional Bell companies -- including Bell Atlantic -- to compete with AT&T for long-distance phone customers. Meanwhile, the $700 million local telephone market in New Jersey is expected to open to competition in the next few years, and AT&T will try to break into local markets long dominated by the Bell companies.
"The long-run objective is to position the company in an industry subjected to enormous change," Mr. Seneca said. "With the staggering technological advances and the Government regulations still being worked out, the company is trying to place itself strategically."
About 10,000 of the job cuts will be in information systems, human resources and financial operations that were needed to manage AT&T as a sprawling corporation and support its various units, Mr. Blasi said. Other layoffs will include about 6,000 administrative and support jobs, he said. The telephone company will shed a total of 17,000 jobs, while the equipment unit will eliminate 23,000. The computer company, which will be based in Dayton, Ohio, will reduce its work force by 8,500, a plan announced in September.
To help workers find new jobs, AT&T is beefing up its job bank and providing re-training to anyone who needs it. Although most job opportunities in New Jersey right now are in the service and retail sectors, there are also a growing number of positions in biotechnology research and small-business services like consulting. Mr. Hughes said many of the laid-off employees -- particularly older people who are likely not to uproot themselves -- could end up taking lower-paying jobs. Although the layoffs will be difficult for them, he said, it is important to remember that they represent only a tiny fraction of the state's 3.6 million jobs.
"We add about 50,000 jobs a year, or 4,200 a month," he said. "If these cuts take place over a two-year period, each year we will lose the equivalent of one month's employment growth. Statewide, that's difficult to discern."
 
THE FUTURE
Learning to Compete
Over the years, AT&T has accumulated 151,000 management-level employees, thousands of whom work in New Jersey. The typical manager is 42 years old, with 16 years at the company and an annual salary of $55,000. The job used to be highly coveted, since it was prestigious and often led to more promotions and raises.
But of the 40,000 jobs the company plans to eliminate, 60 percent are in the middle-management ranks. Lately, managers at AT&T must feel a bit like moving targets trying to guess which direction leads to the prize.
"The function of middle managers in the past was to communicate between the levels above them and below them," Mr. Hughes said. "Those jobs are just not necessary anymore."
In the future, Mr. Hughes and others who follow the economy say, the most promising jobs in the telecommunications industry will be tailored to the newest, most competitive markets, like local telephone service, wireless communications and on-line services. Instead of settling into comfortable management positions, AT&T employees might have to jump from one job to the next. People who lose jobs at AT&T will probably have to follow a similar course if they stay in the business, Mr. Hughes said, working as short-term consultants for more than one company.
"People will have to refashion themselves and adapt to a different culture," he said. "The people who may be in demand now are the ones who didn't have a good fit with corporations in the 60's and 70's. Back then, they wanted people who could take orders.
"What is really going to determine the impact in New Jersey is how successful the goals of the restructuring are," Mr. Hughes went on. "If these companies flourish in a competitive environment, that's going to be positive for New Jersey in the long run. It means they will be expanding employment sometime in the future."
Only time will tell, but Daniel Briere, president of Telechoice, a telecommunications consulting firm in Verona, says the changes will almost certainly be highly profitable for the new telephone company, based in Basking Ridge.
"The communications services group will be positioned fabulously in terms of employee efficiency," he said. "They will be far leaner than MCI, which was the lean one in the past."
For its part, New Jersey probably cannot prevent job loss in the telecommunications industry as the drama continues to unfold, Mr. Seneca said.
"We've been at ground zero in terms of downsizing and restructuring, and that's going to remain," he said. "Where New Jersey can make a difference is an attractive business climate, good infrastructure, worker training and education"
The state should also continue to support Bell Laboratories and other telecommunications researchers, Mr. Seneca said, in order to keep the heartbeat of the industry in New Jersey.
"It's very important that the basic research that was the hallmark of Bell Labs remain alive and thrive, because it fuels the industries of tomorrow," he said. "And these days, tomorrow comes real quick."
 
Keeping in Touch: AT&T in New Jersey
 
1879: New Jersey's telephone exchange opens in Camden. It consisted of a few local telephone customers connected to a central office with a manual switchboard.
1885: AT&T lays the first telephone line across New Jersey -- it stretches between New York City and Philadelphia.
1927: Delaware and Atlantic Telephone & Telegraph becomes New Jersey Bell.
1931: Nation's first transmitting station for ship-shore telephone service opens in Oceangate.
1941: Bell Labs moves from Manhattan to Murray Hill.
1947: Scientists at Bell Labs invent the transistor.
1949: First customer toll dialing from New Jersey (Cranford, to be exact) to N.Y.C.
1951: Trial of long-distance customer dialing takes place in Englewood. Mayor of Englewood dials the first call, to the mayor of Alameda, California.
1958: Scientists at Bell Labs invent the laser.
1961: N.J. Bell installs its 3-millionth telephone in the state.
1964: New Jersey gets its second area code, 609. About 465,000 lines in South Jersey are assigned to the new code.
1975: AT&T moves into its new office building in Basking Ridge. (Construction continues until 1977, when more employees move in, bringing the total to 3,300.)
1977: AT&T opens its network operations center, which now routes millions of phone calls around the world each day, in Bedminster.
1984: AT&T breakup creates 7 regional phone companies overseeing 22 local companies, including New Jersey Bell. (In 1994, the company changed its name to Bell Atlantic-N.J.)
1990: New Jersey gets its third area code, 908. About 1.5 million lines in North and Central Jersey are assigned to this code.
1994: Bell Labs receives its 25,000th patent.

GRAPHIC: Photo: A page from a New Jersey phone directory, 1905. In 1890 in Atlantic City, two women operate state's first switchboard.; Inspecting a device to maintain signal strength in undersea cables. Below, Bell's liquid telephone, 1876. (Photographs from AT&T Photo Center) (pg. 10)
 
Map of central New Jersey highlighting the five largest AT&T locations. (pg. 10)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Chronology 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (95%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS517210 WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (EXCEPT SATELLITE) (95%); NAICS517110 WIRED TELECOMMUNICATIONS CARRIERS (95%); NAICS511140 DIRECTORY & MAILING LIST PUBLISHERS (95%); SIC3661 TELEPHONE & TELEGRAPH APPARATUS (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

CITY: ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (58%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP AT&T INC (95%); BELL LABORATORIES (50%); 

ORGANIZATION: AT&T CORP

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: TELEPHONES AND TELECOMMUNICATIONS; ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (90%); REAL ESTATE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); HOUSING MARKET (89%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); LONG DISTANCE TELEPHONE SERVICE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES (78%); CONSUMER CONFIDENCE (78%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS (78%); DISMISSALS (77%); EMPLOYEE TERMINATION (77%); CORPORATE RESTRUCTURING (74%); TRENDS (74%); CHARITIES (73%); ECONOMIC POLICY (71%); CHARITABLE GIVING (71%); REAL ESTATE MARKET (70%); SATELLITE TECHNOLOGY (69%); TELECOMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT (68%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (50%); 

PERSON: GOODNOUGH, ABBY; ALLEN, ROBERT E

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



352 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 1; Column 1; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 2606 words

HEADLINE: Where Is the Glory That Was France?

BYLINE: By ALAN RIDING 

DATELINE: PARIS

 BODY:
FRANCE'S VERY IDEA OF ITSELF AS a nation is mirrored in the rich cultural fare permanently on offer in Paris and provincial cities. Just about everyone agrees that it is a good idea for the Government to spend $3 billion a year on the arts. And no one
questions that cultural excellence is a good way of exhibiting France's belief in its spiritual and intellectual superiority, of demonstrating to the world that this former great power is still best at something.
Yet for all of France's commitment to culture, for all the money being poured into the arts, something is amiss: French creativity has lost its spark. Few French artists, musicians or writers alive today are considered true masters of their craft. And French singers, dancers and movie directors are faring little better. Indeed, if cultural life is still flourishing here, it is now largely thanks to foreign artists and performers. 
 Perhaps it doesn't matter. Artistic creativity often comes in bursts, followed by fallow periods. And, in any event, from Lully to Picasso, foreign creators have always enriched French culture.
"I know we're chauvinistic, self-satisfied and arrogant, but for centuries we have found a place for foreign writers, composers and painters," said Jacques Rigaud, the author of "The Cultural Exception," a study of postwar cultural policy in France.
Still, France's creative malaise is causing concern here, not least because it is hard to explain. It could be just a symptom of France's broader crisis of confidence as the country is buffeted from all sides by change. At home, the good life is slowly being eroded by high unemployment, slow economic growth and the emergence of a social underclass. And many developments abroad -- whether global trade deregulation or the creation of an international superhighway -- are seen as unnerving challenges.
But there are other variables. A good many people blame the bureaucracy spawned by large Government arts budgets for trying to "manage" culture and for turning artists into civil servants. Then there is the powerful tradition of French intellectual snobbery, which requires that commercial success in the arts be scorned, particularly if it involves anything remotely linked to American popular culture. One way or the other, French culture seems to have taken refuge in the past.
The highly successful Cezanne retrospective at the Grand Palais, which has just closed after receiving some 550,000 visitors in three months, is a case in point. In recent years, Paris has also presented blockbuster shows of works by Seurat, Poussin, Toulouse-Lautrec, Matisse and Sisley. But no living French painter has been so honored.
"The last important French painter was Jean Dubuffet," said the Colombian painter Fernando Botero, who keeps a studio here. "The only thing that money cannot buy is the ability to create."
 
Government Subsidies
 
A Lot of Money,Little to Show
Could too much money be the problem? Do Government subsidies stifle creativity? Must artists be starving to be original? Jack Lang, who as France's Culture Minister for 10 years in the 1980's and early 1990's tripled Government spending on the arts, sees no link.
"The Government's role is to create a climate, an atmosphere," he said. "It is, so to speak, to irrigate the land to encourage creativity. But it's always difficult to measure the vitality of an era. How many writers and artists have been ignored in their own time?"
True, yet how does one explain the fact that foreign talent continues to emerge? Over the last 15 years, successive French Governments have invested heavily in the visual arts, not only in building, restoring and expanding museums but also in creating new art schools and regional centers of contemporary art. At last year's Venice Biennale, France was represented by Cesar, a sculptor who is now in his 70's. Where are the younger artists? Where are the Bill Violas and Damien Hirsts of France? Literally hundreds of artists working in Paris open their studios to visitors once a year, but educated French people would be hard-pressed to name one of them.
Christian Boltanski and Annette Messager, for example, are certainly considered important contemporary artists, but even they are not household names here. In fact, both have been helped by attention in the United States.
"Lots of Americans even think Boltanski is American," said Marie-Claude Beaud, who runs the American Center in Paris. "The problem here is that the public doesn't support artists as they do, say, in Britain.
"There's an interesting generation of French artists between the ages of 30 and 40," she continued. "But as soon as someone is a bit successful here, he's frowned on for being 'commercial.' I'm not pessimistic, but I was disappointed no French artist was in the recent Carnegie International," a major survey of contemporary art mounted every few years by the Carnegie Museum in Pittsburgh.
 
Classical Music
 
After Boulez, Who?
Backbiting is rife in the world of French classical music. There, the dominant (some would say domineering) force is the 70-year-old composer and conductor Pierre Boulez, who is probably France's best-known creative figure.
That alone is enough for some French musical circles to blame him for the crisis in French music. They complain that his Ensemble Intercontemporain and his Music and Acoustic Research and Coordination Institution, known as Ircam, have absorbed a disproportionate amount of Government money. And they say that he has imposed his atonal style on an entire generation of composers to the exclusion of anything more melodic and popular. Last year, he was the principal target of a book called "Requiem for an Avant-Garde" by Benoit Duteurtre.
Along with Georges Pretre and Michel Plasson, Mr. Boulez is also one of France's established conductors, but the three belong to a postwar generation and have no obvious successors today. Instead, foreign conductors are recruited here. The new music director of the Paris National Opera is an American, James Conlon, succeeding a Korean, Myung-Whun Chung, and before him, an Israeli, Daniel Barenboim. A Russian, Semyon Bychkov, is music director of the Orchestre de Paris, while a German, Christoph von Dohnanyi, and an Italian, Carlo Maria Giulini, are this month's guest conductors. It also took an American, William Christie, to revive interest in French baroque music through his ensemble, Les Arts Florissants.
In opera, French music critics are gambling that the 32-year-old Roberto Alagna, who was born in France of Sicilian parents, will emerge as a world-class tenor (he will make his debut at the Metropolitan Opera of New York in "La Boheme" in April), but the very fact that he is being busily promoted in the French press suggests he is France's only opera hope. Certainly, lead roles in productions at the Bastille Opera and the Theatre du Chatelet routinely go to foreigners, many of them rising stars from the former Soviet bloc.
"With the possible exception of Alagna, I would say there are between 10 and 20 French singers who are quite good, but none of them is really great," said Hugues Gall, who took over as director of the Paris National Opera last year.
"For me, part of the problem is that provincial cities once served as a breeding ground for young talent. But Government subsidies have disturbed all that. Now places like Nice or Toulouse have enough money to pay for international-level performers. So young singers, who cannot survive on their own when they come out of the conservatories, have nowhere to go."
 
Dance
 
Nurturers To the World
In the world of modern dance, on the other hand, France has played a crucial role as nurturer, albeit often of foreign companies, including those of the Americans Trisha Brown, Lucinda Childs, Caroline Carlsson, Merce Cunningham and William Forsythe. Groups like these are encouraged, presented regularly and even given temporary homes here.
"Many companies would not exist if France wasn't paying for them," said Yorgos Loukos, director of the Lyons Opera Ballet, where the American choreographer Bill T. Jones is currently installed with his company. "France keeps a lot of world dance alive."
By turning France into a dance capital, the Government, of course, also hoped to stimulate French modern dance, perhaps even to find a successor to the country's best-known choreographer, Maurice Bejart, who is now 68. It has had some success, with Angelin Preljocaj, Maguy Marin, Jean-Claude Gallotta and Philippe Decoufle, all young choreographers of repute. Even in France, however, they do not stir the same frisson as, say, the annual visit by the Pina Bausch Company from Germany. And outside France, they are relatively unknown. "I don't think they export themselves that easily," Mr. Loukos said.
 
Theater
 
The Avant-Garde Vs. 'Boulevard'
When it comes to theater, the French language prevents local productions from traveling far (although the Comedie Francaise will take Moliere's "Dom Juan" and Marivaux's "Inconstant Lovers" to the Brooklyn Academy of Music in New York in the spring). But this has not prevented prominent foreign directors from working here. The British director Peter Brook has made his home at the Theatre des Bouffes du Nord here since the 1970's. Lluis Pascual of Spain succeeded Italy's Giorgio Strehler as head of the Theatre de l'Europe at the Odeon. And the American Robert Wilson has worked so often in France that he is almost considered a national. Most recently, he brought his one-act play "Hamlet: A Monologue."
France itself is not without talented theater directors. But here the perennial divide between the intellectual and the commercial reappears.
Ariane Mnouchkine is an important and innovative director of theater and occasionally of movies (her 1978 film, "Moliere," is considered a classic) who has a small but loyal following at home and abroad. Patrice Chereau, who also directs movies ("La Reine Margot") and opera, draws audiences with his name (his production of Bernard-Marie Koltes's "In the Loneliness of the Cotton Fields" will go to the Brooklyn Academy next month). Yet it is rare for directors working in avant-garde and experimental theater to cross over and direct crowd-pleasing plays in what is known disparagingly as "boulevard" theater.
Is excessive intellectualism smothering French creativity? Is French culture suffering what Markus Hansen, a young Paris-based German artist, calls "death by theory?" Is French culture a victim of France's philosophical and analytical tradition? Bernard Fixot, who has his own imprint at the Robert Laffont publishing house, blames what he calls the tyranny of Left Bank intellectuals for the introspection of much French creativity.
"And it's not just in literature," he said. "It's the same in theater, cinema, whatever. It's more important to study your bellybutton, even though no one understands what you're saying, than it is to entertain. Any book that does well is by definition an intellectual sellout because the broad mass of the public is by definition stupid."
Jean-Marie Domenach, a sociologist and essayist, echoed this view in a recent book, "The Twilight of French Culture?" Claiming to speak for a "silent majority" of readers who found contemporary French fiction "boring," he argued that, instead of democratizing culture, Government spending on the arts had strengthened a privileged elite.
"A chasm separates artistic creation from much of the public," he said, "because a tiny group of 'intellocrats' decides what is good or bad." French book reviewers, who often favor the obscure over the readable, duly poured scorn on Mr. Domenach's thesis.
 
Film and TV
 
Fear and Loathing Of Americanization
One problem is that many French intellectuals view mass entertainment as synonymous with Americanization of French society, with the triumph of the vulgar over the sophisticated. They therefore applaud the Government for trying to limit the impact of American popular culture by applying quotas that insure an audience for French movies, television dramas and popular songs.
At present, 50 percent of movies and television fiction broadcast by France's five television channels must be French. And under a new law that went into effect this year, French songs must account for 40 percent of popular music broadcast by French radio stations between 6:30 A.M. and 10:30 P.M. each day.
The crucial question, of course, is whether protectionism stimulates creativity or only perpetuates mediocrity? In the case of television, the quota system seems designed mainly to protect jobs, because French television soap operas are no better or worse than their American counterparts. But this situation is also the fault of intellectuals. Unlike "serious" playwrights and theater directors in Britain who often work in television, their French counterparts would not lower themselves to do so. And if the music quota is to work, it has a long way to go. France's biggest pop star is still Johnny Halliday, who began his career 30 years ago as the French Elvis Presley.
Most critical, perhaps, French cinema still lives in the past. It showed the way with the New Wave movement of the 1960's, when the likes of Francois Truffaut, Jean-Luc Godard (a Swiss who worked in France) and Claude Chabrol were acclaimed as daring innovators. But their main legacy in France was to define cinema as art, not entertainment, and to enshrine directors as "auteurs" who have first and last word over the final product. As a result, the industry is forever dreaming that a new New Wave will suddenly appear to breathe life into French movies. But it has not happened.
Instead, while the Government and, by law, French television companies pour money into the industry through subsidies and investment, French cinema's share of the domestic moviegoing audience has continued to slide, reaching just 35 percent in 1994. Both established and new directors of talent exist, but all too often they make films for their intellectual peers and not for the public at large.
"Too many young directors still think it's enough to have their film reviewed in Le Monde and be seen by 300 people," said Josiane Balasko, an actress and director whose latest comedy, "French Twist," just opened in New York.
But it is also risky to be different. For his second film, "Hate," Mathieu Kassovitz looked at the social tensions tearing at immigrant-filled Paris suburbs. The movie was well received at last year's Cannes Film Festival, but critics began sniping at it after it did well at the box office. And Luc Besson's sin was to make his last film, "The Professional," in English -- and still to insist it was a French movie. Jean-Marie Poire, though, has given up worrying about critics. His recent comedies, "Les Visiteurs" and "Guardian Angels," are among France's most successful postwar movies.
Will French artists and creators ever bridge the gap between elitist culture and popular entertainment? Can French novelists, playwrights and movie directors learn to tell stories instead of just philosophizing? Can they break free from their nostalgia for a past when the world bowed before "la culture francaise"?
"All I know is that no matter how much it spends, the Government can't order creativity," said Mr. Rigaud, the author of "The Cultural Exception." But the Mexican writer Carlos Fuentes, who knows France well, did offer a solution. "What France needs is an anti-Cartesian revolution to revive dreams and imagination," he said. "It's that simple."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Robert Wilson has worked so often in France that he is French in all but name.; Jack Lang, who as Culture Minister of France for 10 years tripled Government spending on culture, says artists need not be starving to be original -- "The Government's role is to create a climate" that will encourage creativity.; The American William Christie was chiefly responsible for reviving interest in French Baroque music through his group Les Arts Florissants.; The French theater and film director Ariane Mnouchkine retains a small but loyal following at home and abroad. (Archie Kent/Sygma (Wilson); Jean Bernard Vernier/Sygma (Lang); Alain Le Bot/Gamma (Christie); Martine Franck/Magnum (Mnouchkine)) (pg. 1); Roberto Alagna and Leontina Vaduva in "La Boheme" in Toulouse, France -- Mr. Alagna, a Frenchman, will make his Met debut in April. (Theatre du Capitole); Maguy Marin, one of several noted young French choreographers. (Tristan Vales/Enguerand) (pg. 22); Luc Besson in Manhattan on the set of "The Professional" -- A French director making a film in English but insisting it is French. (Patrick Camboulive/Columbia Pictures) (pg. 23)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (74%); 

CITY: PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: FRANCE; FRANCE (99%); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); MIDI-PYRENEES, FRANCE (74%); PARIS, FRANCE (90%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); TOULOUSE, FRANCE (59%); 

SUBJECT: CULTURE; ART; MOTION PICTURES; TELEVISION; DANCING; MUSIC ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC (90%); PAINTING (89%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (89%); VISUAL ARTISTS (89%); DANCE (77%); BUDGETS (77%); PUBLIC FINANCE (77%); MUSIC COMPOSITION (74%); CIVIL SERVICES (73%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (73%); FILM DIRECTORS (73%); GLOBALIZATION (73%); DEREGULATION (71%); DANCERS (69%); UNEMPLOYMENT RATES (63%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (63%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (63%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (62%); RELIGION (56%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (54%); 

PERSON: RIDING, ALAN

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



353 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 2; Page 11; Column 5; Arts and Leisure Desk 

LENGTH: 1344 words

HEADLINE: FILM VIEW;
Why Reality Will Never Compute

BYLINE: By Sidney Lumet; The director Sidney Lumet has recently finished shooting "Night Falls on Manhattan," his 38th film, in New York City.

 BODY:
IN A RECENT ARTICLE IN THE NEW YORK TIMES about the technological changes overtaking the movie business, the director George Lucas weighed in heavily in favor of digital film making. Computers, he said, make shooting films on location obsolete. Furthermore, "there's no esthetic advantage whatsoever" in shooting on location, he said. "The issue is economics."
It's very hard to disagree with George Lucas. For one thing, he is a brilliant movie maker. For another, he has been responsible for some of the greatest technological advances ever in movies. Lucas has done extraordinary work on everything from sound quality and projection in theaters to the creation of breathtaking films. I can see why he has arrived at his notion that technology can replace location. He is really interested in creating myth, and for that task, reality gets in the way. There is no use for it. 
 Generally, however, movies, including all of mine, have tried to use reality by pushing it or exploring it. Lucas goes in exactly the opposite direction, and through the creation of fantasy he may achieve the same goal. It all depends on the kind of movie one is making.
I don't think it's worth taking actors to Algeria simply to have them march through the desert. If you want sand, there's a desert in California. And certainly that kind of visual element can be provided through computer technology. But for me the single biggest difference between shooting on location and constructing a digital location with computers is the quality of the performance I get from the actors. Would anyone want to see a film in which New York City had been inserted via computers?
Clearly, actors on stage know they're in a theater. In a 1983 Broadway play called "K2," about two climbers stuck on a mountain, the actors could see the audience members in the front row. The mountain was made of Styrofoam, but the performances were great. Actors can adjust to a simulation of reality. In the theater, however, there are no intangibles.
In movie location work, it's the intangibles that make it exciting. By intangibles, I mean the unexpected.
I am not suggesting taking a camera to the corner of 42d Street and Broadway and waiting for two cars to crash. I mean simply that the things I love best about location shooting are the textures, the incidental qualities of a sound or of the weather, be it really cold or hot.
I've just finished shooting "Night Falls on Manhattan," my 38th film and the 29th film I've made on location in New York City. The environments in which I shoot have made a palpable difference in almost every one of my pictures. I love capturing the unrehearsed, the unplanned, what I like to call the hot take, where that click happens inside the actor and he goes off into a dimension he didn't expect, one I didn't expect, one the writer didn't expect.
Obviously, a hot take can happen on a studio set, and it might happen on the kind of set Lucas is talking about -- where everything except the actor is manufactured by computers. But in my experience, a hot take often happens because we are on location; real-life detail stimulates that click.
In my film "Serpico," on the first day of shooting, Al Pacino had a scene in which he was arresting a guy who was dropping off a bribe. We shot it at the meat market on 14th Street and Ninth Avenue. There is a very tiny version of the Flatiron Building there, about four stories high. One reason I picked the location was that the building was painted red.
Pacino was dressed as a meat worker, in hard hat, bloody white apron and boots. When he looked at that building, he turned to me and said something remarkable: "It's an important scene, isn't it?" He understood why I picked that particular place, and I know it made a difference in his performance. That kind of connection happens over and over again when you're on location.
Locations are characters in my movies. It's one reason I shoot in New York. The city itself -- with its hills, its rivers, its architecture -- is character-rich just geographically. The city is capable of portraying the mood a scene requires. Location reinforces and expands what the actor is doing.
In "Night Falls on Manhattan," there's a scene in which Andy Garcia makes a phone call to his girlfriend after a horrendous night of walking the streets of the city alone and in distress. In the frame of the shot (we used a very long lens, 150-millimeter, I think), all you see is Garcia leaning his head on the phone, and behind him, the columns of the United States Court House. What Garcia's character is wrestling with is a moral question about the justice system. It's subtle. I don't want it to jump out at anybody, but there it is. It reminds you, on an unconscious level, what is causing his pain.
The sounds and textures of the city account for everything I look for. I know Lucas would say: "Sidney, we can design all of this. Why go and look for that red building, when all you have to do is tell me, 'Here is the kind of building I want'? We'll supply you with the building."
But here's the philosophical difference. I'm older than Lucas -- I am 71, he is 51 -- and I remember when science was promising us everything. When Kubrick's "2001" came out, it did not seem at all impossible that by the year 2001 those spaceships would actually be flying around. Kubrick chose to use the logo of Pan Am, the most successful airline of its time, on the Earth-to-Moon shuttle. And look. It's 1996, and Pan Am doesn't even have a building anymore, much less a plane. Science, you see, has continually failed us.
We keep winding up with the worst of science. Atomic energy was supposed to liberate us, and now we don't even know where to bury the waste that atomic energy has produced. As we advance medically, we are discovering that some germs have become immune to antibiotics. We have cured old problems only to find that we have created new ones. So I don't quite have faith that the scientific world will solve human problems.
I suspect that digitally creating a location background separately from the actors may have an impact on their work. I'm talking about the difference between good acting and inspired acting. I think you will always have good acting, because the general level of American acting is extremely high. But going for that inspired moment, you need everything to contribute to the fortunate accident that makes for exceptional work. For that, a real place, if you're doing a realistic piece, is absolutely necessary.
Once, I did a film that used computer-generated images throughout a 90-second title sequence. A wonderful technician did it for me, a great artist. However, it wasn't creatively satisfying. It looked good, and it was almost what I had in mind. But it wasn't completely what I had in mind. And that's a big difference.
Tom Pollack of MCA said, in the same article, that digital technology "will eventually become the way almost all movies are made." And he added, "You will be able to create just about all of your backgrounds on a computer."
Not mine. I want to start with my own imagination, or a photograph. The problem is that we are willing to pay more for a replication of reality than we are for reality itself.
MUSEUM DIORAMAS, which were popular at the turn of the century, became popular because people thought they were getting the real thing. But I don't think anyone's heart has ever leapt at a diorama of the African veldt as it has at footage of the real African veldt.
In a way, method acting is a geographical construct as well as an intellectual construct. But then I'm a realistic director, and who says that realism is the only way to make movies? As George Lucas has proved over and over, fantasy films not only are more popular than reality-based films, they also have higher grosses.
On the other hand, I would love to ask Lucas if he thinks that "American Graffiti," a superb American film, would have been the same movie if he had done it with digital backgrounds.
My feeling is no.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Al Pacino, right, and Biff McGuire walking the streets of New York City in "Serpico"--Exploring reality. (Paramount)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOTION PICTURES; DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS) MOVIE FILMING (90%); MOVIE INDUSTRY (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); FILM (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); DIGITAL CINEMA (89%); COMPUTING & INFORMATION TECHNOLOGY (78%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: LUMET, SIDNEY; LUCAS, GEORGE GEORGE LUCAS (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



354 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 7; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1369 words

HEADLINE: Giving Home Buying a Lift in Urban Neighborhoods

BYLINE: By ALAN S. OSER 

 BODY:
AFTER shopping for a house almost every day for a year, Genevieve Wilkins found just the thing in the Clinton Hill section of Brooklyn -- a three-family brick and frame house on Claremont Avenue that a bank was selling out of foreclosure for $145,000.
But she had a problem. She had saved enough for the down payment, but not enough to manage the additional closing costs of $12,000, covering legal fees, title search, the bank's mortgage-lending fee, and the mortgage transfer tax. 
 What rescued the situation was a closing-cost loan program developed by Bankers Trust Company and Neighborhood Housing Services of New York City, which is part of a national network of nonprofit housing companies that assist homeowners and home buyers in low- and moderate-income neighborhoods. Income-eligible buyers are offered up to $15,000 in a 10-year loan, currently available at 8 percent interest, to help meet their closing costs.
"I only needed $12,000," said Ms. Wilkins, a 27-year-old art director at a graphic design company, who also made a down payment of 5 percent of the purchase price to buy the house. "I was excited when I found out I could borrow it."
The closing-cost loan program is only one of several approaches taken by Neighborhood Housing Services to help low- and moderate-income households both in buying houses and in keeping and maintaining them through the vicissitudes of ownership. To hear its staff members tell it, financial help is not the whole story. People need guidance, and encouragement, too.
"Many people get themselves overextended," said Harriet Lee, director of homeownership programs at the Jamaica, Queens, office of Neighborhood Housing Services. "Foreclosure becomes a big issue with seniors. Some people have been suckered into high-interest loans for home repairs and then they can't service the loans."
The diverse educational and training activities undertaken by Neighborhood Housing Services underscore the fact that availability of mortgage credit is not the only requisite of strengthening home ownership in older urban neighborhoods.
"In 1995 and 1996 for the first time we have had a large amount of mortgage-lending capacity available," said William A. Whiteside, the publisher of Creative Interfaces, a monthly newsletter in Washington aimed at nonprofit development companies and their corporate and banking supporters. "Now we have to focus resources on buyer education. You cannot assume people will be terrific home owners."
Accordingly, N.H.S. offers home maintenance training and guidance as well as home buying counseling. It assists people in hiring contractors for repairs, and offers repair and rehabilitation loans. It acts as an intermediary in dealing with banks and public agencies. It also has a development arm that rehabilitates and resells vacant buildings. In addition to its neighborhood offices, a central homeownership center opened last July. It is in a ground-floor space of the Dime Savings Bank of New York branch at 380 Flatbush Avenue Extension in downtown Brooklyn (718-797-5799).
In its role as intermediary for homebuyers seeking mortgage financing, it participated in generating 270 purchase loans totaling $35 million last year. That was twice the number of loans it generated in the two preceding years combined. The typical beneficiaries are people with household earnings of $40,000 to $60,000 a year.
One key role it plays is helping people in straightening out their credit problems. A shaky credit history has been a major barrier to home ownership in moderate-income locations.
The closing-cost loans come from a pool of funds assembled by Bankers Trust from 15 wholesale and foreign banks not generally involved in community lending but nevertheless obliged to meet community lending requirements under the Community Reinvestment Act of 1977. The act is aimed at making credit more widely available in low- and moderate-income areas.
Available since 1994, these unsecured loans have so far reached 75 home buyers in New York City, said Gary Hattem, who heads the bank's community development group. After an initial test of the program, the pool of funds available for these loans has been increased to $2.5 million.
The loans have averaged $8,500, and are available to borrowers who accept mortgage counseling through N.H.S. or some other approved mortgage counseling agency. Current terms provide that buyers' income may range up to 165 percent of median income in the metropolitan area, so that a family of four earning as much as $70,000 a year would be eligible. Most of the loans are generated through one of the field offices of N.H.S, which are in Bedford-Stuyvesant and East Flatbush in Brooklyn; Jamaica and Corona in Queens; Wakefield in the Bronx, and West Brighton in Staten Island.
F IELD offices run by nonprofits have taken a growing role in channeling mortgage credit into urban neighborhoods. "Local people often feel intimidated about walking into banks," said Phyllis Rosenbloom, senior vice president of the New York Mortgage Coalition, a consortium of 14 banks that also works through community-based nonprofits. The coalition last year originated 350 loans totaling $53 million for metropolitan-area home purchases.
But the availability of mortage credit is no longer the chief issue inhibiting urban home buying, said George Knight, executive director of the Neighborhood Reinvestment Corporation in Washington, the Federally chartered umbrella organization for Neighborhood Housing Services.
"It's 'How do I get to closing,' " he said. "People are very lendable on a post-closing basis." Among buyers who have closed, he said, 76 percent have been found to be paying under 30 percent of their gross annual income for housing, a widely accepted standard of housing affordability.
Dealing with the practical issues of "getting to closing" and of ownership itself have become the specialty of the New York City Neighborhood Housing Services offices. Over the last 15 years it has helped about 45,000 families with a great diversity of homeownership issues, said Francine C. Justa, the organization's executive director.
Trying to let people know that these services exist has been a problem for N.H.S., which does not have an advertising budget, Dr. Justa said. Another problem is inadequate funding for hiring people who speak the language of many potential clients, especially Chinese and Indian dialects.
At the Bedford-Stuyvesant office, Byron Todman, a housing counselor, said homeowner insurance has been the main problem for several new purchasers. They bought houses with only a one-year insurance commitment, issued by a broker, and then found they were rejected for a renewal after an inspection by an insurance underwriter.
In Jamaica, Ms. Lee told of one homeowner, a retired postal worker caring for her daughter and a 15-year-old grandson, who found herself struggling to pay off three mortgages totaling $1,225 a month on a fixed income, after some expensive borrowing four years ago to make home repairs. Using a funding company rather than a bank, she now owes $77,000 at 18.9 percent interest.
For Eric and Mabel Dundas, retired homeowners at 377 Linden Boulevard in Flatbush, the practical problem turned out to be borrowing $8,000 at moderate cost to renovate an attic bathroom and repair two ceilings and a front porch. Neighborhood Housing Services has a rehabilitation loan program that lent them the money.
And for Arthur Alfredsen, 35, the manager of an electrical-supply warehouse, the practical problem was finding money for the down payment when he had to move from a rental apartment in a three-family house in East New York that the owner was selling. He got the loan from N.H.S. and much advice as well. Now he lives in a two-family house on 102d Avenue in the Ozone Park section of Queens, with a wheelchair-bound mother, his sister and her baby, and his brother and his brother's son.
"People should know about these programs," he said. "They're great!" He may still need them. "I just got a water bill for $500," Mr. Alfredsen said. "We got a pool as a gift last summer. Who knew we were going to have to pay so much for water?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Arthur Alfredsen (left with children) (Steve Berman for The New York Times), and Eric and Mabel Dundas got help from Neighborhood Housing Services (Robert Miller for The New York Times), a nonprofit supporter of urban home-ownership.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6021 NATIONAL COMMERCIAL BANKS (57%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING SERVICE OF NEW YORK CITY BANKERS TRUST CO OF FLORIDA NA (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: BANKERS TRUST CO (NYC); NEIGHBORHOOD HOUSING SERVICE OF NEW YORK CITY

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HOUSING; CREDIT REAL ESTATE (90%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (90%); MIDDLE INCOME PERSONS (90%); FORECLOSURE (89%); NONPROFIT ORGANIZATIONS (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); HOME IMPROVEMENT (89%); MORTGAGE LOANS (89%); HOMEOWNERS (89%); MORTGAGE BANKING (89%); CITY LIFE (88%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); CITIES (74%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (73%); TAXES & TAXATION (72%); GRAPHIC DESIGN SERVICES (71%); INTEREST RATES (70%); ECONOMIC NEWS (70%); MAINTENANCE & REPAIR (67%); 

PERSON: OSER, ALAN S HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



355 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 9; Page 10; Column 1; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 1218 words

HEADLINE: In the Region/New Jersey;
A New Attraction for the Six Flags Neighborhood

BYLINE: By RACHELLE GARBARINE 

 BODY:
FOR the last 25 years the owner of a 55-acre wooded site in the northwestern corner of Jackson Township in Ocean County had let its property lie fallow while considering its best use.
It reached its decision last year and in November ground was broken on the 200,000-square-foot first phase of what ultimately will be a 300,000-square-foot factory-outlet center on the site. It is at the juncture of Interstate 195 and Route 537, less than a mile from Exit 7A of the New Jersey Turnpike and from Six Flags Great Adventure Theme Park. 
 The center, estimated to cost $22 million, is being developed by the site's owner since 1971, New Plan Realty Trust. The Manhattan-based company, among the oldest and largest real estate investment trusts, or REITs, owns five other factory-outlets in the nation and 116 shopping centers, including four in New Jersey. (A real estate investment trust is an entity that invests in real estate but pays out most of its earnings as dividends to shareholders.)
A difference with the Jackson project is New Plan's joint marketing and promotional agreement with Six Flags, which allows, among other things the use of the amusement company's name for the outlet center. Six Flags Theme Parks, based in Parsippany and a subsidiary of Time Warner Entertainment, owns and operates 11 parks across the nation. The largest is the one in Jackson, comprising a 125-acre theme park, a 350-acre drive-through animal park and 1,500 undeveloped acres. (Last year Time Warner sold 51 percent of Six Flags to Boston Ventures, but has the right to buy it back in the future.)
Six Flags Factory Outlets Center, designed in a village-like setting, will have about 90 stores, with an average of 3,000 square feet of space. Ninety percent of the stores are to be factory outlets; the rest will be retailers selling goods at outlet prices, generally 20 to 70 percent lower than conventional retail prices.
There will also be a 12,000-square-foot food court and 1,800 parking spaces. Six Flags will run the food court and a free shuttle between the center and the park, now open from April to October.
The 200,000-square-foot first phase, with 55 to 60 stores, is to open by late summer. The hope is the entire project will be completed by the spring of 1997, said Arnold Laubich, New Plan's president. The project will be financed by company funds.
The project is proceeding at a time when many retailers in New Jersey and the nation are suffering. Contributing to their woes are a highly competitive retail climate, lackluster sales capped by an anemic holiday season and an uncertain economy pressuring consumers to spend less and save more, industry analysts said.
Ted Kraus, who heads TKO, a Mercerville real-estate advisory firm, called 1995 "one of the worst retail years." Though the state's store vacancy rate was just under 5 percent, virtually unchanged from the year before, he said, sales were generally down in every market segment, including outlets.
"Consumers are looking for more value," said Mr. Kraus, adding that "all retailers" today were responding to that demand.
Despite the competition factory outlets continue to grow. Nationwide, there are some 12,000 outlet stores today, up from 5,758 in 1990, according to Retail Value News, a trade journal.
Twenty-three outlet centers opened in 1995, bringing the total to 334, up from 183 in 1990. New Plan entered the outlet sector in 1992 and since then has acquired five centers. About two years ago, Mr. Laubich said, his company felt an outlet "was the highest and best use" for the Jackson site.
T HERE are other factory outlets in New Jersey, including long-established ones in the Secaucus Meadowlands and Flemington as well as one under construction in Elizabeth. The Freehold Raceway Mall is also less than 10 miles away.
Even so the Jackson site's location is "a natural" said Mr. Laubich, emphasizing three points -- it is accessible to major highways, including the Turnpike and the Garden State Parkway; more than 5 million people live within a 40-mile radius and it is close to Six Flags.
Last year the park drew just over 4 million people, making it the top-attendance seasonal park in North America, according to Amusement Business, a trade journal.
Analysts say marriages between outlets and tourist attractions have proven mutually beneficial. Officials at New Plan and Six Flags are optimistic theirs will be, too.
In recent years, Time Warner has invested heavily in the 11 parks in the chain, including some $100 million in the Jackson park.
That helped reposition the park, which had gained a reputation as a destination for teens, to one for families.
The company is now "looking to create a regional destination," said Scott W. Bernstein, president of Six Flags. "The issue for us is to offer a mass of entertainment." He added that the center "will give people another reason to come and to keep them here more than one day."
"It also makes it more feasible for us to extend our season," he said, noting that a Christmas season promotion was to be added this year. Mr. Bernstein said plans also were expected to be announced this spring for developing a good part of the park's undeveloped acres. Beyond adding more attractions, plans also include hotel rooms.
The outlet project is good news for Jackson, as is the expansion of Six Flags. Over the years the 101-square-mile township has been among the fastest-growing municipalities in Ocean County, itself a growth area. From 1980 to 1990 alone Jackson's population grew by 29.6 percent, from 25,644 to 33,233. But commercial development has been limited.
"The desire is to attract clean, commercial growth to offset taxes and not impact on municipal services," said Mayor Peter H. Carlson of Jackson.
U NDER its 1988 master plan the township -- half of which lies within the 1.1-million-acre Pinelands region, where the state limits building -- targeted much of that growth along the I-195 corridor.
The outlet center and the Six Flags projects help meet that goal, said Mayor Carlson, noting that the outlet center when completed was expected to generate $500,000 in taxes annually. They will also "have a domino effect" on future development in the area, he said.
Further stoking that effort is a new sewer line connecting Six Flags to the Ocean County Utilities Authority sewage-treatment plant in Brick, replacing an existing sewage plant at the park. This opens up development along portions of the corridor and enable the park to expand.
The Jackson Township Municipal Utility Authority will sell bonds to finance the more than $10 million project, construction of which is to begin this summer. Six Flags will guarantee the bonds.
Though the center will not tie into the new line, New Plan will develop a septic system to serve the project. It will also make the necessary road improvements, including adding a turning lane to the center's main entrance along Route 537.
Mr. Laubich said negotiations were under way with tenants for the initial 200,000 square feet of stores. At opening, close to 90 percent of the space will be filled, he said.
New Plan would not comment on prospective tenants, but industry brokers say they include Tommy Hilfigger, Oshkosh B'Gosh, Mikasa, Lenox, Guess Jeans and Nautica.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Cartoon characters at ground-breaking for Six Flags Factory Outlets in Jackson Township and a drawing of the center. (Aedis Inc.)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (58%); SIC7996 AMUSEMENT PARKS (58%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: NEW PLAN REALTY TRUST SIX FLAGS THEME PARKS INC (58%); SIX FLAGS GREAT ADVENTURE LLC (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW PLAN REALTY TRUST

GEOGRAPHIC: JACKSON TOWNSHIP (NJ); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW JERSEY, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; SHOPPING CENTERS REAL ESTATE (92%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (92%); AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (90%); RETAIL PROPERTY (90%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (90%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (90%); RETAILERS (89%); INDUSTRIAL PROPERTY (77%); TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (75%); PARKING SPACES & FACILITIES (73%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (72%); DIVIDENDS (72%); TOLL ROADS & TURNPIKES (70%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (68%); SHAREHOLDERS (67%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (67%); 

PERSON: GARBARINE, RACHELLE ARNOLD LAUBICH (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



356 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 17; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 394 words

HEADLINE: SOAPBOX;
They Can Take Him Off the Arena . . .

BYLINE: By JIM FLORIO; Jim Florio, the former Governor, is a member of the law firm Florio & Perrucci.

DATELINE: PISCATAWAY

 BODY:
NEW JERSEY'S Open for Business," goes our state's unofficial slogan. To which you now can add this correlative: "And everything is up for sale if the price is right, including civility."
One hopes that those who had a part in the recent decision to rename the arena in the Meadowlands (the right price, in this case, was $29 million) at least have the good grace to be somewhat embarrassed by an action that is, at best, insensitive and tacky. 
 Under the prevailing social ethic, the argument for the name change is obvious, I suppose. If former Gov. Brendan T. Byrne had more cash or airplane tickets to offer than Continental Airlines, his name rather than theirs might still be on the arena. In New Jersey these days, life is an auction.
As distasteful as this whole episode has been, making New Jersey look crass and disrespectful, its major importance is as an example of a larger national trend. We as a society are conferring an almost religious significance on the operation of the marketplace.
Most of us accept the premise of our free-enterprise system that in economic matters, the marketplace is the best allocator of resources and determiner of price. But in the era of the Contract With America, commercialism has begun to frame our values as well.
It has long been a unifying American value that government has a responsibility to insure a common degree of environmental protection, educational opportunity and health-care coverage to all, regardless of purchasing power. That does not appear to carry much weight anymore. We are all on our own, to do the best we can with the resources we have, and whoever has the cash calls the tune.
Most people would agree that in order to have a good society, we must have a good economy. It is becoming apparent, however, that it is possible to have a good economy without having a good society. Forty thousand AT&T employees can testify that high productivity and increased profits do not guarantee good social outcomes.
When all is said and done, Governor Byrne has the very real satisfaction of knowing that his many accomplishments, like preserving the Pinelands and providing for greater equity in education financing, will long be admired and appreciated. The behavior of those who presided over the arena decision only serves to point up the contrast between their values and his own.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: UAL (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS481112 SCHEDULED FREIGHT AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); NAICS481111 SCHEDULED PASSENGER AIR TRANSPORTATION (56%); SIC4512 AIR TRANSPORTATION, SCHEDULED (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: UNITED CONTINENTAL HOLDINGS INC (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: BYRNE MEADOWLANDS ARENA (NJ); CONTINENTAL AIRLINES ARENA (MEADOWLANDS) COMPANY NAME CHANGES (78%); GOVERNORS (78%); ETHICS (77%); TRENDS (72%); TRAVEL TICKETS (69%); 

PERSON: FLORIO, JAMES J BRENDAN T BYRNE (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



357 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 8; Column 3; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 926 words

HEADLINE: GOVERNMENT;
Who Builds What, How Fast: The Coming Land-Use Debate

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Virtually all the state's 567 cities and towns have zoning boards and planning boards, whose volunteer members pore over plans for everything from side yards to streetscapes, patio decks to shopping centers. But soon these boards may find their roles greatly reduced.
In recent months, there has been increasing talk about rewriting the state's land-use law, which has governed the powers of local planning and zoning boards since 1976. Many planners defend the law, saying it provides a necessary framework for citizens to plan their communities. But developers and others say the process is often far too cumbersome. A measure to revise the law is expected to be introduced in the next few months of the new Legislature's term. 
 "It's an extremely important debate," said Peter A. Buchsbaum, a lawyer in Woodbridge who specializes in land-use law. "We have a very complicated process that doesn't really work and needs to be straightened out."
But preliminary ideas have been controversial. Last year, builders' groups drafted a proposal calling for the establishment of a new position in each municipality: a land-use review official who would ride herd on the zoning and planning boards to speed the approval or denial of permits. The proposal also called for a simpler appeals process, and conditions under which some permits could be approved automatically.
Planners attacked the proposal as a dangerous shortcut that would undermine the authority of local citizens. "It will take away some of the control municipalities have over their own land use and put it in the hands of the state," said Susan Borg, the planning director of West Orange, which has a strong tradition of public participation. "It is taking away the process that citizens have to express their feelings about their town: how they see it, how they want it."
To preview the debate, an advocate on each side was asked to discuss it.

Peter S. Reinhart
President of the New Jersey Builders Association and senior vice president of K. Hovnanian Enterprises, a leading residential builder.
 
Q. Why a need for land-use reform?
A. Since 1975, there has been a plethora of additional permits and approvals required at other levels of government. So we have this whole system now, just layer upon layer of permits required from various state agencies, county agencies, regional entities, in addition to the municipal approvals.
Q. What are some typical difficulties?
A. Let's say you want to do a residential subdivision. All the aspects are reviewed at the local level; that includes zoning, drainage, sewer, streets, lighting, landscaping, water, other utilities, sidewalks, all the things you can see above and below the ground. In New Jersey, the average time from start to finish is about three years; in other states, it's generally a matter of months. This has an impact on quality of life: our cost of living is higher, our property taxes are higher, and you have to pay higher wages, which makes New Jersey less competitive.
Q. What changes would you suggest?
A. We need to reduce or eliminate the number of levels of bureaucracy; we don't need five engineers for what one engineer can do. You can put the reviewing burden on a competent, licensed professional, make sure that person has the education and the skills and the training.
Part of the confusion is that people see reviewing site-plan applications as planning; to me, that's reviewing. Planning is deciding what the future of your town or your county or your state should look like, and planning for the development and the land uses and the intensity and density you want. If an application conforms to all of those, then a technical review doesn't need to be done other than by technical people.
 
Joseph E. Doyle
Executive director of New Jersey Planning Officials, in Warren Township.
 
Q. What's your take on the land-use law?
A. I think the municipal land-use law has been serving as a model set of legislation for municipalities to balance the interests of developers and residents. Municipal review is a healthy, economic factor in that it allows for a good, substantial look at something in its proposed stage as it may affect a municipality for time immemorial. A mistake along the way is costly to market values and the character of the municipality.
Q. Is there any legitimacy to the developers' arguments for reform?
A. A lot of factors go into the costs of development. It's the rising cost of land, interest rates, manpower that are contributing to the house prices -- not land-use regulations. I think the developers are making a grand grab at all regulations in the name of their interests, which are narrow and focused.
As far as state permits go, yes, I agree the process can take a long time. There's nothing worse than approving a development and seeing it sit there. Things should be expedited, but don't exclude participation by the public.
Q. What do you think should be done instead?
A. The current system is best. I think every redundant permit should be scrutinized. But let's not go out and scrap the whole thing; let's not throw out regulation. You see thousands of decisions made by these planning and zoning boards every year, and they conduct hearings at least once a month.
Don't you think that if the process was such a screaming factor of abuse, the newspapers would've caught onto this long ago? My argument is that the developers are trying to tamper with the local planning process and have not proven that the process has to be reworked.

GRAPHIC: Photo: The system of land-use regulation "makes New Jersey less competitive," says Peter S. Reinhart, above. Joseph E. Doyle calls it a "model." (Norman Y. Lono for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Interview 

TICKER: HOV (NYSE) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS236115 NEW SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSING CONSTRUCTION (EXCEPT FOR-SALE BUILDERS) (55%); SIC1521 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - SINGLE-FAMILY HOUSES (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: NEW JERSEY BUILDERS ASSOCIATION; NEW JERSEY PLANNING OFFICIALS HOVNANIAN ENTERPRISES INC (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW JERSEY BUILDERS ASSOCIATION; NEW JERSEY PLANNING OFFICIALS

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (95%); NEW JERSEY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; LAND USE POLICIES; LAW AND LEGISLATION; ZONING LAND USE PLANNING (94%); ZONING (92%); REAL ESTATE (90%); PROPERTY LAW (90%); REAL PROPERTY LAW (90%); RESIDENTIAL CONSTRUCTION (89%); VOLUNTEERS (78%); RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY (78%); CONSTRUCTION (78%); CITY LIFE (78%); CITIES (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); APPROVALS (78%); CITY GOVERNMENT (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATION (76%); RETAILERS (72%); INTERVIEWS (71%); EXECUTIVES (63%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W; REINHART, PETER S; DOYLE, JOSEPH E

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



358 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 6; Column 1; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 157 words

HEADLINE: IN BRIEF;
No More Help With Bags At Amtrak's Trenton Station

BYLINE: By DAVID W. CHEN 

 BODY:
Baggage service for Amtrak passengers at Trenton ended last week. Amtrak says the elimination of service is an economic necessity, born of a huge cut in its Federal subsidy, from $392 million last year to $185 million this year. Other cuts have been felt as well: cuts in management jobs, delays in computer purchases, delays in graffiti removal, increases in some fares.
In Trenton, baggage service was generating only about $4,000 a year in fees -- with each of the station's three handlers toting an average of six bags a day, at a cost of $141,000 a year in salaries and benefits, the company said. The handlers won't be out of a job; each is high on the seniority chain. But three junior employees are out of luck. 
 With Trenton out of the picture, only 27 of the 100 or so stations in Amtrak's Northeast region will have baggage service. The nearest stations with such service are Philadelphia and Newark. DAVID W. CHEN

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

INDUSTRY: NAICS482111 LINE-HAUL RAILROADS (90%); SIC4011 RAILROADS, LINE-HAUL OPERATING (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP) NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP (AMTRAK) (90%); 

ORGANIZATION: AMTRAK (NATIONAL RAILROAD PASSENGER CORP)

GEOGRAPHIC: TRENTON (NJ); UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (90%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: RAILROADS; LUGGAGE; STATIONS AND TERMINALS (PASSENGER); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING NEWS BRIEFS (90%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (90%); LONG DISTANCE PASSENGER RAIL (90%); BUDGETS (88%); RAIL STATIONS & TERMINALS (88%); GOVERNMENT GRANTS & SUBSIDIES (72%); LAYOFFS (71%); WAGES & SALARIES (71%); VANDALISM (56%); 

PERSON: CHEN, DAVID W

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



359 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 3; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 390 words

HEADLINE: CHATTER;
Are Layoffs the Only Way?

 BODY:
Dozens of New Jersey employers, most recently AT&T, have said that laying off workers is the only way they can survive. Is there a better way?
 
With Workers Gone, Who'll Be Able to Buy?
The rationale is quite clear. Get rid of the older employees who are making more money and replace them with minimum-wage fodder. 
 Don't spoil the new ones with such nonessentials as pensions, health benefits orjob security.
The stockholders get richer, and the Governor claims new jobs more than compensate for the losses.
But what do the new jobs pay?
When the dust settles and Wall Street has made money, who will be left to buy the houses, vacations, restaurant meals, cars and other consumer goods?
 
JEAN BURNETT
Forked River
 
Profits Come First, And We Pay the Price
When employers like AT&T say the only way they can survive is to lay off workers, they really mean that laying off workers is the easiest way to maximize profits for their investors.
As long as our nation puts profits ahead of people, we will continue to waste human productivity and creativity, poison our environment, retard the development of our children and shorten the life spans of millions of citizens.
Profits should be limited by progressive income or corporate taxes. Human needs should be the central objective of both government and economic system.
 
MEREDITH SUE WILLIS
South Orange
 
A Plan of Attack: Dropped? Then Drop Them
I have been doing a lot of reading about the current phenomenon of corporate downsizing. I am convinced that these corporations will pay dearly in the future for the actions they are taking to satisfy the vultures of Wall Street.
What these companies are doing is firing their customers. AT&T just announced it is firing 40,000 workers. It's too bad the average employee has little retaliatory power, but one thing these folks can do is immediately switch to MCI or Sprint. AT&T would lose 40,000 accounts in one fell swoop.
It may not be much, but if everyone who is laid off from any company immediately switches loyalty, upper management may get a message.
One question that bothers me about the AT&T affair is: If there are actually 40,000 excess employees, what does that say about past practices of the top managers who are doing the firing?
Not much.
 
BRUCE LONG
Westfield

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: T (NYSE) (93%); ATTB (BRU) (93%); ATRP (PAR) (93%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS518111 INTERNET SERVICE PROVIDERS (93%); SIC7379 COMPUTER RELATED SERVICES, NEC (93%); SIC4813 TELEPHONE COMMUNICATIONS, EXCEPT RADIOTELEPHONE (93%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: AT&T CORP (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; LAYOFFS AND JOB REDUCTIONS; LABOR LAYOFFS (92%); LIFE EXPECTANCY (78%); MINIMUM WAGE (73%); OLDER WORKERS (73%); RESTAURANTS (69%); TRENDS (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



360 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13NJ; Page 2; Column 5; New Jersey Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 828 words

HEADLINE: ON POLITICS;
She Gave the Speech, But Where Was She?

BYLINE: By Iver Peterson; Iver Peterson is Trenton bureau chief of The New York Times.

DATELINE: TRENTON

 BODY:
January is time for the Governor to deliver the annual self-congratulatory look back known as the State of the State message.
Here are a few excerpts:
* "New Jersey's economy bounced back from the recession with more strength and resilience than did the economies of most other states in the region or in the nation." 
 * "More New Jerseyans are employed today than at any other time in our state's history."
* "We now stand ready to launch a major, comprehensive initiative to improve the plight of urban schools."
These lines may have been ghostwritten at the same Emile Coue school of perpetual improvement that Governor Whitman (and governors everywhere) employs, but she never uttered them. Thomas H. Kean spoke those words in 1984, the last time a Republican governor stood at midpoint in his first term.
It will surprise no one that Mrs. Whitman said many of the same things in her annual message on Thursday, about how we're all doing better, and we're going to help those city kids some day. Yet the real story is not about how little things change around here, but how much.
For besides looking proudly back, Mr. Kean was able to talk about new programs and initiatives. He announced that the Port Authority would share some of its hoard with New York and New Jersey, notably by providing the seed money for the renewal of Newark's Passaic River waterfront, which has since grown into a magnet for commercial development filled by ex-New Yorkers.
He announced legislation to promote urban development by essentially forgoing the sales tax within the zones. (This is now costing the state $78 million a year.)
And he made his now-famous statement that New Jersey teachers should be paid at least $18,500 a year, and pledged the state to pay the difference between current salaries and the new minimum.
Mrs. Whitman devoted all of last week's speech to education, and to her administration's program to spell out, once and for all, what constitutes a constitutionally valid "thorough and efficient education" for New Jersey's one million schoolchildren.
But the similarity to her Republican predecessor ends there. Where Mr. Kean -- and James J. Florio after him -- spoke of spending money, particularly for schools, Mrs. Whitman's speech was anti-money: "Money alone does not equal learning." "A great deal more goes into successful education than an expensive spending program." And the rhyming bugle call no speech is complete without: "We must stop chasing dollars and start creating scholars."
So the language of tax cutting for New Jerseyans has turned out to be a little like the language of love, starting out with promises of rapture and ending with platitudes.
Well, this is what a lot of New Jerseyans wanted, after all. The Governor's reason for putting state government on a forced diet of tax cuts was to wean the state from its old taste for Santa in January, for annual messages and annual budgets that spent more and promised more than the one before.
The question is: Is this what people are going to want, a pudding with no theme, an administration full of "shoulds" but no "shalls"? There are plenty of signs that the legislators may be of a different mind. In his own annual address, Donald T. DiFrancesco, the Senate President and future candidate for governor, said he would make another kind of tax cut his goal for the year: letting homeowners deduct property taxes when they file their state income tax returns. The state cannot afford to let that happen, but once you start cutting taxes, its hard to say when.
And Jack Collins, the new Speaker of the Assembly, has already brought some of his South Jersey independence to the State House, signaling his opposition to the Governor's proposed cigarette tax increase and otherwise acting like someone who is happy just representing Elmer, N.J., and who doesn't sit by the phone waiting for the Governor to call.
Except for the part where she thanked the snow emergency crews, neither of these leaders heard much from Mrs. Whitman to justify the clapping on Thursday. What was missing was the voice of the Governor talking about herself, what she believed and stood for besides disapproving of wasteful spending.
When Jim Florio tried his hand at solving the problems of urban schools, his Education Department came up with Quality Education Act, but it was Mr. Florio who stood up and made the speech -- and paid the price of outraged suburbanites who did not want to see their state aid shifted to the poor districts.
Mr. Florio's identification with the Q.E.A. helped him lose his job, and Mrs. Whitman seems to have noticed. When the time comes to reveal her administration's plan, she suggested, she would be somewhere else.
"After Education Commissioner Klagholz makes his formal recommendations next month, the board will hold public hearings before finalizing them," she said.
It was the key paragraph of her speech, but she was not in it.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); 

CITY: TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW JERSEY; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW JERSEY, USA (98%); TRENTON, NJ, USA (79%); NEWARK, NJ, USA (58%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; STATE OF THE STATE MESSAGE (NJ); FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING POLITICS (90%); GOVERNORS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); BUDGETS (77%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); ECONOMIC NEWS (76%); URBAN DEVELOPMENT (76%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (76%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (75%); CITIES (75%); CHILDREN (75%); RECESSION (72%); TAXES & TAXATION (71%); SALES TAX (63%); TAX LAW (63%); HISTORY (56%); PORT AUTHORITIES (50%); 

PERSON: PETERSON, IVER; WHITMAN, CHRISTINE TODD (GOV) JAMES J FLORIO (71%); THOMAS H KEAN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



361 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13CN; Page 8; Column 3; Connecticut Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1395 words

HEADLINE: It's a Long Trip to the Orchestra Pit

BYLINE: By ROBIN F. DEMATTIA 

 BODY:
THEY go to more Broadway shows each year than just about anyone else, yet they never get to see what is happening on stage. They are the Broadway musicians, and their view from the orchestra pit gives them an interesting perspective.
"A lot of people think we have it made because we are in the pit and nobody sees us," says a Stamford resident, Bob Zottola, who has been part of the orchestra for "Les Miserables" for nine years. "But the on-stage performers have an advantage because they communicate with the audience and the audience responds. We still have to come up with an enthusiastic performance and we don't have that response." 
 For Mr. Zottola, the challenge is to play the same music eight or nine times a week, year in and year out, and to do so with enthusiasm. He tries to find inspiration from the impact the show has on people.
"I help provide a musical service that brings a tremendous amount of pleasure to people," Mr. Zottola said. "With 'Les Miserables,' people have been back to see the show 60 times. I find that incredible. They're like Trekkies. They compare the performers in the different roles.
"Other people come for the first time," he continued, "and they're crying and sobbing. They're so overwhelmed by the performances and you know you're a part of it, whether or not they acknowledge you."
Unlike the actors and actresses who thrive on the exposure Broadway can give them, musicians seek pit work because it can provide a steady paycheck.
"Since work for musicians is pretty scarce, everyone who works is really happy," said Yuval Waldman of Westport. Though he had not worked on Broadway for 20 years, he returned as concertmaster (first violinist) with "Showboat" last year.
"It's different today than it was years ago," he said, "because the pay scale is quite high, and so the orchestra can get very good quality musicians." Broadway musicians earn an average of $1,000 to $1,500 a week. Mr. Waldman said he was also enticed by the current musician's union contract, which allows Broadway musicians to take off up to 50 percent of the time. "You get freedom and security, which is what a lot of people are looking for," he said.
With that type of flexibility, most Broadway musicians also work in symphony orchestras, teach music or have their own bands.
Mr. Zottola performs weekly in a jazz group and takes part in recording sessions for singers, commercials and films. It is that variety that helps him enjoy staying with one show for nine years.
"Part and parcel of being a musician, or any creative person," he said, "is that you always want to be improving, changing, fixing or enhancing. You need to be looking at other challenging opportunities to keep yourself fresh. Plus, Broadway musicians know that a show doesn't run forever, so you always have to be doing other things."
Mr. Waldman has toured the world as a violin soloist and conducted several groups, including the Mid-Atlantic Chamber Orchestra in Washington, D.C.
Joseph Russo, of Weston, who played string bass in several Broadway shows and still performs with symphonies, works as a contractor, helping place other musicians in shows. And because regular musicians can take off so much time, many musicians work as substitutes on the shows.
"I'm open 24 hours a day," laughs Phil Bashor of Darien, who substitutes on "Showboat" and plays with several choral groups. "Sometimes you get a call at 11:30 at night for a 10 A.M. rehearsal. You always have to be 100 percent in shape and ready to work."
Mr. Bashor says substituting is a tough job, because the regular musicians have the music memorized and the person substituting has to fit in with them. If the substitution is planned, the new player usually sits in the pit observing the person they are going to replace. Then they rehearse alone at home.
But often this does not prepare them for timing changes or other unforeseen developments. Mr. Russo's wife, Susan, recalled her first performance as a substitute. "I practiced so hard for two weeks that I even knew the dialogue," she says of her preparation work for "Phantom of the Opera." "Then right before the downbeat, the conductor stood up and said 'Mr. Webber is in the audience.' I was so nervous."
Getting work as a musician on Broadway, either as a regular or as a substitute, is not easy. As is the case with many job searches, it is often knowing someone that counts. "The whole business is set up on a referral and networking basis," Mr. Russo said. "But often musicians go on the road first to break in."
That's exactly what Mary Stephenson of Greenwich is doing. In July she joined the Raoul Company for a one-year national tour with "Phantom of the Opera." She moves every six to nine weeks, recently having left California for Arizona.
"In a way I am paying my dues to get to a goal," she explained. "I'm very thankful for this job. I was waiting for a break like this."
Ms. Stephenson has done orchestral work and taught music, but is finding that living in Connecticut makes it a little difficult to obtain work in New York City. "To get in the door, it helps to have the right address," she said, adding that life as a musician takes more skills than she learned at the Cleveland Institute of Music or CUNY at Brooklyn College.
"You have to be a jack of all trades," she said. "You're in business for yourself. You have to learn to how to market yourself, and you have to be your own secretary."
Connecticut musicians working on Broadway also have to adapt to the commute and hours that can be very odd indeed. Mr. Waldman admits to falling asleep on the train during late-night commutes home. "I got to know and like a New Haven cab driver well," he laughs.
Mr. Bashor says working on weekends makes him stand out among his neighbors, most of whom hold Monday through Friday jobs.
And Mr. Zottola uses the time to listen to music or books on tape as he drives in to Manhattan. Street parking near the theater is not a problem, he said, because the business people have left by the time he arrives. Most musicians travel lightly; their instruments and formal clothing are kept in lockers at the theaters.
There are some physical discomforts to watch out for in a Broadway pit: extreme cold or heat, noise from stomping and dancing on the stage floor, dust being kicked up, steam from fog machines flowing in, or loud music reverberating in the pit. A friend of Susan Russo's was hit, but not seriously injured, by a prop when it tumbled off the stage during "Into the Woods."
Despite these bits of excitement, life in the pit can verge on the boring for musicians in a long run. Because they usually cannot be seen, many read or work on crossword puzzles during down time. "You know the show after all these years, and it's not going to affect anything," Mr. Zottola explained.
Still, Mr. Waldman says: "It's really a challenge to keep your level of concentration. You cannot not pay attention. You have the danger of becoming too relaxed, because you think you know the show too well. But things happen on stage -- a curtain doesn't open or a new star changes the speed of something -- so you have to watch the conductor."
Closed-circuit television cameras in the pit help conductors watch all sections of the stage, and aid musicians who must turn away from the conductor to play certain instruments.
The excitement involved in live performances is what draws many audience members to Broadway, but many musicians are concerned about the future of their role.
"There is a movement going on to cut down the size of Broadway orchestras or eliminate them completely and use recorded music," explained Mr. Zottola. "Part of it is economics and part has to due with the new electronic instruments and recording devices available."
He says the idea did not make sense to him. "Things change; somebody decides to walk on-stage and they're off a couple of seconds. The conductor watches for this and makes those alterations," he said. "Can you imagine if a tape continued to play?"
Mr. Russo agreed with Mr. Zottola's assessment. "Gershwin would shiver in his boots if we said we were going to put 'Porgy and Bess' on tape," he said.
For now, at least, Broadway musicians will continue to enhance theatergoers' experiences. And every now and then, they may even get to see a show.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Bob Zottola, of Stamford, warms up for yet another performance of "Les Miserables." (Michelle V. Agins/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (57%); 

STATE: CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (57%); CONNECTICUT, USA (57%); 

SUBJECT: THEATER; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; MUSIC ARTISTS & PERFORMERS (91%); MUSIC (91%); SINGERS & MUSICIANS (90%); MUSIC GROUPS & ARTISTS (90%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (89%); CLASSICAL MUSIC (77%); JAZZ & BLUES (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (63%); LABOR UNIONS (61%); THEATER (58%); 

PERSON: DEMATTIA, ROBIN F; ZOTTOLA, BOB; WALDMAN, YUVAL; RUSSO, JOSEPH; BASHOR, PHIL BOB ZOTTOLA (68%); JOSEPH RUSSO (58%); YUVAL WALDMAN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



362 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13LI; Page 1; Column 5; Long Island Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1361 words

HEADLINE: Economy Is Seen As Slightly Stronger

BYLINE: By JOHN RATHER 

 BODY:
RUNNING AGAINST THE WIND" was the song that callers heard last week while trying to telephone Local 1104 of the Communications Workers of America in Farmingdale.
"That's what it is these days," the president of the local, Robert P. Lilja, said. "Everybody has two, three, four jobs. Everybody in the family has to work. U-Haul is having trouble keeping up. Plenty of people are just walking away from their houses. And once they go, they can't ever afford to come back." 
 In an era of corporate downsizing, long-vanished military contracts, low-paying retail jobs and rising taxes and electric rates, many Long Islanders enter the second half of the 90's with fear and trepidation.
It is not that the economic news is all dismal. Indeed, as Long Island dug out last week from the blizzard that shut down a region of 2.6 million people, experts and economic analysts said the economy was in far better shape than in the early 90's.
The region's recession has ended, the experts said, and a modest recovery is afoot. "We still have a relatively strong economy," an economist, Thomas Conoscenti of Smithtown, said. Mr. Conoscenti predicted that the Long Island economy would grow 1.2 to 1.3 percent this year.
Office space, which until a few months ago was experiencing a glut, is gradually filling up, planners and developers said.
Vincent Polimeni, president of Polimeni Enterprises in Hauppauge, a builder of offices and shopping centers, said major developers had even found a way to overcome the reluctance of Long Island banks to finance expansion and improvements of commercial spaces.
"Wall Street has replaced the banks, as far as I am concerned," said Mr. Polimeni. He has turned to a method called securitization to raise capital, involving the packaging of loans by brokerage houses for sale in the bond market.
Another builder, Reckson Associates of Melville, has formed a real-estate investment trust to raise money directly from investors.
Despite reports of weak Christmas sales for retailers, county officials who depend on the tax receipts to hold down property taxes said they expected that revenues would exceed expectations. "If we look at 1995 as a whole, we were ahead of our projections," George Gatta, Deputy Suffolk County Executive for Economic Development, said. "And I see positive signs for 1996, because I work directly with companies that are expanding and growing and staying and investing right here on Long Island."
Some taxes, like the 8.5 percent sales tax in Suffolk, have decreased. The rate dropped to 8.25 percent on Jan. 1. And a tide of fiscal conservatism in Washington, Albany, Mineola and Hauppauge tells of politicians who are hearing cries for less spending and lower taxes.
For the fully employed and for investors whose stocks soared in a bull market, last year was far from harsh, and prospects looked bright.
"Long Island is still a marvelous place to live, if you are gainfully employed," said Lee E. Koppelman, executive director of the Long Island Regional Planning Board.
Yet Mr. Koppelman said a recent drive he took through Stony Brook showed economic distress. "There was not a block where I didn't see one, two or three 'for sale' signs," he said. "These are people who are losing their jobs and have to get rid of their homes."
For Local 1104 of the C.W.A., shaken by the announcement by AT&T about laying off 40,000 employees, a sense is growing that a stable job with good benefits is a rare commodity on Long Island. Mr. Lilja said the announcement had left 1,000 AT&T employees in Nassau and Suffolk waiting for the ax.
The four C.W.A. locals on the Island have a total of 6,000 members. Nynex, which has also been downsizing, employs most of those workers. Mr. Lilja said contracts for Nynex workers on Long Island signed in 1994 guaranteed jobs until September 1998.
The AT&T employees, Mr. Lilja said, were suffering most. "These people don't know their fate from one minute to the next," he said. "There is no loyalty to the people who gave their lives to this company. AT&T is only interested in the bottom line. They are the greatest corporate pigs we have ever encountered."
The company said the layoffs were necessary to keep it competitive as it split into three units. Mr. Lilja and others said the layoffs showed anew that even jobs that once seemed rock solid were on the block.
At the Long Island Lighting Company, a proposal by the Long Island Power Authority to break up the company among five or six owners has filled the more than 5,000 employees with apprehension, some employees have said in interviews.
The chairman of the authority, James F. Gill, has said jobs would be protected. Workers said many doubted that.
Nearly 20,000 Federal workers who live in Nassau or Suffolk have been facing hardship as the deadlock over the Federal budget closed many Government offices.
State figures show that the average Federal worker earns $750 a week, meaning that the furloughs disrupted a work force that pours more than $14.3 million into the regional economy. "The impact of those furloughs is going to slow us down," said Mr. Conoscenti.
In a winter that is just beginning, the costs of snow removal and lost commerce from severe storms also exact an economic price. But a more unsettling prospect, experts said, is a coming shakeout among retailers that would affect Long Island.
"It's coming as part of a national trend," Mr. Polimeni said. "In each major retail category there are now four or five major competitors, and there just aren't enough dollars to go around. The pie isn't getting any bigger either."
The growth in retail industries spurred an expansion of the service sector that partly made up for the loss of more than 100,000 manufacturing jobs over the past seven or eight years, mostly among military contractors.
Now, Mr. Koppelman and others said, too many major stores and high vacancy rates in shopping centers showed that the retail market had exceeded its limits. "We had this whole spate of new retail construction and we kept saying there is just so much disposal income," Mr. Koppelman said.
A result, he added, is the further decline of downtown shopping areas, new shopping centers without tenants and disappointment among retailers about lower-than-expected sales. "It's not that the economy is bad," he said. "It's that we overbuilt in the retail and commercial sector."
Mr. Koppelman said another crucial area of service industries, relatively high-paying banking and back-office jobs, had been diminished by consolidations and downsizings. "We were hoping to expand as a back-office headquarters," he said. "But these consolidations are often at the cost of massive layoffs."
"We certainly recognize that we are now in a structural transformation on Long Island and that we are facing a double whammy," Mr. Gatta said. "We have moved away from defense, and at the same time you have got businesses changing the way they do business. So we are facing those forces at the same time, which makes the challenges we face all the more difficult."
Mr. Gatta said the headlines about the AT&T layoffs had overshadowed news about job gains among small- to medium-size businesses that were to have been an economic core for Long Island.
Mr. Koppelman noted that more than 85 percent of jobs created on the Island over the last 30 years were with companies that began locally.
The Long Island Association has identified five industries -- biotechnology and bioengineering, electronics, graphic communications, medical imaging and health-care information and software -- as sources of nearly 28,300 new jobs over the next five years.
The business group is studying steps that would assist the industries as part of an overall initiative to boost the regional economy. Tax subsidies, public financing and lower electric rates are being discussed.
Critics of the plan said subsidies and other publicly financed aid had backfired in the past. The critics pointed to the extensive assistance for the Grumman Corporation, whose role on Log Island shrank dramatically after being acquired by Northrop.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: LIL (NYSE) (61%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (78%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (78%); 

CITY: ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

COMPANY: RECKSON ASSOCIATES REALTY CORP (53%); COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (61%); 

ORGANIZATION: COMMUNICATIONS WORKERS OF AMERICA (61%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LONG ISLAND (NY); UNITED STATES (78%); NEW YORK, USA (78%); ALBANY, NY, USA (78%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; RECESSION AND DEPRESSION ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); RECESSION (90%); COUNTY GOVERNMENT (89%); RETAILERS (89%); COUNTIES (78%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (77%); REAL ESTATE (76%); PROPERTY TAX (76%); TRENDS (76%); TAXES & TAXATION (76%); SALES TAX (74%); RETAIL PROPERTY (74%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (74%); BONDS (74%); PUBLIC FINANCE (74%); NATURAL GAS & ELECTRIC UTILITIES (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); FUNDRAISING (72%); BANKING & FINANCE (72%); INDUSTRY ANALYSTS (72%); BUSINESS FORECASTS (72%); OFFICE PROPERTY (70%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (70%); RETAIL SALES (69%); UTILITY RATES (69%); REAL ESTATE INVESTING (66%); REAL ESTATE INVESTMENT TRUSTS (66%); SECURITIZATION (62%); BOND MARKETS (62%); INVESTMENT TRUSTS (61%); CONSERVATISM (60%); UTILITIES INDUSTRY (58%); DEFENSE CONTRACTING (55%); CHRISTMAS (50%); 

PERSON: RATHER, JOHN ROBERT P LILJA (77%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



363 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 14; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 1288 words

HEADLINE: GOOD EATING;
Cozy Ambiance In the West 70's

 BODY:

BERTHA'S ++
(212) 362-4955; 2160 Broadway, at 76th Street;  no credit cards
The big windows, comfortable couches, carved wood bar and butcher block tables make this cousin of Benny's downtown one of the more pleasant burrito restaurants in the city. Moreover, the tasty, gargantuan burritos here remain a popular and economical way to eat. The selection includes the "mission," a soft tortilla stuffed with rice, beans, cheese, guacamole and sour cream, and "Bertha's Bay," a burrito with beef or chicken. There is also a barbecued pork burrito with honey-chipotle sauce, and a vegetarian, nondairy one with spinach. Among other options are tacos, grilled chicken or beef fajitas served with rice, beans, sour cream, onions, jalapeno peppers and chipotle mayonnaise; quesadillas, and shredded pork, chicken or beef enchiladas topped with cheese and accompanied by beans and a zesty sauce. ($25 and Under: 5/26/95)
 
CHAZ & WILSON GRILL ++
(212) 769-0100; 201 West 79th Street;  all major credit cards
This bustling neighborhood bar and grill that serves tasty American fare is casual and inviting. Monday and Tuesday nights are particularly enticing because every entree is $9.95. For starters, one might try the house salad, an assembly of romaine lettuce, chicken, cheddar cheese and bacon tossed in a light Russian dressing; fried calamari with a spicy cocktail sauce; grilled portobellos on a bed of arugula with olive oil and garlic, or steamed mussels in white wine, onions and parsley. Main courses include meatloaf and mashed potatoes topped with mushroom gravy, roasted chicken seasoned with garlic and herbs, grilled salmon in ginger-teriyaki sauce and served with steamed rice and vegetables, and pan-seared sirloin steak with fried potatoes. ($25 and Under: 4/7/95)
 
FISHIN' EDDIE *
(212) 874-3474; 73 West 71st Street; $ all major credit cards
This engaging seafood house is full of the rustic charm one might expect of a little place in Maine. It has a small bar with Shaker pegs for hanging coats, a partly exposed kitchen and a cozy back room with a skylight and country-style furniture. The cooking is straightforward and gratifying. For appetizers there are mussels steamed in an herb-infused broth, salmon and tuna tartars flavored with shiso and sesame and paired with homemade chips, crab cakes garnished with corn relish, and fried oysters with a vibrant cilantro-lime sauce and fennel slaw. Among the main courses there is a seafood stew, grilled salmon over arugula, blackened mahi-mahi brightened with tartar sauce, and tuna steak served with peppercorn sauce and crisp french fries. (Review: 4/24/92)
 
LOUIE'S WEST SIDE CAFE ++
(212) 877-1900; 441 Amsterdam Avenue, at 81st Street; $ American Express, Mastercard, Visa
Brick walls, cloth-covered banquettes and wicker chairs convey a feeling of warm conviviality, and the home cooking is reliably satisfying. Current appetizers include steamed mussels in white wine and fresh herbs with tomatoes; wild mushroom ravioli with a tangy tomato sauce; cured salmon with mustard-dill sauce, and onion soup with pieces of beef and topped with cheese croutons. Entrees include beef medallions in Cognac and peppercorn sauce with french fries, lamb chops complemented with flageolet beans, herb-roasted chicken with spinach and mashed potatoes, pot roast with red cabbage and sweet potato fritters, and grilled skirt steak with caramelized onions and french fries. ($25 and Under: 9/4/92; article: 6/2/95)
 
MAD FISH ++
(212) 787-0202; 2182 Broadway, at 77th Street; $ all major credit cards
The imaginative cooking of Keith Rennie, formerly of Pisces in the East Village, is the lure at this new spot, which attracts a cross section of Upper West Siders. Mr. Rennie blends textures and flavors in a most compelling way, as in his perfectly fried fish flavored with fennel and drizzled with lemon juice, or his salad of watercress and delicately grilled spicy squid. The fish and corn chowder with black mussels and rosemary is also a winner, as is the goat cheese and roasted pepper salad. Recommended main courses include a tempura of wolffish blended with curry sauce and served with a crisp vegetable spring roll. barbecued bluefish with smoked onion compote. lobster risotto with roasted mushrooms, and pan-roasted monkfish with a root-vegetable sauce and stewed white beans. ($25 and Under: 12/8/95)
 
MONSOON ++
(212) 580-8686; 435 Amsterdam Avenue, at 81st Street;  all major credit cards
A ceiling with a bamboo motif and several green plants are a lovely backdrop for the beguiling Vietnamese cuisine that can be found here. Summer rolls come with the traditional peanut dipping sauce flavored with star anise; chao tom, sugar cane wrapped in grilled shrimp paste, is served with a sweet dipping sauce called nuoc cham, and steamed rice crepes are filled with chicken or shrimp. Savory garnishes of pickled carrots and turnips with tiny onionlike bulbs come with all appetizers. Among main courses are marinated pork chops with lemon grass and garlic; stir-fry of chicken with lemon grass, bell peppers and onions mixed in a red chili sauce, and a seafood casserole with crab, fish, calamari, scallops, shrimp and mussels. ($25 and Under: 1/6/95)
 
RESTAURANT 222 **
(212) 799-0400; 222 West 79th Street; $$$ all major credit cards
The alluring and warm town house setting, beguiling food and attentive service contribute to a sophisticated yet neighborly atmosphere at this popular Upper West Side establishment. While the a la carte menu is expensive here, a three-course prix-fixe dinner for $24.50 is offered every Sunday through Thursday. Current starters include a warm salad of sugar snap peas with shiitake mushrooms and string beans in a lively black peppercorn vinaigrette, a creamy polenta cake ringed by a wild mushroom ragout and topped with warm Gorgonzola, and ravioli of foie gras and mushroom duxelles in a madeira sauce. For main courses, there are seared sea scallops complemented by sweet corn risotto and mango, charred sirloin steak well matched with horseradish-flavored mashed potatoes, roast rack of lamb marinated in red wine wine and herbs, and pan-roasted salmon atop an aromatic medley of fingerling potatoes, fennel and wild mushrooms. (Review: 4/12/93; Diner's Journal: 6/10/94)
 
Healthful Fare
 
JOSIE'S ++
(212) 769-1212; 300 Amsterdam Avenue, at 74th Street;  American Express, Mastercard, Visa
The health-conscious food with an emphasis on organically grown products and dairy-free preparations attracts a steady crowd at this unpretentious little spot. To begin, there is seared Thai-style shrimp over udon noodles, steamed potato dumplings on tomato coulis with white truffle oil, and grilled polenta on a bed of spinach with warm mushroom vinaigrette. Main courses include catfish served with a warm tomato vinaigrette, and grilled chicken sausage with honey-mustard sauce. ($25 and Under: 6/3/94)
 
Summaries of reviews use the star system; others are culled from articles (indicated by +), the $25 and Under column (++) and Diner's Journal ().
 
The Star System
The New York Times's star
system rates restaurants on the following scale.
 
**** Extraordinary
*** Excellent
** Very Good
* Good
None Poor to Satisfactory
 
Price Range
The price symbols are based on the cost of a three-course dinner with tax and a 15 percent tip
(drinks not included).
 
$ $25 and under
$$ $25 to $40
$$$ $40 to $55
$$$$ $55 and over
 
Past reviews. Hundreds of Times restaurant reviews are available from @times, an arts and entertainment guide on America Online. Software and information: (800) 548-5201.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TICKER: PANASONIC (NSE) (65%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: PANASONIC HOME APPLIANCES INDIA CO LTD (65%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UPPER WEST SIDE (MANHATTAN); UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: RESTAURANTS; REVIEWS RESTAURANTS (90%); RESTAURANT REVIEWS (89%); MEATS (77%); DRINKING PLACES (77%); PORK (77%); MEAT FREE DIETS (76%); 

PERSON: KEITH RENNIE (64%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



364 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 11; Page 1; Column 1; Automobiles 

LENGTH: 1010 words

HEADLINE: BEHIND THE WHEEL/Suzuki X-90;
Built by Japan (Body by Fisher-Price?)

BYLINE: By MICHELLE KREBS 

DATELINE: DETROIT

 BODY:
ON his second birthday, my son received a toy gas station that came with a miniature cartoon-design car. The single-person passenger compartment sat on a squat body with bulging fenders. It was strikingly similar to the cars that screamed through the streets of Toontown in "Who Framed Roger Rabbit?"
When a 1996 Suzuki X-90 recently arrived for a road test, it was as if my son's toy had come to life. In addition to its distorted proportions, the X-90 was even the same color -- "lava red," Suzuki calls it.
 It is hard to fit this odd little bird into the usual automotive pigeonholes. The X-90's two-seat passenger compartment feels like a sports car's. Its available four-wheel drive and relatively high ground clearance make it suitable for off-roading. It is best described as a two-seat sport utility vehicle, though its utility is debatable since it lacks the cargo- and people-carrying capacity of other vehicles in that category. 
 Although it is a creation of Suzuki designers in Japan, the X-90 was conceived with the American market in mind. Gary Anderson, vice president of sales and marketing for the automotive division of the American Suzuki Motor Corporation, insists that Americans, more than people in other cultures, view their vehicles as a form of personal expression. Suzuki says the X-90 is aimed at the "young and young at heart" who want something completely different from anything else on the market.
Indeed, the X-90 attracts attention with its original styling. Quirky, gawky or just plain cute are some of the terms my friends and neighbors used to describe it. No matter how it is characterized, the X-90 does grab attention, usually in the form of "What is that thing?" Other mothers made comparisons like mine to their sons' toy cars.
In terms of size, the X-90, based on the two-door Suzuki Sidekick (sold by Chevrolet dealers as the Geo Tracker), is 146 inches long with a wheelbase of 87 inches and a width of 67 inches. In comparison, the two-door Jeep Wrangler is 152 inches long with a 94-inch wheelbase and 66-inch width.
Inside, the X-90 features all of the amenities of a typical car, except a back seat. These include standard power windows, power door locks and a pop-off T-top for open-air motoring. The four-wheel-drive model adds as standard equipment a cruise control, anti-theft alarm and premium sound system. Safety features include dual air bags; door beams for protection in side-impact accidents; daytime running lights, which are illuminated whenever the vehicle is running, and four-wheel anti-lock brakes.
In stark contrast to the curves of the outside, the interior lines are rather straight, and the cabin has all the shapeliness of a box. There is room enough for two, legroom is ample and the bucket seats are comfortable. The controls are easy to read and operate, except for the radio. Its on-off button is smaller than the eraser on a No. 2 pencil -- impossible to operate when wearing gloves. Considering that the vehicle is aimed at young people, the audio system is likely to be a much-used feature.
In light of the X-90's playful appearance, I expected the X-90 to be fun to drive. It is not.
Powered by the 1.6-liter, 16-valve four-cylinder engine used in the Sidekick and the Suzuki Esteem sedan, the X-90 strained to keep up with rush-hour traffic. It took more than 10 seconds to accelerate from 0 to 60 miles an hour, and the top speed is limited to 94 m.p.h. I can't imagine cruising in the X-90 at that clip; when I was traveling at 65, it felt as if I were doing 90.
The 95-horsepower engine is paired with a five-speed manual transmission; a four-speed electronically controlled automatic, with overdrive, is available on the four-wheel-drive version. The tested model came with the manual transmission, which felt as though it had come out of a truck.
Even more trucklike was the ride. And make no mistake: the X-90 is a truck. Cruising down the pothole-laced Southfield Freeway in Detroit, I felt I was riding in a metal crate. The slightest blemish in the concrete reverberated through the cabin and tossed me from side to side. On snow-covered roads, the X-90's rear end twitched sideways; engaging the shift-on-the-fly four-wheel drive, with its automatic-locking front hubs and two-speed transfer case (providing regular and extra-low gears), helped to maintain some stability.
Another incongruity struck me as I drove the X-90. As I tried to envision the locales where the X-90 would have its strongest appeal, Daytona Beach, Fla., came to mind. But a driver can invite only one friend -- and one who travels light. The trunk was surprisingly deep for such a small vehicle, and the 8.4 cubic feet of space was perfectly adequate for errands around town. But the opening to the cargo bay is so small that a large ice chest may be out of the question, not to mention a surfboard.
The X-90's best feature may be the price, since only a few sport utility vehicles are currently available for less than $20,000. The two-wheel-drive version starts at $13,499, including shipping charges. A four-wheel-drive X-90 with a manual transmission starts at $15,389; with an automatic, the price is $16,339.
With its small engine, the X-90 is cheap to run; its fuel economy is rated at 25 miles a gallon in the city and 28 on the highway.
Drivers will indeed stand out from the pack behind the wheel of an X-90 -- for now. But several auto makers plan to enter the market for small, inexpensive sport utilities, starting this spring with the slickly designed and much more utilitarian Toyota RAV4. Ford and General Motors are believed to be working on designs for small, car-based sport utilities in the under-$20,000 range. And, in Southern and Western regions where its dealers are established, Kia, the South Korean auto maker, is offering the Sportage, a utility vehicle in the $15,000 price range.
Some better choices will surely emerge from this new crop of vehicles.
 
INSIDE TRACK: The X-90 may look like a toy, but driving one is not child's play.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Ostensibly a sport utility vehicle, the small Suzuki X-90 defies classification. Detachable T-top panels let in a breeze. (American Suzuki Motor Corp.)
 
Chart: "Small Sport Utility Vehicles" lists features and specifications for selected small sport utility vehicles.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: 7269 (TSE) (67%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS336991 MOTORCYCLE, BICYCLE & PARTS MANUFACTURING (67%); NAICS336211 MOTOR VEHICLE BODY MANUFACTURING (67%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); 

COMPANY: SUZUKI MOTOR CO SUZUKI MOTOR CORP (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: SUZUKI MOTOR CO

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); JAPAN (90%); 

SUBJECT: AUTOMOBILES; UTILITY VEHICLES MOTOR VEHICLES (91%); MOTOR VEHICLE SAFETY EQUIPMENT (89%); AUTOMOTIVE SAFETY (78%); VEHICLE AIRBAGS (78%); SPORT UTILITY VEHICLES (78%); TOYS & GAMES (73%); NEW CAR DEALERS (69%); ANTILOCK BRAKING SYSTEMS (50%); 

PERSON: KREBS, MICHELLE

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



365 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 407 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UNION SQUARE;
From Suppers of Legend to a Spot on Dormitory Row

BYLINE: By MICHAEL COOPER 

 BODY:
The vacant lot on East 14th Street was once Luchow's, the storied German restaurant where Diamond Jim Brady slaked his thirst on overflowing steins of beer, Theodore Roosevelt tucked into plates of schnitzel and, local legend has it, Gus Kahn was inspired to take pen to tablecloth and write "Yes, Sir, That's My Baby."
Luchow's migrated north in 1982 and then closed. Its abandoned 14th Street shell became a haven for squatters, drug dealers and prostitutes before it was demolished last year after a suspicious fire. And when an apartment house for low-income and formerly homeless families opened next door, some residents feared that no developer would buy the old Luchow's site, a 19,000-square-foot lot at 106-112 East 14th Street, from Astoria Federal Savings. But last week New York University announced that it has -- for $5.8 million -- and that it plans to build an undergraduate residence hall. 
 The hall will expand the stretch of Third Avenue from St. Mark's Place to Union Square and its surrounding streets that has become known as Dormitory Row. In the last decade N.Y.U., Cooper Union and the New School for Social Research have reached beyond their commuter-college roots to draw students from around the nation. The newcomers need a place to live.
"Urban universities are in," said Virgil Renzulli, a spokesman for N.Y.U. "In 1980, 17 percent of our students came from outside the metropolitan area. Now around 70 percent do. And with the high cost of real estate, we had an increase in demand for student housing."
The dorms have helped transform Third Avenue's economy. Some porn and pawn shops have disappeared, and fast-food restaurants, clothing stores and the Sony East Village multiplex have opened. "There's a real energy created by the student population," said Robert Walsh, the executive director of the 14th Street-Union Square Business Improvement District. "When you walk down Third Avenue south of 14th Street, it feels like a mini college town."
But some neighbors are not so sure. "The jury is still out as to whether the changes are all going to be for the better," said Arlene Koenig, president of the East Eighth Street and Ninth Street Block Association. "Many new businesses are student-oriented. We could use a variety of businesses that are practical for the community and attract some tourists. How many junky dungarees and junky T-shirts can a person buy?"
 MICHAEL COOPER

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; LUCHOW'S (NYC RESTAURANT) ASTORIA FEDERAL SAVINGS & LOAN ASSOCIATION (56%); NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (80%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK UNIVERSITY; LUCHOW'S (NYC RESTAURANT) NEW YORK UNIVERSITY (80%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (93%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE REAL ESTATE (90%); STUDENT HOUSING (90%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (90%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (89%); STUDENT DEMOGRAPHICS (89%); RESTAURANTS (89%); MULTIFAMILY REAL ESTATE (75%); LOW INCOME PERSONS (75%); FAST FOOD (73%); HOMELESSNESS (70%); FAMILY (70%); CITIES (64%); EXECUTIVES (61%); FIRES (55%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (50%); 

PERSON: COOPER, MICHAEL

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



366 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 6; Column 5; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 474 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: NEW YORK UP CLOSE;
City Agrees to Curb Helicopters

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Responding to growing criticism, the city has agreed to cut back the East 34th Street heliport's operating hours and to bar many flights from flying over densely populated East Side streets. They will fly over the East River instead.
But critics, who want the heliport moved, say the concessions will not eliminate copter noise and fumes. A final decision will be up to the City Council. 
 The 34th Street heliport -- one of four in Manhattan and the world's busiest -- has long been a nuisance to residents along the flight pattern, who complain of a racket from dawn till nearly midnight. As the tourist boom generates more sightseeing flights, complaints have spread across Manhattan. Bringing the issue to a head was the recent expiration of the heliport's lease and an application from the city's Economic Development Corporation, which oversees heliports, for a zoning permit. The heliport has been operating without one for two decades. The development corporation agreed last fall to cut landings and takeoffs 47 percent, to 28,000 a year or 77 a day.
This month the corporation's new president, Charles Millard, announced more concessions to take effect in a new lease this year. They include limiting the operating hours, now 7 A.M. to 11 P.M., to 8 A.M. to 8 P.M., with weekend tour flights curbed to 10 A.M. to 6 P.M. North-south routes for sightseeing will be limited to the East and Hudson Rivers. And a new panel with local representatives will monitor the heliport.
Councilman Andrew Eristoff, who campaigned for the restrictions, called them "a big win for the community that will bring welcome relief." But many critics disagree.
Last week the Planning Commission endorsed the zoning permit by a 7-to-2 vote. The dissenters questioned why the latest rules were in a letter and not in the application, and voiced concern about enforcement and the lack of an overall helicopter plan.
A day after the Planning Commission acted, Community Board 6 opposed the application, 34 to 1, and the Manhattan Borough President, Ruth W. Messinger, also opposed it. The dual opposition means the the Council must review the application.
"We can still have helicopters buzzing by buildings at eye level and waving at you," said William Oddo, chairman of Board 6's transportation committee. He noted that the flight path rules apply only to sightseeing helicopters, not to corporate, private, commercial and commuter flights. He also said the development corporation ignored calls to ban weekend flights, to shift all sightseeing to the downtown heliport, to limit how close helicopters may fly to buildings and to require markings so residents can identify flights. "Things would really change," he said, "if they were flying over Gracie Mansion and the Mayor had to go to sleep with this every evening." BRUCE LAMBERT

GRAPHIC: Photo: Tourists board a sightseeing flight at the East 34th Street heliport, the world's busiest. (Don Hogan Charles/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (94%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: PLANNING COMMISSION (68%); CITY COUNCIL (68%); 

ORGANIZATION: PLANNING COMMISSION (68%); CITY COUNCIL (68%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (94%); NEW YORK, USA (94%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: HELICOPTERS; ACCIDENTS AND SAFETY; REGULATION AND DEREGULATION OF INDUSTRY HELICOPTERS (91%); POPULATION DENSITY (90%); CITY GOVERNMENT (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); ZONING (89%); DEREGULATION (86%); CITIES (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); NUISANCE (76%); MAYORS (76%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT (73%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE CHRISTIAN PIERRET (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



367 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 231 words

HEADLINE: Segregated Schools Can Do Students No Good

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Whatever the problems the Yonkers public schools are experiencing as a result of integration, it is outrageous to suggest that segregation constitutes a viable educational strategy (letter, Jan. 7).
Students of color who attend segregated schools are hindered in their ability to advance within society. To be sure, if such schools offer dedicated teachers and well-financed programs (often not the case), students could succeed academically. 
 Even when such conditions are present, students are shortchanged, for racial isolation may compromise their ability to succeed in college and in the job market.
Such students may experience culture shock and may feel intimidated upon entering a predominantly white college or the predominantly white business world. They will succeed in such situations less frequently than those students of color who have attended integrated schools.
Segregated schooling also harms students of color because, having been deprived of contact with minorities, whites who attended segregated schools will be less inclined to build interracial bridges in college and in job settings.
Such whites may become distrustful of minorities, leading to diminished economic opportunities for people of color.
Thus segregated schools perpetuate racial inequality in society at large.
 
JONATHAN FELDMAN
Maplewood, N.J., Jan. 10, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDUCATION AND SCHOOLS; EQUAL EDUCATIONAL OPPORTUNITIES RACE & RACISM (91%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); SCHOOL DESEGREGATION (90%); EDUCATION SYSTEMS & INSTITUTIONS (90%); EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION EMPLOYEES (78%); SOCIAL JUSTICE (77%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); EMPLOYMENT (68%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



368 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 1; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 370 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: MIDTOWN;
34th Street Has a Corner For Disney

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
When it comes to store locations, it doesn't get much better than 34th Street at Fifth Avenue, the intersection of two famed retail thoroughfares and the site of the Empire State Building with its thousands of office workers and three million tourists a year.
It appears to be an ideal spot for the Walt Disney Company to open a branch, and the owner of the vacant storefront at 39 West 34th says that is exactly what is in the works. 
 "It's definite," said James C. Schvarcz, the manager of Gotham Realty Management, which took over the building last year. "They're coming in." The Italy department store there closed earlier this month, after Gotham bought out its lease "so we could bring in a bigger fish," Mr. Schvarcz said. Warner Brothers, Levi's and Barnes & Noble expressed interest before the search narrowed to Disney, he said.
Disney's headquarters in California declined to comment, and some real estate sources familiar with the site said a contract is being negotiated. Alan Grossman of Georgetown Realty, which has been working with Disney on its expansion into New York, confirmed that his company has been "aggressively pursuing 34th Street" sites, but he declined to say more.
Relatively few empty spaces remain on 34th Street, which lost major stores like B. Altman's in the recession but has been rebounding in recent years.
Despite the seemingly sure-fire location, the Italy store appeared to do mediocre business, said Daniel Pisark, of the 34th Street Partnership business improvement district. He and other experts blamed bad marketing strategy. Benjamin Fox, the executive vice president of Spectrum Realty, described it as "a schlock store" out of step with the neighborhood's upscale trends. The Gotham building is "the ultimate location," Mr. Pisark said. The building's 10,000-square-foot ground floor would be a logical extension for Disney, which has announced plans to open one store at 42d Street and Seventh Avenue and another at 711 Fifth Avenue near 55th Street, both this year. Disney has 454 stores worldwide, including 340 in the United States. They feature stuffed animals, videotapes, books, toys, jewelry and cartoon cels of Disney characters. BRUCE LAMBERT

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (85%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (85%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (85%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (85%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (85%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOTHAM REALTY MANAGEMENT; DISNEY, WALT, CO WALT DISNEY CO (85%); 

ORGANIZATION: GOTHAM REALTY MANAGEMENT; DISNEY, WALT, CO

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); CALIFORNIA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: RETAIL STORES AND TRADE REAL ESTATE (90%); RETAILERS (90%); PROPERTY MANAGEMENT (90%); BOOKSTORES (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (76%); EXECUTIVES (75%); TRENDS (73%); PROPERTY VACANCIES (72%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; SCHVARCZ, JAMES C DAVID DAVIS (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



369 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 1206 words

HEADLINE: 'Budget Crisis' Defined

BYLINE: By Felix G. Rohatyn 

 BODY:
The stalled negotiations over the Federal budget run the risk of creating significant instability in the financial markets.
This is the result of two different factors. The first is largely emotional. The gloomy predictions by politicians and economic officials that the markets may collapse if no agreement is reached could become a self-fulfilling prophecy with no basis in reality. The second factor is much more dangerous and could lead to market unrest. It is the continued threat of default on the $4.9 trillion national debt if the Congressional Republicans refuse to raise the legal debt limit in February. 
 The country's financial situation is very strong. Over the last three years, as a result of the Clinton Administration's fiscal policies and the Federal Reserve's monetary policies, the budget deficit has been cut in half, to less than 2.5 percent of the gross domestic product.
 Interest rates have decreased significantly, and the Dow Jones industrial average is near an all-time high. In addition, our trade deficit is coming down, and the dollar has strengthened. Even though the economy is slowing down, this is not the stuff of financial crisis.
 It is important to look at the reality of the budget negotiations. Both the Administration and the Congressional Republicans agree on a fundamental principle: a balanced budget in seven years based on Congressional Budget Office projections. Their differences in numbers in their respective budget plans are relatively small -- about $100 billion over seven years, which is about 1 percent of the $10 trillion the Federal Government is likely to spend over that period.
But the difference in philosophy between the two sides is very wide. Should the states be given responsibility poverty programs like Medicaid and welfare? Should entitlements like Medicare be means-tested? Where should taxes be cut and whom should they benefit?
These are important issues, on which compromise may not be possible in an election year. But that is no reason for a calamity in the markets. If no agreement is reached in the next few weeks, the voters can decide in the Presidential election which approach they prefer. That is what democracy is all about.
The markets may well prefer the Republicans' approach over the Administration's, and, from a financial point of view, they may well be right. But the markets cannot be the sole arbiters of Government policy. The biggest losers in the continued uncertainty over the budget are state and local governments, which find their own budgets in a state of near chaos because .
There are flaws in both budget plans. The Administration's plan fails to deal realistically with the growth in Medicare costs and its spending cuts are excessively back-loaded. The Republican plan includes needless tax cuts, and, in calling for the states to take over poverty programs that would be financed by block grants, takes significant risks with the social safety net.
 Both plans avoid the opportunity of creating significant savings by a downward adjustment to the Consumer Price Index, as recommended by many economists. The fact remains, however, that both sides are locked into a principle of balance over seven years.
If there is no budget agreement in the near term, the markets may very well go down, but that in itself should not start a crisis.
After a 40 percent increase increase in the Dow Jones industrial average over the past year, a 10 percent to 15 percent correction could happen for any number of reasons, the simplest one being is that the market was too high in the first place. Furthermore, a slowing domestic economy is generating disappointing earnings, and a significant slowdown in Europe is creating a risk to our exports.
It is true that the financial markets have to be dealt with very carefully. They are something like a rhinoceros. They are powerful and very dangerous, but they are rather near-sighted and they have a small brain. But even though the talk of financial crisis has become routine for any number of events, none has occurred so far, none is on the horizon and need not be set in motion on the budget issue, unless one is created by relentless media speculation and overblown rhetoric.
The danger of a default on the national debt, however, is a far more serious and could create a catastrophe on two counts.
Politically, it could appear to the world that the functioning of our democratic institutions had collapsed and that the Government is no longer governable by traditional means.
Financially, a default could trigger a global financial crisis of completely unpredictable proportions. It could wipe out the equity capital of hundreds of the world's largest financial institutions. This is simply reckless.
The Federal debt is approaching $5 trillion. More than $500 billion is held abroad. No one knows how much additional credit is supported all over the world by Treasury securities.
 Tens of billions of dollars in Bank loans, defeased municipal bonds, all types of securities and other financial instruments are secured by those securities, as are tens of billions of derivatives. Defaults could start a chain reaction of defaults all around the globe, with horrifying social and economic consequences. The amount of credit put at risk would be many times $5 trillion.
In normal times, the idea that this could happen in order to force a resolution of budget differences that are small in numbers, but significant in public policy, would be inconceivable. But we have witnessed the shutdown of the Federal Government over this very issue. This is a sign that we are not living in normal times.
There is no conceivable reason for any of this to happen. After all, the Congressional Republicans have achieved the core of their Contract With America: a balanced budget in seven years, in accordance with Congressional Budget Office numbers. We should not, however, overlook another equally important contract -- the contract with the holders of American debt and American currency. That contract cannot be broken.
Every effort should be made in the next few weeks to reach an agreement on the budget. If no agreement between the Congressional Republicans and the White House is possible, then a veto-proof agreement between Congressional Democrats and Republicans might be an acceptable alternative. But if no agreement can be reached, let the voters decide how it should be done.
 Ultimately the financial markets will not allow Washington to escape from a commitment to balance the budget, no matter who the next President is.
In the meantime, the nation should not lose sight of other fundamental economic issues: slow growth, lack of individual security, insufficient private and public investment, a failing tax system and growing disparities in income. These are fundamental and should not be buried in the fight over the budget.
The United States is the world's most successful industrial democracy because its currency and its credit set the world's standard. A default would not only seriously damage our currency and our credit. It would cast a dark shadow over a political system that has been the envy of the world for more than 200 years.

GRAPHIC: DRAWING

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: DJ (NYSE) (56%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS519110 NEWS SYNDICATES (56%); NAICS516110 INTERNET PUBLISHING AND BROADCASTING (56%); NAICS511110 NEWSPAPER PUBLISHERS (56%); SIC2711 NEWSPAPERS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (56%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); DOW JONES & CO INC (56%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (54%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NATIONAL DEBT (US); DEFAULTING; UNITED STATES POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; GOVERNMENT BONDS; CURRENCY BUDGETS (97%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (92%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); BANKING & FINANCE (91%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); PUBLIC DEBT (90%); NATIONAL DEBT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (90%); ECONOMIC NEWS (89%); ECONOMIC POLICY (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); DEBT CEILING (78%); CURRENCIES (78%); MEDICARE (78%); ECONOMIC DECLINE (78%); BUDGET DEFICITS (78%); ECONOMIC CRISIS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (77%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (77%); TAX LAW (75%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (75%); BONDS (75%); US PRESIDENTS (74%); MONETARY POLICY (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (68%); POVERTY & HOMELESSNESS (68%); STOCK INDEXES (67%); TAXES & TAXATION (65%); GOVERNMENT BONDS (62%); INTEREST RATES (53%); MEDICAID (50%); GRANTS & GIFTS (50%); 

PERSON: ROHATYN, FELIX G HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



370 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 1; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 2149 words

HEADLINE: Asia's Unlikely Tycoons;
Don't Tell These Hong Kong Women It's a Man's World

BYLINE: By EDWARD A. GARGAN 

DATELINE: HONG KONG

 BODY:
JADE CHOW was happy in Los Angeles. She had received her master's in business administration from the University of Southern California, finished off two years at a medium-sized accounting firm and had just gotten married. She was on her way to becoming an American success story. Then her mother phoned.
"She was running our silk company," Ms. Chow recalled. "She said I had to come home to help. I said, For how long? She said at least three months. That was in 1990." 
 Every morning now, Ms. Chow is picked up by her driver in Hong Kong and taken across the border into China to the family's silk garment factory. There, she oversees nearly 1,000 cutters, sewers, dyers and office workers for one of the largest silk garment companies in Shenzhen, one of China's first special economic zones, created in the early 1980's to encourage foreign investment.
Ms. Chow's story is familiar in a region dominated by family businesses -- the dutiful child returning to assume the reins of business from aging parents. But this story is different, for it is typically the sons who inherit businesses. Indeed, when a family has only daughters, it is not unusual for the daughters' husbands to assume command.
In Hong Kong's world of male chieftains, only a handful of women run their own empires. A few younger women are emerging, but there are still formidable obstacles to the ascent of female tycoons; an ingrained Chinese preference for male heirs and male kingpins means that the road to the top is dotted with land mines. In the professions, in academia, and particularly in local politics, women have become a formidable presence; only at the summit of business do they remain a rarity.
Yet there is a sprinkling of women tycoons. Some have taken over after the death of husbands, while some have stepped in when there are no male heirs or when male heirs are indifferent to the cloistered world of a family business. Indeed, even as women tycoons remain rare, it is occasionally said that the tradition of male inheritance does not always enhance a family empire.
"This has its roots in Chinese history and tradition," explained S. Gordon Redding, a professor of management at the University of Hong Kong. "Chinese Confucianism accords power and authority to the father figure. The woman is always the fallback."
Few tycoons here, or anywhere in Asia, have rivaled Nina Wang in success -- or in secrecy.
Trailed by three tightly braided pigtails, Ms. Wang scampered through her offices one day recently to show a visitor her latest project, a model of a slim blue tower that evokes the Chrysler Building in New York.
Her fingers traced the scalloped summit of a model almost as tall as the diminutive Ms. Wang herself. "We want this to be the highest building in the world," she said. "We need this kind of landmark for Hong Kong."
Few who have watched Ms. Wang wade through Hong Kong's intensely competitive and combative property and development market doubt her resolve. Indeed, as the "chairlady" -- her preferred term -- of the Chinachem Group, the largest privately held company in Hong Kong, Ms. Wang is used to getting what she wants. And since the kidnapping, and presumed death, of her husband in 1990, Ms. Wang has grabbed the reins with unrestrained -- and, to her male counterparts, jarring -- gusto.
Amid Hong Kong's male-dominated family empires, Ms. Wang sticks out like a shaft of light in a grim gray room. Given to fire-engine-red vinyl mini-skirts, T-shirts emblazoned with silver lame hearts and patent-leather platform shoes, Ms. Wang is intolerant of convention and impatient with tradition. Obsessively secretive about her wealth -- generally believed to be well over $1 billion -- Ms. Wang pursues her developments and overseas investments happily free of shareholders' whims.
Ms. Wang's role as corporate titan began six years ago. In 1990, as Ms. Wang's husband, Teddy Wang Teh-huei, set out for work from their house on Victoria Peak, he was abducted by a group of armed men. The kidnappers demanded $60 million in ransom. Ms. Wang paid slightly more than half, but her husband, whose family had started the business, was never heard from again; rumor has it that he was killed on a boat in Hong Kong's waters and dumped overboard. In fact, it was the second abduction of Mr. Wang; after he was kidnapped in 1983, Ms. Wang paid $11 million to to free him.
MR. WANG had been regarded as Hong Kong's 15th-richest person. Today, it is difficult to place Ms. Wang in the hierarchy of those here with astronomical wealth because she steadfastly refuses to take her company public.
"From time to time, we've talked about it," she said, "but the timing is never right."
In the meantime, Ms. Wang has steadily expanded Chinachem's reach. While she declines to value her holdings, the company -- 90 percent of whose stock belongs to her -- owns or has interests in about 200 buildings in Hong Kong, including industrial, commercial and residential projects. She has made two small investments in Henan province in China and has invested in two biotechnology companies in California, Sequus Pharmaceutical and Genslab. She said she was contemplating a gold mining venture, but preferred not to discuss it.
But it is the Nina Tower that seems to provoke the most excitement for Ms. Wang now, and the most frustration. Her plans are under siege by other tower projects around Asia, each shooting for the record height. "We started with 468 meters," she said -- 1,535 feet -- "but the towers in Kuala Lumpur were a little bit taller. So we'll go higher. I've always liked the Chrysler Building. I've seen it again and again. I want to do something like that. I don't want to copy it, but something that resembles it." She now says, "We want it to be higher than 500 meters," or 1,640 feet.
With the site preparation done, she is impatiently awaiting clearance from Hong Kong's airport authorities, who are worried that the height of the building may interfere with the new airport's radar systems. She said she was sure that approval would ultimately be granted.
And how, she was asked, does she intend to finance this building, which may cost $1 billion? "Cash," she says simply. "Cash."
SALLY AW SIAN, the dean of Hong Kong's women tycoons, is far less flamboyant, yet no less influential. And while she inherited the family business from her father, she did much to expand it both here and abroad.
Hard against the tarmac of Hong Kong's aging, frenetically busy airport looms the fortress-like gray concrete building that houses the newspapers of the Sing Tao Group. Striding through the newsroom of the morning paper, she surveyed her domain with a quick eye before heading to London to celebrate the installation of new lights for the Nelson monument in Trafalgar Square, lights she has paid for.
"They come to us foreigners for donations," she said, shaking her head at the demise of the colonial power. "England doesn't have enough money, so we lend a hand."
Hong Kong's only female newspaper tycoon, Ms. Aw took the wreckage of her family's fortunes and built an empire that straddles the globe. And while her flagship paper, The Sing Tao Daily, is neither the largest nor the most influential of Hong Kong's 76 dailies, it is the centerpiece of a chain of papers printed across Asia, North America and Europe.
Ms. Aw was born in Burma in 1931, into a family of herbalists. Her father invented one of the most widely known traditional medications in Asia, Tiger Balm, an all-purpose liniment that users rub on their abdomens to ease stomachaches or on their temples for headaches. The ointment is seen everywhere in Asia, although Ms. Aw no longer controls the company that makes it.
In the 1930's, Ms. Aw's father started newspapers in Singapore and China. "He paid so much for ads that he thought it would be cheaper just to open a few newspapers," she said. "He used to drive around in a car built like a tiger. That's why he thought at the same time he wanted to voice his opinion in a newspaper. My uncle's side of the family took Tiger Balm and we were left with the papers."
"My father was ahead of his time," explained Ms. Aw, whose crisp but conservative jackets and slacks emphasize her no-nonsense style. "But he passed away when I was young, when I was in my 20's. So I've been in business more than 40 years."
Last year, Sing Tao had about $260 million in revenue and a market value of $280 million. But the cost of newsprint has begun to eat rapidly into the company's profit, just as it has at other newspaper companies worldwide. Still, the circulation of the morning paper, at about 65,000 daily, ranks it securely among the territory's top five.
One of the company's biggest money makers is the comic book division, called Culturecom, which dominates the market here in Asian comic books. A foray by The Sing Tao Daily into the World Wide Web is, as are most such efforts, still unprofitable. "I don't know how long it will take to make money with this," she said. "Nobody knows. That's the big question."
Like other Hong Kong newspaper owners, Ms. Aw has been wooed aggressively by Beijing, mainly for her access to the global Chinese diaspora through editions published in Canada, the United States, Australia, New Zealand and Britain. On her first visit to Beijing several years ago, she was received by President Jiang Zemin, a meeting that she took for what it was, an effort to win her over.
Both Ms. Aw and Ms. Wang are candid about their relative isolation atop Hong Kong's business world. "During my generation, there are almost no women," Ms. Aw said. "I don't think I behave any differently from men, but in meetings I always find myself as the only lady."
"Some people are a little uneasy dealing with a woman," said Ms. Wang, who demurred when asked her age, but is probably in her 50's. "At building sites, workers swear a lot. But when I go there, they don't. Development people are a little old-fashioned, so I talk to the younger generation more. The older people don't approve of me. I wear miniskirts all the time. They never invite me to those dinners they have."
Indeed, when a group of Hong Kong tycoons established a foundation this year to bolster the territory's image, Ms. Wang was not among the founders. "They didn't even ask me," she said.
WHILE Ms. Aw and Ms. Wang represent the older generation of female tycoons, a new wave of women are making their presence felt. In 1990, Laura M. Cha left a lucrative position at Coudert Brothers, the American law firm, to become an executive director of the newly created Securities and Futures Commission, the Hong Kong counterpart of the Securities and Exchange Commission.
"I wanted to be in the ring where the action is," she said. "At the time I joined I was the only woman. Now, 3 out of the 15 directors are women, but I'm the only woman of the 5 executive directors."
"In the business community here," she continued, "there are not a lot of women at the top. In the financial world, there are even fewer."
And there are other women, like Lulu Man-ying Yu, the 34-year-old scion of the Yu family development empire built around Kumagai Gumi (Hong Kong) Ltd. Apart from being a director of the company, Ms. Yu also helps manage its hotel interests in China and runs her own chain of bakeries and restaurants here. "It's always the sons who inherit," said Ms. Yu, who is single, "but in our case, there was only a daughter."
And then there are the Chows, who while not tycoons in the grand Hong Kong sense, demonstrate the local entrepreneurial ethos. And yet, although there was an elder son, they turned to Jade to take control.
"My brother was helping out," Ms. Chow explained, "but I don't think he was happy. He couldn't deal with the problems of a manufacturing business. My brother was constantly worried about face, about keeping face. I'm not so concerned about face. If I make a wrong decision, I'll turn around and take it back."
With about $13 million in sales last year, and about 1,000 employees, Ms. Chow's Elegance Industrial Company -- which does not disclose its profits -- is among the largest silk garment manufacturers in Shenzhen, across the border in China. She brought her husband, David, into the company and he now runs its marketing operations.
But Ms. Chow, 32, said that if she were single, she probably would not have been easily lured back to the unglamorous life of running the family company.
"A large percentage of daughters don't want to run the family business even if they are given a chance," she explained. "All my friends are U.S.-educated and they aren't interested in the family business at all. The family business is not very glamorous, not something for a woman. If I wasn't married, I wouldn't be doing this. I mean, what's glamorous about running a silk garment factory in China?"

GRAPHIC: Photos: Jade Crow put her American career plans on hold when she was called home to Hong Kong to run her family's garment business. (Stephen Shaver for The New York Times)(pg. 1); Sally Aw Sian has expanded the Sing Tao newspapers, which she inherited. (Photographs by Stephen Shaver for The New York Times)(pg. 11)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (90%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); UNIVERSITY OF SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA (84%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: HONG KONG; HONG KONG (97%); UNITED STATES (94%); CHINA (93%); ASIA (90%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); SOUTH CHINA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); GUANGDONG, CHINA (57%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; PERSONAL FINANCES; WOMEN BUSINESS EDUCATION (90%); FAMILY COMPANIES (89%); FAMILY (89%); WOMEN (77%); MEN (77%); GARMENT WORKERS (74%); COLLEGE & UNIVERSITY PROFESSORS (73%); SPECIAL ECONOMIC ZONES (69%); APPAREL MFG (69%); ECONOMIC NEWS (68%); PERSONAL FINANCE (67%); LANDMINES (63%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (53%); AGING (52%); 

PERSON: AW SIAN, SALLY; CHOW, JADE; WANG, NINA; GARGAN, EDWARD A TEDDY WANG TEH-HUEI (94%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



371 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 5; Column 1; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 910 words

HEADLINE: THE NATION;
Why a Budget Deal Isn't Really a Big Deal

BYLINE: By DAVID E. SANGER 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
SO go figure: For more years than anyone can remember, Wall Street has been screaming that America's budget deficit is dangerously high, and the only way to save the nation from financial ruin -- and high interest rates -- is to balance the budget.
After a year of wrangling, Democrats and Republicans agreed to do exactly that in the next seven years. And what happened? Investors panicked over the fact that ideological arguments over the last few cuts have prevented a final deal, even though the disputes amount to less than two percent of the total Federal budget. For most of the week, they hit the sell button with a vengeance. 
 All this is a reminder of how easily the little picture can obscure the big one when Washington and Wall Street interact, especially in an age when the linkage between politician's jaws and trader's fingertips is tighter than ever. Certainly there is a lot riding on how Bill Clinton, Newt Gingrich and Bob Dole resolve their differences, charging ahead with deeper tax cuts (as the Republicans insist) or permitting Medicare and Medicaid some more room for growth, as the Democrats demand.
But for investors, as opposed to citizens, the outcome should be of little importance. In the cold calculus of the bond markets, it should make little difference whether the Government spends its resources on health care, helium reserves or hot dogs. The only thing that matters is whether revenues match expenses by an agreed upon date. As the Federal Reserve chairman, Alan Greenspan, has said, the biggest change in Washington is that a "culture of deficit reduction" has overtaken both parties.
 
Most Financing Is in Place
 Moreover, the numbers suggest that even if a complete deal is not struck, the economy is not likely to plunge off a cliff. Most of the biggest spending bills, enabling the Pentagon and other big Federal contributors to the national economy to order planes and supercomputers, have already been signed. The corners of the Government that have not yet been financed, including the Education, Commerce, Labor, State and Justice departments, accounted for about $125 billion in spending last year, a small slice of the $1.6 trillion Federal budget, and they could almost certainly operate all year on scaled-back "continuing resolutions."
Those resolutions would probably exclude programs President Clinton supports and Republicans despise, from "Goals 2000" to the Commerce Department's technology initiatives. But the best guess is that the economic impact would be, as one Administration official put it last week, "small potatoes on any national scale." Congress would most likely cut out $10 billion to $15 billion, not much in a $7 trillion economy.
"It is not the kind of crisis that would cause a big contraction of the economy," said David Hale, the chief economist for Kemper Financial Services of Chicago. "You might lose half a percentage point of G.N.P., once it all echoed through the economy. But it might not even be that severe."
This is, of course, the flip side to the much-discussed death of fiscal policy. In the age of the New Deal and the Great Society, the Government was able to spur the economy by spending heavily, and used that power to ease the effects of recessions. But now such spending -- building public housing or highways, retraining workers and investing in non-military research -- is so small that it can't help the economy in bad times nor slow it much when it is cut back even further.
So if the deficit is coming down and the economic impact of political gridlock is minimal, why is Wall Street so worried? A lot, of course, has to do with economic and political perceptions, which always move markets (and voters) more than statistical realities. The markets had optimistically assumed that there would be a deal. But investors underestimated the ideological gulf, and when that became apparent this week they mourned the might-have-beens: Interest rates might have fallen to historic lows, especially if Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin had been able to end his fiscal dance to sidestep national default.
And there is always the other side of the market dynamics: Some hope that the jump in interest rates and the fall in the stock markets might yet force an accord. Markets have scared politicians into deals before, and in this case Mr. Clinton is not eager to take risks with the economy in an election year, and Mr. Dole needs to look like a statesman. "If it was up to Dole himself," one of the budget negotiators said last week, "this would have been done weeks ago."
But when you talk to economists and corporate executives, there is also something else at work in the markets' edginess. Not to put too fine a point on it, nobody believes the seven-year economic assumptions on which all the balanced budget proposals rest.
Seven years, of course, is an economic eternity. In fact, so is one year. Respected economists surveyed by The New York Times last month about their predictions for 1996 gave answers that varied from a shrinkage of the gross domestic product of 1.1 percent -- a major recession -- to growth of 3 percent.
June O'Neill, the Republican-appointed head of the Congressional Budget Office, offered a revealing answer when asked recently how she came up with her numbers. "Well," she said, "we used a consensus figure from a number of economists for the first 18 months. After that, we just straight-lined it."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Striking Federal workers protesting the Government shutdown, left, were unhappy about the budget impasse, as was Senator Bob Dole, in South Carolina, right, who wants to look like a statesman in the Presidential race. (Associated Press)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: KEMPER FINANCIAL SERVICES INC (50%); MEDICARE (55%); MEDICAID (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (55%); MEDICAID (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (96%); SOUTH CAROLINA, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; UNITED STATES ECONOMY BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (91%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (89%); APPROPRIATIONS (78%); ECONOMIC CONDITIONS (78%); BONDS (78%); BANKING & FINANCE (77%); LEGISLATION (75%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); MEDICARE (70%); TAXES & TAXATION (69%); BOND MARKETS (68%); TAX LAW (67%); COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (67%); MEDICAID (66%); JUSTICE DEPARTMENTS (65%); INTEREST RATES (57%); ECONOMIC NEWS (57%); 

PERSON: SANGER, DAVID E BILL CLINTON (72%); ALAN GREENSPAN (58%); NEWT GINGRICH (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



372 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 13; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 692 words

HEADLINE: Foreign Affairs;
Sell Pols, Buy Bonds

BYLINE: By THOMAS L. FRIEDMAN 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
The tug-of-war between President Clinton and Newt Gingrich over a balanced budget entered a new, and fascinating, phase last week.
To understand what's going on, you have to understand this: Over the past decade global financial markets have grown more powerful than governments and have acquired the ability to move capital at lightening speeds from countries practicing bad economics to those practicing sound economics. This has forced political leaders to look over their shoulders at the global stock and bond markets and to worry constantly whether those markets are giving a thumbs up or a thumbs down to particular economic policies. Politicians know that a thumbs down means money could quickly flow out of their country, leading to soaring interest rates, falling stock prices and lost elections.
In the last week we saw this game taken to a whole new level. Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Clinton are no longer just looking over their shoulders at the bond and stock markets, they are actively trying to enlist these markets onto their sides in the budget negotiations, by uttering statements calculated to make these markets go up or down. In other words, the bond market, which was seen as a passive referendum on fiscal and monetary policies, is now being actively courted or provoked by politicians to gain advantage in a budget fight. 
 At the moment, the President and the Speaker are not playing to the New Hampshire or Iowa caucuses. They are playing to the Wall Street caucuses. We are now in what Goldman Sachs economic expert Robert Hormats calls, "the Lower Manhattan primary."
Here's the new game: Mr. Gingrich knows that if the markets dive, it will hurt Mr. Clinton much more than him, because a sitting President will ultimately be held responsible by the public for rising interest and mortgage rates, or declining stock values -- in an already weak economy. Mr. Clinton knows this too, and so his goal is to keep hope alive that a budget deal is just around the corner, in order to keep markets up and give himself room for maneuver. So on Wednesday Mr. Gingrich declared: "I am for the first time in a year pessimistic about the likelihood of getting an agreement. It may just be that we need one more election." Mr. Gingrich never mentioned a word about markets, but there was something about the deliberateness of his pessimistic message that made you know he was talking beyond voters directly to bond traders and all but screaming: SELL BONDS! Result: the Dow fell almost 100 points and interest rates soared.
So the next day I went to hear President Clinton's news conference, and I saw that same Dow Jonesy look in his eye, when he declared that a balanced budget deal was "within our grasp." Translation: Forget about Newt's pessimism. There will be a deal, interest rates will go down, so BUY BONDS! But minutes later, Mr. Gingrich was back trying to respin the market. Mr. Gingrich said of Mr. Clinton's press conference: "It does not give me much encouragement." Translation: KEEP SELLING BONDS!
Clinton political adviser James Carville once quipped that in his next life he wanted to come back as the bond market, because it was so powerful. It looks like Mr. Carville won't have to wait for his next life. Politicians are becoming the market. This is a case of life imitating money.
One certainly has to worry about the volatility effect on global markets that could result from U.S. politicians trying to spin them in the same cavalier manner they try to spin the public and the press. Then again, the bond market didn't become all-powerful by being all-stupid. It will only take a couple more rounds of this, if not less, before it catches on to what Mr. Gingrich and Mr. Clinton are up to, and goes back to focusing entirely on economic indicators, not calculated statements for its benefit.
Which is why the President and the Speaker would be well advised to recall that exchange in Shakespeare's "King Henry IV," when Glendower boasts to Hotspur: "I can call spirits from the vastly deep." And Hotspur responds: "Why, so can I, or so can any man. But will they come when you do call for them?"

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed

TICKER: GS (NYSE) (90%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS523930 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); NAICS523920 PORTFOLIO MANAGEMENT (90%); NAICS523110 INVESTMENT BANKING & SECURITIES DEALING (90%); SIC6289 SERVICES ALLIED WITH THE EXCHANGE OF SECURITIES OR COMMODITIES, NEC (90%); SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (90%); SIC6211 SECURITY BROKERS, DEALERS, & FLOTATION COMPANIES (90%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: GOLDMAN SACHS GROUP INC (90%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NEW HAMPSHIRE, USA (79%); IOWA, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: STOCKS AND BONDS; FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (92%); BONDS (91%); ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); US PRESIDENTIAL CANDIDATES 2012 (90%); SECURITIES TRADING (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); POLITICS (90%); PUBLIC POLICY (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); BOND MARKETS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTEREST RATES (89%); CAUCUSES (89%); BANKING & FINANCE (89%); ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (77%); ECONOMIC POLICY (76%); STOCK EXCHANGES (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (69%); MONETARY POLICY (69%); REFERENDUMS (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (67%); MORTGAGE LOANS (50%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES); GINGRICH, NEWT (SPEAKER); FRIEDMAN, THOMAS L BILL CLINTON (92%); NEWT GINGRICH (90%); THOMAS L FRIEDMAN (56%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



373 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1107 words

HEADLINE: For Many Japanese, Changes in the Government Seem to Bring No Real Change

BYLINE: By NICHOLAS D. KRISTOF 

DATELINE: TOKYO, Jan. 13

 BODY:
As the Japanese political system tries to absorb its eighth Prime Minister in seven years, the biggest challenge in the long run may come from unassuming young people like Kumiko Uematsu.
"Hashimoto?" Miss Uematsu asked the other day, pausing on a shopping excursion in Tokyo. "Who's he?" 
 Her friend, Seiko Ueda, also 16, looked scandalized at this display of ignorance. "Hashimoto!" Miss Ueda whispered, trying to cue her friend in. "Isn't he somebody who's hated by a lot of people?"
Informed that Ryutaro Hashimoto was the nation's new Prime Minister, the two looked unimpressed.
"We don't talk about politics at all," Miss Ueda explained. "There are lots more interesting things to chat about. Like boys."
The Japanese Government faces enormous disillusionment with politics, but it does not often take the form of wanting to "throw the bums out." Judging from conversations with random Japanese on the streets, the mood is not so much rage as a home-brew of anxiety, apathy and feelings that it is all irrelevant.
"I don't think it's going to make any difference in my life," said Yoshiaki Takimoto, a 21-year-old who works for a moving company.
His buddy Ryo Kubota, a university student, offered a similarly bleak view.
"I think they're mostly bad people," Mr. Kubota said. "There's not much hope, really."
The mood in the United States almost seems optimistic by contrast. The fury that Americans sometimes feel for Washington at least implies a hope that ousting incumbents might do some good. Japanese, in contrast, seem virtually to have given up hope.
"There isn't anybody with leadership ability," grumbled Hiroshi Sakurai, a 57-year-old hotel company executive. "Japanese politics seem to be quite backward and shameful."
Many Japanese complain that it makes no difference who is elected, a not-entirely-irrational conclusion based on the political circus of recent years. For decades the only real opposition to Government policies came from the Socialist Party, but then the party chairman, Tomiichi Murayama, became Prime Minister in 1994 and abandoned nearly all his policies so that nothing much changed.
Mr. Murayama resigned on Jan. 5 and effectively picked Mr. Hashimoto of the Liberal Democratic Party to be his replacement.
The Liberal Democratic Party had run Japan for most of the post-war era until voters became so disgruntled at its corruption and calcification that they ejected it in a landmark vote in 1993. Yet the Liberal Democrats managed to form a coalition with their traditional enemies, the Socialists, and so through deal-making they have recovered the Prime Minister's post without any new election.
Politics in Japan in recent decades has mostly been a struggle for power among factions, rather than a competition among people with different ideas. That has added to the perception that Japan is really being run by bureaucrats, and that politicians are kind of a second-tier imperial family -- granted fine titles and lots of television time, but entrusted with little power.
"Nothing ever changes even when the prime minister changes," said Tomoko Yagi, a 17-year-high school student. Her boyfriend, Takeshi Ishimura, also 17, looked increasingly puzzled as he listened to the conversation. Finally, he interrupted.
"Oh, did Murayama resign?" he asked. "I didn't know."
One of the most common complaints about politicians is that they are corrupt, taking kickbacks from construction companies, for example, in exchange for approving new public projects. That is said to be one reason why new bridges and railroad lines abound even when half the population lacks such basic services as a sewer hook-up.
The perception of widespread graft was intensified when Shin Kanemaru, a craggy-faced political power broker who at the time was arguably the most influential person in Japan, was discovered in 1993 with $50 million worth of gold bars, cash and bearer securities in his home.
Perhaps because most people are passively disaffected instead of passionately angry, there is no pressure for term limits or other populist steps that are gaining ground in the United States.
"If you had term limits, you would just get more movie stars and people like that," complained Chiharu Atsumi, a housewife. "There'd be no change."
Mrs. Atsumi said she was particularly indignant at the frequency with which seats in Parliament are passed down from father to son almost as hereditary titles -- another parallel with the royal family.
Mr. Hashimoto, for example, was elected to Parliament at 26 after the death of his father, who had filled the seat for many years. The leader of the opposition, Ichiro Ozawa, also inherited a seat from his father.
Overall, 31 percent of the members of Japan's lower house, from which the Prime Minister is chosen, are second-, third-, or even fourth-generation legislators. And in the Liberal Democratic Party, where real power lies, 48 percent of the seats are inherited.
The result is the rise of families of political power-brokers. Mr. Hashimoto's family has formed one such clan, with his younger brother serving as governor of Kochi Prefecture.
Often the clans, through strategic marriages, ally themselves with wealthy industrialists, creating a neat merger of financial and political resources. The result, critics often charge, is a modern version of the feudal lords who ruled parts of Japan a few centuries ago.
"Here in Japan only sons or daughters of a politician can become politicians," Mrs. Atsumi said, cheerfully exaggerating. "Even the police are connected and don't prosecute them.
"So even if citizens like me raise their voice," she concluded, "it doesn't make a difference."
Polls find comparatively low satisfaction in Japan in the way their democracy works. Only 35 percent of Japanese say they are satisfied with their democracy, one of the lowest figures in any industrialized country. In contrast, 64 percent of Americans say they are satisfied with American democracy.
Japanese seem filled with a vague anxiety about the future, deepened by last year's devastating earthquake and poison gas attacks. A poll last month for the Yomiuri Shimbun, a major newspaper, found that 83 percent of those interviewed were uneasy and dissatisfied with politics, economics and society.
So Mr. Hashimoto and other politicians are pledging change.
"We're facing the need to fundamentally restructure the system," Mr. Hashimoto declared at a news conference on Friday. But he has given no example of specific important changes, and the Cabinet members he chose are deeply tied to the very system that inspired the malaise.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); 

CITY: TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

COMPANY: MOVING CO LTD (67%); LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

ORGANIZATION: LIBERAL DEMOCRATIC PARTY (63%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: JAPAN; JAPAN (95%); UNITED STATES (93%); TOKYO, JAPAN (88%); 

SUBJECT: PUBLIC OPINION; POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT POLITICS (91%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); PRIME MINISTERS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (89%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); EXECUTIVES (62%); HOTELS & MOTELS (50%); 

PERSON: RYUTARO HASHIMOTO (85%); TOMIICHI MURAYAMA (63%); SEIKO UEDA (63%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



374 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 8; Column 1; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 964 words

HEADLINE: Bangladesh Facing an Election Crisis

BYLINE: By JOHN F. BURNS 

DATELINE: DHAKA, Bangladesh, Jan. 12

 BODY:
This South Asian country of 120 million people faces a deadline next week that may determine whether the shaky parliamentary democracy that has prevailed for the last five years continues or yields once more to the autocracy, military rule and political violence that have been Bangladesh's lot for 15 of its 25 years as an independent country.
After 22 months of political stalemate between the Government of Prime Minister Khaleda Zia and opposition parties, neither side has yielded in talks aimed at setting terms for a new parliamentary election. Under the Constitution, an election must be held by Feb. 22, and closing day for nominations for the 300 parliamentary seats is Jan. 18. 
 Mrs. Zia, 50-year-old widow of one of the two army generals who ruled here as President from 1975 to 1990, has twice put off the election date since the Parliament elected in 1991 ended its term in November.
Senior Government officials have said they are ready to hold an election without the opposition, a development that many here fear could lead to worsening violence and to intervention by the army.
In several weeks of talks mediated by the United States Ambassador, David N. Merrill, Mrs. Zia and her main political rival, Sheik Hasina Wazed, have failed to settle a dispute that has been marked by streets protests, general strikes, bombings and perhaps a score of deaths since an opposition walkout from Parliament in March 1994.
This week alone, Dhaka and the country's other main cities, including Chittagong, the main port, were virtually shut down for two days by a work boycott. With less than a week before election nominations close, foreign diplomats and prominent Bangladeshis who have sought to resolve the impasse are gloomy about the chances of a compromise.
"There's very little give and take," said a Bangladeshi who has been a go-between. "It just doesn't seem to be part of the political culture. And the level of personal mistrust is incredible."
Sheik Hasina, 48, has demanded that the elections be held under a neutral "caretaker" government, as in the 1991 voting, which was widely hailed as the fairest ever held in the country. Mrs. Zia has offered to step down before the polls, but has insisted that executive power in the election period rest with the figurehead President, Abdur Rahman Biswas, who was appointed by Mrs. Zia's Bangladesh National Party.
Antagonisms have been sharpened by the personal links Mrs. Zia and Sheik Hasina have to Bangladesh's violent past. Sheik Hasina is the daughter of Sheik Mujibur Rahman, regarded by many Bangladeshis as the country's founding father.
She was the only member of his immediate family who was not present on Aug. 16, 1975, when army officers assassinated Sheik Mujib, then the President, and 15 of his close relatives. Sheik Hasina remained abroad, mostly in India, until returning to contest and lose the 1991 election as leader of the Awami League party her father headed.
Mrs. Zia's husband, Gen. Ziaur Rahman, who was not related to Mujibur Rahman, took power with a military government after the assassinations, but was killed in 1981, also while serving as President, by dissident military officers.
A third woman at the center of the impasse, Raushan Ershad, is the wife of Hussain Mohammed Ershad, an army general who succeeded General Zia as President, resigned in 1990 and is now serving a 20-year jail term for corruption.
The impasse has imposed a heavy cost. The opposition parties, including a Muslim militant group, Jamaat-e-Islami, have called more than 30 days of general strikes in the last year, shutting down factories, transport and ports and setting back an economic surge that many had seen as the beginning of Bangladesh's ascent from poverty.
Although free-market reforms have generated growth, particularly in the garment industry, Bangladesh remains one of the world's poorest nations, with a per capita income of barely $250 a year.
The political risks were pressed home this week when Sheik Hasina led a rally in Dhaka that drew more than 100,000 people in commemorating the 25th anniversary of her father's triumphant return from jail in Pakistan, where he was held during the civil war that brought Bangladesh, formerly East Pakistan, into existence in December 1971.
At least three million people died in the brief conflict, and 10 million fled to India. But the euphoria passed as Sheik Mujib's Government became increasingly autocratic. By 1974, he had imposed a one-party system. When he was killed, many in Bangladesh celebrated.
Now, all the political leaders say they are trying to uphold democracy, but many Bangladeshis say the positions of the two main figures reflect a zeal for power.
"Our politicians think only about power, about their own greed," said Joynal Abedin, a 27-year-old shopkeeper here.
One major figure who has remained silent amid the growing turbulence is the army chief, Lieut. Gen. Abu Saleh Mohammed Nasim. Appointed last year by Mrs. Zia, General Nasim has avoided public comment on the political tensions, and diplomats believe that he, like other recent army chiefs, has a strong disinclination to involve the army in politics again, after the bruising experiences of the Zia and Ershad periods.
Some leaders of the Awami League seem to feel that their party has little to lose. If the Government goes ahead with the elections, they say, the strikes and protests will spread.
"What you will see will not be a whimper -- it will be a series of bangs," said Abu Hassan Chowdhury, an Oxford-educated lawyer who is a close aide to Sheik Hasina.
As for an army takeover, he said: "The world has changed. There aren't any sponsors for that kind of thing any more. Anyway, the army doesn't want to dirty its hands."

GRAPHIC: Photo: A dispute over impending parliamentary elections has created fears of social upheaval in Bangladesh. Sheik Hasina Wazed, center, leader of the opposition Awami League, has demanded that the elections be held under a neutral "caretaker" government. She attended a rally last week in Dhaka, the capital. (John Giannini for The New York Times)
 
Map of Dhaka, Bangladesh and surrounding area.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: BANGLADESH (99%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

CITY: DHAKA, BANGLADESH (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BANGLADESH; BANGLADESH (99%); ASIA (92%); INDIA (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); DHAKA, BANGLADESH (91%); 

SUBJECT: POLITICS AND GOVERNMENT; ELECTIONS ELECTIONS (90%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); POLITICS (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (90%); ARMIES (89%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); PRIME MINISTERS (78%); APPOINTMENTS (77%); DIPLOMATIC SERVICES (77%); PROTESTS & DEMONSTRATIONS (76%); VOTERS & VOTING (73%); BOMBINGS (72%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (71%); EMBASSIES & CONSULATES (71%); 

PERSON: ZIA, KHALEDA (PRIME MIN); BURNS, JOHN F HASINA WAZED (89%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



375 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 8; Column 5; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 903 words

HEADLINE: TENNIS;
Australian Open Gains More Clout and Seles To Its Lineup for 1996

BYLINE: By CHRISTOPHER CLAREY 

DATELINE: MELBOURNE, Australia, Jan. 13

 BODY:
A year ago, on the eve of the Australian Open, the women had no sponsor, no Monica Seles and equal prize money. A year ago, Pete Sampras was a gifted player with little hold on public sympathy, Andre Agassi still had some hair left on his head, and the only place Thomas Muster was considered No. 1 material was in his native Austria.
Much has changed in the last 12 months, and when all of the world's marquee players with the exception of Steffi Graf begin slugging it out on the rubberized hard courts at Flinders Park on Monday, even the Australian Open will be different. 
 Expansion has become the costly hallmark of Grand Slam tournaments in the 1990's, and since Agassi beat Sampras in last year's men's final, Flinders Park has nearly doubled in size with 11 new outside courts, a grassy square dominated by a mammoth video screen and additional meeting rooms and parking. While its retractable roof, built in 1987, remains the focal point, the new courts have shifted the tournament's principal backdrop from the adjacent cricket ground to the considerably more telegenic Melbourne skyline. "This means that Flinders Park is again the world leader," said Geoff Pollard, the president of Tennis Australia.
With the United States Open and Wimbledon busily building, such leadership will not last long, but Pollard will certainly settle for a form of parity with his wealthier counterparts. Long fourth in the Grand Slam pecking order and the only one compelled by economic necessity to have a title sponsor (Ford), the Australian Open is the biggest beneficiary of the three-year deal reached last fall with the ATP Tour.
That agreement gives extra weight to the Grand Slam events in the men's computer rankings, and more important for the Australian Open, all of the Slams are now worth the same number of points. In the past, the Australian was worth less than the others because it offered less prize money.
But before Australian Open officials could rejoice for long, they had a different problem on their hands. In order to meet the requirements of the agreement with the ATP, the tournament had to raise prize money for men significantly. Even though it succeeded, it did not raise it equally for the women, prompting threats of a boycott from some players.
Ultimately, Pollard held firm -- the women will receive roughly 90 percent of what the men receive -- and the boycott fizzled, in large part because of commitments made to the new WTA tour sponsor, Corel.
"All the players were upset, but there are better solutions than a boycott," said Mary Pierce, the defending champion here.
Clearly, the best solution to what has been ailing women's tennis is Seles, who returned to the tour last summer after more than two years away and instantly re-energized the public by winning in Toronto and pounding her way to the United States Open final, where she narrowly lost in three sets to Graf.
Seles did not play again in 1995 because of lingering tendinitis in her knee, torn ligaments in her right ankle and a virus. She debated withdrawing from this event -- which she has played in and won three times, in 1991, 1992 and 1993 -- because of the illness.
Though less than thrilled with her overall fitness, Seles was fit enough to reach the final of the tune-up event in Sydney without losing a set and was scheduled to meet Lindsay Davenport in Sunday's final.
Seles, seeded first at the Open, has a fine draw here, made even better by the absence of Graf, still recovering from surgery to remove bone splinters from her left foot. The only other members of the top 20 missing are No. 6 Magdalena Maleeva and No. 11 Jana Novotna. The most vulnerable of the stars in Melbourne is Pierce, who after dominating this tournament last year failed to reach the quarterfinals of another Grand Slam event. This year she has Lisa Raymond and Amanda Coetzer in her eighth of the draw, which could mean more early difficulties.
On the men's side, the favorites remain Sampras and Agassi, but neither has been trouble-free of late. Sampras, seeded No. 1, injured his right hamstring during the United States' emotional Davis Cup victory over Russia in December and arrived late here after being bed-ridden with the flu at home in Florida. Agassi, seeded No. 2 and defending champion, missed most of the fall season because of a badly strained chest muscle and has not played an official event at full strength since winning at Flushing Meadows.
"It's not ideal to come here without having played for a few months, but I think that, with my game, I can get through the first week and then get through the second week playing my best tennis," said Agassi, who, with head freshly shaven, will face the qualifier Gaston Etlis in the first round.
While Agassi remains a crowd favorite, Sampras is now a sentimental favorite in Melbourne after his emotional quarterfinal match last year against Jim Courier, which Sampras won despite shedding tears for his coach, Tim Gullikson, who had recently been diagnosed as having brain cancer. Gullikson did not make the trip to Australia this year.
The title is not all that will be at stake at Flinders Park. Muster, the reigning French Open champion, also has a chance to reach No. 1. Unlike Sampras and Agassi, Muster has no computer points to defend here, and if he wins or both Sampras and Agassi falter early, the top spot would be his.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Monica Seles has reached the final of the Australian Open's tune-up event, the Peters International in Sydney, without losing a set. (Reuters)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); 

STATE: VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (92%); 

CITY: MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (91%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: AUSTRALIA (94%); UNITED STATES (79%); AUSTRIA (72%); VICTORIA, AUSTRALIA (92%); MELBOURNE, AUSTRALIA (91%); SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TENNIS; AUSTRALIAN OPEN (TENNIS) TENNIS TOURNAMENTS (92%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); TENNIS (90%); SPORTS (90%); SPONSORSHIP (89%); TOURNAMENTS (89%); SPORTS SPONSORSHIP (78%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (77%); SPORTS & RECREATION FACILITIES & VENUES (75%); RANKINGS (71%); 

PERSON: CLAREY, CHRISTOPHER; SELES, MONICA ANN LIVERMORE (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



376 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 1; Column 2; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 2752 words

HEADLINE: PRO FOOTBALL;
Owners' New Strategy: Take the Team and Run

BYLINE: By RICHARD SANDOMIR 

 BODY:
As National Football League franchises race to find enough cash to pay ballooning player salaries, team owners are discovering that their ultimate reward is no longer a gaudy, diamond-bedecked Super Bowl ring.
Rather, it is financial tribute paid by cities eager to offer a rent-free stadium, erase all outstanding debts and unleash a geyser of cash from the sale of luxury boxes, club seats, food, concessions and parking. 
 With the Super Bowl two weeks away, the league that was once a paradigm of stability is in the grip of 1990's economics. Free agency requires vast new revenues. Teams with inadequate stadiums or unattractive leases hunt for fortunes. Cities seeking big-time status are willing to make owners happy with sweetheart deals.
The trend has made the unthinkable routine: In one year, the Browns said they will leave Cleveland for Baltimore, the Oilers will depart from Houston for Nashville and two teams left Southern California, the country's second-largest market.
And a raft of questions have been raised:
*How loyal can the league be to its fans?
*Will the league get Congressional protection from antitrust lawsuits that would let the league block franchise moves?
*Most important, how will the league mediate an economic clash between the collective good of a 30-team business that shares most of its revenues and the individual owner's right to increase his profits?
"This may be the biggest problem the league has ever faced," said Pete Rozelle, the N.F.L.'s former commissioner, who launched the league's big-money era with steadily increasing network television contracts. "It's very serious. The integrity of the league and its stability is hinged on local support."
Nothing illustrates the league's local roots better than the conflagration over Art Modell taking his Browns to Baltimore after 50 years in Cleveland.
Angry Browns fans have flooded the league with anti-Modell faxes, hanged the 70-year-old owner in effigy, compared him to one of the Three Stooges and taken their case to Congress and owners' meetings. Modell's vilification, including death threats, forced him into self-exile in his Florida condominium.
On Wednesday, N.F.L. owners are scheduled to vote on the move. But a postponement is likely because the Feb. 12 start of a city lawsuit that asks a court to force the team to stay in Cleveland until its lease ends after the 1998 season.
The Browns' move speaks loudest among all relocation questions.
Can the Chicago Bears seriously leave the Second City for Gary, Indiana? Will the Arizona Cardinals, who began life in Chicago, shifted to St. Louis, then left for Tempe, fill the N.F.L.'s void in Los Angeles? Or will it be the Seattle Seahawks or the Tampa Bay Buccaneers? And will the Cincinnati Bengals, whose founder, Paul Brown, created the Browns in his name, find financial solace in, of all places, Cleveland?
The map of the sports world, once reliably neat, begs near-daily revision. But the myriad routes described by all actual and possible moves lead to one place: a bank vault.
Still, this is about more than a mad dash for cash. If athletes' free agency has frayed bonds between stars and teams, as well as players and fans, then franchise free agency imperils the years of emotion, loyalty and money that fans invest, often to extremes, in their local teams.
Marc Ganis, president of Sportscorp Ltd., a Chicago-based sports consulting group that worked on the Oakland and St. Louis moves, said: "It's a free market. The Rams, Raiders and Oilers moves are all based on lack of fan support. The Browns move, which was based on the owner's financial distress, may be the anomaly that kills opportunities for other teams by getting Congress involved."
In Cleveland, Browns fans -- including the end-zone Dawgs -- turned out 70,000 a game in good times and bad. For their loyalty, they have been rewarded with the loss of their team.
"If this can happen in Cleveland," said Mayor Michael R. White, "there is no safe franchise in America."
 
It's N.F.L. That Has The Achilles' Heel
 The epidemic of franchise shifts is greatest in the N.F.L. but is felt elsewhere, especially in the National Hockey League. H. Wayne Huizenga has vowed to sell his deficit-riddled Florida Panthers if Broward County doesn't offer a new arena financing plan by Feb. 1. The Winnipeg Jets are going to Phoenix. The Nordiques left Quebec for Denver, and the former five-time Stanley Cup champion Oilers may flee Edmonton.
Shielded by its antitrust exemption, major league baseball has the power to block franchise moves and has not had one since since 1972.
Franchise stability characterizes the National Basketball Association where the sport's flush economy has made it wise for some owners to build their own arenas.
"Sports fans like stability," said Russell Granik, the N.B.A.'s deputy commissioner. "Fans of local teams like it, and fans of a league like to know where the teams are."
But it is the N.F.L. -- with owners saying they need more money for player salaries and bonuses and theleague itself unable to enforce its own relocation bylaws -- that has turned out to be the most susceptible to franchise moves. Without a great new influx of revenue from stadiums, teams feel they cannot compete.
"All teams in stadiums more than five or 10 years old are in play now," said Leigh Steinberg, the player agent who led a failed drive to keep the Rams from moving. "Plenty more smaller markets can get in. If Jacksonville, the No. 55 market, can have a team, so can Columbus," which ranks 34th.
Although many cities will keep their teams after finding the financing to build new stadiums, there could still be more moves. Rick Horrow, the N.F.L.'s facility development consultant, said that 18 of its 30 stadium situations are "unsettled" and 16 of the teams' leases will expire by 2006.
"Over a short period of time, this will be resolved," he said. "It's not as bleak as some would say."
But there is a grimmer view. Recently, Senator John Glenn, Democrat of Ohio, who has sponsored legislation that would keep the Browns in Cleveland, said of the N.F.L. situation: "It's chaos that is eroding the sport." And, in a reference to the N.F.L. commissioner, he added: "Paul Tagliabue doesn't control the league."
 
Who's in Charge? It's a Good Question
The legal question facing the league is how much control can it exert over where a team plays. At the moment, the answer is none, because of a Federal court's decision that backed the Oakland Raiders' right to move to Los Angeles in 1982, despite the league's opposition. "I realized then franchise relocation would be a big issue, but I didn't know how massive it would become," Rozelle said.
Modell may fall short of the 23 yes votes required to approve a move -- which may not matter -- but one voice in favor will be Wellington Mara's. The Giants' co-owner said he was dismayed over the league's refusal to face down an antitrust suit threatened by Missouri if the league had halted the Rams' move.
In the Rams' matter, a league veto of 21 votes against, 3 for and 6 abstentions turned to a 23-6-1 blessing one month later when the team increased its relocation fee to the league from $25 million to $46 million.
"We hurt our legal position by yielding," Mara said. "I voted against the Rams' move because I was voting to uphold our constitution. We had an absolute right to keep teams from moving. But we damaged ourselves."
Although Missouri's Attorney General never sued the league, the St. Louis Convention and Visitors Commission did. The commission filed suit for having to pay $20 million of the team's relocation fee.
The commission was unhappy that the Raiders returned to Oakland last summer without paying the league anything, while the Raiders were steamed that the N.F.L. wanted the team to share some of the new revenue it will get from returning to its ancestral home. The team built in the image of Al Davis, its managing partner, again challenged the legality of the league's relocation bylaws as it did more than a decade ago. Then, the Raiders' court victory cost the league $50 million. This time, the Raiders sued for $200 million.
Knowing that the relocation bylaws are meaningless, Tagliabue is pressing Congress to pass an exemption from the antitrust laws that would shield the league from lawsuits by teams, cities or states.
"If not for our antitrust exposure, the Rams' move would have been blocked," he told a Senate antitrust subcommittee in November.
But Mayor Bob Lanier of Houston, who is watching his city's Oilers leave for a munificent Nashville deal he could not match, distrusts an exemption unless it forces a quick expansion back into cities whose teams have already left.
"It's like the fox asking to guard the henhouse," Lanier said. "The fox tells the chicken, 'I'm good; I won't eat you,' and the chicken says, 'It makes me nervous with all those chicken feathers slurping out of your mouth.' "
When cities woo teams, they use all their financial wiles: lotteries, sales taxes, levies on parking, alcohol, car rentals and cigarettes. They will pass new taxes, extend old ones and reallocate money from one pocket to another. They will guarantee payment of the bonds if the forecasted revenue falls short.
Teams will contribute in their way, without really paying, by dedicating certain stadium revenue, like luxury suite rentals, to the cause. Actually, they are fan payments.
 
The Seat Is Yours, If You Buy a License
But the most intriguing form of financing is the permanent, or personal, seat license. P.S.L.'s are advance payments by fans for the right to buy season tickets. Essentially, they are money raised from thin air. But they make for powerful tools, having been part of the bounty used in the Raiders, Rams, Oilers, Browns and Panthers' packages. The total expected to be raised from P.S.L. sales in those cities: $450 million.
P.S.L. prices range from $250 each in St. Louis to $5,400 each in Charlotte. The charges are onetime, but Oakland's P.S.L.'s require annual fees of $50 to $75, and expire in 2006, six years before the Raiders' lease expires, to allow reselling them.
P.S.L.'s can be resold to whomever the holder desires. A 40-year, $1,000 Texas Stadium license -- sold to build the Cowboys' home in 1968 -- has sold for as much as $15,000.
Critics of the P.S.L. say it provides one more way for team owners to avoid having to pay for a stadium and is an onerous extra charge to fans. The Raiders' ownership will pocket $22 million, said Ezra Rapport, Oakland's deputy city manager.
"No matter how they dress it up, it's unseemly at its best, extortion at its worst," said Bob Costas, the NBC sportscaster, who lives in St. Louis and watched the marketing of Rams' P.S.L.'s, which paid off the team's debt in Anaheim and $20 million of the league-relocation fee.
Proponents say P.S.L.'s reduce public costs and, Tagliabue said in a recent league publication, "make the fans partners with their teams."
That logic has not been lost on buyers in the Carolinas and St. Louis who clamored to buy the P.S.L.'s. The Nashville P.S.L.'s went on sale last week.
 
Does a City Benefit? Some Have Doubts
Cities and states justify their ardent romancing of teams for the so-called economic impact they generate. Studies they commission testify to tens of millions in annual impact created from sales taxes and other activities at games, salaries paid to players and spending at hotels and restaurants.
A debate has developed over whether a team generates new spending or merely diverts money that would be spent on other leisure pursuits. "Lots of cities say they believe in economic impact because they can't take the chance there isn't one," said Robert Baade, an economist at Lake Forest College.
In Baltimore, a football stadium inhabited by the Browns would generate $123 million in new economic activity and $17 million in new local taxes, estimates the Maryland Stadium Authority, which built Oriole Park at Camden Yards.
"It is a legitimate government investment to put up these facilities," said John A. Moag Jr., chairman of the Maryland Stadium Authority, who personally wooed Modell. "Cities have spent money to entertain their citizens since the Greeks."
The cities admit that their sporting intentions, although with some basis in economics, are designed more to boost civic ego, expand the city's name recognition, encourage business relocation and get a big-league feel.
"We did an image study of how C.E.O.'s and relocation consultants view cities, and their perception of cities with pro sports was different," said Denny Bottorff, chairman of T.E.N.N.F.L., which is marketing the Nashville P.S.L.'s and luxury suites.
Al Kerth, a spokesman for Fans Inc., which wooed the Rams to St. Louis, said: "Economically, you're better off with a bank or a factory. The impact of a team is minimal, but buys a lot of emotional impact."
 Would the municipal executives luring teams with all manner of incentives work as feverishly to satisfy other types of businesses with tax abatements, low-interest loans and other sweeteners?
Of course, said Chris Warren, economic director for the city of Cleveland. He points to myriad projects that White's administration has moved rapidly to help, including one to bring a small biopharmaceutical firm from the Baltimore suburb of Gaithersburg to a new business park in Cleveland.
Coincidentally, the company, MedImmune, is being wooed to stay put with a package of incentives from Maryland. Would MedImmune make Cleveland its choice if the Browns stay? Mark Kauffman, a MedImmune executive, said: "No. A good health-care infrastructure is a lot more important."
In Houston, Lanier was unwilling to sacrifice much to keep the Oilers from moving and is not sorry. He opposed using taxpayer money or giving the Oilers tax abatements. "It's unjustifiable as economic development," he said.
The team accuses Lanier of presenting a viable stadium plan paid for without taxes only after the team owner, Bud Adams, signed his deal with Nashville. Apparently delighted to wave the Oilers goodbye, Lanier suggested that the Oilers be renamed the Nashville Welfare Mothers.
 
Keep an Eye On Cincinnati
 In today's market, the moving motive is easy: to make more money.
But free agency, accompanied by a steadily increasing salary cap that allows for huge signing bonuses, has made financial management precarious for teams that have chintzy leases or outmoded stadiums.
Although some observers believe there is a growing division between haves and have-nots in the league, N.F.L. officials play down the increasing anarchy.
They have called the relocation frenzy a result of the sport's growing popularity, the aggressiveness of cities that want teams and team owners' restless hunt for new revenue.
"I don't think greed is the issue at all," said Neil Austrian, the N.F.L.'s president. "If you can't sign players, if you don't have the capital available for signing bonuses, if you continually can't be a winner, nobody wants to stay in the league."
In Cincinnati, Mike Brown is not hollering that he will take his Bengals to Cleveland or any other city eager to satisfy his needs. But he might. His tale illustrates the situation of small market teams that need more money to compete in a league where wealthier owners are lavishing players with enormous bonuses.
"Our stadium seats 55,000; the league average is 66,000," Brown said. "We have 20 luxury boxes; the average is 108. We have no room for club seating. We don't get the revenues other teams do. We're the league's 31st largest market. The salary cap is going up faster than we can generate revenues."
A March 19 local referendum on a sales-tax increase to pay for stadiums for the Bengals and the Reds is crucial to Brown's decision to stay.
Brown says he had "the same opportunity" with Baltimore before the Browns did, which prompted a petition-signing drive for the March referendum.
He insisted that he is not seeking the best stadium deal in the league or meeting covertly with other cities. He wants to remain economically viable during the N.F.L.'s most volatile time ever. And if voters reject the tax?
"What we will say if the Doomsday scenario comes upon us we will save for Doomsday," Brown said. "If we lose, we know we cannot maintain ourselves under the current league structure. We wouldn't be profitable for long."

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%); 

CITY: CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

COMPANY: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); CLEVELAND BROWNS; HOUSTON OILERS; LOS ANGELES RAMS SECOND CITY COMMUNICATIONS (50%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (83%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (83%); ST LOUIS RAMS (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (NFL); CLEVELAND BROWNS; HOUSTON OILERS; LOS ANGELES RAMS NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); NATIONAL FOOTBALL LEAGUE (94%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (83%); TENNESSEE OILERS (83%); HOUSTON OILERS (83%); CLEVELAND BROWNS (83%); ST LOUIS RAMS (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CLEVELAND (OHIO); BALTIMORE (MD); HOUSTON (TEX); NASHVILLE (TENN); ; LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (94%); OHIO, USA (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); TENNESSEE, USA (92%); TEXAS, USA (90%); MARYLAND, USA (87%); FLORIDA, USA (79%); INDIANA, USA (79%); ARIZONA, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (65%); CLEVELAND, OH, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); NASHVILLE, TN, USA (92%); HOUSTON, TX, USA (90%); BALTIMORE, MD, USA (87%); TAMPA, FL, USA (79%); GARY, IN, USA (79%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (65%); CINCINNATI, OH, USA (50%); 

SUBJECT: FOOTBALL; RELOCATION OF BUSINESS AMERICAN FOOTBALL TOURNAMENTS (90%); SPORTS & RECREATION EVENTS (90%); SPORTS TEAM OWNERSHIP (90%); STADIUMS & ARENAS (90%); AMERICAN FOOTBALL (90%); SPORTS (90%); WAGES & SALARIES (78%); RESIDENTIAL CO-OWNERSHIP (78%); DELAYS & POSTPONEMENTS (76%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (75%); TRENDS (74%); RELOCATIONS (74%); SUITS & CLAIMS (72%); LITIGATION (71%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (70%); NETWORK TELEVISION (63%); ANTITRUST & TRADE LAW (52%); 

PERSON: SANDOMIR, RICHARD ALVIN RAY 'PETE' ROZELLE (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



377 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 27; Column 2; Metropolitan Desk; Second Front

LENGTH: 1468 words

HEADLINE: City Is Safer, Rising Number Of People Say;
Attitudes Catching Up To 2-Year Fall in Crime

BYLINE: By CLIFFORD KRAUSS 

 BODY:
Two years ago, the McDonald's in Flatbush might as well have hoisted a white flag alongside the flags of Barbados, Grenada, Panama and Puerto Rico that wave from its roof. Drug dealers and their buyers gathered outside the restaurant at Parkside and Ocean Avenues and scared off the customers.
But now, said Ade McCullum, 22, the restaurant's manager, "we don't see the deadbeats and junkies anymore." As a result of increased police patrols, he said, "sales are up 10 to 15 percent in the last six months." 
 A mile and a half away, Carole DeBeer, the owner of Etc., a boutique on Seventh Avenue in Park Slope, said she had noticed that customers who once fretted to her about their safety have found other topics of conversation. "I hear less about burglaries, or even car thefts," Ms. DeBeer said. "And when I walk to work, I don't see the broken car-window glass on the sidewalks as often."
Mr. McCullum and Ms. DeBeer live and work in very different corners of Brooklyn, he in a neighborhood of immigrants whose tenements are splashed with graffiti and redolent of curry and ginger, and she in a neighborhood of young professionals and graceful brownstones accented by groomed gardens. But their shared view that life in New York is getting safer is apparently becoming more common, as public attitudes finally catch up with statistics that for the last two years have shown a sharp decrease in the rate of murders, muggings, car thefts and burglaries. Of course, attitudes about crime and safety develop in a variety of ways and often reflect whether the person has been a crime victim or knows someone who has.
Indeed, conversations with about 60 people over the last month in Flatbush and Park Slope elicited a wide range of responses, from the view of Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani as miracle worker to the opinion that the recent multiple slayings at a Harlem clothing store and a Bronx shoe store were evidence that crime remained out of control.
Crime and New Yorkers' fears about it have always been a central part of life in the city, often shaping its politics and the most basic daily decisions, like where to live, park or stand on a subway platform. People in Flatbush and Park Slope said they still worried about crime, but most of those interviewed said they had noticed a significant difference in the safety of their neighborhoods, and a few even said the difference had prompted them to change their lives in small but important ways.
A senior at Brooklyn College, who asked to remain unidentified, said that in the last few months she has begun to summon the courage to venture off campus to eat lunch in Flatbush. A day-care center operator said she was now willing to take the children she cares for out to play in Prospect Park because she no longer saw crack vials there.
Annie Williams, a 48-year-old unemployed woman living on Woodruff Avenue in Flatbush, said she had begun to leave her apartment door unlocked when she took a short walk.
"When you've seen as many children shot in these buildings since the 1980's as I have," Ms. Williams said, "you have to be grateful crime is down."
Mary Ann Albano, manager of the William B. May Real Estate brokerage firm office in Park Slope, said she thought changing perceptions had helped her business. "Two to three years ago, people were moving out to Westchester, Connecticut and New Jersey because of crime," she said. Now, she added, many people who are selling their co-ops are staying in the neighborhood and buying larger apartments.
Public officials, like Ruth W. Messinger, the Manhattan Borough President, and Richard A. Brown, the Queens District Attorney, have noted that the subject of crime has receded at town hall meetings, to be replaced by concerns like education and budget cuts.
"People are beginning to say what was unthinkable four years ago," said the Brooklyn District Attorney, Charles J. Hynes, "that things are beginning to look good for the safety of their neighborhoods."
Still, the slowly changing perceptions only partly reflect the degree to which the rate of reported crime has dropped in recent years -- to levels not seen in more than two decades. In the 70th Precinct, covering Flatbush and Kensington, there were 27 fewer murders in 1995 than in 1993, for a total of 19. The numbers of shooting victims, burglaries, car thefts and robberies decreased by 40 percent or more in each category.
In the adjacent 78th Precinct, which covers Park Slope and Prospect Park and where there is more property crime than violent crime, the changes were almost as large in the same period. Robbery was down by 36 percent, auto theft by 32 percent, first-degree rape by 50 percent, burglary by 27 percent and felony assault by 19 percent.
Nevertheless, recent polls continue to show a high level of fear in New York, while lengthy interviews indicate that people's feelings about crime are often complex and contradictory.
"I don't know if crime is down or not," said Joseph Shamie, 30, owner of the Dima department store on Flatbush Avenue, where 18 Polaroid pictures of shoplifters over the front door aid a security guard who checks packages of exiting customers. But, he added, "Since Giuliani came into office there is much more police presence, and that makes people feel better."
Israel Roman, a 54-year-old plumber who lives on Dorchester Avenue, said he knew crime was going down because he read about it in the newspapers. But he remembers when two police officers were shot two blocks from his apartment in 1993. And he said he still has not recovered from the trauma of being robbed at gunpoint of $300 on Flatbush Avenue last year.
Mr. Roman worries that crime will rise if the economy worsens. "I heard that in Westchester a man who was laid off shot his manager in an auto-parts store," he said. "People got to survive."
Mary Elmer-DeWitt, a 44-year-old Park Slope photographer, said her Sixth Avenue brownstone had been burglarized five years ago and again three years later. As a result, she worries. "It feels a little bit safer," she said. "There's more cops on the beat, that's for sure."
But speaking over tea while waiting for her groceries to be delivered, she added, "It could all change tomorrow." Now that her 10-year-old daughter, Lizzy, walks home from school by herself, she said, "I feel more vulnerable."
Margaret Nuzum, president of the board of School District 15, which includes Park Slope, said that, while people in the neighborhood "do feel a little bit safer," parents were concerned that increasing class size would worsen discipline problems in the public schools.
Perhaps because violent crime is more prevalent in Flatbush than in Park Slope, some Flatbush residents appear to feel the drop more. The gritty block of Woodruff Avenue between Church and Flatbush Avenues was a shooting gallery of drugs and bullets until late last year, but then an abandoned four-story building used as a crack house was taken over by a bank in a foreclosure.
Now night attendance at the Calvary Pentecostal Church across the street is up, shopkeepers say they feel safer and more children are attending the Happy Child Day Care Center.
"Over the last year, I haven't felt that feeling of apprehension," said Leolin Schleifer, 51, the director of the day-care center. An immigrant from the island of Saint Vincent, Ms. Schleifer said she was leaning toward voting for Mr. Giuliani in 1997 because of his record on crime after voting against him in 1993.
The mood was less upbeat at a recent community meeting on crime attended by 75 Park Slope residents at the United Methodist Church. While many people complimented the police for bringing down crime, others complained about graffiti, disrespectful police officers and homeless people who harassed passers-by.
Some suggested that these relatively minor complaints showed that the community was redefining its concerns about security and the quality of life. But others, particularly residents living between Third and Fifth Avenues, said they felt little or no change and complained that they did not see beat officers often enough.
"Where I live there is a very low amount of violence, but there are beginning to be outbreaks of prostitution," said Ben Meskin, a 35-year-old lawyer who lives on Third Avenue.
"The crimes that bother us are not down," said Carmelita Blake, a college teacher. "We're upset about noise and nervous about our cars."
Countering the complaints, Capt. Richard J. Rosa, the commander of the 78th Precinct, presented charts that showed that almost all categories of violent and property crime in the neighborhood were at levels not seen since the administration of Mayor John V. Lindsay. "Utopia is a fairyland," he said, "but in 1996 we're going to try to get there."

GRAPHIC: Photos: Joseph Shamie, a department-store owner in Flatbush, Brooklyn, feels an increased police presence helps reassure residents. Carole DeBeer, who owns a Park Slope boutique, says her customers no longer fret about safety. (Photographs by Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 27); Leolin Schleifer, director of the Happy Child Day Care Center, says she no longer feels apprehensive about crime and is leaning toward voting for Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani in 1997 because of his record on crime. (Edward Keating/The New York Times) (pg. 28)
 
Charts: Showing two precincts and the number of crimes over the last two years. (New York City Police Department) (pg. 27)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: MCD (NYSE) (84%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS722211 LIMITED-SERVICE RESTAURANTS (84%); SIC5812 EATING PLACES (84%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); BARBADOS (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (95%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

COMPANY: MCDONALD'S CORP (84%); FLATBUSH&PARK SLOPE (88%); 

ORGANIZATION: FLATBUSH&PARK SLOPE (88%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (95%); BARBADOS (92%); NEW YORK, USA (95%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (95%); 

SUBJECT: CRIME AND CRIMINALS; MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; ROBBERIES AND THEFTS; PUBLIC OPINION CRIME RATES (91%); VEHICLE THEFT (88%); BURGLARY (88%); CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES CRIME (77%); RESTAURANTS (77%); RETAILERS (75%); VANDALISM (74%); SHOE STORES (69%); VIOLENT CRIME STATISTICS (69%); MURDER (69%); CITY LIFE (69%); CLOTHING & ACCESSORIES STORES (69%); CITIES (67%); 

PERSON: KRAUSS, CLIFFORD RUDY GIULIANI (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



378 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 8; Page 7; Column 4; Sports Desk 

LENGTH: 1191 words

HEADLINE: BASEBALL: NOTEBOOK;
Hmm . . . Salaries Are Unchanged

BYLINE: By MURRAY CHASS 

 BODY:
In trying to determine the direction salaries have taken this off season, consider the raise Al Leiter received in moving from the Toronto Blue Jays to the Florida Marlins, $795,000 for one year to $8.6 million for three years. On the other hand, consider the cut Jose Oquendo took in remaining with the St. Louis Cardinals, from a four-year, $8.5 million contract to a minor league contract that will pay him $250,000 in the majors.
Leiter and Oquendo are 2 of 138 players who became free agents in November and 2 of 99 who since have signed new contracts. The negotiating experience of that group shows that salaries are not plummeting, but then, they are not soaring either. 
 Those 99 players have new contracts whose signing bonuses and major league salaries total $367,580,000 for 160 years. Their contracts that expired at the end of last season earned them $407,321,153 over 169 years, including $12,946,153 in performance and award bonuses.
Subtracting the earned bonuses -- under the new contracts, many players have similar bonus provisions and can earn more than their salaries -- the annual average value of the old contracts per player was $2,333,580. The annual average of the new contracts per player is $2,297,375, only a 1.6 percent drop.
"On balance, it's come out about what I would have thought, maybe a little higher in some respects," Bud Selig, the acting commissioner, said. "Nothing has really stunned me over all. There are some individual contracts that have startled me, but that's always the case."
Selig declined to single out any contracts, but the deals that have raised the most eyebrows include Leiter (the Marlins had stiff competition from the Baltimore Orioles, who were prepared to pay the same price), Kenny Rogers (the Yankees were bidding against themselves), Jose Canseco (ditto the Boston Red Sox) and Rick Aguilera (Minnesota gave him $9 million for three years to be a starting pitcher after six years of relieving).
The Yankees' five-year, $20 million contract for Tino Martinez also has raised serious questions, but he is not included in this group because he is not a free agent and can't be for two more years (exactly the point, cry critics of the contract).
Selig, who as the owner of the Milwaukee Brewers admits to having signed a questionable contract or two himself over the years, said that "quite a few" clubs probably spent more money than they might have last year because of the revenue they will receive from the new $1.7 billion television package.
But he rejected the idea that the clubs' spending has given players reason to be skeptical about the owners' demands for a payroll tax.
"Many have said that," he said. "However, I think this year it's absolutely not the case. I think that the spending habits of most clubs is pretty indicative of the economic situation they find themselves in."
He was suggesting that few teams have spent lots of money. One that has has been the Marlins, whose owner, Wayne Huizenga, was outspoken during the strike about the need for some kind of cap or tax system.
Asked about that seeming contradiction, Selig said, "Every club going in knows what they did last year, knows the anticipated revenue and makes their own decisions."
In dissecting the signings and comparing the players' new contracts with their old, one major factor is their circumstances at the time of signing. When Oquendo, for example, signed his $8.5 million contract in February 1991, he had been a regular infielder for three seasons, averaging 156 games. But now he is five years older, 32, and he averaged 51 games a season during the four-year contract.
Mike Stanley, for another example, had the opposite experience. When he signed a three-year contract with the Yankees in November 1992, he never had been a regular catcher. As a subsequent starter, he blossomed into one of the best hitting catchers in the majors. So the $2.3 million he is guaranteed for one year with the Red Sox exceeds the $2.2 million he earned the past three years with the Yankees.
Of the 99 free agents who have signed, if earned bonuses are excluded from their average annual pay, 46 have signed for increases, 44 for cuts and 9 for the same salary. Forty players have signed multiyear contracts (option years not included) this time compared with 37 the last time they signed contracts.
The most notable difference is in the number of players who have signed minor league contracts with provisions for major league salaries if they win major league jobs. Seven of the 97 signed such contracts the last time, but 25 have this off season.
 
 
 
Ordonez in the Doghouse?
 Word is circulating among front-office people from other clubs that the Mets are down on Rey Ordonez, supposedly their shortstop of the future, and are prepared to trade him. But General Manager Joe McIlvaine said neither element of the circulating report is true.
"I don't agree with the premise," McIlvaine said, meaning he didn't think Ordonez had become a problem player. Was he trying to trade him? "No," he replied, "absolutely not."
An official of another club, who thinks Ordonez is a good player, said the Mets are "raving" about him but added, "They're really trying to move him." The Mets, the official said, are good at selling their players when they want to create a market for them.
Ordonez, a Cuban defector, played for Norfolk in the International League last season and missed two weeks in August when he went home to Miami.
"There was a point where he went home for something and stayed longer than he was supposed to have stayed," McIlvaine acknowledged. "It was brought to his attention. I don't know if 'read the riot act' is right, but he was told about it and there weren't any reoccurrences."
Ordonez led Norfolk in games played with 125 and batted a disappointing .214. But in the recently concluded Puerto Rican winter league, he batted .351, squandering the league lead in the last few days and losing the batting title to Roberto Alomar, who batted .358.
 
 
 
La Russa's Reunions
 Earlier in the off season, the Oakland Athletics, Tony La Russa's old team, and the St. Louis Cardinals, his new team, were close to making a 9- or 10-player trade. The Cardinals were to get Dennis Eckersley, Todd Stottlemyre and Mike Bordick and send the Athletics six or seven players, mostly minor league prospects.
The deal did not come off, partly because the Cardinals were trying to sign Craig Biggio and Mark Grace as free agents and partly because they apparently had second thoughts about the players they would have to give up.
Instead, on Dec. 14, the Cardinals sent three players not in the "prospect" category to San Francisco for shortstop Royce Clayton, ending their interest in Bordick. Then, last Tuesday, they made a deal with the A's, acquiring Stottlemyre for an outfielder and three pitchers who were high draft choices within the last three years. All four players would have been in the big trade had it been made.
A trade for Eckersley could come later, if the Cardinals decide their young pitchers can't handle the closer's role.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (73%); UNITED STATES (73%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

COMPANY: KENNY ROGERS ROASTERS (53%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%); FLORIDA MARLINS (84%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%); FLORIDA MARLINS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (58%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (58%); 

ORGANIZATION: TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%); FLORIDA MARLINS (84%); TORONTO BLUE JAYS (84%); FLORIDA MARLINS (84%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (58%); ST LOUIS CARDINALS (58%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CANADA (73%); UNITED STATES (73%); ONTARIO, CANADA (73%); FLORIDA, USA (73%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (52%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); BOSTON, MA, USA (52%); 

SUBJECT: BASEBALL; FREE AGENTS (SPORTS); WAGES AND SALARIES; LABOR BASEBALL (92%); WAGES & SALARIES (91%); BONUS PAY (78%); CONTRACTS & BIDS (76%); CONTRACTS LAW (76%); 

PERSON: CHASS, MURRAY BUD SELIG (54%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



379 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 1; Metropolitan Desk 

LENGTH: 1120 words

HEADLINE: THE BLIZZARD OF 1996: THE OVERVIEW;
Melting Snow in Northeast Has Nowhere to Go but Into Homes

BYLINE: By ROBERT D. McFADDEN 

 BODY:
After a week of savage storms that crippled government, commerce and travel across New York and the Northeast, golden sunshine and almost springlike warmth spread a watery new havoc across the region yesterday. Melting mountains of snow flooded wide areas, while homes and businesses suffered a plague of leaking roofs and collapses.
As temperatures climbed into the 40's and remnants of the Blizzard of '96 receded, life was limping back to normal for millions who had been snowbound, stranded or trapped in nightmarish commutes. Airports and roads were generally open, trains were nearly back on schedule and cleanup efforts were progressing on many fronts. 
 But from Maryland to Maine, the roofs of dozens of businesses, barns and other structures collapsed on Friday and yesterday under the weight of accumulated snow and freezing rain, and government agencies in New Jersey, Rhode Island and Massachusetts were warning that flat-roofed structures might still cave in.
In the New York area, a 40-foot section of wall at a National Guard armory in Teaneck, N.J., collapsed yesterday, apparently under the pressure of tons of snow and ice on the roof. At least 14 people were injured Friday evening when the roof of a Waldbaum's supermarket in Massapequa, L.I., fell in. They were the latest of a dozen collapsed roofs in the metropolitan area in recent days.
And yesterday, New Jersey joined New York on the list of states declared eligible for Federal disaster aid by President Clinton.
As sanitation crews in New York City planned to make their first garbage pickups today, after a week of grappling with snow instead, Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani said at a City Hall news conference that 14,000 miles of city streets had been plowed during the emergency.
The Mayor, who had estimated city costs for overtime, contracts and storm-fighting equipment at $30 million, raised the figure yesterday. "It'll take us a couple of weeks to really estimate the full cost to the city," he said, "but it'll range from $35 million to $40 million; it could go as high as $50 million."
Mr. Giuliani welcomed the announcement that New York had been declared a disaster area and thus was eligible for Federal reimbursement of some of the costs of clearing emergency routes. "It's really a recognition that a disaster is a disaster," the Mayor said.
Carl Golden, a spokesman for Gov. Christine Todd Whitman, said of the similar announcement for New Jersey: "We're delighted that it's freeing up some money that was spent on the snow emergency. About $82 million was spent on snow removal by the state and municipalities."
Mr. Golden said state officials had no specific aid figure from the President. On Friday, Governor Whitman had sent a letter seeking $350 million for damage and cleanup efforts.
The overall cost of the storm in damage, cleanups and lost economic activity in 10 states has been estimated at more than $1 billion.
Meanwhile, plumbers, roofers and building contractors were swamped with calls for help from homeowners and businesses as melting snow and ice dripped -- often gushed -- into basements, attics and living rooms, some ceilings caved in, more roofs collapsed and damage began to mount into the millions.
"Anywhere water can come through it's coming through, even on brand-new roofs," Laurie Taylor, the owner of Four Seasons Roofing in East Farmingdale, L.I., said yesterday. She had a steady stream of S.O.S. calls from desperate people who told of water-damaged homes, furniture and other property.
Rudolph Damiani, owner of the Airtite Home Improvement Company in Fairfield, Conn., said his volume of calls for help had been the greatest in his 35 years in business. "People are hysterical," he said. "We're getting inundated with calls 24 hours a day."
Jim Coleman, a supervisor at J.J. Kenney Roofing in Garfield, N.J., which usually gets 20 calls a day, said, "We've gotten something like 600 calls over the last four days."
With the collapse at Waldbaum's and other sites in the news, many homeowners have been needlessly worried that something similar might happen to them, said Lauren Deribin, the owner of Capitol Roofing in Jersey City, N.J. She said the dangers of collapses are mostly in commercial buildings with flat roofs, where snow has piled up.
Roofers and contractors were not the only beneficiaries of the melting snows. Hardware stores reported a run on supplies for patching roof and foundation leaks, as well as on salt, sand, shovels, ice-melting materials and batteries.
Many fuel oil dealers and heating companies were also inundated with calls for deliveries and repairs to heating systems that had broken down in the storm. And plasterers were besieged as wet walls and ceilings sagged and in many cases fell.
While water damage was widespread, yesterday's sunshine and relatively warm temperatures were welcomed at New York City's huge snow-dumping operation on the Hudson River in Greenwich Village. Carl Fera, a sanitation foreman, smiled as he watched mammoth trucks full of snow line up and slide their loads into the river. Wet snow is easier to scoop up and cart away.
And there was more melting warmth on the way today. The National Weather Service predicted a mostly sunny day in the metropolitan area, with temperatures in the mid-40's, and no storms on the horizon. "As far as we go out, through Wednesday, I don't see anything happening," said Mike Wooldridge, a weather service meteorologist.
It was too late, however, for the Teaneck Armory and the Waldbaum's in Massapequa. Shortly after 10 A.M. yesterday, with tons of snow pressing down on the steel bow roof of the two-story, 36,000-square-foot armory on Teaneck Road, a 40-foot section of its brick wall separated from the roof and fell. No one was injured, but the armory, built in 1938, was off-limits for drill purposes.
In Massapequa, a huge section of the supermarket's flat roof, laden with tons of snow, collapsed Friday night. No one was killed, but 14 customers and employees suffered cuts and bruises, and one cashier was trapped briefly in the debris.
David Smithies, president of the Waldbaum chain, said that the snow from last week's blizzard had been shoveled from the roof, but that Friday's downpour had added considerable weight. "The drains were cleared," he said, "so we really don't know why it came down. Everything was built to code. It shouldn't have happened."
John Venditto, the Oyster Bay town attorney, said the supermarket had a clean record for adhering to the building codes, which call for commercial roofs to accommodate twice the weight they might be expected to bear. "In my opinion," he said, "last night was just a freakish accident."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Gilberto Paragas, left, Arthur D. Zayat and Freddy Rogers redistributed snow and checked for problems on a roof in Secaucus, N.J. (Dith Pran/The New York Times)(pg. 31); Homeowners like Christopher Hill of Katonah, N.Y., are frustrated with built-up roof ice. But experts warn against copying Mr. Hill. (Suzanne DeChillo/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: NEW YORK (69%); 

ORGANIZATION: NEW YORK (69%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NORTHEASTERN STATES (US); NEW JERSEY; NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (96%); NEW YORK, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (94%); MASSACHUSETTS, USA (79%); RHODE ISLAND, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: WEATHER; SNOW AND SNOWSTORMS NATURAL DISASTERS (89%); DISASTER RELIEF (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); CITIES (86%); WEATHER (78%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (74%); WOUNDS & INJURIES (72%); US PRESIDENTS (69%); GOVERNORS (69%); ROAD TRANSPORTATION SUPPORT SERVICES (68%); PRESS CONFERENCES (63%); 

PERSON: GIULIANI, RUDOLPH W (MAYOR); MCFADDEN, ROBERT D RUDY GIULIANI (78%); BILL CLINTON (69%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



380 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 2; Column 5; Metropolitan Desk

LENGTH: 686 words

HEADLINE: News Summary

 BODY:

International 3-12
 
PRESIDENT CLINTON IN BOSNIA
President Clinton visited American troops in Bosnia and talked about the importance he places on peacekeeping "where our values and our interests are at stake." 1
 
Bosnian Serbs face an economy destroyed by war. 10
 
GROWING CONFLICT IN BURUNDI
The longstanding ethnic tension in Burundi threatens to grow into a civil war that could overwhelm the Government, and it brings fears of the kind of violence that affected its neighbor Rwanda. 1
 
SPREADING CHECHNYA'S TENSION
The hostage situation in a southern Russian region near Chechnya points up the continuing and longstanding tension between Russia and ethnic groups in the region about sovereignty. 3
 
BANGLADESH CROSSROADS
As Bangladesh approaches an election, how it handles it may determine whether a shaky democracy will survive or whether it will return to autocracy and violence. 8
 
POLITICAL TORPOR IN JAPAN
As Japan tries to absorb its eighth prime minister in seven years, the Japanese express a sense of apathy over the political system, in contrast with anger over politics in the United States. 8
 
Troubled times for a United Nations support group. 4
 
Signs that the impasse on Northern Ireland peace talks is ending. 9
 
Despite multiparty governments in Africa, pressure on the press. 11
 
National 16-26
 
RISING COST OF VETERANS' CARE
As the Federal Government drives down the cost of health care and forces hospitals to close, the Department of Veterans Affairs is expanding its own hospital system, the nation's largest, and spending more for health care. 1
 
GOING AFTER FORBES
Republican rivals shared the stage with the front-runner, Senator Bob Dole, for the first time this year, but much of the criticism heard was directed toward Steve Forbes, who is financing his own campaign. 1
 
A LITERARY MYSTERY
A Vassar professor asserts that he has proved, largely through his computer analysis of the author's choice of words, that a 578-line elegy he came across in 1983 was written by William Shakespeare. 1
 
VOLUNTEERING AS EXECUTIONERS
Utah, which is preparing to execute a child-killer by firing squad, is finding no shortage of volunteers, none of whom are needed. 16
 
TROUBLE ON THE ROAD
Trucking companies have developed a continental web for delivering food and goods, a web that cannot be torn in one place without causing trouble thousands of miles away. And last week's storm in the East was trouble. 16
 
THE WORD FROM THE HOME FRONT
Many of the 73 first-term House Republicans are having a lot of explaining to do back home about what they have been doing about the budget in Washington. 18
 
A BANKRUPTCY STRATEGY
Barneys Inc. hopes that by going to bankruptcy court it can force its Japanese partner to surrender some of its control and reduce the retailer's costs. 19
 
IMPROVING KIDNEY DIALYSIS
The Clinton Administration is preparing proposals to establish quality requirements for dialysis, a life-saving treatment for patients whose kidneys have failed. 24
 
Metro 27-31
 
MELTING SNOW BRINGS NEW HAVOC
After a week of savage storms, golden sunshine and almost springlike warmth spread a watery new havoc across the New York region as melting mountains of snow flooded wide areas. 1
 
CHILD PROTECTION LAWS FAULTED
An investigative panel has concluded that New York State laws intended to protect children have instead become major obstacles in defending them against neglect, abuse and even murder. 27
 
MORE SEE NEW YORK AS SAFER
The view that life in New York City is getting safer is apparently becoming more common, as public attitudes catch up with statistics that have shown a sharp decrease in crime. 27
 
A FREE-SPEECH BATTLE ON CAMPUS
In conservative academic circles, the case of a Connecticut professor has become a cause celebre, seen as an example of how colleges will tolerate the suppression of unpopular views. 27
 
Neediest Cases 28
 
Obituaries 33
 
Red Thunder Cloud, storyteller.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Summary

COUNTRY: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BURUNDI (92%); JAPAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

COMPANY: BARNEYS INC (60%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: UNITED NATIONS (55%); UNITED NATIONS (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: BOSNIA & HERZEGOVINA (95%); UNITED STATES (94%); RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); BURUNDI (92%); JAPAN (92%); SERBIA & MONTENEGRO (79%); RWANDA (79%); AFRICA (79%); NORTHERN IRELAND (79%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS PEACEKEEPING (90%); NEWS BRIEFS (90%); POLITICS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (89%); HOSPITALS (86%); HEALTH CARE (86%); CIVIL WAR (78%); ETHNIC CONFLICTS (78%); WAR & CONFLICT (78%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (77%); BUDGETS (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (76%); TALKS & MEETINGS (73%); ETHNICITY (72%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (72%); ETHNIC GROUPS (72%); DEMOGRAPHIC GROUPS (72%); HOSTAGE TAKING (71%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); VETERANS HEALTH CARE (70%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (70%); PEACE PROCESS (68%); CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (66%); UNITED NATIONS INSTITUTIONS (66%); WRITERS (63%); MYSTERY & SUSPENSE LITERATURE (63%); QUALITY CONTROL (62%); DIALYSIS (60%); RETAILERS (60%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY COURTS (60%); TRUCKING (50%); 

PERSON: BILL CLINTON (91%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



381 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 1; Page 1; Column 4; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1573 words

HEADLINE: Top Target in Iowa Debate: Forbes, the No. 2 Candidate

BYLINE: By RICHARD L. BERKE 

DATELINE: JOHNSTON, Iowa, Jan. 13

 BODY:
In a telling display of how Steve Forbes has rattled the Republican Presidential field, the multimillionaire publisher emerged today as the central attraction and target in a nationally televised candidates' forum.
While all nine candidates shared the stage for the first time this year -- and for the last time before votes are cast in the Iowa caucuses in 30 days -- several passed up the chance to attack Senator Bob Dole, the front-runner. Instead, they turned their attention to Mr. Forbes, who has spent more than $10 million of his own money since his late entry in the race and is No. 2 behind Mr. Dole in many polls. 
 In the 90-minute forum, the candidates struggled to stand out from the group, even though they share many positions.
One after another, they attacked Government as too big and offered their own plans to simplify the tax system and improve education, and several reasserted their positions against abortion -- to the point that both Mr. Dole and Representative Robert K. Dornan of California sought to lay claim to Mother Teresa's political blessing on the issue. One after another, they jockeyed over who is the most conservative. Foreign policy hardly came up as the contenders were peppered with questions from readers of The Des Moines Register, which sponsored the forum in this suburb of Des Moines.
Less a debate than a series of sound bites, the forum represented the first chance this year for Iowans, and for a national audience, to see all nine Republican contenders on one stage. Although the candidates have been out on the road for months, spending millions on travel and television commercials, today's event was the opening of the race for the Iowa caucuses to be held Feb. 12, which will be the first nominating contest in which all the Republicans are entered. Much of the give-and-take at the forum, which was carried live by CNN, C-Span and Iowa Public Television, focused on Mr. Forbes. The questions were posed by The Register's editor, Dennis Ryerson.
Several candidates set out to tear apart Mr. Forbes's centerpiece proposal, for a 17 percent flat tax. Senator Phil Gramm of Texas, a former economics professor, was the first to question the proposal, saying Mr. Forbes was not committed to balancing the budget. Mr. Forbes interrupted the Senator, but Mr. Gramm insisted, "You've written it three or four times, Steve."
Lamar Alexander, the former Governor of Tennessee, was even more forceful against Mr. Forbes, offering one one-liner after another about the flat tax, saying it was "a truly nutty idea" that would "cause a real estate crash" and was "going up there like the Great Pumpkin -- it's going to solve every problem that we have." Raising the subject again later, he said to Mr. Forbes, "The only thing you've ever run is a magazine you inherited and you raised the price of your magazine." The candidates broke up in laughter.
With all the talk about balancing the budget, even Mr. Dole made a crack that the Government could "borrow money from Steve Forbes."
The attacks on Mr. Forbes led Patrick J. Buchanan, the former conservative commentator, to say, "Since everyone's been piling on Steve Forbes here, I want to be fair and jump in on the piling on a little bit."
Mr. Forbes, clearly savoring the attention, said he was the subject of such sniping because his message was taking hold. "These lifetime politicians don't get it," he said, "and will never get it."
But while Mr. Dole enjoyed the unaccustomed position of escaping much of the attack, he was not completely overlooked by his rivals, who were in a quest to knock the Senator off stride and stand out with pithy remarks that they hoped would catch on with the voters here. Some candidates sharpened their attacks on Mr. Dole, saying he lacked the vision and leadership to defeat President Clinton.
At times the criticisms were personal, particularly from Mr. Dole's fellow Senator, Mr. Gramm, and from Mr. Alexander. But Mr. Dole was also portrayed by his rivals as a symbol of their more general attacks on Washington.
While his opponents said Mr. Dole's time had passed, the majority leader sought to turn his experience into a virtue and to behave as if he already were the nominee. Trying to stay clear of the intramural scrimmage, Mr. Dole devoted time to taking on Mr. Clinton on the negotiations on balancing the budget, and he emphasized his experience in Washington.
Turning to his opponents on the podium at the Iowa Public Television studio here, Mr. Dole, a Kansan who leads the field in Iowa by more than 30 percentage points, asserted: "There's one Senator here, one member of this family who has been making tough decisions every day for a long, long time. And I'm very proud of that."
But as the retorts grew more lively, Mr. Dole could not help but direct a few barbs at his opponents. At one point, he made fun of Mr. Gramm's failing three grades in school when he mentioned a student's question, saying, "She's passed every grade she's ever been in." Mr. Gramm often boasts about failing three grades as a child in school as evidence of the hard work it took for him to earn a doctorate in economics.
Mr. Alexander, who has campaigned in this state for at least two years but shown almost no movement in the polls, was most aggressive in suggesting that at age 72, Mr. Dole is too old to be President.
"We need to say, with respect, to Senator Dole that it may be your turn but it's not your revolution; it's not your time," Mr. Alexander said. "It's time we moved outside Washington. It's time we moved on."
With the arguing over the Federal budget dominating the news from Washington for weeks, the forum's moderator tried at the outset to pin down the candidates on what specific programs they considered sacred and would not touch in trying to balance the budget.
Some answered directly, like Senator Gramm, who cited Social Security and said he would look for waste in military spending. Others, like Mr. Buchanan, who gave himself honorary membership in the freshman class of the House, did not answer directly. Instead, Mr. Buchanan talked about what he would cut. He said he would begin phasing out foreign aid and would cancel the $50 billion bailout of Mexico. He also attacked the system of automatic and generous Congressional pensions, saying he would end this "looting of the American taxpayer." He said Representative Patricia Schroeder, the Colorado Democrat, was retiring with a pension worth a total of $4.2 million.
Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana said balancing the budget required raising revenue as well, and he said changes in the tax system were necessary.
Morry Taylor, a businessman from Michigan, said that he would take Medicare and Social Security off the table and that the Federal bureaucracy should be cut.
He also said that Congressional pensions were excessive and that as President, he would eliminate one-third of the Federal jobs that pay annual salaries between $50,000 and $143,000. "Look at where the real money is," he said. Among his rivals at the debate, he said, "I got a few million dollars in pensions here."
Mr. Dornan said the military and Social Security were off the table. Alan Keyes, a former State Department official who is a radio show host, said that nothing should escape examination and that he supported "the marriage-based, two-parent family."
Mr. Forbes said that Social Security for current recipients should be off the table but that a new system should be started for younger people.
Senator Dole said that except for Social Security, "everything else is on the table."
When the candidates were asked about race relations, Mr. Keyes, who is black, suggested that talk of racial separation was overblown.
"I'm tempted to say that the most important thing I could do to improve the climate of race relations in this country is to get elected President, and that's what I intend to do," he said with a smile.
In closing, most of the candidates sought to emphasize experience that connected them to viewers. Mr. Lugar talked about his 604-acre farm.
Mr. Dornan declared: "I have more progeny than all the rest put together. I have more military experience than anybody here."
Mr. Gramm suggested that Mr. Dole lacked firm principles, saying that on abortion he had been on "three sides of a two-sided issue."
Mr. Forbes took aim once again at Mr. Dole and the other Congressmen. "To change America, to get America moving again, we have to start clearly with the culture of Washington."
But Mr. Buchanan said his opponents were twisting the meaning of being a conservative by emphasizing free market economics. "What this campaign is going to decide is what conservatism means in America in the post-cold war era," he said.
Mr. Dole tried to present a neighborly, emphatic image. "I'm from Kansas, I'm a neighbor," he said. "In 1988, the Iowa people said Bob Dole is one of us, and I don't think anything's changed."
He stressed his humble beginnings, saying, "When my mother died, the net estate was worth $20,000." He added that he knew how it felt to have family members -- in his case, his grandparents -- receive public assistance. When they did so, he said, "I was the county attorney then and had to sign those checks."
In closing, he declared: "Bob Dole is not a polarizer. Bob Dole provides leadership, Bob Dole delivers. Bob Dole tries to get things done."

GRAPHIC: Photo: The Republican candidates in Iowa yesterday: from left, Representative Robert K. Dornan of California; Senator Richard G. Lugar of Indiana; Morry Taylor, a Michigan businessman; Senator Bob Dole of Kansas; Senator Phil Gramm of Texas; Steve Forbes, the publisher of Forbes magazine; Lamar Alexander, former Governor of Tennessee; Patrick J. Buchanan, a commentator, and Alan Keyes, a radio host. (Associated Press)(pg. 20)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

INDUSTRY: SIC2721 PERIODICALS: PUBLISHING, OR PUBLISHING & PRINTING (91%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: IOWA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); 

CITY: DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: FORBES INC (91%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: IOWA; UNITED STATES (98%); IOWA, USA (98%); TEXAS, USA (92%); CALIFORNIA, USA (92%); INDIANA, USA (79%); KANSAS, USA (79%); DES MOINES, IA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: PRESIDENTIAL ELECTION OF 1996; DEBATING PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); CAUCUSES (89%); POLITICS (89%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); CONSERVATISM (78%); ELECTIONS (78%); WEALTHY PEOPLE (78%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (78%); VOTERS & VOTING (78%); POLITICAL PARTIES (78%); US PRESIDENTIAL ELECTIONS (78%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (77%); BUDGETS (75%); TAXES & TAXATION (74%); TAX LAW (73%); GOVERNORS (72%); TAX REFORM (70%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (68%); BUSINESS EDUCATION (68%); REAL ESTATE (64%); PUBLIC BROADCASTING (64%); TELEVISION ADVERTISING (63%); ABORTION (53%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (52%); 

PERSON: FORBES, STEVE; BERKE, RICHARD L PHIL GRAMM (78%); DICK LUGAR (74%); LAMAR ALEXANDER (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



382 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 637 words

HEADLINE: Settle Now, Fight Later

 BODY:
President Clinton has proposed a constructive end to the budget impasse. He suggests splitting negotiations with Republican leaders in two.
In the first round, which could be completed quickly, the two parties would resolve their diminishing differences over spending and, perhaps, tax cuts that would balance the budget within seven years. In the second round, to be put off until voters decide in November whom they want to run Congress and the White House, the parties would decide how to restructure Federal entitlements like Medicare and Medicaid. 
 Mr. Clinton's proposal is admittedly self-serving. It would allow him to march into November as an effective leader who, despite an onslaught by extremist Republicans, kept Government offices open and forged a balanced budget agreement while preserving Medicaid and Medicare. But the proposal might also appeal to Republicans. They could say, with justification, that the G.O.P. forced Mr. Clinton to embrace their approach to a tax cut and balanced budget. They could also claim they wrenched from Mr. Clinton a pledge to knock about 30 percent off discretionary spending -- cutting the heart out of what he calls public investments in education, training and technological research but which the Republicans call Federal sloth.
Beyond political posturing, the budget two-step has a powerful rationale. The first-round issues are of modest dimensions. Whether Washington runs $200 billion deficits -- one of the smallest deficits, for the size of the economy, among industrialized countries -- does not affect the economy very much. Neither would a $200 billion tax cut over seven years. If those issues were resolved in the first round of negotiations, Democrats and Republicans could turn next fall to more fundamental issues.
Should Washington, as liberal Democrats insist, guarantee the poor, no matter where they live, cash assistance, food stamps and health insurance? Or, as the G.O.P. says, should states take care of the poor as they alone determine? Should Medicare -- which will drive the Federal deficit to dizzying levels in about 15 years -- be let alone, as Mr. Clinton proposes, or transformed, as the G.O.P. proposes, into a voucher system that gives the elderly the choice of traditional fee-for-service coverage or private managed care?
Mr. Clinton and the Republicans can complete the first round of negotiations quickly because they have drawn close on the raw numbers. The G.O.P.'s latest proposal would cut personal taxes by about $200 billion, almost half of what the Contract With America called for, and about $100 billion more than what the President proposes. Splitting the difference and spreading the cut over seven years would produce a budget that is less than $10 billion a year different from what either side now proposes -- a small difference compared with the $1 trillion the Government collects from taxpayers each year.
The spending gaps are also modest. The G.O.P. wants to cut Medicare by about $170 billion over seven years. The President says $100 billion. The Republicans want to cut Medicaid by $85 billion. The President says $50 billion. There is, as this page has argued, good reason to question whether either budget is wise. But there is little basis to claim that one budget is radically different from the other.
The political hot wires that the parties use to inflame voters -- balanced budgets and tax cuts -- are economic sideshows. The best way to get voters and politicians talking about policies that do matter is to put the sideshows to rest. Mr. Clinton and the Republican leadership can do voters a favor by putting their common spending and tax plans into law. Then get on with the debate about the type of Federal Government Americans want to have as they head into the 21st century.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

COMPANY: MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (83%); 

ORGANIZATION: MEDICARE (83%); MEDICAID (83%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (94%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; EDITORIALS; TAXATION BUDGETS (94%); MEDICARE (90%); TAX LAW (90%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); TAXES & TAXATION (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); US PRESIDENTS (89%); TAX RELIEF (89%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (89%); HEALTH INSURANCE (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (78%); NATIONAL DEBT (76%); MANAGED CARE ORGANIZATIONS (75%); LIBERALISM (74%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (73%); PERSONAL FINANCE (73%); SENIOR CITIZENS (70%); MEDICAID (55%); 

PERSON: CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (92%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



383 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 3; Page 2; Column 3; Money and Business/Financial Desk

LENGTH: 277 words

HEADLINE: MARKET TIMING

 BODY:
The partial shutdown of the Government that ended last week delayed many reports on economic statistics. Those listed below are based on an amended schedule issued by the Commerce Department.
 
Monday
Because of the holiday honoring the Rev. Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., the credit markets will be largely shut, and the Chicago Mercantile Exchange will end trading on most contracts at noon. All other exchanges plan normal hours.
Tuesday The Commerce Department reports on housing starts in November. In October, starts were down 3.7 percent.
 
Wednesday
The Commerce Department reports on the trade deficit in October. In September, the deficit was $8.4 billion, unchanged from August.
 
The Labor Department resumes weekly reports of first-time unemployment claims.
 
The Federal Reserve reports on industrial production and capacity utilization in December. In November, output rose two-tenths of 1 percent; utilization was at 83.1 percent.
 
The Overseas Private Investment Corporation, a Federal agency, opens a conference in New York for business executives on financing international investments and mitigating risks.
 
Thursday
I.B.M., Microsoft, Sybase and Borland are expected to report earnings. Given the volatility in the technology sector, the results will be watched even more closely than usual.
 
Friday
The Commerce Department reports the second revision of gross domestic product growth for the third quarter of 1995. The first revision was to an annual rate of 4.2 percent, after an initial report of 3.4 percent.
 
The Commerce Department reports on sales of new homes. In October, sales fell 2.7 percent.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Schedule

TICKER: CME (NASDAQ) (58%); MSFT (NASDAQ) (55%); 

INDUSTRY: SIC6282 INVESTMENT ADVICE (69%); NAICS523210 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); SIC6231 SECURITIES & COMMODITY EXCHANGES (58%); NAICS511210 SOFTWARE PUBLISHERS (55%); SIC7372 PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE (55%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); 

CITY: CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

COMPANY: OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (69%); CME GROUP INC (58%); MICROSOFT CORP (55%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); 

ORGANIZATION: US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); US DEPARTMENT OF COMMERCE (94%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); CHICAGO MERCANTILE EXCHANGE (58%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); OVERSEAS PRIVATE INVESTMENT CORP (56%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (72%); CHICAGO, IL, USA (72%); 

SUBJECT: NO INDEX TERMS COMMERCE DEPARTMENTS (93%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (90%); STATISTICS (90%); REAL ESTATE (88%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); HOUSING STARTS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (78%); CURRENT ACCOUNT BALANCE (78%); SALES FIGURES (78%); FINANCIAL RESULTS (78%); CAPACITY UTILIZATION (78%); NEW HOME SALES (78%); ECONOMIC GROWTH (78%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (77%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (76%); CONSTRUCTION (76%); LABOR DEPARTMENTS (74%); JOBLESS CLAIMS (73%); COMPANY EARNINGS (73%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (70%); FOREIGN INVESTMENT (53%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



384 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 13; Page 8; Column 4; The City Weekly Desk 

LENGTH: 541 words

HEADLINE: NEIGHBORHOOD REPORT: UPPER EAST SIDE;
ELECTION WATCH: Council Contest on Tuesday

BYLINE: By BRUCE LAMBERT 

 BODY:
Upper East Side voters will choose a new Council member in a special election Tuesday to fill the vacancy created when Charles Millard resigned to become president of the city's Economic Development Corp.
Although the law bars regular party designations, the race to fill the District 5 seat pits a Republican -- Judith G. Marcus, a top aide to Mr. Millard -- against a Democrat -- A. Gifford Miller, a top aide to United States Representative Carolyn B. Maloney. Their contest echoes a rivalry from last year when Mr. Millard lost his challenge to Ms. Maloney's Congressional re-election bid. 
 At stake are Republican hopes to retain the seat -- the G.O.P. holds just six others in the 51-member Council -- and Democratic hopes to reclaim it. The majority of the district's voters are Democrats, but Upper East Sider voters have traditionally shown an independent streak, often crossing party lines. And low turnout makes special elections hard to predict.
Democratic concerns of a party split were allayed when three challengers were removed from the ballot. Andrew Schiff quit and endorsed Mr. Miller. Two other Democrats, George Spitz and Samuel Morell, did not file enough signatures and lost a court challenge to get on the ballot.
The candidates will appear tomorrow in their second debate on New York 1.
Polls will be open from 6 A.M. to 9 P.M. Voters with questions can call the Board of Elections at (212) VOTE-NYC, or 868-3692. For hearing- impaired voters, the TTY number is (212) 487-5496. Absentee ballots must be postmarked by midnight tomorrow and received by the board in 10 days.
The winner will take office as soon as the results are certified. BRUCE LAMBERT
 
 JUDITH G. MARCUS, 51, Community First Party
Neighborhood ties Upper East Side resident for 25 years.
Political pedigree Republican-turned-Democrat-turned-Republican. First race. 14 years as constituent services director for District 5's last two Councilmen: Mr Millard and Robert Dryfoos, a Democrat.
Endorsements Mayor Giuliani, State Senator Roy M. Goodman, Mr. Millard, and other local G.O.P. legislators; Liberal Party leader Raymond B. Harding; some Democrats; Expects Mayor Giuliani's nod.
Platform District needs her experience in solving local problems.
Strengths Running in a district where Republicans are wealthy and politically active, and where female voters have a 3-to-2 edge. Paid campaign consultant, Joseph Mercurio. Contacts from years of helping local residents and community groups.
Weaknesses A Republican running on Democratic turf; possible Gingrich-Pataki backlash.
 
 A. GIFFORD MILLER, 26, East Side Neighbors Party
Political pedigree First race. Served as legislative aide to Ms. Maloney; now her district office chief.
Neighborhood ties Lifelong resident except during 18-month Washington stint.
Endorsements Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan, Representative Maloney, Council Speaker Peter F. Vallone, Manhattan Borough President Ruth Messinger.
Platform District needs a Democrat to fight conservative state and national social service policies.
Strengths Support (money and volunteers) from many Democratic clubs and party leaders. Potential for anti-G.O.P. backlash.
Weaknesses Relative newcomer.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (92%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: ELECTIONS; CITY COUNCILS ELECTIONS (92%); CAMPAIGNS & ELECTIONS (90%); VOTERS & VOTING (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (90%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (89%); MAYORS (89%); CITY GOVERNMENT (89%); BALLOTS (89%); POLITICAL CANDIDATES (78%); POLITICS (78%); ELECTORAL DISTRICTS (78%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (78%); US POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); CITIES (77%); ELECTION AUTHORITIES (73%); DEAFNESS (64%); 

PERSON: LAMBERT, BRUCE; MILLARD, CHARLES; MARCUS, JUDITH G; MILLER, A GIFFORD CAROLYN MALONEY (89%); RUDY GIULIANI (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



385 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 12; Column 4; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 273 words

HEADLINE: West Didn't Fail Russian Market Reform

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Michael M. Weinstein (Editorial Notebook, Jan. 10) says the West "squandered" an opportunity by denying $25 billion a year in aid to underwrite President Boris N. Yeltsin's "radical plan for moving to a market economy" in Russia. The program announced by acting Prime Minister Yegor T. Gaidar in 1992 contained no such opportunity. 
 The "shock therapy" target to slash the Russian budget deficit from 17 percent to 21 percent of gross domestic product in 1991 to zero in the first quarter of 1992 was a pipe dream rather than a realistic agenda. The huge reduction of subsidies to consumers and industry and of state-financed investments were Soviet-style fiats.
There was no strategy for dealing with the Supreme Soviet, which was divided into equal factions comprising, respectively, Communists, reformers and an unsteady group of legislators who could float in either direction. The shock therapists ruled out consensus-building.
The assertion that an immediate commitment of $25 billion from the West would have tilted the political scales in favor of the reformers overlooks that aid absorption by Russia could not have matched aid approvals.
For instance, the World Bank approved almost $3 billion in loans for Russia, but by June 1994 only $587 million had been used. And although the United State Congress appropriated $2 billion from 1992 to 1994, by December 1994 less than $500 million had been spent.
The West did not fail Russia. Mr. Gaidar's plan foundered because it was improbable.
 
PADMA DESAI
New York, Jan. 10, 1996
 
The writer is professor of comparative economics, Columbia U.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

SUBJECT: ECONOMIC CONDITIONS AND TRENDS; REFORM AND REORGANIZATION; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; FOREIGN AID ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); BUDGETS (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (77%); DEVELOPMENT BANKS (77%); INTERNATIONAL ASSISTANCE (77%); HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (77%); POLITICAL PARTIES (77%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (76%); APPROPRIATIONS (76%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); WRITERS (73%); PRIME MINISTERS (71%); INTERNATIONAL ECONOMIC ORGANIZATIONS (64%); BUDGET DEFICITS (56%); 

PERSON: WEINSTEIN, MICHAEL M YEGOR T GAIDAR (71%); MICHAEL M WEINSTEIN (55%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



386 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996

SECTION: Section 4; Page 2; Column 2; Week in Review Desk 

LENGTH: 151 words

HEADLINE: JANUARY 7-13;
In Mr. Johnson's Neighborhood

BYLINE: By KENNETH B. NOBLE 

 BODY:
Ask budding minority athletes what they intend to do if they strike it rich and the answer will be: do something for their "people." It is a promise few accomplish.
Magic Johnson is the exception. Six months ago the former basketball star opened a 12-screen movie complex in the economically depressed South-Central region of Los Angeles, which was especially hard hit by the 1992 riots following the acquittal of white policemen charged with beating Rodney G. King. 
 So far the theater has consistently ranked among the top five in gross revenues of 21,800 theaters surveyed nationwide, and was ranked second during the Christmas holiday weekend. In addition to providing employment for 75 people, mostly from the area, and entertainment, it has energized the immediate shopping area.
"Instead of just talking," Magic said, "I wanted to put my money where my mouth is." KENNETH B. NOBLE

GRAPHIC: Photo: Magic Johnson (Ian Sonnenmair for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (93%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES (CALIF); UNITED STATES (93%); CALIFORNIA, USA (93%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (93%); 

SUBJECT: MOVIE THEATERS (87%); NEWS BRIEFS (74%); BASKETBALL (72%); ECONOMIC DEPRESSION (70%); RIOTS (69%); RANKINGS (68%); HOLIDAYS & OBSERVANCES (67%); CHRISTMAS (52%); 

PERSON: NOBLE, KENNETH B; JOHNSON, MAGIC EARVIN 'MAGIC' JOHNSON (93%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



387 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 1; Page 16; Column 5; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1214 words

HEADLINE: Utah Debates Firing Squads In Clash of Past and Present

BYLINE: By JAMES BROOKE 

DATELINE: SALT LAKE CITY, Jan. 12

 BODY:
When word got out that Utah was preparing to execute a child murderer by firing squad, Jack Ford's telephone started to ring off the hook.
"For two days, all I did was answer the phone," said Mr. Ford, the spokesman for the state corrections department. "Finally, I had a form letter printed up: We are not taking volunteers." 
 The unwanted flood of volunteer sharpshooters came with the first scheduled firing-squad execution in the United States in almost two decades. If Utah politicians have their way, the execution by firing squad scheduled for Jan. 26 may also be the nation's last.
In January 1977 it was a Utah firing squad that broke a 10-year hiatus in American executions by taking the life of Gary Gilmore, who became celebrated because he insisted on being executed for the killing of a motel clerk.
Now, a firing squad composed of state law-enforcement officers is set to take the life of John Albert Taylor, 36, who was convicted of sexually assaulting and strangling Charla Nicola King, 11, in 1989. Like Mr. Gilmore, Mr. Taylor chose a firing squad over lethal injection, Utah's other execution method.
The return of the firing squad, unique to Utah in modern times, offers a benchmark to measure the evolution in America's application of the death penalty.
Relatively rare through the early 1980's, executions nationwide jumped to 56 last year, nearly double the 31 recorded in 1994. Now running at levels of the 1950's, executions are largely restricted to the South and to the West. Utah has executed three people since 1977, all by lethal injection. There have been no executions in New York, New Jersey or New England since the Supreme Court reinstated capital punishment in 1976.
"Our prediction is that we are going to climb to 100 executions this year," Steven W. Hawkins, executive director of the National Coalition to Abolish the Death Penalty, said from Washington.
With executions already taking place at a rate of one a week, the news media and the public now only focus on executions with a twist, death-penalty opponents say.
"This is the month for the strange and the bizarre," Mr. Hawkins said, referring to executions scheduled for January. "There is the firing squad in Utah, a hanging in Delaware, and in Illinois, there is Guinevere Garcia, only the second woman to be executed" since 1976.
Fresh from an interview with a visiting network television crew, Carol L. Gnade agreed wholeheartedly. "The only reason that this execution is gaining attention across the country is the method," said Ms. Gnade, executive director of the Utah affiliate of the American Civil Liberties Union. "The firing squad is no more barbaric than lethal injection or electrocution."
With a record 3,046 condemned men and women awaiting executions in 38 states, the public's increasingly hard line on crime pressures politicians to speed up executions. In Utah, polls indicate that 75 percent of voters support the death penalty.
"A lot of politicians have made their platforms to be tough on crime, to support the death penalty," said Richard C. Dieter, executive director of the Death Penalty Information Center, a Washington group opposed to the death penalty. "Clemency is becoming a thing of the past in death-penalty cases."
While state governors commuted 10 death sentences in 1991, that number fell to one in 1994 and to zero in 1995.
In a sign of the times, Congress voted this fall to cut out all Federal financing for a program designed to provide free legal aid for appeals by men and women sentenced to death. Known as Death Penalty Resource Centers, this nationwide network of offices had a budget of $19.6 million last year.
Although President Clinton has not signed the bill because of the budget impasse, he is expected to, and most of the centers are winding up operations. In Texas, where 92 men have been executed since 1977, the number of lawyers for the Death Penalty Center has dropped to 1 from 18 a year ago.
Next week, carpenters at the Uintah Prison Complex in Draper are to start customizing a firing squad execution chair for the 1990's.
"Blood-borne pathogens are a big issue now," Mr. Ford said when asked about changes since Mr. Gilmore was executed, in the pre-AIDS era. "There will be a pan underneath the chair to catch the blood."
To some in Utah, the grisly 19th century nature of a firing squad clashes with this state's modern image. With a booming economy revolving around computer software and ski tourism, Utah is to be the host of the 2002 Winter Olympics.
Utah's 19th century history helps explain why it is now the only state in the union to allow condemned prisoners to choose to die by the firing squad.
In an early radical phase, Utah's Mormon settlers believed that the sin of murder could only be atoned by shedding the murderer's blood.
"There are sins that the blood of a lamb, of a calf, or turtle doves cannot remit," Brigham Young, a Mormon prophet, told his pioneering flock here in 1856. "But they must be atoned by the blood of man."
For more than 30 years, this belief in blood atonement, and the practice of polygamy, blocked accommodation between Utah's Mormon "Kingdom" and Washington. In 1890, the church formally disavowed polygamy and blood atonement. In 1896, Utah joined the Union as a state.
But repeated pronouncements by the Mormons, the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, have been unable to stamp out polygamy or a belief in blood atonement.
"Most Mormons in Utah would use blood atonement as their rationale for supporting capital punishment in general, and the firing squad in particular," said L. Kay Gillespie, a professor of criminal justice at Weber State University in Ogden. He said 39 of the state's executions since 1847 had been by firing squad.
Mr. Taylor, who is to be baptized a Roman Catholic next week, seems to have chosen the firing squad largely to embarrass the state.
"He said he didn't want to lay on the table and flip around like a fish out of water," Beverly DeVoy recalled of comments the condemned man made to her last month about lethal injection. Ms. DeVoy, the only reporter that Mr. Taylor talks to, added, "But I also think he wanted to cause more trouble for the state."
Mr. Taylor seems to have achieved his goal of embarrassing state officials. The state's largely Mormon political leaders seem determined to abolish the firing squad as an anachronistic holdover.
Next week, Sheryl L. Allen, a Republican State Representative, plans to submit a bill that would do away with firing squads. If passed by the State Legislature before the session ends late next month, two other Utah convicts who have chosen the firing squad would die by lethal injection.
"The law ought to updated," Representative Allen said. "It is my intention that no more inmates will have the choice between lethal injection and firing squad."
The State Legislature, which is dominated by Mormons, is expected to pass the measure easily.
Gov. Michael O. Leavitt, a Mormon and a Republican, said, "If it passes, it will have my signature."
 The article also misstated the circumstances of Gary Gilmore's execution in Utah in 1977. He chose death by firing squad over death by hanging, which was then the state's other method of execution.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 15, 1996, Monday

 CORRECTION:
An article yesterday about the scheduled firing-squad execution of an inmate in Utah misstated, in some editions, the record of executions in Texas. The state has executed 92 criminals since the return of the death penalty in 1976, not in 1995 alone.

GRAPHIC: Photo: John Albert Taylor's execution by firing squad is set for Jan. 26. (Associated Press)
 
Chart: "ADDING IT UP" Executioners' Toll
The number of executions carried out each year since dealth penalty was reinstated by the Supreme Court 1976

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); 

STATE: UTAH, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); 

CITY: SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UTAH; UNITED STATES (96%); UTAH, USA (96%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); ILLINOIS, USA (79%); NEW YORK, USA (79%); NORTHEAST USA (79%); SALT LAKE CITY, UT, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: MURDERS AND ATTEMPTED MURDERS; CAPITAL PUNISHMENT CAPITAL PUNISHMENT (90%); MURDER (90%); CRIMINAL CONVICTIONS (87%); US STATE GOVERNMENT (78%); SEX OFFENSES (72%); EXECUTIVES (72%); INTERVIEWS (70%); ASSAULT & BATTERY (67%); LAW ENFORCEMENT (67%); HUMAN RIGHTS ORGANIZATIONS (66%); NETWORK TELEVISION (60%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (60%); 

PERSON: TAYLOR, JOHN ALBERT (CONVICTED MURDERER) GARY GILMORE (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



388 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 9; Page 1; Column 6; Real Estate Desk 

LENGTH: 2959 words

HEADLINE: Commercial Property/Looking Back, and Ahead;
Outlook: Cloudy, With Silver Linings

BYLINE: By CLAUDIA H. DEUTSCH 

 BODY:
BACK when 1994 was ending, any real-estate executive predicting a less than stellar 1995 was drowned out by the sound of champagne corks popping, as a euphoric industry toasted the end of five years of woe.
The revelers turned out to be the pollyannas, the pessimists the realists. The much-touted "recovery" turned out to be an explosion of pent-up demand, as tenants who had waited for the rental trough ran out of time to make deals. Along about April, leasing activity slowed to a crawl, and nothing since has nudged the market out of complacency. 
 "People thought the scarcity of big blocks of quality space would cure the market, but it just hasn't happened," said Robert F. Works, a managing director of LaSalle Partners. Corporate consolidations and partnership dissolutions made the situation worse. "A lot of law firms bit the dust and freed up space," said Michael Myers, chairman of Corporate Realty Partners.
All told, while 1995 was not particularly bad, it broke 1994's promises. "Last year was a year of unmet expectations," said Michael T. Cohen, president of Williams Real Estate.
Indeed it was. Vacancy rates throughout New York remained in the double digits, well above the 8 percent that is considered healthy. Rents stayed stuck in place. Buildings that had expected annual rents beyond $50 per square foot -- 590 Madison Avenue, the I.B.M. building on 57th Street, for one -- found few takers, brokers say, until they dropped rents as much as $10 a foot.
In May, after five years of depressed rents, the partnerships that own 12 of the Rockefeller Center buildings filed for protection under the Bankruptcy Code. (Alan L. Stein, Rockefeller Center Management's senior vice president of marketing, says that the properties in bankruptcy are nearly 86 percent full, and the center as a whole is more than 93 percent full.)
"The only way the market will get better is if the economy creates more jobs," said Steven Spinola, president of the Real Estate Board of New York.
But if the optimistic pundits were disappointed, the pessimistic ones were pleasantly surprised. "We rented 350,000 square feet, at rents that certainly met our modest expectations," said a delighted Douglas Durst, whose Durst Organization owns several midtown Manhattan buildings.
Indeed, nearly every one of the year's clouds had a silvery aspect. Downtown Manhattan remained glutted with empty space, but saw an influx of interactive technology companies with high growth potential. Leasing was sluggish, but building sales soared. Construction loans were elusive, but refinancing money was ample. And landlords and tenants alike invested in refurbishings.
"We went ahead with interiors projects that had been on hold for years," said John L. Tishman, head of Tishman Realty & Construction, which is refurbishing 1290 Avenue of the Americas (52d Street) for Olympia & York, and is building the interior of Four Columbus Circle, Steelcase's owner-occupied building on 58th Street.
No big companies established headquarters here -- but then, none fled New York either, in sharp contrast to 1994, when Swiss Bank and Mastercard announced their defections. And, many companies established their first New York toeholds.
"We've had unbelievable activity from companies that want to tap into New York's intellectual capital," said William C. Rudin, whose family owns numerous buildings.
Retail sales were lackluster and there were a few sobering bankruptcies, but retail space remained tight. "The doom and gloom that pervaded apparel sales did not hit hard goods, furniture or home entertainment," said Faith H. Consolo, a senior managing director of the Garrick-Aug brokerage.
Times Square redevelopment, which city officials had said was imminent for decades, finally began happening. Madame Tussaud, a 25-screen multiplex, countless theme restaurants and food shops, all clamored for space on newly unseedy 42d Street. Long-shuttered theaters are being refurbished. Annual rents for retail space climbed well over $100 a square foot, rivaling the rents on that other entertainment strip, West 57th Street.
Throughout the city, streets were cleaner, neighborhoods safer, due in good part to active business improvement districts. The business-improvement-district movement was rocked by charges that the Grand Central Partnership, one of the biggest BIDs, had deployed "goon squads" to harass homeless people, and that Daniel Biederman, its head, had used BID money and time to set up a BID in Jersey City. Mr. Biederman denies both charges.
Nonetheless, the BIDs' successes were palpable. Bryant Park held many cultural events and has a new cafe. Crime was down in most BIDs, and many streets sport new lights, lampposts and trees.
"It was a year of huge leaps, of doing the things the private sector isn't inclined to do," Mr. Biederman said.
All in all, 1995 was a respectable, if not gangbusters, year. Following, a closer look at how some sectors did last year, and how this year is shaping up for them.
 
The Office Market
Last year the "flight to quality" -- tenants taking advantage of cheap rents by moving to better space -- reversed itself. Avon, Equitable Life, CS First Boston and countless others announced they would leave glitzy quarters for more utilitarian space. "A lot of companies traded down," said Bruce Mosler, the Galbreath Company's vice chairman.
Or, they saved the views and corner offices for the top brass, and put the hoi polloi elsewhere. "There's still a market for the top floors, which are best, and the bottom floors, which are cheapest," said Jerry L. Cohen, Cushman & Wakefield's vice chairman. "Filling in the middle is the problem."
Tenants looking for big blocks of space did not have that many options, though. "Maybe it's a game of musical chairs with fewer chairs, but we're seeing everyone who's out there looking," said Anthony E. Malkin, president of W&M Properties, which will soon have big blocks available in 1185 Avenue of the Americas, at 47th Street when some large tenants move out.
The big block shortages may finally lead to new construction. Brokers report that Morgan Guaranty and SwissRe have committed to enough space to enable HRO International to finance the tower it wants to build on Madison Avenue and 47th Street (HRO remains mum). Mr. Durst says he will erect a Times Square building on spec, and, while none of the principals will discuss it, industry sources say that Young & Rubicam is interested in moving in.
"I never thought I'd be talking new construction in 1995," Mr. Durst said. "But demand for big blocks exceeds supply."
There are big blocks to be had, of course. There are plenty of sublets available. Avon will open huge blocks at 9 West 57th Street. The old Mobil Building at 150 East 42d Street and American Home Products' old building at 685 Third Avenue (43d Street) still have plenty of space. In fact, the entire Grand Central area was one of 1995's disappointments, with vacancies remaining high.
But the area is looking up. A $200 million refurbishment of Grand Central Terminal is in the works. Some brokers expect the impact of Times Square's redevelopment to extend to Grand Central. And the area's landlords are offering bargain rents.
"The Grand Central market will take off, and that will signal the market's overall recovery," said Mr. Works of LaSalle.
Small space remains in ample supply. There is lots of it at 570 Lexington, the landmarked former G.E. building at 51st Street that the Mendik Company has renovated. Rockefeller Center is prebuilding whole floors of move-in-ready space for smaller tenants.
For brokers, the plethora of small spaces could mean more work for less pay. "We'll do plenty of leasing this year, but it will be for more tenants in smaller spaces," predicted Stephen B. Siegel, the Edward S. Gordon Company's president.
 
Building Sales
By all rights, with the rental market mired, no one should have wanted to buy commercial property last year. But buy they did. The Paramount Group bought 32 Old Slip, Donald J. Trump bought 40 Wall Street, George Comfort & Sons bought 63 Madison Avenue (27th Street), a bunch of Scandinavian investors bought 1500 Broadway (43d Street). The former B. Altman building on Fifth Avenue and 34th Street is a sold-out condominium. The list goes on.
"Lenders had so much money to put out that 1995 was the biggest, busiest sales year we've ever seen," said Peter R. Hauspurg, chairman of the investment banking firm Eastern Consolidated Properties.
Some high-profile sales are in the offing. A group led by Goldman Sachs, Tishman Speyer and David Rockefeller is poised to buy Rockefeller Center's bankrupt buildings. The Daily News building, at 220 East 42d Street, just went on the market. Many brokers expect that 40 West 40th Street, 598 Madison Avenue (58th Street) and other buildings will find buyers soon. "We'll see lots of sales in 1996," Mr. Siegel predicted.
 
The Retail Market
In Manhattan, 1995 was the year of mallization. The once-elegant 57th Street turned into an urban festival center, rife with theme restaurants and entertainment-oriented stores. SoHo moved further away from being an art-world bastion.
The old A & S Plaza on 32d and Broadway became Manhattan Mall. Rockefeller Center gave its labyrinthine concourse a boost with Herman's, a two-level store that draws pedestrians with its street level frontage, then has them leave through the concourse.
The World Trade Center's concourse, once a hodgepodge of nondescript stores, grabbed Disney, the Limited, and other mall denizens. So did Third Avenue, Madison Avenue in the 50's and the Flatiron district. The same retail names kept cropping up, as companies like 9 West, the Limited and Gap blanketed the borough with new stores.
Big-box retailers grabbed any large spaces they could find. "This sounds like heresy, but the availability of space drove the market more than location," said Benjamin Fox, a partner of New Spectrum.
Barnes & Noble opened its largest store ever, a 60,000-square-foot behemoth on Broadway and 66th Street. Borders announced its first New York book store, in the World Trade Center. CompUSA, Williams Sonoma, Pottery Barn, all expanded.
"Last year will go down as the year of the category killers," said Richard A. Seligman, a senior managing director at Gordon.
Even the many bank branches coming on line in the wake of consolidations and mergers were not enough to satisfy demand, and retail rents rose all over the city. That did not faze European and Asian retailers, for whom even Madison Avenue rents are cheap compared with what they pay on the Ginza or Bond Street. Ferragamo, Prada, myriad others took new stores.
Now retail brokers are waiting to see what branch spaces the mergers of Chase and Chemical, and of Fleet and NatWest will make available.
"Banks will be the source of some of our best retail space over the next two to three years," Ms. Consolo predicted. "But until we get that space, rents will keep climbing."
 
The Hotel Industry
The hotel industry's resurgence was one of 1995's true highlights. "It was one of the best years since the mid-80's," said Joseph E. Spinnato, president of the Hotel Association of New York City. "The economy was part of it, but so was the perception of the city as cleaner, safer and friendlier."
Hoteliers clearly feel bullish. Host Marriott spent $141.5 million to buy the downtown Vista Hotel. CDL Hotels International, a Singapore group that already owned the Millenium and the Macklowe, bought the Plaza. The Omni Berkshire went through a $65 million facelift, and Mr. Tishman is hoping the St. Moritz, which his company manages, will get spruced up this year.
Lenders, too, are feeling buoyant. "People who said they would never again lend to a hotel are throwing money at them," said Mr. Hauspurg of Eastern Consolidated.
Hotel developers bear that out. "Hotels are no longer redlined by the banks," said Mr. Tishman, who is seeking an equity partner and debt financing for the huge hotel he plans to build on 42d Street and Eighth Avenue. "The hotel market is really ripe."
 
Downtown Manhattan
The long-beleaguered financial district may not be healthy yet, but it no longer seems terminally ill. While the overall area is still plagued with vacancies, the World Trade Center and the area's other premier buildings are about 85 percent full.
The reason, suggests Mr. Cohen of Williams, is that last year was the first year that cost outweighed location as a driving force for tenants. "The financial district emerged as a place where $35 buys you what $45 buys in midtown," he said.
If that is so, then downtown must benefit if midtown rents rise. "People might not move to save $8 a foot, but they will move to save $18," said Julien J. Studley, head of the real estate firm that bears his name.
City Hall is helping, too. Last year Mayor Rudolph W. Giuliani passed a long-awaited program of tax incentives to bring businesses to the area, and to encourage owners to convert obsolete office space to residential use. Carl Weisbrod, head of the year-old downtown BID, predicts that the latter program will eventually yield some 5,000 new housing units, which in turn could draw stores and restaurants to the area.
That could reposition downtown as a 24-hour community -- a crucial factor if Mr. Weisbrod is to realize his dream of "transforming downtown from the hub of the Age of Capitalism to the prototypical urban center of the Information Age."
Stated less poetically, Mr. Weisbrod and several developers want to make the area a mecca for interactive technology companies, which have always spurned classic 9-to-5 hours. They've made a good start. Last year Rudin Management inaugurated the New York Information Technology Center at 55 Broad Street, which has been renting so well that some nearby buildings already are getting a spillover effect.
But there is competition for this nascent industry. For example, Hudson Square -- that once-industrial area bounded by Sixth Avenue, Canal Street, Morton Street and the Hudson River -- is grabbing its share. Small technology companies like Avalanche Systems, SenseNet and Radical Media "materialized out of thin air," said Frank LePera, a commercial real estate executive for Trinity Church, Hudson Square's primary landlord. "We'd have been happy to rent 200,000 square feet last year. We rented 250,000."
Hudson Square, SoHo and Midtown South all offer the architecturally interesting buildings and all-night, funky feel that downtown does not have. But they are fast running out of space. And Mr. Weisbrod's BID is readying its area to pick up the slack.
It has spruced up sanitation and lighting, and has unveiled the Heritage Trail, a series of four historic walks patterned after Boston's Freedom Trail. The BID is running a free jitney linking ferry terminals to other parts of the area. A ferry may soon run from the Upper East Side to Wall Street, and the state is studying whether to extend commuter rail lines to downtown. Gov. George E. Pataki said on Jan. 3 that he would like the Port Authority of New York and New Jersey to use the proceeds from an eventual sale of the World Trade Center for this purpose.
"We won't see track laid yet, but at least we'll learn if it is doable," said Mr. Spinola.
 
Outside Manhattan
Most talk of new construction revolves around the Durst Organization and HRO. But Joshua Muss may beat them both with Renaissance Plaza, the hotel and office complex he has wanted to build in downtown Brooklyn for more than a dozen years.
"The financing is in place, the drawings are ready, the paperwork should be done within weeks," Mr. Muss said. "We intend to be in the ground in a couple of months."
Mr. Muss will not give details, but others report that Leucadia National has leased about half of the office building's 800,000 square feet, and that the Brooklyn District Attorney's office will rent space. The Marriott Corporation will run the 385-room hotel.
The retail prognosis is chancier. Shopping centers sprang up all over the city last year, but that activity is slowing. Apparently, the bankruptcies of Caldor and Bradlees and ongoing concern about Kmart's financial shape have made lenders skittish.
"Developers, bankers, institutions, the entire retail sector has become uneasy," said Guy Morris, managing director of investment sales at Garrick-Aug. Still, Mr. Morris noted that "the A list locations" -- Fulton Street and 86th Street in Brooklyn, much of Greenwich, Conn., all of Westchester and Nassau Counties -- are still attracting tenants, and supermarkets and strong-credit stores like Target may fill in the gap if the troubled discounters close stores. "As long as interest rates stay down, 1996 may be a decent year," he said.
Suburban office properties, which sank even lower than their Manhattan counterparts during the recession, are bouncing back, too. According to Mr. Malkin of W & M, which has numerous properties in Connecticut, the Greenwich market is "drum tight." He said rents were up to the mid-$30s a square foot in prime locations. "A year ago, the mid-$20's was considered good," he said.
Stamford. meanwhile, is likely to see a boom. According to Jay S. Hruska, a Cushman & Wakefield director, Stamford's vacancy rate has dropped to 15 percent, from 17 percent last year. But Swiss Bank is building its headqurters there, and most brokers predict its entourage will sop up far more space. "The law firms, the accounting firms, all the ancillary firms that service a company like Swiss Bank will be nosing around, maybe even committing to space this year," Mr. Hruska predicted.

CORRECTION-DATE: January 28, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article and a picture caption on Jan. 14 about the commercial property outlook referred incorrectly to two Manhattan hotels owned by the CDL Group of Singapore, which has altered their names since purchasing them. The former Macklowe is now the Millennium Broadway; the former Millenium is now the Millenium Hilton. The company has retained the "Millenium" spelling for the Hilton.

GRAPHIC: Photos: Rendering of Renaissance Plaza, a hotel and office complex that Joshua Muss plans to construct in downtown Brooklyn. (pg. 9); 55 Broad Street (top) has been converted to a technology center and is doing well. At Rockefeller Center (above), 12 buildings have filed for bankruptcy. The Plaza Hotel (top) has been purchased by the Singapore group that owns the Millenium and the Macklowe. Tishman plans a huge hotel (right) as part of the Times Square Redevelopment project. (Marilynn K. Yee/The New York Times; model, Jack Manning/The New York Times)(pg. 1)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH 

TICKER: RCP (NYSE) (62%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS237210 LAND SUBDIVISION (50%); SIC6552 LAND SUBDIVIDERS & DEVELOPERS, EXCEPT CEMETERIES (50%); SIC1541 GENERAL CONTRACTORS - INDUSTRIAL BUILDINGS & WAREHOUSES (50%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (91%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (91%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

COMPANY: TISHMAN REALTY & CONSTRUCTION CO INC (50%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: NEW YORK CITY; UNITED STATES (91%); NEW YORK, USA (91%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (91%); 

SUBJECT: REAL ESTATE; OFFICE BUILDINGS; HOTELS AND MOTELS; RETAIL STORES AND TRADE; FORECASTS; INDUSTRY PROFILES REAL ESTATE (91%); COMMERCIAL RENTAL PROPERTY (90%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY (90%); EXECUTIVES (89%); REAL ESTATE AGENTS (89%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY (88%); RENTAL PROPERTY (78%); COMMERCIAL PROPERTY VACANCY RATES (78%); OFFICE PROPERTY (78%); INSOLVENCY & BANKRUPTCY LAW (73%); CONSTRUCTION (71%); EMPLOYMENT GROWTH (70%); SALES FIGURES (70%); LEGAL SERVICES (68%); RETAILERS (60%); JOB CREATION (50%); 

PERSON: DEUTSCH, CLAUDIA H DANIEL BIEDERMAN (62%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



389 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 14, 1996
Correction Appended

SECTION: Section 5; Page 8; Column 1; Travel Desk 

LENGTH: 2739 words

HEADLINE: Siberia Belies Its Somber Image

BYLINE: By ANDREW ROSENBAUM; ANDREW ROSENBAUM is a journalist based in Paris.

 BODY:
WHEN my friends in Moscow heard that I was going to Siberia in February, they said, "It's going to be cold." Actually, it was not that cold. Awaiting an Arctic blast as I stepped off the plane into the Siberian snow, I found myself feeling no more chilled than I would on a ski vacation.
Instead of the dark, frozen place of exile that I had expected -- home of the gulag and the salt mine -- I found streets filled with shoppers and vendors and fur-hatted peasants carrying purchases home on mules. Shops were stocked with fresh fruit and stylish clothing, and crowded restaurants served hearty traditional fare like Siberian dumplings and stews. Residents, I learned, tend to flee not the cold, but the summer months, when temperatures soar to near 100 degrees and inchlong mosquitoes come out of hibernation. I had come to Siberia on business to study the economic life of the region, but during my 10-day stay discovered much to enjoy. Siberia is surprisingly sunny in the winter months, when the deep colors of the forest shine against the snow. The dark green taiga -- this is what the Siberians call their stunted pine forest -- is edged with the white of birch trees under a slate-blue sky. The huge Siberian land mass, bigger than the United States and Europe together, is mostly taiga. It runs 4,350 miles east of the Ural Mountains to the Pacific Ocean, unchanging, hardly touched by humans. 
 In it there are a few charming little cities of wood and pastel-colored brick that add a touch of softness to the harsh surroundings. Siberians, who were closed off from contact with the West for many years, are eager to meet foreigners and hospitable enough to bring tears to your eyes.
The contrast between the looming taiga and the cities within it is particularly evident in Krasnoyarsk, with a population of about one million situated some 1,000 miles west of the Urals. At the airport, some 30 miles outside town, one is completely surrounded by the green and blue forest. Driving on the narrow road leading into town, I saw elk running through trees. Suddenly a main street appeared and the center of Krasnoyarsk with it.
Founded in the 17th century as a trading post on the wide Yenisei River, the city has never been much more than that, a frontier center, huddled in the midst of the forest. Beyond it lies the Krasnoyarskye Stolby, or national park, at 116,633 acres one of the largest of its kind in Russia. I spent an afternoon cross-country skiing in the park on a pair of borrowed skis. On the sinuous path that cuts a narrow swath through the thick pine forest, I surprised a Siberian weasel and glided over numerous animal tracks, though I failed to glimpse the wild boar or the great Siberian bear that also make the taiga their home.
The downhill skier is guaranteed knee-deep powder in winter, and there are lifts that function almost like those in the West. Skiing is a bargain: lift tickets can be bought for less than $10 a day. For the hardy there is a daylong boat ride on the Yenisei River that runs right up to the Arctic Circle.
In the center of the city the main streets are lined with a few 18th-century brick buildings from the classical era. Most notable is a church called Pokrovskaya (an old Russian word that refers to Jesus covering the earth with the first snow in October), a fantasy of the classic Russian onion dome in yellow and red brick. Inside I was surprised to find a blaze of colored icons, from every possible period, covering almost all the interior walls of the church. Under them, a priest bowed in rhythm to the chants of hymns sung by a proficient choir of women dressed in black.
Siberians fill the city's center, waddling with the stiffest deportment they can muster on the icy streets, as if they were afraid to let down their guard. (Politics hasn't changed much in Siberia, and in Krasnoyarsk the main thoroughfare is still called Karl Marx Street). Traders sell everything from mangoes to diamonds. The well-filled shops offer stylish clothing of local manufacture, furs, antiques -- whatever the trains and boats have brought in, at bargain prices. When I was there, a shop at the very beginning of Karl Marx Street was filled with crystal. Six wine glasses, with delicate stems and notched bowls, cost about $20.
Off one of the main streets is the home of the Cossack artist Surikov. A minor master of late 19th-century realism in the French style, he painted degenerate aristocrats, dirty peasants and smiling middle-class wives that provide a lively picture of provincial Russia under the czars. The house contains a wide selection of his work and some period furniture.
After a day of sightseeing or skiing, filling Siberian fare goes down easily. The restaurant Sadko, a 19th-century pavilion on a pier of the Yenisei that juts out into the river, with a dramatic view of the surrounding mountains, offers just that. The classic Siberian dish is a bowl of homemade pelmenyi, little dumplings filled with meat in a hearty chicken broth. The Sadko also serves a good local beefsteak with fresh vegetables. Farming hasn't changed much in Siberia over the centuries, and the area still produces peas, carrots and celery as well as the Russian staples, cucumbers and crisp potatoes, in winter from greenhouses.
It is a two-hour plane trip from the natural wonders of Krasnoyarsk to the more culturally inclined city of Irkutsk, about 500 miles southeast. Irkutsk is smaller than Krasnoyarsk, with only 650,000 people, but much more developed.
UNDER the czars, all the exiles were sent to Irkutsk, so I expected to find the city somewhat depressing. In fact, Irkutsk is lighthearted and sunny, filled with pastel-colored 18th-century buildings and delicately sculptured old wooden houses where the political rebels lived in serene exile. Like Krasnoyarsk, Irkutsk was founded in the 17th century as a trading post, but it benefited from being the administrative center of eastern Siberia and from the discovery of gold in the 19th century. Elaborate brick mansions were built at the turn of the century, and the dark black wooden cabins were adorned with a local "lace" sculpture that gives them a touch of the Italian Renaissance.
A day spent walking around the center of Irkutsk is the best way to take in its sights. Two of the most interesting log "cabins" are open to the public. They were built by the so-called Decembrists, a group of revolutionary officers who were exiled to Irkutsk after their activities led to an uprising against Czar Nicholas I in December 1825. The smaller cabin, about 1,500 square feet, belonged to the romantic Count Sergei Trubetskoy, whose wife was allowed to follow him into exile on the condition she give up her titles. It is filled with period furniture, its walls covered with pictures of the exiles and their not-so-troubled lives. The Czar made them work in the mines for only a few months, after which they engaged in literary discussions and watercolor painting. Under the Communist Government, however, exiles were sent to the gulag to work as slaves in mines and construction.
The nearby cabin of the aristocrat soldier Count Sergei Volkonsky, who took part in the war against Napoleon and was exiled for sedition, is more than twice the size of Count Trubetskoy's and includes a full-scale salon in the style of the 18th century, two floors filled with antiques and portraits of the family and a fascinating exhibit on the the exiles, many of whom were portrayed in Tolstoy's "War and Peace."
Just outside the city center is a church that has been partly converted into a museum. The works on display give an excellent overall view of Siberian art and culture. Some native Siberians, most notably the Evenki from around the Irkutsk region, continue to practice shamanism, though many gave it up when the Russians came in the 17th century. Much of Siberian art and culture dates to the Paleolithic period and hasn't changed since then. There are totems, paintings, carvings and native Siberian headdresses. Nearby is the official Irkutsk Museum, which provides a more detailed view of the Evenki culture. Past the museum, on the city outskirts, visitors will see the onion domes of the Epiphany Church.
Irkutsk has several excellent restaurants that serve a more sophisticated version of Siberian fare than those in Krasnoyarsk. At Aura, a restaurant in the city circus building, I enjoyed my first omul -- a white-fleshed fish more tangy than salmon that is native to the nearby Lake Baikal, at 12,150 square miles the world's largest freshwater lake. After that followed a main course of lamb stew with prunes that combined Asian and Russian influences. The service was polished, something that is rare in Russia.
I spent the next day at Lake Baikal, a dramatic 45-minute drive through the taiga from the city on rough, icy roads. ("In Siberia we don't have roads, we have directions," my friend Sasha explained).
"You can see through the waters of Lake Baikal as you can see through the air," Chekhov wrote when he visited at the end of the 19th century. Local people call it the "blue eye of Siberia." Almost ringed by the blue-green taiga, the 395-mile-long lake is deep turquoise blue, and so clear that one can often see down 40 yards or more.
Sasha and I enjoyed a long walk through the forest that surrounds the lake (most of the snow had melted). We were looking for the golomyanka. It is like a jellyfish, and if it is fished out of the depths where it lives, it explodes. We were unsuccessful.
Shortly after our walk, I boarded a plane for the five-hour trip to Vladivostok, gateway to the Pacific Ocean at the edge of the taiga, and of Siberia. This city of 700,000, opened to the outside world only in 1992, is set among snowbound hills overlooking the water, where huge boats are tugged around the harbor, but there is little architectural resemblance between Vladivostok and the towns of western Siberia. Vladivostok looks as if some giant grabbed a bunch of buildings at random from a variety of cities from all over the world and stuck them down like hairpins in the taiga. Between the buildings -- some classical, some 19th century, some Stalinist from the 30's and 40's, some grotesque housing developments from the 60's -- the hills pop up with brush and scrub.
Pastel colors dominate the older buildings; Doric columns front some white 18th-century houses in the city center, providing weird echoes of Palladio. Great 19th-century monuments in the style of Brussels stick out between squarish Stalinist blocks. Vladivostok, a nine-hour flight from Moscow, is a frontier town whose like no longer exists in the West. The Russian mafia rules it, and guards with machine guns are to be seen at the entrances to supermarkets, banks and public buildings as one tries to push one's way through the ethnically diverse crowd that jams the city streets. Various friends warned me not to go out at night "unless you have a driver, and don't take a taxi." We didn't try. (A driver can be booked through the Intourist travel agency for about $100 a day.)
One of the best things to do in Vladivostok is eat. The many foreign influences have brought great ethnic foods, and it is the place to try Korean and Chinese restaurants, like Korean Moranbon on Morskaya Street or Hingan 2 on Batareynaya Street, as well as the national ones.
There is not much to see in Vladivostok except the crash of the ocean on the taiga, the boats and the crazy crowd. Those with an interest in the sea will enjoy the Russian Naval Museum, which surveys the 19th-century conflicts involving Britain, Germany and Russia, with antique maps and engravings of the ships. But I prefer scrambling around the the port and watching the huge container ships and fishing vessels pull up to the dock.
The city is like an amphitheater that looks down on the port, and I could easily observe the frantic action on the decks of these great ocean vessels. In winter the harbor freezes in average low temperatures that dip to zero in January, with highs around 18 degrees. Irkutsk, by contrast, experiences average lows of around minus-14 degrees in December to February and highs of 5 degrees. Vladivostok, with its port and fantastically diverse crowd, would hardly seem Siberian were it not for the blue-green hills of the taiga between the buildings and the prevailing sense that anything is allowed on this wild eastern frontier.
 
Where to stay and eat: a visitor's guide
 
Getting There
Flights from Moscow or St. Petersburg are the only way to get to most of Siberia. The flights can be very unreliable, so if your flight is scheduled at night, hang on to your hotel room. Avoid any flights that involve changing planes. Direct flights to Moscow are often on time.
 
 Lodging, Dining and Touring
 The best hotel in most Siberian towns will cost $50 a night. Services can cost a lot extra though, and sometimes even simple things, like getting room service, require a small payment.
If you drink wine, order a bottle of so-called champagne with the meal. It is usually produced in Georgia or the Crimea and is good value for about $8 a bottle. The prices for the restaurants below are for one without champagne.
KRASNOYARSK: Hotel Octyabrskaya, 15 Mira Place; (7 3912) 271-916, fax (7 3912) 277-508, is a comfortable, clean hotel with about 160 rooms in the center of the city, just off Karl Marx Street. But it provides few services other than a room, and it can be difficult getting the breakfast that is included in the price. The restaurant serves good local food. Dinner for one is about $20. About $100 for a double room.
Restaurant Sadko, 1, Dubrovinski Street, (3912) 290361, has a pleasant pavilion on the Yenisei River, with a delightful view of the mountains.
Excellent soups, pelmenyi, the famous Siberian ravioli, and good fresh chops. Country food, but fresh and well prepared. About $15 a person (foreigners have to pay in dollars, an exception).
Surikov Museum, Lenina Street; open 9 A.M. to 12:30 P.M. and 2 to 5 P.M.; (3912) 231-507, no fax. Open every day; admission about $3.
IRKUTSK: Hotel Intourist, 44 Bulvar Gagarina, Irkutsk, Siberia, (7 3952) 290-171 or 230-166, fax (7 3952) 277-278, is too big, but its 200 rooms are clean and services are efficient. An army of security guards in the lobby sometimes makes it difficult to get in and out. The hotel can claim one excellent restaurant though, the Siberian Traktir, (3952) 290-181. Try the pelmenyi and a beefy bowl of borscht. Dinner for one about $20.
Restaurant Aura Proletarskaya, 13th Street, (City circus building), 335-606, is one of the best restaurants in Western Siberia. It is open from noon to 1 A.M. Specialties include complex soups, pelmenyi dumplings, healthy portions of fruit, and meat stews. About $25 a person.
Dacha Excursion. From Irkutsk, it is possible to take a trip to the nearby town of Angarsk to sample a steamy Russian bath. The meal served after the bath was a delicious spread of local garden produce, and homemade cakes. The excursion can be booked through an English-speaking guide: Alexander Trifonov, 330450, at Irkutsk, 69-28 5th Army Street. About $50.
Irkutsk Museum, 2 Karl Marx Street, (3952) 333-449, 335-916, is open daily except Monday from 10 A.M. to 5 P.M. Admission about $3.
VLADIVOSTOK: Hotel Vladivostok, 10, Naberezhnaya Street, (4232) 222-208 or 212-413, fax (4232) 225-521, is a rather dismal but clean 265-room hotel that is undergoing renovation. Doubles about $32.
Do not eat at the hotel restaurant (the broth in which my pelmenyi were floating had coagulated before it was served). If you are stuck there at night, there is a bar with snacks that will do in a pinch. The hotel also has a shop downstairs that sells food and water. Do not drink the city tap water.
The fourth floor is run by a company called Vizit; (4232) 212-413, fax (4232) 260-360. It has 38 recently renovated rooms with TV's and telephones. A twin-bed double is $120 and a junior suite $200. Prices include breakfast.
Aragvy, 23/25 25th October Street, 22-03-39, is an excellent Russian restaurant, serving good fish and soups; about $20 a person.
Hingan 2, 2 Batareynaya Street, 25-37-11, serves classic Chinese cuisine from various regions. About $30 per person.
Moranbon, 6/25 Morskaya Street, 26-77-25, serves authentic Korean food. About $25 a person.

CORRECTION-DATE: February 11, 1996, SundayFebruary 25, 1996, Sunday

 CORRECTION:
An article on Jan. 14 about Siberia referred incorrectly to the sentences imposed on the Decembrists, a group of officers who led a rebellion against Czar Nicholas I in December 1825. A reader's letter received on Jan. 24 points out that all were given 10 or more years at hard labor, in addition to exile; none drew hard-labor sentences of only a few months. The article also misstated the title of Sergei Trubetskoy, a leader of the group. Another reader's letter, received on Jan. 22, points out that he was a prince, not a count.
An article on Jan. 14 about Siberia located the city of Krasnoyarsk incorrectly. A reader's letter dated Jan. 31, initially misdirected at The Times, points out that it is east of the Urals, not west.

GRAPHIC: Photos: The Epiphany Church, on the outskirts of Irkutsk. (Boris Dimitriev/Mir Agency); Vladivostok, frontier town and port city on the Pacific, opened to the world only in 1992. The main attraction: its ethnic restaurants. (Mir Agency) (pg. 8); Detail of Siberian woodwork at a house in Irkutsk. (Sylvia Stevens); Museum in Krasnoyarsk devoted to Surikov, a late 19th-century Cossack artist. (Mir Agency) (pg. 9); Lake Baikal, near Irkutsk, in wintertime. (Sylvia Stevens) (pg. 28)
 
Map of Russia.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH ;; 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); 

STATE: PACIFIC OCEAN (69%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SIBERIA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); EUROPE (79%); UNITED STATES (79%); PACIFIC OCEAN (69%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (92%); 

SUBJECT: TRAVEL AND VACATIONS; NYTRAVEL TRAVEL HOSPITALITY & TOURISM (89%); SKIING (89%); FORESTS & WOODLANDS (87%); MAMMALS (85%); NATIONAL PARKS (76%); MOUNTAINS (76%); RETAILERS (75%); RESTAURANTS (70%); 

PERSON: ROSENBAUM, ANDREW

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 1996



390 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 5; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 202 words

HEADLINE: Extend the Debt Limit

 BODY:
To the Editor:
Representative Christopher Cox (Op-Ed, Jan. 11) would have Americans believe President Clinton is the one playing chicken with the nation's credit rating by threatening default on United States debt. It is Speaker Newt Gingrich and his hard-liners -- blinded by ideology to the catastrophic consequences of their actions -- who have chosen to use the debt ceiling to bludgeon the President into agreeing to their budget preferences. 
 The costs of default would be dire. Interest rates on United States debt would rise significantly. Homeowners would pay more for mortgages. Students would suffer higher loan rates. Retirees would lose billions in pension assets. Worst, the United States would lose its blue chip-rating.
The responsible course, as urged by Treasury Secretary Robert E. Rubin, is for Congress to approve a clean debt-limit extension to permit the Government to meet existing obligations authorized by Congress.
We should continue to debate the best way to balance the budget. And Republicans should stop blackmailing the American people and roiling the world's financial markets.
 
CHARLES E. SCHUMER
Member of Congress, 9th Dist., N.Y.
Washington, Jan. 11, 1996

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Letter 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (98%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (98%); NEW YORK, USA (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING; NATIONAL DEBT (US) DEBT CEILING (90%); LETTERS & COMMENTS (90%); US PRESIDENTS (90%); BUDGETS (90%); FINANCIAL RATINGS (90%); PUBLIC FINANCE (87%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (78%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (77%); PUBLIC DEBT (77%); NATIONAL DEBT (77%); MORTGAGE BANKING & FINANCE (77%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (75%); MORTGAGE RATES (74%); INTEREST RATES (74%); ECONOMIC NEWS (74%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (74%); HOMEOWNERS (74%); APPROVALS (70%); BANKING & FINANCE (69%); TREASURY DEPARTMENTS (67%); PUBLIC FINANCE AGENCIES & TREASURIES (67%); 

PERSON: SCHUMER, CHARLES E (REPR); COX, CHRISTOPHER (REPR) CHRISTOPHER COX (88%); BILL CLINTON (73%); CHARLES SCHUMER (67%); NEWT GINGRICH (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



391 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 2; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 767 words

HEADLINE: Power Couple

BYLINE: By Jeffrey E. Garten; Jeffrey E. Garten, former Under Secretary of Commerce in the Clinton Administration, is dean of the Yale School of Management.

DATELINE: NEW HAVEN

 BODY:
In the waning years of the last century, Americans were preoccupied with industrial mergers, urban chaos and unrest in the Philippines and Cuba. Only a few military strategists predicted the real threat to the global status quo -- the rise of Germany and Japan.
Today, on the cusp of another millennium, we again risk losing sight of the most important challenge facing the United States: the rise of China, already a military power but soon to be one of the world's largest economies. 
 That is where any discussion of the United States and China should begin -- not with tensions over Taiwan and not with human rights violations, repugnant as we may find them. If Washington focuses solely on China's military conflicts and human rights violations, it is destined to become enemies with Beijing. A strong trade relationship remains our best chance to avoid that and to plant the seeds of democracy in China.
There is no time to lose. To have an effective partnership, we need a better trade balance. Our deficit with China is second only to the inbalance with Japan, and it is growing at a much faster rate. In the late 1980's, the deficit was just $2 billion. In 1995, the deficit was more than $30 billion. This is not yet an emergency -- not in our $7 trillion economy -- but the warning lights are flashing.
The potential for trade with China is enormous. At least until the end of the century, China plans to import more than $100 billion in goods each year. Competition for this trade is brutal. Presidents and prime ministers from Britain, France, Japan and Germany have offered China billions of dollars in low-interest loans, which are tied to the purchase of their countries' products.
But there is more at stake than money. American companies are our only major link to hundreds of millions of Chinese people. When AT&T connects Chinese citizens to anyone in the world, or when Procter & Gamble upgrades safety standards for its Chinese workers, some of our human rights goals are met, too.
Advocating greater commercial engagement with China is easier than carrying it out. Beijing has imposed huge industrial tariffs and a host of trade barriers in financial services. Indeed, the Clinton Administration may soon announce that it is imposing sanctions on China for violating agreements on intellectual property rights.
But America must think beyond the next skirmish. Trade should not be a threat to our relationship, but the glue that strengthens it. Here are some ways to develop a long-term strategy:
Push harder to admit China into the new World Trade Organization. China must meet global commercial rules, and it has a long way to go. But the United States should not be excessively legalistic, as it often is in trade negotiations. It is better to have China inside the club, and subject to global sanctions if it strays from the rules, than outside it.
Ask our allies to help us. Washington should marshal its allies to pressure China when necessary. Going mano a mano with Beijing as we always do, be it over intellectual property rights, human rights or arm sales, is increasingly ineffective.
End self-defeating threats to stop trade. Congress should stop threatening to revoke China's trading privileges every time there are human rights violations. Such light-switch diplomacy undercuts our chances for meaningful long-term commercial ties and ignores the speed at which China could substitute Europe's Airbus for Boeing's planes. Human rights violations need to be vigorously denounced in the United Nations as well as in discussions between our two Governments, but interrupting trade only backfires.
Help American companies expand trade. Washington should immediately upgrade efforts to help its companies win contracts in China, including providing financial assistance.
Expand the definition of economic engagement. The United States should step up efforts to help China develop a modern financial and legal system, from stock-market regulations to commercial courts.
Develop a long-term vision. The United States and China need to talk regularly at the cabinet level about the future of trade between the two companies -- what the two sides envision in the 21st century and how to get there. Little such discussion now occurs, because tensions of the moment always pre-empt everything else.
The United States and China will be the two global giants for several generations. Placing American-Chinese trade at the center of our global interests prepares us for the next century more effectively than our forefathers did a hundred years ago.

GRAPHIC: Drawing

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

TICKER: PGP (PAR) (52%); PG (NYSE) (52%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS325620 TOILET PREPARATION MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS325611 SOAP & OTHER DETERGENT MANUFACTURING (52%); NAICS322291 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCT MANUFACTURING (52%); SIC2844 PERFUMES, COSMETICS, & OTHER TOILET PREPARATIONS (52%); SIC2841 SOAPS & OTHER DETERGENTS, EXCEPT SPECIALTY CLEANERS (52%); SIC2676 SANITARY PAPER PRODUCTS (52%); 

COUNTRY: CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); 

STATE: NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); 

CITY: BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

COMPANY: PROCTER & GAMBLE CO (52%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: CHINA; CHINA (99%); UNITED STATES (97%); JAPAN (94%); PHILIPPINES (92%); GERMANY (90%); FRANCE (79%); TAIWAN (79%); NORTH CENTRAL CHINA (92%); BEIJING, CHINA (90%); 

SUBJECT: INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; UNITED STATES INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-US EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (90%); HUMAN RIGHTS VIOLATIONS (89%); TRADE DEVELOPMENT (88%); MILLENNIUM (78%); COMPANY STRATEGY (78%); IMPORT TRADE (77%); US PRESIDENTS (76%); FINES & PENALTIES (74%); GOODS & SERVICES TRADE BALANCE (73%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY LAW (69%); INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY (69%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (69%); BANKING & FINANCE (68%); INTEREST RATES (66%); ECONOMIC NEWS (66%); TAXES & TAXATION (64%); PRIME MINISTERS (50%); 

PERSON: GARTEN, JEFFREY E HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); HILLARY RODHAM CLINTON (51%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



392 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 16; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 546 words

HEADLINE: Syria Wobbles Toward Peace

 BODY:
The many strands of Middle East diplomacy crossed paths last week. Jordan's King Hussein drew an enthusiastic greeting from ordinary Israelis in Tel Aviv. Palestinians prepared for their first self-rule election. Secretary of State Warren Christopher nudged forward the negotiations between Israel and Syria.
It is a complex pattern, with progress on each front unfolding at a different rate. But the trend is undeniably toward a broad regional peace. King Hussein has gone further than anyone, offering a cooperative relationship. Yasir Arafat is ambivalent. President Hafez al-Assad of Syria offers little more than a chilly correctness. Syria's attitude has been just enough to keep talks alive, but progress has been slow. America's useful role has been to make sure Syria does not lag so far behind it falls out of the peace process altogether. 
 An Israel-Syria agreement would be the most straightforward route to regional harmony and is the course preferred by Prime Minister Shimon Peres. But Israel might be able to work around a recalcitrant Damascus and build mutually beneficial economic ties with the rest of the Arab world.
Jordanian-Israeli relations, which have blossomed since the two sides signed a 1994 peace treaty, symbolize the possibilities of a warm and neighborly peace. Although Jordan fought alongside Egypt and Syria in the 1967 war, Israelis have never viewed King Hussein as a mortal enemy committed to their destruction. His eloquent eulogy at Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin's funeral last year further elevated his standing in Israeli eyes, as has his recent sharp break with his former ally Iraq. The King's diplomacy has moved well ahead of Jordanian opinion. His sharp political instincts, nurtured over years of challenge, protect him and give him confidence. As he approaches the final years of his reign, he is showing the kind of courageous leadership that can give history a useful push.
Mr. Arafat has shown that he too can lead, but intermittently. Most of the time he seems more intent on protecting himself against criticism from the most violent elements of Palestinian society. This preoccupation was again on display in his praise for the "martyrdom" of Yahya Ayyash, believed to be the technical mastermind behind the series of suicide bombings against Israeli targets that have endangered Mr. Arafat's peace agreements. Mr. Ayyash was hunted down and killed in Gaza earlier this month, presumably by Israeli agents. No wonder Israeli opinion remains uneasy about Mr. Arafat, despite all he has done to shift the focus from terrorism to constructive politics.
The most urgent negotiations concern Syria. After a round of discussions initiated by Prime Minister Peres, talks will resume later this month. Syrian military specialists will join the meetings, but Mr. Assad still declines to send anyone empowered to discuss economic issues, including water allocation.
Sending the military specialists keeps the momentum alive. But unless the talks progress quickly, the Israeli and American elections could impose further delays. Mr. Assad, who has survived by deferring difficult choices, must choose whether to lead the way to regional peace. His alternative is regional isolation and diplomatic irrelevance.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Editorial

COUNTRY: ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); JORDAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); 

CITY: TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: MIDDLE EAST; ISRAEL; SYRIA; ISRAEL (95%); SYRIA (94%); JORDAN (94%); PALESTINIAN TERRITORY, OCCUPIED (93%); MIDDLE EAST (93%); UNITED STATES (92%); EGYPT (79%); IRAQ (79%); TEL AVIV, ISRAEL (92%); DAMASCUS, SYRIA (79%); 

SUBJECT: EDITORIALS HEADS OF STATE & GOVERNMENT (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); PEACE PROCESS (89%); PRIME MINISTERS (89%); ELECTIONS (77%); TALKS & MEETINGS (77%); POLITICS (77%); TREATIES & AGREEMENTS (73%); TERRORISM (69%); WATER RIGHTS (66%); BOMBINGS (65%); SUICIDE BOMBINGS (60%); 

PERSON: ASSAD, HAFEZ AL- (PRES) SHIMON PERES (58%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



393 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 17; Column 1; Editorial Desk 

LENGTH: 719 words

HEADLINE: Essay;
Rise Of 'The Stepson'

BYLINE: By WILLIAM SAFIRE 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON

 BODY:
Ordinarily, when a former columnist makes it to the top in politics, I get a warm feeling. But the emergence of Yevgeny Primakov as Russian Foreign Minister should send a chill throughout the West.
Boris Yeltsin's choice of the amiable snake who headed his espionage agency signals the end of Mr. Nice Guy in Russian diplomacy. But the change amounts to far more than a tactical shift to help Yeltsin in coming elections. 
 Just as the strains in the Sino-Soviet alliance in the 60's made possible the Nixon-Kissinger strategy of triangulation, Yeltsin's surprising turn to Primakov is a harbinger of a new Russo-Chinese entente: that remarriage would foreshadow a turn away from democracy in today's single-superpower world.
Primakov's career began in the 50's as a Soviet spy in the Middle East. His cover was journalist; as an Arabic-speaking reporter and later columnist for Pravda, he had the code name "Maxim" in the K.G.B. (Not much of a code; Maximovich is listed as his middle name. His last name, Primakov, which means "stepson" in Russian, may have been taken to conceal Jewish roots that could not have been helpful either in the Arab world or the K.G.B.)
As spy, propagandist and academician, he worked his way up in the Communist hierarchy to chairman of the Supreme Soviet, then into the Politburo as an ally of Mikhail Gorbachev.
Americans came to know Primakov as chief Soviet advocate of Saddam Hussein just before the Persian Gulf war. Primakov elbowed aside the Foreign Minister, Eduard Shevardnadze, to try to protect his longtime Iraqi source and ally. President Bush, aware of the longtime Primakov-Saddam connection, was careful not to let the Russian Arabist interfere with cooperation between Moscow and Washington.
Sensing Gorbachev's weakness, the nimble Primakov created his own secret channel to the rising Yeltsin; when power passed, Primakov was able to break off the foreign intelligence arm of the K.G.B., setting up an independent fiefdom with himself as chief.
American spooks say he has been a formidable opponent. He built up his espionage cadre at a time of tight budgets by letting agents free-lance -- spying by day and running private businesses by night, often supplementing Government salaries by extortion of exposable members of former satellite services.
Under Primakov, the mission expanded from spying for security to spying for national profit: He increased the number of agents in the U.S., Germany and Japan assigned to steal technology secrets needed by Russian industry. And he skillfully used the U.S. media to send word to Aldrich Ames in prison to continue to resist interrogation, keeping that spy hoping for a swap.
Now the Stepson is in place at the top of the foreign-policy heap. He will charm visiting U.S. Congressmen and win over journalists with his accessibility. What does his ascension mean?
The lifelong Arab expert will no longer allow the Middle East to move toward peace or democracy. The first change will be felt in the U.N.'s policy toward Iraq. Saddam is looking toward his old friend for help in ending sanctions; in the Security Council, Russia will enlist China to help press hard to give Saddam the chance to sell oil to buy Russian arms. And to reconquer Iraqi Kurds now under our protection.
Nor will Islamic fundamentalism go unsupported by Primakov in Iran, Saudi Arabia, Turkey and Egypt. In Syria, after Hafez al-Assad gets all he can from Israel and the U.S., he can expect an enticing visit from a man who speaks his language.
But most important is the Chinese connection. This has been slowly building: Right now, China is Russia's biggest customer of arms for cash. The hard currency China gains from trade with the U.S. goes to buy tanks and planes and warships from Russia. Thanks to the squishy-soft Clinton trade policy, we are in effect subsidizing the resuscitation of the Russian armaments industry to supply the Chinese Army.
Primakov will take this economic entente to the next stage: active diplomatic cooperation. Border disputes will be settled; Russia will block U.N. condemnation of China's human rights crackdown; China will join Russia in enlisting world support against American export of democracy as "destabilizing."
Keep your eye on the Stepson. He could change your life.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Op-Ed 

COUNTRY: RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (75%); 

CITY: MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

COMPANY: BORIS YELTSIN'S CHOICE (67%); K G B (57%); 

ORGANIZATION: K G B (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: RUSSIA; CHINA; RUSSIAN FEDERATION (96%); UNITED STATES (95%); CHINA (92%); MIDDLE EAST (79%); GERMANY (79%); JAPAN (79%); GULF STATES (75%); MOSCOW, RUSSIAN FEDERATION (73%); 

SUBJECT: APPOINTMENTS AND EXECUTIVE CHANGES; BIOGRAPHICAL INFORMATION; INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS; CHINA-INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS-RUSSIA INTERNATIONAL RELATIONS (91%); WRITERS (90%); EDITORIALS & OPINIONS (90%); STATE DEPARTMENTS & FOREIGN SERVICES (90%); FOREIGN RELATIONS (89%); POLITICS (89%); ESPIONAGE (89%); JOURNALISM (78%); FOREIGN POLICY (73%); FREELANCE EMPLOYMENT (73%); DESERT STORM (64%); INTELLIGENCE SERVICES (61%); 

PERSON: SAFIRE, WILLIAM; PRIMAKOV, YEVGENY M (MIN) GEORGE W BUSH (55%); SADDAM HUSSEIN (50%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



394 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 13; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1122 words

HEADLINE: Plans May Balance, but Budget May Not

BYLINE: By MICHAEL WINES 

DATELINE: WASHINGTON, Jan. 14

 BODY:
As President Clinton and Republican leaders prepare for yet another grapple this week over whose detailed, Government-certified plan will best balance the Federal budget in seven years, weary fiscal experts are starting to raise an often overlooked point:
Neither side has any earthly idea whether its plan will really balance the Federal budget in seven years. 
 Indeed, some experts hold that the longer the bargaining goes on -- and it has gone on for three very long months -- the more glib and less certain of balance the plans become.
In that view, the two sides have based their calculations on so many new assumptions and have stretched numbers so far in seeking compromise that the odds that something will go wrong have risen sharply.
"I've been telling my clients that I don't care what plan they come up with," Stanley Collender, the director of Federal budget policy for the accounting firm Price Waterhouse, said last week, "the best you'll see by 2002 is a deficit of about $100 billion a year."
Rudolph G. Penner, the Republican economist who ran the Congressional Budget Office in the mid-1980's, has long said that any seven-year plan to achieve fiscal balance could err in 2002 by much more, perhaps by $300 billion.
By comparison, the last published Republican proposal, in mid-December, posited a surplus of precisely $3.9 billion in 2002. And Mr. Clinton's latest plan, released last week, predicts that the Federal budget of about $1.9 trillion in the seventh year will produce a surplus of $1 billion on the nose.
None of this is to say that the competing budget plans are worthless exercises, or that the two sides have cooked their books to produce the appearance of balance rather than the reality. Far from it; experts like Mr. Collender agree that any plan to cut the Federal deficit needs a target and that the plans now on the table are serious and high-minded proposals.
The worst most analysts will say of the Republican and Democratic budget books is that they are soft-boiled in places. And that suggests, they say, that everyone has made too much of running arguments over how many billions of dollars separate the two sides' proposals for Medicare or welfare or daily Government operations. In a debate where trillions, not billions, are at issue, even big uncertainties loom fairly small.
David Wyss, the director of research at the Boston forecasting company DRI/McGraw Hill, said in an interview last week that much of the budget debate so far had been "fundamentally silly."
"We don't know what Government spending will be within $100 billion in 2002," Mr. Wyss said. "Of course, they need a plan, but don't pretend that it's a blueprint. It's a vague chart."
To some extent, no one has pretended otherwise. The budget battle commenced last fall with the two sides immediately $309 billion apart, not because of spending disputes but because their proposals were based on economic forecasts with very slight differences. The minuscule distinctions between the two forecasts, when extended over seven years and tens of trillions of dollars of economic activity, snowballed into a gigantic sum.
Since then, both sides have agreed to use a forecast issued last month by the Congressional Budget Office. But even it underscores the volatility of budget numbers: it predicts that a balanced budget will hand the Government a $282 billion windfall from higher tax revenues and lower expenses over seven years.
That windfall, which both sides have inserted into their proposals, is $112 billion greater than the budget office estimated only last winter.
Experts disagree over whether the two sides should plan to spend the windfall at all until it actually materializes. Mr. Collender calls such spending dishonest; Robert Reischauer, a senior fellow at the Brookings Institution who ran the Congressional Budget Office until last year, says the office's estimate of the dividend has been "fairly prudent."
It is not the only instance in which the sides have eased the grunt work of reining in spending.
To some degree, both sides have postponed many of the biggest spending rollbacks until the final years of their plans. Mr. Clinton would make 58 percent of his spending reductions in 2001 and 2002; the Republicans have been planning to make 48 percent of their cuts in those years, although experts say that figure has grown in more recent proposals.
That maneuver, called backloading, allows the Government to run larger deficits during the first years of budget-balancing; in theory, it lets citizens ease into the notion of reduced Government the way they might enter a too-hot bath. But another result is to leave the most difficult spending cuts until later.
A prime example of backloading, experts say, is Mr. Clinton's proposal for general Government programs, including Cabinet and regulatory agencies and the White House itself. Mr. Clinton would freeze overall spending for those programs and cut an additional $42 billion, with $35 billion of those cuts coming in 2001 and 2002.
"He's devastated discretionary spending in the first years of the Gore Administration," Mr. Reischauer said. "It's manana budgeting."
Republicans have sometimes used similar techniques. The party's first proposal to curb Medicare included up to $80 billion in unspecified cuts, dubbed a look-back sequester, after the Congressional Budget Office concluded that other changes would not save enough money.
Analysts also look askance at some tax proposals. They particularly question Mr. Clinton's plan to terminate his two biggest and most popular tax breaks -- a family tax credit of $500 per child and a deduction for college expenses -- in 2001 should the economy not meet its forecasts. That would save Mr. Clinton at least $15 billion. Skeptics contend, however, that Washington would not decide in an election year to let the tax breaks expire.
But Mr. Reischauer, for one, disagrees. "I don't regard something as a gimmick if it takes an act of Congress to repeal it," he said.
Taken together, the maneuvers make already slippery budget forecasts even slicker. On the other hand, experts note, the amounts at issue are so vast that much of the uncertainty -- and even the differences between the two sides -- begins to look small by comparison.
Spending on Medicare, for example, will total roughly $1.7 trillion through 2002, by most estimates. The $66 billion gap that currently separates the Republican and Democratic proposals for the program amounts to less than 4 percent of overall spending.
The commitment to balance the budget is what really matters, Mr. Reischauer said. "How you actually achieve deficit reduction," he said, "is of secondary importance."

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (92%); 

COMPANY: DRI/MCGRAW-HILL (51%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

ORGANIZATION: CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES; UNITED STATES (92%); 

SUBJECT: FINANCES; BUDGETS AND BUDGETING BUDGETS (94%); GOVERNMENT BUDGETS (92%); US FEDERAL GOVERNMENT (90%); US REPUBLICAN PARTY (90%); BUDGET DEFICITS (89%); NATIONAL DEBT (89%); PUBLIC FINANCE (89%); BUDGET PLANNING & MANAGEMENT (78%); INTERVIEWS (78%); PUBLIC POLICY (78%); MEDICARE (73%); US DEMOCRATIC PARTY (73%); 

PERSON: WINES, MICHAEL; CLINTON, BILL (PRES) BILL CLINTON (88%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



395 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 5; Column 1; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 961 words

HEADLINE: Los Angeles Magazine Gets a Serious Look

BYLINE: By ANDREA ADELSON 

 BODY:
Michael J. Caruso's former boss at Vanity Fair, Tina Brown, subscribes to the cocktail party theory of magazine excellence, which holds that a disparate mix of articles will be as enticing to readers as an intriguing get-together. Now Mr. Caruso is putting her theory into practice as the new editor of Los Angeles magazine, once a consistently profitable crown jewel in the $1 billion publishing division of Capital Cities/ ABC Inc.
But Mr. Caruso, who took over in November, may be in for more of a brawl than a convivial party. After years of stability and profits, the 34-year-old magazine is in turmoil. Recession has cut into circulation and revenue; its founder and former editor, Geoff Miller, left a year ago, and Buzz magazine, a five-year-old upstart with a circulation of 85,500 whose Internet home page lists concert dates for the Voodoo Glow Skulls, is gaining strength. 
 Los Angeles has seen a tumultuous series of top management changes in the last two years, beginning with the arrival of Joan McCraw, a former vice president of advertising for National Geographic, who was named president and publisher. Her first pick as editor proved impolitic: the veteran magazine writer Robert Sam Anson lasted only five months, leaving in October.
Whether Mr. Anson was dismissed or quit is unclear, because he and his boss are bound by a confidentiality agreement. Mr. Anson left within months of writing a piece for Los Angeles that unmercifully sniped at the chairman of the Walt Disney Company, Michael D. Eisner. Mr. Anson's timing was not the best. A month after the story was published, Disney made a deal to buy the magazine's parent company.
Mr. Caruso, who credits Mr. Anson with starting to push the magazine toward serious journalism, is wasting no time. In his first issue, due out this month, he is offering an insider's view of the troubles at Sony Pictures, an exclusive interview with the widow of the industrialist Norton Simon about the future of his museum in Pasadena and a status report on Representative Sonny Bono.
Like a good party, Mr. Caruso said, a magazine "should have athletes rubbing shoulders with movie stars, politicians rubbing elbows with criminals; you get heat out of that." The magazine's overall editorial content, he said, used to be less than scintillating.
The monthly, which has often been credited with inventing celebrity journalism, has long been known for its restaurant listings, starlet cover articles and focus on the city's affluent West Side. Occasional harder-edged articles have appeared, but Mr. Caruso said he agreed with callers to a recent radio show who faulted the magazine for its myopic focus on Hollywood and for its failure to capture the city's ethnic and economic diversity.
"It didn't have enough gravity in its serious pieces or enough visual style in its lighter pieces," said Mr. Caruso, who after leaving Vanity Fair spent the last year in New York trying to start a sports magazine. "I want to rev the magazine up to the volume of the city."
Ms. McCraw and Mr. Caruso said a top Disney executive had assured them that the magazine would not be sold after the planned merger. "They want it to be the West Coast Vanity Fair," Mr. Caruso said.
Even so, it is no secret that Buzz covets the magazine. "We'd very much like to acquire it," said Eden Collinsworth, chief executive of Buzz.
Buzz did acquire the executive editor of Los Angeles, Marilyn Bethany, who has just started as deputy editor. Also leaving Los Angeles was its part-time art director, Rip Georges, who refused the full-time commitment Mr. Caruso demanded.
Los Angeles, with a circulation of 165,000 and a cover price of $2.95, was the first of the modern city magazines and still ranks among the top regional publications in advertising pages, with 987 in 1995. In 1989, circulation topped 172,000 and ad pages peaked at 1,840.
"Ad pages in most regionals took a hard hit" in the early 90's, said Steven Cohn, editor of the Media Industry Newsletter. With fewer ads from retailers and restaurants, city magazines are hoping to attract coveted national advertisers.
To lure national advertisers to Los Angeles, Ms. McCraw said she would purge the magazine of some advertorials, or special advertising sections that resemble regular features, reduce reconstructive surgery ads and drop such stale staples of city magazines as a January health and fitness section.
Large advertisers generally want to be associated with other national brands and higher quality content, said Patricia M. Barroll, media director for Carillon Importers Ltd., which recently resumed placing ads in the magazine for Absolut vodka after an absence of several years.
The Donna Karan Company, which generally buys only national advertising, placed an ad in Los Angeles for the first time in the September fashion issue. "It's modern, it's clean, it's updated," said Michael R. D'Arminio, media director at Donna Karan.
People involved in the city's media are not so easily won over. Some are rankled by the absence of home-grown management talent.
Pasadena is not a metaphor for Brooklyn, said Joie Davidow, formerly of New Jersey, who founded L.A. Style, the alternative newspaper L.A. Weekly and Si, an English-language Hispanic magazine. "That's the danger of New Yorkers coming out here," said Ms. Davidow, who worked briefly as a consultant to Los Angeles after Mr. Anson left. "It's not an easy city to get."
Jack Feuer, the Los Angeles bureau chief of Inside Media, a trade publication, said: "To become a viable entity, it has to become relevant to the community. The people running it don't understand what makes this city great. It's not that it's Michael Eisner's town. It's Raymond Chandler's town."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Michael J. Caruso, the editor of Los Angeles, says he wants to 'rev the magazine up to the volume of the city.' (Scott Robinson for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TICKER: DIS (NYSE) (82%); 

INDUSTRY: NAICS515210 CABLE & OTHER SUBSCRIPTION PROGRAMMING (83%); SIC4841 CABLE & OTHER PAY TELEVISION SERVICES (83%); NAICS713110 AMUSEMENT & THEME PARKS (82%); NAICS515112 RADIO STATIONS (82%); NAICS512110 MOTION PICTURE & VIDEO PRODUCTION (82%); NAICS453220 GIFT, NOVELTY & SOUVENIR STORES (82%); 

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (94%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: LOS ANGELES (MAGAZINE) ABC INC (83%); WALT DISNEY CO (82%); 

ORGANIZATION: LOS ANGELES (MAGAZINE)

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (94%); CALIFORNIA, USA (94%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: MAGAZINES; COMPANY AND ORGANIZATION PROFILES PUBLISHING (89%); JOURNALISM (89%); INTERVIEWS (78%); MAGAZINE PUBLISHING (78%); WRITERS (78%); HOLDING COMPANIES (76%); PARENT COMPANIES (76%); COMPANY PROFITS (76%); MOVIE & VIDEO INDUSTRIES (75%); APPOINTMENTS (68%); ACTORS & ACTRESSES (65%); CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENTS (50%); MUSEUMS & GALLERIES (50%); 

PERSON: CARUSO, MICHAEL J; ADELSON, ANDREA BONO (52%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



396 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section D; Page 2; Column 4; Business/Financial Desk 

LENGTH: 590 words

HEADLINE: Silicon Valley's Economy Called Strong

BYLINE: By JOHN MARKOFF 

DATELINE: SAN FRANCISCO, Jan. 14

 BODY:
An annual survey of the economic health of Silicon Valley, to be released Monday, shows that the nation's leading high-technology region has resumed its strong growth and is both renewing its strength in manufacturing chip-making equipment and is increasingly becoming an industrial and software design center as well.
The report, issued annually by Joint Venture: Silicon Valley, a coalition of corporate and civic organizations, shows that Silicon Valley has added 46,000 jobs since 1992. 
 This year's report, "Index of Silicon Valley, 1996," reveals that in the last year the valley's largest job gains have been in software, services, semiconductors and industrial design. Rapid growth in these areas outweighed job losses in the computers and communications sector and in the military sector.
The shift toward software and design accelerates a trend that has been at work in the region for at least a decade as manufacturing jobs have moved away from the area because of high costs. Increasingly Silicon Valley has become home to corporate headquarters and research centers as United States and foreign multinational companies have located here.
Moreover, in the last two years the explosion of the Internet has led to a wave of growth in innovative small start-up ventures.
"There seems to be a significant increase in design services in the valley," said Doug Henton, an economist at Collaborative Economics, a Palo Alto, Calif., research firm that prepared the study. "The crucial nature of time-to-market has become an issue that is making the structure of the economy look different." Computer networks notwithstanding, industrial designers still need to work near the engineers who will execute their designs.
Several other factors seem to be playing an important role in Silicon Valley's resurgence according to the report. The revitalization of the United States semiconductor equipment manufacturing business that is centered in the valley has grown sharply since the second half of 1993, increasing by 68 percent compared with a 7 percent increase in the segment that manufactures the semiconductor chips themselves. Much of the chip manufacturing that had its birth in this region has moved to other states and other countries.
The valley has also seen a steady increase in self-employment. The number of single-employee business licenses has increased 44 percent since 1989, from 19,600 to 28,400.
The improved situation in Silicon Valley has largely been fueled by a fresh infusion of venture capital, which has increased by 48 percent between 1993 and 1995. Venture capital invested in the region in 1995 reached almost $1 billion. The study's authors argue that the new wave of initial public offerings has set the stage for a class of companies known as "gazelles," a term that refers to a company that has grown at an annual compounded growth rate of 20 percent for the last four years, beginning with at least $1 million in sales.
In 1995 the Silicon Valley region had 38 publicly held gazelles, down slightly from 43 in 1994. In Silicon Valley 17 percent of the publicly held companies are growing at this rate, compared with 3 percent nationally.
Silicon Valley, as a geographic region was once largely limited to Santa Clara County, on the southwest side of the San Francisco Bay. But Joint Venture: Silicon Valley now defines the valley as an economic and cultural area bounded by San Mateo in the north, Gilroy in the south, Scotts Valley in the west and Fremont and Milpitas in the east.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: JOINT VENTURE ELECTRONICS (57%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: SILICON VALLEY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); SAN FRANCISCO BAY AREA, CA, USA (95%); SILICON VALLEY, CA, USA (94%); SAN FRANCISCO, CA, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: DATA PROCESSING (COMPUTERS); INDUSTRY PROFILES; SOFTWARE PRODUCTS; COMPUTER CHIPS ECONOMIC NEWS (90%); ECONOMIC SURVEYS (90%); COMPUTER SOFTWARE (90%); MANUFACTURING OUTPUT (89%); VENTURE CAPITAL (89%); COMPUTER CHIPS (89%); SEMICONDUCTORS (89%); SEMICONDUCTOR MFG (89%); INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERINGS (87%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (78%); MICROPROCESSORS (78%); TRENDS (78%); POLLS & SURVEYS (78%); FACTORY WORKERS (77%); SOFTWARE DEVELOPMENT & ENGINEERING (77%); SEMICONDUCTOR EQUIPMENT MFG (77%); COMPUTER EQUIPMENT (77%); STARTUPS (77%); OFFICE DESIGN (77%); RESEARCH REPORTS (77%); ALLIANCES & PARTNERSHIPS (77%); SELF EMPLOYMENT (76%); MULTINATIONAL CORPORATIONS (72%); DEFENSE INDUSTRY (72%); COMPUTER PROGRAMMING (57%); JOINT VENTURES (56%); CIVIC & SOCIAL ORGANIZATIONS (56%); 

PERSON: MARKOFF, JOHN

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



397 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section B; Page 6; Column 1; Cultural Desk 

LENGTH: 490 words

HEADLINE: TELEVISION REVIEW;
Courage and Frustration In the Mississippi of '64

BYLINE: By WALTER GOODMAN 

 BODY:

THE AMERICAN EXPERIENCE
Freedom on My Mind
PBS, tonight
(Channel 13, New York, at 9)
 
Produced and directed by Connie Field and Marilyn Mulford; Michael Chandler, writer and editor. For "The American Experience": Judy Crichton, executive producer; Margaret Drain, senior producer; David McCullough, host.
 America's civil rights struggle continues, understandably, to attract documentary makers: the accounts of participants and the newsreels still throb with horror and heroism. "Eyes on the Prize" remains the most ambitious and accomplished television treatment, and subsequent efforts inevitably overlap portions of that unforgettable series. But the subject is rich and resounding enough to bear some repetition, particularly on Martin Luther King Day.
"Freedom on My Mind," a two-hour offering tonight on "The American Experience," focuses on Freedom Summer of 1964, when white students from the north joined black Southerners in a campaign to register black voters in white-run, bitterly hostile Mississippi. Courage and dedication were taken for granted. As one determined visitor of the time said, "They will have to kill us to get us out of here." 
 A dozen of the volunteers, including Bob Moses, who led the project, tell the story. For the young whites, it was a revelation of what Southern blacks were up against. For the blacks, who did not have the consolation of going back to Northern campuses after the battle, it was far more dangerous, yet the danger strengthened their solidarity against a repressive establishment.
The climax came not in Mississippi but in Atlantic City at the 1964 Democratic Presidential convention, when Fannie Lou Hamer delivered her ringing plea on behalf of the Mississippi Freedom Democratic Party. But the outcome was anticlimactic, as the effort to win black representation in the Mississippi delegation ran up against President Lyndon B. Johnson's determination to keep South in the Democratic Party; the civil rights forces were rebuffed with soothing gestures. One man who was there recalls their "profound sense of betrayal." More happily, tonight's witnesses have lived long enough to see how successful they were.

"Mi Puerto Rico/My Puerto Rico"
 PBS, tomorrow night.
 (Channel 13, New York, at 10)
 Another sort of freedom is the subject of Raquel Ortiz's 90-minute essay on a century of efforts by Puerto Ricans to deal with political, economic and cultural domination by the United States. Accommodationists, reformers and terrorists all receive due attention.
Combining a newsreel history with the reflections of Ms. Ortiz, who has roots both in Puerto Rico and in the South Bronx, tomorrow night's program is as earnest as a high-school report and as celebratory as a come-to-Puerto Rico travelogue. Still, with assertions of national independence exploding around the world, this well-intentioned if unsurprising work is at least timely.

GRAPHIC: Photo: Freedom Riders traveling to Mississippi in 1964 to help black voters register, from "Freedom on My Mind." (Steve Shapiro/Black Star/"The American Experience")

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

TYPE: Review

TITLE: AMERICAN EXPERIENCE, THE (TV PROGRAM); MI PUERTO RICO/MY PUERTO RICO (TV PROGRAM)

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%); 

STATE: NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); 

CITY: NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: PUBLIC BROADCASTING SERVICE (92%); DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEMOCRATIC PARTY (59%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: UNITED STATES (97%); PUERTO RICO (95%); NEW YORK, USA (93%); NEW JERSEY, USA (79%); NEW YORK, NY, USA (79%); ATLANTIC CITY, NJ, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: TELEVISION; REVIEWS TELEVISION PROGRAMMING (92%); TELEVISION INDUSTRY (91%); PUBLIC TELEVISION (90%); FILM DIRECTORS (90%); POLITICAL PARTIES (88%); WRITERS (77%); CIVIL RIGHTS (72%); POLITICAL PARTY CONVENTIONS (69%); STUDENTS & STUDENT LIFE (68%); VOTERS & VOTING (68%); TERRORISM (67%); DOCUMENTARY FILMS (56%); 

PERSON: GOODMAN, WALTER RAQUEL ORTIZ (59%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



398 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

 

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 6; Column 4; Foreign Desk 

LENGTH: 1037 words

HEADLINE: Will Ontario Wrap Doctors in Red Tape?

BYLINE: By CLYDE H. FARNSWORTH 

DATELINE: TORONTO, Jan. 14

 BODY:
In a bid to rein in rising health care costs, Ontario's new Conservative Government wants the authority to control almost every aspect of doctors' working lives -- from where they set up a practice to the finer details of the care they prescribe. Most doctors in the province have reacted with anger, calling the plan an unprecedented intrusion by government into the workings of the medical system.
The legislation that is expected to be enacted into law in the provincial Assembly before the end of this month would go so far as to make doctors financially liable for treatments the government may decide later are not medically necessary. It could allow the government to retrieve hundreds of dollars, for instance, if an obstetrician ordered too many ultrasounds, or tens of thousands if a heart surgeon performed a bypass later deemed unnecessary. 
 The current system is "unmanaged, unplanned and inefficient," the Ontario Minister of Health, Jim Wilson, said in November, citing an increase in the use of physician services that has outpaced population growth for more than 20 years. "There is a serious lack of appropriate incentives to influence utilization and encourage appropriate care."
But such close management of the profession is seen as intolerable by most of the 23,000 doctors in Canada's most populous province.
"Micromanagement by government bureaucrats, without some kind of parameters that physicians regard as appropriate, is dangerous," said Dr. Ian Warrack, president of the Ontario Medical Association. "How can bureaucrats decide what is medically necessary?"
Dr. Charles S. Shaver, who practices internal medicine in Ottawa, characterized relations between the provincial government and the medical sector as the most strained since 1986, when Ontario doctors struck for 25 days in an unsuccessful attempt to make supplementary charges.
Doctors play down the possibility of another strike, predicting instead that many more doctors will opt to leave the province. "I'm 51," Dr. Shaver said, "and people like myself will probably stay and be frustrated in our practice. But many of our younger doctors are going to leave. I think we may lose a whole generation."
Departure rates are already rising. The Canadian Medical Association reports that 777 doctors left the country in 1994, compared with 478 in 1990. In Ontario, home of 40 percent of the doctors, 345 left in 1994 compared with 209 in 1990. About two-thirds went to the United States.
Canada's health system uses tax money to pay most medical bills. Canadians choose any doctor they want. The doctor bills the provincial government, which acts as paymaster. During the recent American debate over national health care, many held up the Canadian system as a desirable model.
Even though doctors' and hospitals' fees are regulated, costs of the Canadian system have exploded in recent years. At around 10 percent of gross domestic product, they are higher than in any other country with a publicly financed health plan. Canada's Prime Minister, Jean Chretien, has said his target is something approaching the European level of 8.5 percent. In the United States, the costs now are upward of 14 percent.
To curb medical spending, by far the largest component of overall public expenditures, Canada's 10 provinces and 2 territories have been closing hospitals, laying off medical workers and reducing services doctors can bill for, like electrolysis for the removal of unwanted hair or certain types of psychotherapy.
But what Ontario's Tory government wants to legislate under Premier Mike Harris goes well beyond proposals anywhere else in the country and could have broad implications for the Canadian system.
"They are basically moving to a U.S. managed-care model," said Peter Coyte, professor of health administration at the University of Toronto.
Doctors in American health-maintenance organizations and other managed-care groups generally draw a fixed salary, as opposed to the fee for service under the Canadian system, and provide care on the basis of guidelines set by third-party payers, like the Medicare or Blue Cross and Blue Shield.
The rigid protocols of American managed care, intended to check the rise in costs, clash with an underlying principle of the Canadian system that the doctor alone should decide what is appropriate for a patient. Physicians do not like managed care, Professor Coyte said, because "fiscal restraint interferes with the autonomy of the individual provider."
With doctors' billings to the Ontario Health Insurance Plan rising 13 percent a year over the last decade to $3 billion in American dollars, the Ontario government is demanding a much closer look over doctors' shoulders.
Bill 26, as the legislation is known -- part of an omnibus bill introduced in November to save $4.5 billion in American dollars over three years -- allows Ministry of Health investigators to go into confidential medical records to check billing practices and the cost efficiency of treatment.
But doctors warn that this could easily lead to abuse, as for instance if such information were used to smear a candidate in a political campaign. Also, they ask whether people with sexually transmitted diseases or alcohol or drug problems might forgo treatment out of fear of disclosure.
To induce doctors to serve in rural and northern areas, Bill 26 would also withhold government registration and therefore money from new medical graduates who want to practice in areas considered overserviced. Doctors say this would only speed the exodus.
The Ontario Medical Association has opened an advertising campaign warning the public of a bleak future under Bill 26. Anonymous doctors wonder who will deliver babies and suggest that patient waiting lists will lengthen. "Bill 26 could do us all more harm than good," a voice intones in a radio spot.
Some issues raised by doctors, like protection of privacy, will be addressed in amendments, said Paul Kilbertus, a spokesman for the Health Ministry. But he stressed that there will be no backsliding on the bill's broad principles. "Some very basic management is finally being incorporated into the way we are spending our money," he said.

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); 

STATE: ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); 

CITY: TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: ONTARIO (CANADA); CANADA; CANADA (97%); UNITED STATES (92%); ONTARIO, CANADA (90%); TORONTO, ON, CANADA (73%); 

SUBJECT: MEDICINE AND HEALTH; FINANCES; DOCTORS; LAW AND LEGISLATION PHYSICIANS & SURGEONS (91%); HEALTH CARE (90%); LEGISLATION (90%); HEALTH CARE COSTS (90%); REGIONAL & LOCAL GOVERNMENTS (89%); ECONOMIC NEWS (78%); OBSTETRICS & GYNECOLOGY (78%); POPULATION GROWTH (78%); GROSS DOMESTIC PRODUCT (78%); HEALTH DEPARTMENTS (78%); HEALTH CARE POLICY (78%); LEGISLATIVE BODIES (78%); NATIONAL HEALTH INSURANCE (78%); INTERNAL MEDICINE (73%); BUSINESS & PROFESSIONAL ASSOCIATIONS (71%); 

PERSON: FARNSWORTH, CLYDE H

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



399 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 10; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1225 words

HEADLINE: In Small-Town Texas, the Sewing Stops

BYLINE: By SAM HOWE VERHOVEK 

DATELINE: GRANGER, Tex.

 BODY:
Pale green and beige sewing machines line the floor, seven neat rows of ghosts at the Ca-Ce-Len Manufacturing Company, a two-room garment factory in this small farm town in central Texas. The factory, set inside a whitewashed brick building on Granger's main street, closed last month, depriving 50 longtime workers of jobs that paid $5 to $8 an hour and marking one more small shift in how and where Americans' clothes are made.
"Now I know how the fellow who made buggy whips must have felt," said the company's owner, Douglas Benad, gesturing at the sewing machines, which used to stitch clothing as diverse as bathing suits and blazers but are now for sale and likely to wind up in factories in Mexico or Central America. "This place is kind of a dinosaur." 
 Little more than a decade ago, more than 500 rural towns in Texas, and hundreds of others in the South and Middle West, had contract garment factories like Ca-Ce-Len, which took its name from three local women (Carolyn, Cecilia and Lendy).
Such factories put together clothes for big American retailers and typically received a set amount for each piece -- as little as 46 cents for running shorts that might have sold in the stores for a few dollars, Mr. Benad's wife, Mary, said, and as much as $20 for blazers that retailed for $300.
But today in Texas, barely two dozen of the small-town factories hang on, the others squeezed out of the market by a range of things -- foreign competition, the removal of tariffs on apparel made overseas, a surge in illegal sweatshops and home-sewing operations in this country.
The economics behind the changes are not complex. "If you own a business and you could get a product made for a bowl of rice a day, or you could pay someone $6 an hour, what would you choose?" Mr. Benad said.
Indeed, the enigma is that a few places like Ca-Ce-Len managed to hold on at all into the 1990's, and the same is true for many of the towns themselves. Granger seems a place out of time, a hamlet off farm roads 45 miles northeast of Austin where many people still speak Czech, the language of many of the town's settlers. Granger, population 1,250, is home to the last Czech-language weekly paper in Texas.
But the number of garment industry survivors is clearly dwindling, said Joe Allen, a retired manufacturer in the Dallas area who used to do business with Ca-Ce-Len and dozens of other Texas factories. He is now a volunteer organizer of a union-backed program to get the Federal Government to enforce laws on wages and working conditions in the illegal factories and home-sewing operations in the Dallas-Fort Worth area.
The Labor Department has conducted a handful of highly publicized raids on illegal garment factories, most notably a factory in Los Angeles where severely underpaid Thai immigrants were found last year to be turning out clothing stamped "Made in the U.S.A." under conditions reminiscent of slavery.
But Mr. Allen and other garment manufacturers said the problem was so widespread and the Labor Department so short of inspectors that most legitimate American apparel manufacturers, paying the minimum wage or more and subject to taxes and safety standards, were simply unable to compete.
Home-sewing operations, largely among immigrants in the Dallas area, amount to "a sweatshop in a living room," Mr. Allen said -- they are piecework businesses paying rates that cannot possibly result in minimum wage, and many of the workers are in the country illegally.
"A lot of us hung on too long thinking that the wage-an-hour people in the Department of Labor would come in and enforce the law," Mr. Allen said. "But instead there's been a little lip service and they've basically ignored it."
Labor Secretary Robert B. Reich has said that enforcement of the laws is a major priority of the Labor Department. Last month Mr. Reich released the department's "Trendsetter List" of about three dozen national retailers and manufacturers that had made "meaningful efforts to eradicate sweatshops in the U.S." by dealing only with legitimate factories here and abroad.
But for many of the longtime workers at the Granger factory, most of them women, and for Mr. and Mrs. Benad, all such efforts come too late. And many concede that the factory may have been doomed anyway by changes in the global economy -- changes that are not at all welcome here.
"With Nafta, I thought the idea was that they would get some of the work, and we would get some of the work, and everybody would be able to buy everybody else's stuff," said Gladys W. Jones, a 59-year-old supervisor at Ca-Ce-Len who worked 18 years at the factory until its closing in December. "It sure hasn't happened that way, as far as I can tell."
She was referring to the North American Free Trade Agreement, which removed many tariff and trade barriers to Mexican products and which many here directly blame for the collapse of the region's garment manufacturing industry. Others say the problem can be traced to Dallas and Houston, where labor inspectors have found several illegal apparel operations in which Southeast Asian immigrants are paid less than the minimum wage.
In any event, not one of the 50 workers from Ca-Ce-Len has found a permanent job, Mr. Benad said. Ms. Jones said she had been seeking work at nursing homes, hoping to find a job caring for older people. "I can't think of too much of anything else I could do, really," she said.
Others seem daunted by the prospect of gaining a new set of skills but intend to try anyway. "I'm looking for some way to learn about word processing, Lotus, computers, something like that," said Linda McFarlin, a 41-year-old mother of two young girls who worked for 16 years at Ca-Ce-Len. "That's the wave of the future, I guess."
Mrs. McFarlin, whose husband, Tommy, is a maintenance worker in the local cemetery, said she had gone to the State Labor Department to see if she could qualify for some training money on the theory that her job had been eliminated because of Nafta. But officials there said that contention would be difficult to prove. She is now collecting $131 a week in unemployment, less than half her wage at the sewing factory.
A deep sense of bitterness lingers in Granger, though no one knows exactly whom to blame. And Patrick J. Buchanan, the one Presidential candidate who is focusing on the issue of reviving tariffs and eliminating the free-trade agreements that people here blame for their plight, does not seem to have any foothold.
"He's just too far out," Mr. Benad said of Mr. Buchanan. "I'm not any big fan of Ross Perot, but he sure was right about one thing -- that giant sucking sound. You hear it around here."
Mr. Benad, whose factory did work for big American retailers like J. C. Penney and Sears, said he could remember a time when most of the towns in the area, including nearby Taylor and Bartlett, had some kind of small clothing factory. Those factories were often vital parts of the local economy; most of their employees were women, and even part-time wages could provide an important piece of the family income.
"That was our middle class," he said. "The big thing now is high tech, but there's not a lot of it in a town like this. You see people working with high-tech scanners at the grocery store. That's about the only high tech you see around here."

GRAPHIC: Photo: Mary and Douglas Benad employed 50 people in their garment factory in Granger, Tex. It closed last month, a victim of a changing market. (Christine Galida for The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); 

STATE: TEXAS, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); 

CITY: DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

COMPANY: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (67%); 

ORGANIZATION: DEPARTMENT OF LABOR (67%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: TEXAS; SOUTHERN STATES (US); MIDWESTERN STATES (US); UNITED STATES (96%); CENTRAL AMERICA (79%); TEXAS, USA (96%); MIDWEST USA (79%); DALLAS, TX, USA (79%); AUSTIN, TX, USA (79%); 

SUBJECT: APPAREL; INTERNATIONAL TRADE AND WORLD MARKET; CUSTOMS (TARIFF); LABOR APPAREL MFG (91%); GARMENT WORKERS (90%); MANUFACTURING FACILITIES (89%); TARIFFS & DUTIES (86%); SWEATSHOPS (78%); EMPLOYMENT (77%); WAGES & SALARIES (76%); RETAILERS (76%); RURAL COMMUNITIES (72%); INTERNATIONAL TRADE (68%); TAXES & TAXATION (66%); SEWING & NEEDLECRAFTS (58%); 

PERSON: VERHOVEK, SAM HOWE DOUGLAS BENAD (74%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996



400 of 823 DOCUMENTS

Copyright 1996 The New York Times Company 
The New York Times

PUB-DATE: January 15, 1996

SECTION: Section A; Page 11; Column 1; National Desk 

LENGTH: 1566 words

HEADLINE: Betting on Rails in the Realm of Cars

BYLINE: By JAMES STERNGOLD 

DATELINE: LOS ANGELES, Jan. 14

 BODY:
Robert Dziubla and his co-workers at his Los Angeles law firm may represent the best hope for the success of this county's $75 billion transportation program -- and the reason it could fail.
Although supporters of the huge transit project, one of the most expensive in history, say it will reduce stifling freeway congestion and clean the fouled air, skeptics argue that not enough commuters will abandon their beloved cars for the planned rail lines to justify the investment. 
 Mr. Dziubla, a lawyer who lives in Long Beach, said he is glad to make the 45-minute trip on the new Blue Line train a couple of times a week so he can read rather than joust with the jumpy road gladiators here.
But then, he said, he came from Chicago, where public transit is a way of life. All of the other lawyers at his firm drive to work. And the only employees who use trains or buses are some of the clerical staff.
"When I think about it," he said, "it's probably a class thing."
No major urban area in the country has been more influenced by or is more identified with the automobile than Los Angeles, and so the passionate debate over the Metropolitan Transportation Authority's $75 billion, 20-year plan to break the dominance of the freeways has often been carried on with religious intensity rather than with a cool analysis of the transportation needs of the most populous county in the nation. It is not just a question of getting around, but of self-image, of one's place in the natural pecking order.
Ultimately, the transit fight is not just over the wisdom of tunneling through fault zones, tearing up neighborhoods or spending unprecedented sums -- nearly $500 million a mile for one section of the Red Line subway in downtown -- but about whether a government agency can modify the behavior of a region, and who that agency should be serving.
"It's simple," said Martin Wachs, director of the Institute of Transportation Studies at the University of California at Los Angeles. "The plan makes no sense in a region as widely dispersed as Los Angeles. It is an extremely expensive system that will move a tiny fraction of the people at extremely high cost."
Intensifying the battle is the fact that bus service, which some transit experts argue would be a more cost-efficient solution, has been declining here for a decade as it has deteriorated; total boardings have plummeted to 343 million in the fiscal year that ended last June 30, from 497 million in 1985. The M.T.A. has been sued by the N.A.A.C.P. Legal Defense and Education Fund for spending vast sums on trains while allowing the bus system, used predominantly by blacks and Hispanics, to decay and become overcrowded.
On a recent afternoon, Martin Berrera, 26, a machine operator, stood on the packed No. 30 bus, straining to spy his stop through the graffiti-scarred windows, and told of how his half-hour commute that morning had taken about one-and-a-half hours after several jammed buses passed by before one stopped to pick him up.
Few doubt that people will ride the trains, but opponents argue that most of those people will be bus passengers like Mr. Berrera, not people like Mr. Dziubla who would be giving up their cars. Also, though transit officials deny it, the N.A.A.C.P. group and other critics have called the plan racist, saying the M.T.A. would be paying big subsidies to lure mostly white commuters from their autos rather than improving service for the mostly minority passengers on buses. As it is, many bus riders complain that the current fare, $1.35, is too high given the quality of service.
State Senator Tom Hayden, a onetime supporter of rail construction, now says the plan is little more than old-fashioned pork barrel. "I started out as a knee-jerk sympathizer with the concept of mass transit because it seemed like the way to clean up the air," Mr. Hayden said. "But it's become a fiscal tapeworm."
Los Angeles is not alone. Miami, Atlanta and Dallas, other sprawling urban areas, have also built expensive rail lines that have had only modest success. But none have approached the cost of Los Angeles's.
Some parts of the rail system, which when complete will include urban subways and suburban light rail, have already been constructed. The M.T.A. says that by the end of the current plan in 2015, the rail system would shuttle 440,000 people a day, only about a quarter of those riding public transit. At that time, public transit is expected to account for 9.2 percent of the total number of trips people here take every day, compared with 7.3 percent now.
Thomas E. Rubin, the authority's former controller and treasurer, said the price was too high for so little effect. "Every one of the rail lines can be described as the most expensive of its kind ever built in this country," he said.
The response of the transit authority is, although its plan may be costly, the alternatives are worse: paralysis and choking air pollution.
Joseph E. Drew, the authority's acting chief executive, said that without a rail system, in 20 years transportation tie-ups would cost the county $8 billion a year in lost economic activity.
"I think we're going to start seeing the payback from this system by the year 2000," Mr. Drew said. "By the year 2015 the payoff will be dramatic."
The counter-argument is that the economic losses and slowdowns would occur only if most workers here were fighting to commute to a central urban core, as in the New York City region.
Peter Gordon, a professor of urban and regional planning at the University of Southern California, said that in the Los Angeles area there are numerous cores, and these have been attracting a smaller and smaller percentage of the region's jobs, from 19 percent of all jobs in the area in 1970 to 12 percent in 1990.
"Most commuting now is suburb to suburb," Mr. Gordon said. "It's not from the suburbs to downtown."
The rail line, however, would bring commuters to and from a small number of cores including the current downtown.
Making the M.T.A.'s position even more tenuous has been a series of reversals over the past year. Some experts say at least some parts of the rail plan, like the Red Line subway, should be halted, which could have national implications. The Federal Government is paying half the construction costs, so dropping the rail lines could free up Federal money for other cities.
Among the problems the transit authority has had to contend with are a 70-foot sinkhole that swallowed up part of Hollywood Boulevard, lawsuits by landowners and shopkeepers angry about damage they say the construction caused, the guilty plea to bribery charges by an M.T.A. executive and numerous construction problems that led to the dismissal of the principal contractor, Shea-Kiewit-Kenney.
But the Clinton Administration has not wavered in its support. And, as many here point out, the construction has provided 10,000 jobs, so it is unlikely anyone in Washington is going to want to halt things in an election year.
"This is clearly being debated, but from a Federal perspective we think it works," said Mortimer Downey, the deputy secretary of transportation. "Aside from whether it has been executed well, the judgment here is that it's a cost effective system for the basin."
But the community has been left so deeply divided that even the M.T.A.'s board members have been able to do little more than fight bitterly among themselves. The plan includes some money for buses, car-pool and express lanes on the freeways and peak-demand charges for the use of the express lanes, but some board members favor less money for rail construction and more for those less-expensive alternatives.
Michael D. Antonovich, a county supervisor and the outgoing chairman of the M.T.A., ended his term last year by writing to Speaker Newt Gingrich and saying, "It is time for Congress to pull the plug on the Red Line subway construction in Los Angeles."
After being dismissed as chief executive last month because of the mounting problems, Franklin E. White, who served as New York State Transportation Commissioner under Gov. Mario M. Cuomo, delivered a bitter parting speech in which he characterized the rail construction program as a crooked "money train" being run for the benefit of local politicians and businessmen.
The current chairman, Larry Zarian, who is also a city councilman in Glendale, agreed. "Whenever you have an abundance of money, you're going to have people who want it for their own use," Mr. Zarian said in an interview. "Some on the M.T.A. board are self-serving."
The M.T.A. has already scaled back its plans sharply; last year it abandoned a 30-year, $183 billion proposal that envisioned 296 miles of rail in favor of the 20-year plan with 95 miles of rail. Both plans included some upgrade of bus service.
But Zev Yaroslavsky, another board member, argued that the program is still too grandiose. "Frank White was a voice of relative financial reason," he said. "That's what got him into trouble."
The real problem, however, may not be the extent or quality of public transit, but Southern California's love affair with automobiles.
"Sometimes it's nice to ride the Metro," said Roberta West, a college student taking the Blue Line to her part-time job at a bank branch in Watts. "I can do my reading while I ride. But if I can get a car, I'd use it. I like the independence."

GRAPHIC: Photo: One problem that Los Angeles County's transit project has faced was a sinkhole near this site for a subway in Hollywood. But the plan's expense and doubts about its success have been its biggest problems. (Jim Wilson/The New York Times)

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

COUNTRY: UNITED STATES (95%); 

STATE: CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); 

CITY: LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

COMPANY: BLUE LINE DISTRIBUTING (57%); METROPOLITAN TRANSPORTATION AUTHORITY (55%); 

GEOGRAPHIC: LOS ANGELES COUNTY (CALIF); CALIFORNIA; UNITED STATES (95%); CALIFORNIA, USA (95%); LOS ANGELES, CA, USA (94%); 

SUBJECT: TRANSIT SYSTEMS; SUBWAYS; BUSES URBAN TRANSIT SYSTEMS (90%); LAWYERS (90%); URBAN RAIL SYSTEMS (90%); URBAN BUS SYSTEMS (90%); LEGAL SERVICES (90%); PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION (89%); RAIL TRANSPORTATION (77%); TRAINS (77%); VEHICLE TRAFFIC (76%); LITIGATION (73%); SUITS & CLAIMS (73%); MOTORCOACHES & BUSES (72%); RESEARCH INSTITUTES (64%); 

PERSON: STERNGOLD, JAMES ROBERT DZIUBLA (66%); 

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 1996

 
